Plantrich - organic agri-inputs - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Plantrich – organic agri-inputs Home Plantrich – organic agri-inputs Offers organic agri-inputs like bio-fertilizers, bio-pesticides and services Plantrich was established in 1999. Mr. Bijumon Kurian is the managing director of the company. “I want to help empower small marginal farmers in organic and Fair Trade (FT) activities in their farms; educate them about the sustainable production of spices, coffee, cocoa, tropical fruits and vegetables; support the farmers’ cooperative by financing; coordinate in getting organic certification, FT certification; and procure produces from farm gates by offering fair price to them,” he says. He adds, “In 2008, Plantrich Agri Tech Private Limited was founded with a vision to promote Organic & Fair Trade products to international level with these objectives”. Plantrich is headquartered in Kottayam, Kerala Product Range The range of food products produced by the company includes: • FT & organic black pepper • FT & organic white pepper • FT & organic dehydrated green pepper • FT & organic turmeric fingers & powders • FT & organic ginger • FT & organic cardamom • FT & organic nutmeg • FT & organic mace • FT & organic cinnamon • FT & organic vanilla • FT & organic clove • FT & organic coffee (robusta & arabica) • FT & organic cocoa • FT & organic pineapple Certification Mr. Kurains maintains, “Plantrich Agri Tech (P) Ltd. has a network of certified organic farmer cooperatives, which adhere to the forms of NPOP – Government of India, USDA NOP and EU Regulations 834/2007. We maintain a well-structured Internal Control System (ICS) for assisting the farmers on organic farming, documentation and to ensure that the system conforms to organic standards and Control Union certifications.” The company provides services for certification, farming, as well as processing and storage to farmers.  “We supply subsidized agri-inputs like bio pesticides and support village level sub-committee in quality up-gradation and processing. We are providing rapid training courses to our women farmer members in ‘selective plucking’, ‘processing’ and ‘proper storage’ to overcome the skilled labor shortage. We are also providing ‘plant doctors’ to extend free technical support to our farmers for the production and processing of coffee,” says Mr. Kurian. Quality Control The processing unit of the company at Manarcadu, Kottayam, has cleaning, grading, pulping, drying, and grinding facilities that meet international quality standards. “In the past several years, we have quality tested our products in independent external labs,” maintains Mr. Kurian. Exports The company exports its products to Middle East and Europe. “We have our partner company Plantrich Agri Tech International LLC, in Dubai,” maintains Mr. Kurian. Plant Doctor Service The company offers plant doctor service to farmers. “Plant doctors are agri technocrats who can visit farms and identify the needs of farmers, and suggest measures both in plant protection as well as increase yield. They are well trained in organic farming methods and provide suitable inputs recommendations,” explains Mr. Kurian. The company also provides services to: • Enhance agriculture produce / productivity • Enhance the production and productivity of spices, coffee, and cocoa in the project area • Ensure premium prices for the products produced by the beneficiary farmers in the project • Improve the soil fertility and soil health of the project area to ensure sustainable farming and production • Avoid hazardous agri-chemicals to avoid residues, resurgence and resistance in crop production system Research & Development The company has its own in-house R&D lab. “We have developed native isolates of different microbes like azovit, and biotris in our lab which are suited for plant growth as well as controlling diseases. We have also developed waste decomposing microbes in powder form which can decompose any biodegradable waste,” adds Mr. Kurien. Projects Speaking about the projects the company has taken up, Mr. Kurien says, “We have set up a small farmer producer organization having small and marginal farmers, who have land areas of 0.5 hectares to 4 hectares and planting area located in high-ranges of Kerala and farms up to 1600 m MSL as members. The areas in high altitude are facing lack of transportation facility, and the farmers are getting exploited.” He further maintains, “Now after our intervention and implementation of FT system, our group of small farmers can share the information about the prices, cost of production and quality up-gradation at group level. We send updated market prices based on the grades to each farmer leader by SMS. We have also started farmer driven collection centers at these hilly areas. Our procurement team will regularly visit such collection centers and bring commodities to our main factory. I want to extend this project to South India, and now I have a project at Theni, Tamil Nadu and one at Hubli, Karnataka.” Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr. Bijumon Kurian, MD, Plantrich, 8/489, 2nd floor, CSI Commercial Centre, Baker Junction, Kottayam – 686 001 Kerala, India.  Phone : +91 481 2303277, +91 481 6532878 Mobile: 098465 24151 Web: www.plantrich.com Email: exports@plantrich.com  Skype: bijumon.kurian Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Plantrich – organic agri-inputs Related – articles, consultants, downloads Poabs Organic Estates Bharath Agro Sales Corporation – Organic farming inputs Maxeema Biotech – organic/herbal agriculture inputs Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Department You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water