Events The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Events Written by Administrator on 04 May 2014 . Posted in Services Twitter FINER is pro-active in organizing different events, workshops, meeting and seminars on behalf of the industries associated with it.  The Chamber also organizes special programs on subjects of topical interest to Members. The programs have participation of senior officers of various Ministries of Government and of other bodies and experts on various subjects who are available for consultation to members. These programs are carried out in the form of Human Resource Development programs, workshops, lecture-cum-discussions and seminars. Information about these programs is circulated to members through circular letters and the Bulletin.   Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Stickies Lovies People in this conversation Comments ( 2 ) Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS Guest (Avijit Das) Permalink Dear Sir/Madam, As a innovative professional with 5 years of progressive experience within the Travel sales industry I am looking to align myself with an exciting and progressive company that will appreciate my abilities and reward my achievements. While I currently enjoy working at my current employers company, ultimately I know my heart wants to follow a different path and passion and I believe joining a full-service event production and event management company, such as yours, aligns with my interests and desires. I also have all the qualifications necessary to excel in this position. My current position as Special Events Manager has provided me with the opportunity to manage multiple events, budgets, deadlines, schedules, and programs for a very diverse demographic. I come from a managerial background and have substantial familiarity with aspects such as; event logistics, budget management, corporate hospitality, venue marketing and delegate management. In reviewing my attached CV you will also note my dedication, resourcefulness and dedication, all of these are talents which I will bring to your organization. All of these are traits which should make me an ideal candidate for this opening. I hope to be able to speak with you soon about my qualifications and look forward to hearing from you. Thank you for your time and consideration. With this goal in mind I have attached my resume Your sincerely Avijit Das C/O Anil Das Jorhat, Assam Pin- 785001 Telephone: +91-9706802091 Email: avijit1947@gmail.com about 5 months ago from Jorhat, Assam, India 0 Like Reply Guest (Shilabhadra Dekaraja) Permalink I need to know about new industrial facility in northeast, specially in Guwahati industrial area. I wish to know about new upcoming industry in Assam, who wish to collaborate with local party. about 5 months ago 0 Like Reply Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Home About Finer What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com