Chandra Shekhar Azad India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » History » Chandra Shekhar Azadi   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Chandra Shekhar Azad A daring freedom fighter and a fearless revolutionary, Chandra Shekhar was born on 23rd July 1906 in Bhavra, Madhya Pradesh . Involved in incidents such as Kakori Train Robbery, Assembly Bomb incident and the shooting of Saunders at Lahore, to avenge the killing of Lala Lajpat Rai, he was the face of revolutionary India. Son of Pandit Sitaram Tiwari and Jagarani Devi, he received his earlier education at Bhavra and was sent to the Sanskrit Pathshala at Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh for higher studies. At a very young age he got involved in revolutionary activities. He joined the non-cooperation movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi . Caught by the British police while indulging in revolutionary activities he was sentenced to 15 whiplashes as his first punishment. At that time he was mere 15 years old. It was after this incident that Chandrashekhar assumed the title of Azad and came to be known as Chandrashekhar Azad. Disillusioned with Mahatma Gandhi's suspension of non-cooperation movement due to Chauri-Chaura incident, he turned extremist. Chandrashekhar Azad was a believer in socialism,he along with other revolutionaries formed 'The Hindustan Socialist Republican Association'. He was a mentor to many revolutionaries including Bhagat Singh. He wanted complete independence for India by any means. Chandrashekhar Azad killed British Assistant Supretendent of Police John Poyantz Saunders to avenge the death of Lala Lajpat Rai. He remained a terror for British government as long as he was alive. On 27th February 1931, betrayed by one of the associates, he was besieged by the British police in Alfred Park, Allahabad . He fought valiantly but seeing no other way he shot himself and fulfilled his resolve to die a 'free man'. He his still a hero for millions of Indians and many movies such as Shaheed Bhagat Singh, The Legend of Bhagat Singh and 23rd March 1931 has been made on his life.   Related Links   Indian freedom movement Sukhdev Chittaranjan Das Shivaram Rajguru Dadabhai Naoroji Surendranath Bannerjee Jatindra Mohan Sengupta Laxmi Sehgal Jawaharlal Nehru Abdul Gafar Khan Khudiram Bose Rash Behari Bose Lala Lajpat Rai Rani Lakshmi Bai Madan Mohan Malviya Ram Singh Kuka Mahatma Gandhi Lala Hardayal Mangal Pandey Begum Hazrat Mahal Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Bipin Chandra Pal Motilal Nehru Sri Alluri Seetarama Raju Nellie Sengupta Veer Savarkar Pandit Balakrishna Sharma Subhash Chandra Bose Puspa Lata Das Bhim Sen Sachar Ram Manohar Lohia Acharya Kripalani Ram Prasad Bismil Aruna Asaf Ali Sagarmal Gopa Ashfaqulla Khan Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Bal Gangadhar Tilak Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chandra Shekhar Azad Last Updated on : August 8, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule