Hydroponics cultivation of vegetables for beginners - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Hydroponics cultivation of vegetables for beginners Home Hydroponics cultivation of vegetables for beginners It all started when Shweta was looking for some help for cultivating exotic vegetables on AgricultureInformation.com. Dr. Vidur Sahgal – representative of Growponics Ltd – told her to think about using Hydroponics for cultivating the vegetables. Priyadarshini Mollik from Plant Genome Sciences Pvt. Ltd. started explaining about the concept of hydroponics from the beginning in simple language. Here is a summary of the interesting discussion in AgricultureInformation.com on growing vegetables without a soil! Shweta has 11 acres of land, 100 kms from Delhi NCR. She wants to setup a profitable agri business of exotic vegetables. She wants to explore options in organic farming, green house, and natural farming. Member Ashwini suggests cultivation of organic vegetables. “Before you begin, you should find out the soil status of your land. You should get a soil and water analysis done and based on the results, you can decide on which crop to grow and how much manure is required.” Shweta confirms that she is in the process of getting the soil tested. “We are getting soil improvement suggestion from IARI,” she says. Dr Vidur Sahgal suggests Shweta to consider Israeli hydroponic agriculture and aquaculture. He offers to send a presentation on Hydroponic farming, which is a kind of soil-less farming, and explains, “The agros are grown using water only in a filtered green house where ideal growing conditions are maintained.” Member Sangeeta also suggests to Shweta to take up organic cultivation of vegetable because the varied agro climatic condition in UP is suitable for production of exotic vegetable. She adds, “Go for organic certification that will add value to your product.” Priyadarshini says, “I am very happy to see our farming community seriously thinking about organic farming. Now we can go for complete organic farming using hydroponics also. We have plant nutrients that are completely organic and many of our farmer brothers are already growing using organic hydroponics. It not only gives great yields, but also fetches the farmers very good returns on their crops.” She further advises, “Plant genome sciences can help you out in your venture. We deliver complete organic farming and greenhouse farming project all over India. We can give you complete details and suggestions on controlled environment agriculture especially using hydroponics.” Giving further information on hydroponics, Priyadarshini says, “Hydroponics is a method of growing plants without soil. Instead of having their roots supported and nourished by soil, the plants are supported by an inert growing medium like cocopeat and are fed via a nutrient-rich water solution. Hydroponic systems may be as simple as a glass of water filled with pebbles and water containing fertilizer or as complex as a large greenhouse structure containing beds of clay pellets/troughs filled with cocopeat that are periodically supplied with a nutrient solution. Nutrient Film technique is also a kind of hydroponic farming that is adopted by many commercial farmers these days.” Growing plants hydroponically is a strategy for producing fruits, flowers, and vegetables in areas where the soil is unsuited for gardening or where space is at a premium. On a commercial scale, hydroponics is used to grow tomatoes, capsicum and other regular and exotic crops out of season in large greenhouse operations. Priyadarshini maintains, “Hydroponic farming has the capability to change the food scenario in India. Organic vegetable farming can also be done in hydroponic greenhouse.” Member Egreen also wants to learn about organic vegetables farming under greenhouse hydroponics method. The member wants to learn about the cost of establishment of hydroponics greenhouse in Coimbatore or Tamilnadu.Mr. Ganesh Prajapat, executive director, ACI Agro Solution, says, “Hydroponic cultivation needs chemical nutrient management. How can someone grow organic vegetable hydroponically? It also needs the chemical for insect pest management and nutrient management.” Adding, he says, “You can grow crops hydroponically even in your kitchen. The production time is also 30-40% of open cultivation. Complete cultivation kits are available.” Insight into Hydroponic Farming Priyadarshini says, “Let me give you some insight about hydroponic farming. Many people think of hydroponics as growing plants in water, but hydroponic cultivation is basically growing plants without soil. In soil farming, soil just acts as a holding medium for the plants and plants literally have to struggle looking for nutrients in the soil. This factor is eliminated in hydroponic farming and nutrients are directly supplied to the plant roots. In hydroponic farming, plants may be grown with their roots in the mineral nutrient solution only or in an inert medium such as Perlite, gravel, mineral wool, expanded clay or coconut husk.” She adds, “Hydro means water and ponics means labour. Plant Genome Sciences encourages farmers to take up smarter way of cultivation i.e. hydroponic greenhouse cultivation, a method of soilless cultivation in a protected environment, which significantly increases crop yield compared to open-air cultivation. PGS can assist you in setting up coco peat/trough cultivation with drip irrigation system and Nutrient Film Technique (NFT) set up, as both of them are popular hydroponic farming methods, which give healthy and abundant yield.” Nutrient Film Technique In trough/grow bag cultivation, plants are grown in coco peat bags or troughs containing coco peat and plants are irrigated using drip irrigation. Nutrient Film Technique (NFT) is a hydroponic growing method in which the plants have their roots partly submerged in a shallow stream of recirculating water containing all the required growth nutrients and where there is no solid rooting medium. The upper surface of the root mat, which develops above the water, although is moist, is in the air. Therefore, around the roots, which are in the air, there is a film of nutrient solution – hence the name, nutrient film technique (NFT). “The environment in a hydroponics greenhouse is controlled for maximum efficiency, and this new method is called soil-less/controlled-environment agriculture (CEA). With this, growers can make premium foods anywhere in the world, regardless of temperature and growing seasons. Growers monitor the temperature, humidity, and pH level constantly,” says Priyadarshini. The features and benefits of NFT method include: • No soil is needed • The water stays in the system and can be re-used – lower water consumption • Nutrition levels can be controlled • Stable, higher yields and shorter times between harvests • Produces highly nutritious, attractive crops • Less pest and disease attack, easier to get rid of than in soil • Easier to harvest and source of income from direct sales. Organic Hydroponic Farming Priyadarshini says, “When organic growers think of hydroponics, they mostly assume that organic principles and organic growing are very incompatible. Hydroponic growers even have several different kinds of organic nutrients and fertilizers available. Organic hydroponics uses the solution containing extracts from various natural and organic sources like seaweed, bat guano, earthworm castings, beneficial bacteria and fungi.”  She adds, “In organic hydroponics, this liquid extract is filtered and added in the solution. Beneficial microorganisms degrade organic fertilizer into inorganic nutrients. These blends can be very potent, as they give your plants several different kinds of organic nutrients that can help them grow significantly. Since soil factor is eliminated and it is a controlled environment, pest factor is greatly reduced/eliminated. Natural pesticides like neem oil sprays can be used to control pest, if it occurs. Some are even specially formulated to improve a specific aspect of your plant’s development, such as those that can improve the taste and size of your yield.” Land Required Priyadarshini explains, “For hydroponic cultivation, area is not an issue for the grower. It can be done in any available area. For your hobby, you can choose your balcony, porch, windowsill, almost any place to keep your hydroponic systems/grow pots. It depends on what you want to grow and in what number. Every plant has its own prerequisites that must be met with for optimum growth.” For commercially viable hydroponic cultivation of fruits and vegetables, minimum 1 to 2 acres of area is needed. “At Plant Genome Sciences, we understand the farmers’ dilemma of adopting this new farming method on a large scale; therefore, we undertake projects that can spare a minimum area of 2000 sq.m. for hydroponic greenhouse cultivation,” she adds. Mr. Prajapat adds, “You can do the hydroponic cultivation at your home. In hydroponic you make maximum utilization of the land available. One can do it in the balcony. One can go for the hydroponics at residential complex roof. The quality of produce is also superior.” Plant Nutrients Shweta wants to learn how plants store the nutrients and moisture required for growth in hydroponics. Mr. Prajapat explains, “These are directly absorbed by the roots, because the nutrients are mixed in the water. In hydroponic the roots are always dipped in the water and in the Aeroponic the roots are hanging and the water is sprayed time to time.” Priyadarshini explains, “In hydroponics plants absorb food through their roots, and transform it into organic matter through their leaves. Soil is the result of the mechanical alteration of rock and the chemical activity of organic transformations. It acts as a support for plants, and it provides the water, oxygen, and mineral salts they need to develop. On a strictly nutritional level, soil acts as a substrate, whereas water transports the nutrients. Soil retains water with more or less efficiency, depending on its water retention capacity. At root level, you find small absorptive hairs that firmly stick to the soil particles. These hairs create a vast interaction area between the soil and the plant and enhance water absorption capability of the root surface. This is the reason, especially during transplanting, that one has to be careful not to damage these small rootlets. This absorption action, under the influence of “osmotic pressure”, will transport the nutrients from the soil to the leaves.” She adds, “Hydroponics is a technology for growing plants in nutrient solutions (water and fertilizers) with or without the use of artificial medium (e.g., sand, gravel, vermiculite, rockwool, peat, coir, sawdust) to provide mechanical support. Liquid hydroponic systems have no other supporting medium for the plant roots: aggregate systems have a solid medium of support. The inert growing medium does not contain any nutrients. Hydroponic systems are further categorized as open, where, after the nutrient solution has been delivered to the plant roots, it is not reused or closed where surplus solution is recovered, replenished, and recycled. In hydroponics, plants roots will only take up as much nutrition as they require. However, mixing a solution too high in nutrient levels will result in root dehydration. All plants require a balance of nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium (N-P-K) and trace elements to grow properly. The growth influencing factors determine a plants’ ability of utilize these nutrients adequately. Small amounts of these nutrients can be assimilated through healthy soil; however, they are quickly depleted rendering the soil void of all life sustaining properties.” Hydroponic formulations are structured for the different stages of growth. In hydroponic cultivation, essential nutrients are provided in ideal proportions. A plant’s nutritional requirements shift from their vegetative stage to their flowering stage. Natural enzymes, vitamins and some rare trace elements will stimulate normal biological functions in plants. There are other nutrients designed to help facilitate faster nutrient uptake and accelerate stem and leaf growth.  Dr. Sahgal suggests reading of the book Soilless Culture-Theory & Practice by Michael Raviv & J,Heinrich Lieth for more technical information on hydroponics. Water Intake Shweta asks Dr. Sahgal, “You mentioned water and electricity are two prerequisites of using hydroponics for cultivating fresh fruits and vegetable. On the contrary we learnt that hydroponics uses only 10% of water needed to that of used in soil cultivation. Please explain the difference in the statements.” Dr. Sahgal replies, “Sometimes because of intentional or unintentional reasons, the entire water system gets contaminated and needs to be changed. In this regard and instance, there must be adequate back up water supply. Round the clock electricity supply is required to keep temperature, humidity, water circulation and lighting under control. But these systems do not use much electricity and now the water is kept circulating in the system after due filtration and water treatment.” Priyadarshini further explains, “Hydroponics uses substantially less water as compared to the soil farming. It is actually drastically less. It is a proven fact. However, this is also true that electricity and water are mandatory requisites for cultivating crops using hydroponics. In soil farming, most of the water that we supply to the plants gets leached deep into the soil and is unavailable to the plants roots, whereas in hydroponics, plant roots are either submerged in water or a film of nutrients mixed in water is constantly encompassing the root zone, keeping it hydrated and nourished. Water is not wasted in this process, as it gets recovered, filtered, replenished and recycled. In such processes, like ebb and flow, nutrient film technique, uninterrupted pumping of the nutrient solution is required for which electricity is necessary. Electricity is also required for operating other environmental controlling units like sensors, cooling systems, and fertigation units.” Labor Input Priyadarshini points out that one of the advantages of hydroponics is that it is not as labor intensive as soil farming. “To maintain the correct balances like pH, EC, humidity, temperature, and nutrient application, farmers can go for automation. Automating the farm will help you to keep a check on all these factors. One trained person is enough to look after the affairs of a hydroponic farm of size of 1 acre. If the farm is of 4-5 acres, 2-3 persons are required for monitoring. Growing and harvesting require very less effort as soil is not involved,” she says. Use of Hydroponics in India Priyadarshini concedes, “Hydroponics is at its infancy in India. There is an urgent need to create extensive awareness amongst farmers. Although progressive farming communities of India are gradually gathering information about this technique and coming forward to adopt this method, our traditional farmers are still unaware about this revolutionary farming technique.” Dr. Sahgal adds, “The average Indian farmer is not aware of hydroponics at all. In fact, they might be unaware of the contaminated produce that they are currently growing. Those farmers who are aware of this method of farming, label hydroponic farming as too expensive and not commercially viable. No one wants to be the first to invest. Awareness must be created and hydroponics must be handled as a priority national project. When I contacted NABARD initially, they were unaware of hydroponics.” Mr. Jose Jacob argues, “Sorry, we never had looked into hydroponics. We are more interested in bringing out the best from the already existing rich soil of our land lying thoroughly unutilized and underutilized without a proper plan for the future!” Commenting on farmer resistance, Priyadarshini says, “We haven’t come across resistance from our farming communities to adopt hydroponic technology till now. India is a progressive nation and our farmers have always embraced innovative and productive farming technologies. However, some farming communities are hesitant to switch over to hydroponics quickly. One of the key reasons is lack of proper education and awareness about this technique. Some farmers have a wrong notion about hydroponics that it is farming using chemicals, which is not true. As hydroponic farming has not been carried out extensively in India, our traditional farmers are uncertain about the results (yield- quantity, quality) and return (where to sell the produce, what price would they get) after spending a decent amount on initial investment.” Dr. Sahgal feels government should take initiative to popularize hydroponics among Indian farmers, “The ministry of agriculture has just finished selling the concept of the cold chain to the farming community. Hydroponics is far more energy efficient. In hydroponics temperature are required to be kept a year-long in their 20s whereas in the cold chain, the temperatures have to be kept at about -5 degrees celsius. It uses less water and the produce can be harvested round the year; almost daily, which is a clear match with the Indian need to eat fresh daily. I regret saying this, but the authorities missed out on identifying hydroponics, and they have a big job in their hands now to sell hydroponics to the farmer community. Resistance and hesitation are there mainly because of the big numbers involved and no finance schemes are offered by the government, besides the pricing issue.” Training To switch over to hydroponic farming, farmers need to undergo basic training about hydroponic farming like irrigation and fertigation, keeping a check on greenhouse environment and growing conditions, and maintaining pH and EC, besides other factors. Every Indian state has its own government-run horticulture boards (NHB & NHM) that conduct introductory training for progressive farmers. “At Plant Genome Sciences, we give on-field training to the farmers, who are going for hydroponic greenhouse cultivation, because we believe that this is the best way to learn, discovering the practical growing challenges and solving them. Learning by doing is the best way of training,” maintains Priyadarshini. Dr. Sahgal says, “Training is required but not much. I was surprised to meet an MBA student from Pune, taking training at a lettuce hydroponic farm that I visited in Israel. Meeting her, I felt I was on the right track. Initially for the first few times one needs to undergo training in Israel, but thereafter it could be at a hydroponic farm location in India itself. M/s Growponics, Israel,the company that I represent in India, can provide A to Z turnkey concept to commissioning services for hydroponic solutions.” Future of Hydroponics in India Shweta inquires about the changes foreseen in Indian horticulture in next five years with hydroponics in focus. Priyadarshini maintains, “Hydroponics is fairly a novel farming technology for Indian farmers. It is a flexible technology, apt for both developing countries, like India, and high-tech space stations. Hydroponic technology efficiently generates crops in desert, infertile lands, in mountainous regions, on city rooftops and concrete schoolyards. In highly populated areas, where skyrocketing land prices have evicted traditional agriculture, hydroponics can provide locally grown high-value crops such as fresh salad greens, herbs and cut flowers. This technique is also ideal for growing wide range of plants especially fruit bearing crops, such as tomatoes, cucumbers, and peppers, leafy vegetables.” “Like manufacturing, agriculture tends to move toward higher-technology, more capital-intensive solutions to problems. Hydroponics is highly productive and fit for automation. The economic prospects for hydroponics CEA may improve if governmental bodies are determined that there are desirable effects of hydroponics that merit subsidy for the public good. Such beneficial effects may include the conservation of water in regions of scarcity or food production in antagonistic environments.” “This technique can be used anywhere in all agro-climatic zones, and hydroponic fruits and vegetables have higher nutritional value and tastes better than soil grown crops. If optimum growing conditions and nutritional requirements are applied, combined with effective horticultural management, this agriculture system can offer alternative means of food production. For popularization of hydroponics in our country, it is very important to provide scientific proven technology of hydroponics to gardeners and create mass awareness in potential areas at national level,” she adds. Dr. Sahgal says, “Most of us do not have backyards or a home garden where one could grow hydroponically, but if we get into large scale (1 acre plus) hydroponic farming, then there is going to be a lot of hydroponic farms in the making and running. The hydroponic farms could move closer to markets as the logistics would vastly improve. Note that there is no export market for hydroponic produce as the farmer can grow a crop in the importing market itself, irrespective of the location. Besides, this kind of farming is intensive high productivity farming.” Priyadarshini is extremely optimistic about the success of hydroponics in India, “With the advent of hydroponics in India, Indian horticulture industry is bound to grow leaps and bounds. You can estimate the success of hydroponics with the fact that not only the farming communities, but also the corporate giants are venturing into horticulture, especially hydroponics in a big way. Many farmers are doing controlled environment agriculture already and many people, especially youth, are now showing interest in automated hydroponic projects all over India.” She adds, “With hydroponic CEA, our farmers would not be worried of animal nuisances and natural forces like drought, hailstorm while growing crops. They will have better control over their growing conditions and pest problems. Agriculture sector is booming these days with good subsidies offered on such projects by various state and central governments; and in India, with more mouths to feed and depleting agriculture land and resources, farmers would surely like to explore new innovative methods of farming that can increase the quality and quantity of their yield in a feasible, practical way.” History of Hydroponics Informing about the history of hydroponic technology, Priyadarshini says, “Hydroponic gardens in history trace back to the hanging gardens of Babylon. The Aztec Indians had a system of growing crops on rafts in shallow lakes, near Mexico City. Developments did not start taking place in Europe until 1699, when Woodward found that he could grow plants in a solution of water to which soil had been added. Liebig, a German scientist, started using nutrient solutions to study the nutritional requirements of plants in the 1850’s and was followed by Sachs in 1860 and Knop in 1861, who made studies of nutrient elements in water solutions. They were able to grow plants in nutrient solutions made up from mineral salts eliminating the need for soil.” “Research continued and by 1925, practical applications of hydroponics were being made in the greenhouse industry. The next decade witnessed extensive development as researchers became aware of the potential of growing hydroponically. In 1930, Gericke produced the first commercial hydroponic unit in the USA. Later during World War II, the American forces in the Pacific grew vegetable crops hydroponically. Developments continued and the commercial use of hydroponics spread throughout the world, but it was the development of N.F.T. system by Dr. Alan Cooper in the 1970’s, along with improved nutritional formulations, that made the hydroponic growing of a wide range of plants commercially viable. Since then many developed and developing countries all over the world are adopting this farming method with minor modifications, although basic principle remains the same.” Investment Required Mr. Gaurav Garg of Saanvi Organics says, “Hydroponics can be done in 3 ways – 1. Progressive farmers can adopt it in commercial farming, 2. People can adopt it as hobby, and 3. Can be most beneficial for urban farming in metros.” He maintains that for a viable commercial unit you need 1000 sq. feet and investment of around Rs. 3 lac. Earning expected is around 1 lac per year. “Unfortunately, in India people who know about Hydroponic, want to collect money through seminars. No one is seriously interested to spread it to masses,” says Mr. Garg. Income from Hydroponics Regarding income from hydroponics, Priyadarshini says, “Sky is the limit if one can harness the power of hydroponics. If done on a large commercial scale, hydroponics can rain profits for the Indian farmers. Hydroponic farming is expected to grow exponentially, especially in India, looking at the present food requirement, market demand and export opportunities.” She adds, “Although farmers can grow almost any crop using hydroponics, they must evaluate and understand the market opportunity before investing. Since hydroponic produce are considered as premier products due to their better quality, colour and size, Indian farmers can fetch fairly high price if they find the right place to sell. Also, hydroponics gives you the freedom to grow any crop in any season under controlled environment agriculture. Farmers can schedule and grow crops in such a way that they can sell off-season, better quality crops at a much higher price.” Crops that can be grown using hydroponics Dr. Sahgal says, “ Theoretically an