eCourses Home Objective SAUs Reports Farmer's Portal Feedback Contact Us e-Courseware on Agricultural Education Under Learning and Capacity Building program of NAIP, several UG level interactive & multimedia e-Courseware contents in seven discipline viz. Agricultural Science; Fisheries Science; Dairy Science; Veterinary and Animal Husbandary; Horticulture; Home Science and Agricultural Engineering have been developed at SAUs and other organisations. This portal provides 24/7 services for online access to all the teachers and students learners in the field of agricultural education. For remote area institutions/ faculty/ students, free download facility is provided for using the e-Courseware contents offline. Objectives   1. Establishment of an independent web based integrated e-learning portal for Agricultural Education. 2. A useful tool for the agricultural education e-courses data management related to all disciplines of Agriculture Sciences including Veterinary, Animal Science, Fisheries, Dairy, Horticulture and Home science etc. 3. An effective tool and solution for Refinement, Updation, Maintenance and Sustenance of the e-learning courseware contents developed under Learning and Capacity Building program of NAIP. 4. For remote area institutions/ faculty/ students, e-learning courseware has been made available as downloadable component from the same portal. This will eliminate the process of physical supply of e-courses on (CDs / DVDs) by post/courier services. 5. The reporting through this system will help in quantitatively measuring utility of the system and impact assessment. Organisational Structure Network of e-KrishiShiksha Partners / Cooperating Centres: National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP), New Delhi - for Financial Support. Under Learning and Capacity Building program of NAIP, several UG level interactive & multimedia e-Courseware contents in seven discipline viz. Agricultural Science; Fisheries Science; Dairy Science; Veterinary and Animal Husbandary; Horticulture; Home Science and Agricultural Engineering have been developed at SAUs and other organisations.The financial support for these developments has been provided by NAIP to different subprojects under component - 1 of NAIP Education Division of ICAR, New Delhi - as Coordinating Unit. The following universities/ institutes are coordinating with Education Division of ICAR for Refinement, Updation, Maintenance and Sustenance of the e-learning courseware contents developed for different disciplines. ·    Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture & Technology, Pantnagar for refinement and updating of e-Courses on B.Sc.(Agriculture) degree program. ·    Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Chennai for refinement and updating of e-courses on B.V.Sc. & A.H. degree programme. ·    Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University, Bidar; College of Fisheries, Mangalore for refinement and updating of e-Courses on B.F.Sc. degree program. ·    Anand Agricultural University, Anand for refinement and updating of e-Courses on B.Tech & Ag. Engg. degree program. ·    Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University, Saifabad, Hyderabad; College of Home Science. for refinement and updating of e-Courses on B.Sc (Home Science) degree program. ·    National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal for refinement and updating of e-Courses on B.Tech. (Dairy Technology). ·    Dr. Y.S. Parmar University of Horticulture & Forestry, Solan for refinement and updating of e-Courses on B.Sc. (Horticulture) degree programme. Responsibilities of the Coordinating Unit, Education Division of ICAR, New Delhi ·    The Corrective, Preventive, Adaptive and Perfective maintenance of the software developed for the integrated e-learning portal. ·    Maintenance of the integrated e-learning portal to provide 24/7 services to all the teachers and students learners in the field of agricultural education. ·    Guidance, overall supervision and monitoring of Refinement, Updation and upload activities of all participating organizations. ·    Responsible for monitoring of regular, Maintenance and Sustenance of the e-learning courseware. ·    Organisation of sensitization workshops in collaboration with coordinating universities for teachers/students. ·    Establishment of linkages with NARS to create awareness & popularization of e-learning system. Responsibilities of the universities/ institutes identified to coordinate with Education Division of ICAR: ·    Identification of concerned discipline Expert Faculty Group and outlining of e-course expectations, concerns and challenges. ·    Identification of the e-course content creator team (original content creators and additions and/or deletion, if any) for content revision, updation and uploading. ·    Fixing of proposed targets/ achievements for updation and uploading of e-courses. ·    Updating of the e-course contents as per suggestions emerged from the refinement group. ·    Uploading of the revised e-course contents to the Integrated e-learning System portal. ·    Responsible for the quality and the quantity of the e-course contents floating under the e-learning portal. Agricultural Education Division   Website Developed & Maintained by   Dr. R.C. Goyal under Emeritus Scientist scheme of ICAR  Hosted from IASRI,  New Delhi ©2013 Disclaimer : The information on this website does not warrant or assume any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or usefulness of the courseware contents. The contents are provided free for noncommercial purpose such as teaching, training, research, extension and self learning.