Rajasthan Government and Politics Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Rajasthan Government And Politics   Rajasthan Government Departments Panchayat Police Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies राजस्थान का नक्शा Economy Power Plants Atomic Power Plant Thermal Power Plant Industry Ghiloth Industrial Area Rajasthan History and Geography Weather Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Cities Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Rajasthan Government and Politics The state of Rajasthan has a bicameral legislature-the Vidhan Sabha- Legislative Assembly and the Vidhan Parishad- Legislative Council. Vasundhara Raje is presently the Chief Minister of Rajasthan. She was sworn as the first woman Chief Minister Rajasthan on December 8, 2003. The Governor of Rajasthan is Margaret Alva while Chief Secretary of the state is CK Mathew. The state with an area of 3, 42,239sq.km is divided into two types of constituencies- - the Parliamentary Constituency and the Assembly Constituency. There are twenty-five Parliamentary Constituencies and two hundred Assembly Constituencies in its thirty-two districts. The Deputy Commissioner acts as R.O (Returning Officer) who is responsible for conducting elections in Rajasthan. The predominant political parties in the state are the Indian National Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Other parties of Rajasthan include Communist Party of India (Marxist),Bahujan Samaj Party, Indian National Lok Dal , Janata Dal (United),Lok Jan Shakti Party, Rajasthan Samajik Nyaya Manch. The Judiciary of Rajasthan consists of the High Court with its head quarters at Jodhpur and its bench in Jaipur , the Subordinate Judicial Service or the District Courts and Lok Adalats. The Rajasthan High Court exercises original jurisdiction in the state and came into existence on June 21, 1949 under the Rajasthan High Court Ordinance, 1949. At present, Rajasthan High Court has its principal Seat in Jodhpur with a bench in Jaipur, the state capital. Rajasthan Police is the agency that enforces law for the state and currently has strength of 70000. The police administration encompasses 39 police districts, 711 police stations, 172 circles and 788 out-posts. There are also12 women Police Stations. Rajasthan is one of the foremost states that initiated the system of local government and the first Panchayat was inaugurated by Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru on 2nd October 1959 at Naugaur. Currently Rajasthan has 32 districts that are divided into 241 tehsils, 237 Panchayat Samities , 9,184 village panchayats and 183 municipalities. Election Constituencies The Returning officer (R.O) of an Assembly or Parliamentary Constituency is responsible for conducting elections as per section 21 of the Representation of the People Act 1951.In the case of Rajasthan, the concerned Deputy Commissioner acts as R.O. The work related to the Assembly and Parliament elections is supervised by the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO). Electoral Registration Officer (ERO) creates the electoral rolls. In the case of Rajasthan, the area sub-divisional Magistrates or Additional District Magistrates perform the same task. The Electoral Registration officer is responsible for the preparation of electoral rolls for a parliamentary / assembly constituency. Rajasthan Parliamentary Constituencies Rajasthan has 25 Parliamentary Constituencies that form a part of its thirty-two districts. The elected members from these constituencies become the members of Lok Sabha or the lower house of the Parliament. Rajasthan Parliamentary Constituencies comprise of eighteen General seats, four seats and three seats that are reserved for the Schedule Castes and Schedule Tribes respectively. Rajasthan Assembly Constituency Rajasthan has 200 Assembly Constituencies. Rajasthan Assembly Constituencies consist of one hundred and forty-three General seats, thirty- three and twenty-four seats are reserved for Schedule Castes seats and Schedule Tribes respectively. In fact the Chief Minister of Rajasthan - Smt Vasundhara Raje of Bharatiya Janata Party is from the Jhalrapatan Assembly Constituency. Politics The representatives belong to various political parties which are but groups of people with similar ideologies and interests. These political parties need to register with the election commission which assigns them a symbol to contest the polls with. A party that holds sway in 4 or more states is called a national party while that having representation in 3 or less is called a state party. The majority party/coalition leader then extended an invitation from the Governor, the President's representative in the state to take on the position of the Chief Minister of the state. The Chief Minister now selects able ministers to aid and facilitate the executive functions. Smt Vasundhara Raje is currently the Chief Minister of Rajasthan state. She belongs to the Bharatiya Janata Party or BJP who are currently the majority party in the assembly, holding 120 of the 200 seats. Political Parties The political parties of a state represent the various political ideologies of the people. These parties compete in the elections and the citizen vote on the principle of universal adult suffrage. The state legislature of the state of Rajasthan consists of 200 seats i.e. there are 200 assembly constituencies in the state. The following is a list of the various political parties in the state legislative assembly and the number of seats they hold. Name of Party National/State No of Seats Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) National 120 Communist Party of India (Marxist) National 1 Independent 13 Bahujan Samaj Party National 2 Indian National Congress National 56 Indian National Lok Dal State 4 Janata Dal (United) State 2 Lok Jan Shakti Party State 1 Rajasthan Samajik Nyaya Manch State 1 Total Number of Seats 200 Boards & Commissions Board of Secondary Education, Rajasthan-The Board of Secondary Education, Rajasthan (BSER), since the last four decades has developed a dynamic system of academic excellence and different examinations. BSER was constituted in Jaipuron 4th December, 1957 in with the promulgation of the Rajasthan Secondary Education Act in 1957.However it was repositioned to Ajmer in 1961.It started functioning in the year 1973 with the present infrastructure and all its amenities.The BSER played an active role for the promotion and development of Secondary Education in Rajasthan, in more than 6000 schools situated in all the 32 districts of the state. Board of Technical Education, Rajasthan- This board is engaged in imparting technical education in the state and is located in Presidency Road of Jodhpur. The board arranges for the Rajasthan Pre Entrance Test for Engineering, Architecture and Pharmacy known RPETEAP. Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB)- Rajasthan Housing Board was set up on 24th February, 1970 by the Government of Rajasthan under the State Legislative Assembly Act No.4 of 1970. It is an independent body that caters to the increasing demand of housing in Rajasthan. The board initiated housing activities in seven cities of Rajasthan and during the last thirty years housing activities have been carried out in 49 cities, with more projects to come up. High Court High Courts are the most important civil courts that have original jurisdiction in the state of a country. There are 18 High Courts for 28 states and Union Territories in India. The Rajasthan High Court came into existence on June 21, 1949 under the Rajasthan High Court Ordinance, 1949 and the first High Court of the state was inaugurated by His Highness Maharaja Sawai Man Singh Ji of Jaipur at Jodhpur on 29th August, 1949. The erstwhile princely states of Rajasthan before 20th Century were under the suzerainty of the Rajput Chieftains who exercised Legislative, Executive and Judicial control over the state and its people. The Jagirdars or the Kotri Thikanas formed the heads. Later during the period of British imperialism, the state was authority of the Feudal Lords. Finally when India became independent, Rajasthan High Court was set up on 21st June, 1949 by the first Rajasthan High Court Ordinance. Actually at that time, five High Courts were functioning in the states of Bikaner , Jodhpur, Jaipur and Matsya union with strength of twenty judges. These different jurisdictions were abolished by the Rajasthan High Court Ordinance, 1949 as it provided for a single High Court for the whole state. Municipalities Municipality is an organ of self government system that functions in the townships and urban areas. The Municipal area refers to the territorial domain of a Municipality as ascertained by the Governor of a state. The Rajasthan Municipalities Act or the Rajasthan Act 38 was passed in 1959. The state of Rajasthan has 183 municipalities, a Municipal Council for a smaller urban region and a Municipal Corporation for a bigger urban area. The composition varies with the urban population of the state. In the year 2001, the urban population accounted for 23.38 per cent of the total population of the state of Rajasthan. The Municipalities of Rajasthan functions as the institutions of self-government and the powers are devolved by the state. Articles 243 of the Constitution of India lay provisions regarding the election, composition, powers, and duration and so on of the Municipalities. The Municipalities are responsible for bringing out social and economic development and social justice. They are authorized to implement developmental schemes and also have the power to impose taxes. Public Service Commissions The Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) is an independent body that came into existence about 50 years ago in Ajmer by the promulgation of an ordinance on 16th August, 1949. The primary role of the Commission is to give advice and to make recommendations in the making of appointments to public offices, to exercise disciplinary control over public officers and so on. Formation -The Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) was established by the promulgation of an ordinance on 16th August, 1949. At the time of its formation, the Public Service Commission institution existed only in three states of Rajasthan- Jaipur, Jodhpur and Bikaner. However the ordinance which was promulgated in 1949 after the amalgamation of the princely states provided for the abolition of the existing Public Service Commissions or other same kind of institutions performing similar duties like those of the PSCs in the constituent states. The ordinance also provided for the functions of the Commission and its staff and also its composition. Last Updated on : October 14, 2014 Rajasthan Assembly Constituencies Ahore Ajmer City East Ajmer City West Alwar Amber Asind Aspur Atru Badi Sadri Bagidora Bairath Bali Bamanwas (ST) Bandikui Banera Bani Park Bansur Banswara (ST) Baran (SC) Bari Barmer Bassi Bayana Beawar Begun Behror Bhadra Bharatpur Bhilwara Bhim Bhinai (SC) Bhinmal Bhopalgarh Bikaner Bilara Bundi Chhabra Chittorgarh Chittor Chohtan Chomu (SC) Chorasi (ST) Churu Dag (SC) Danpur (ST) Danta Ramgarh Dausa (ST) Deedwana Deeg Degana Desuri (SC) Dhod Dholpur Digod Dudu Dungargarh Dungarpur Fatehpur Ganganagar Gangapur Gangrar (SC) Ghatol Gogunda (ST) Guda Malani Gudha Hanumangarh Hawamahal Hindaun Hindoli (ST) Jahazpur Jaipur Jaisalmer Jaitaran Jalore Jamwa Jayal Jhalrapatan Jhunjhunu Jodhpur Johri Bazar Kaman Kapasin (SC) Karanpur Karauli Kathumar Kekri Kesarisinghpur (SC) Khairthal (SC) Khandar Khandela Khanpur Kharchi (SC) Kherwara (ST) Khetri Kishanganj Kishangarh Kishanpole Kolayat Kota Kotputli Kumbalgarh Kumher Kushalgarh Lachmangarh Rajgarh Lachmangarh Ladnu Ladpura Lalsot Lasadia Luni Lunkaransar Mahuwa Makrana Malpura Mandal Mandalgarh Mandawa Mandawar Manohar Thana Masuda Mavli Merta Mundwa Nadbai Nagar Nagaur Nainwa Nasirabad Nathdwara Nawalgarh Nawan Neem ka Thana Nimbahera Niwai (SC) Nohar Nokha Osian Pachpadra Pali Parbatsar Patan Phagi Phalasia (ST) Phalodi Phulera Pilani Pilibanga Pindwara Abu (ST) Pipalda Pirawa Pratapgarh Nimbahera Pushkar Raipur Raisinghnagar Rajakhera Rajgarh (ST) Rajsamand Ramganjmandi Ramgarh Raniwara Ratangarh Reodar (SC) Rupbas (SC) Sadulpur (SC) Sagwara Sahada (ST) Salumber Sanchore Sanganer Sangaria (ST) Sapotra Sarada (ST) Sardarpura Sardarshahar Sawai-madhopur Shahpura Sheo Shergarh Sikar Sikrai Sirohi Siwana Sojat Srimadhopur Sujangarh Sumerpur Surajgarh (ST) Suratgarh Sursagar (SC) Taranagar Thanagazi Tibi (SC) Tizara Todabhim (ST) Todaraisingh Tonk Udaipur-rural (ST) Udaipur Uniara Vallabhnagar Weir Rajasthan Economy Rajasthan Industries Ghiloth Industrial Area Rajasthan Power Plants Rajasthan Thermal Power Plant Map Atomic Power Plant Kota Rajasthan Government Ministers and Departments Panchayats Police Rajasthan Parliamentary Constituencies Ajmer Alwar Banswara Bharatpur Bikaner Chittorgarh Churu Dasua Ganganagar Jaipur (rural) Jaipur Jalore Jhalawar Barar Jhunjhunu Jodhpur Karauli Dholpur Kota Nagaur Pali Rajsamand Sikar Tonk Sawai Madhopur Udaipur             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule