Soils for Life | LEISA INDIA Magazines English Hindi Kannada Marathi Oriya Punjabi Tamil Telugu Home About Us Services Impact Subscription Archives Online Library CD Version Videos/Photos Videos Photos Contact Us Contribution Leisa India Low External Input Sustainable Agriculture LEISA INDIA > Magazines > English > Soils for Life Soils for Life More than 90% of the planet’s genetic biodiversity is found in soils. A gram of soil can contain as many as 10,000 different species. The various micro organisms in the soil are capable of fixing nitrogen from the atmosphere, make other nutrients accessible to the plants and also improve the physical structure of the soil. However, with agriculture becoming commercialized, farmers have shifted to high chemical agriculture, depriving soils of organic matter on which the soil life thrives. Today, soil remains lifeless. But even today, amidst commercialization, we still find farmers who adopt alternative agriculture practices, preserving soil health. This issue of LEISA India includes a number of such initiatives. While we celebrate the International Year of Soils 2015, hope these experiences inspire many others to think and act differently.     Editorial Bringing back the soil N Venkatesan Biochar for healthy soils J Elango and V M Karunagaran Mulching –  Harvesting many benefits in cardomom S Varadarasan and P Vivekanandan Making dry farming the second front of agriculture  development R Dwarakinath Participatory soil health restoration Anirudhha Das and Purnabha Dasgupta Interview: IRENE CARDOSO “Healthy soils give family farmers autonomy, resilience  and long-term productivity” Janneke Bruil Creating a healthy living soil to feed millions with  safe food Deepak Suchde and Om P Rupela Revival of soil fertility in Vidarbha region Priti Joshi Sheep Penning –  Need to sustain this unique practice B Sriveda and B Srihitha Restoring our soils by learning from history Roland Bunch Nurturing natural ecosystems Sujata Goel Soil health – Key to improved yields Purshottam Jangid, Monu K Rathore Ranveer, S Shaktawat and V Khatana New Books and  Sources Rural Reality Show –  An innovative approach to spread  good practices Shweta Prajapati and Gazala Shaikh   For earlier issues click here …… Download PDF View Online   Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website   Copyright© Leisa | All Rights Reserved. Designed by Dhyeya