NAIP - A Value Chain on Industrial Agroforestry in Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Agricultural University NAIP á –alue Chain on Industrial Agroforestry in Tamil Nadu Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam - 641 301 Home Project Profile Sub Project Profile Rationale Project Objectives Detailed Programme Project Location and Jurisdiction List of Innovations Role of Consortium Partners Monitoring Indicators Project Impact Work Plan Consortium Advisory Committee Consortium Implementation Committee Consortium Monitoring Unit Base Line Study Project Team FC & RI Lead Institute IFGTB TNPL SPB Vasan Match Works Technologies NAIP Technologies Crop Technology Casuarina Eucalyptus Ailanthus Melia Dubia Anthocephalus Cadamba Leucaena Leucocephala Value Addition Technology Briquetting Technology Agar Technology Value Chain Farmers and Area Demonstration Plot Horizontal Expansion Captive Plantations Other Plantations MIS Market Supply & Demand Pattern Market Price Current Prices Historical Prices Forecasted Prices Contract Farming Value Addtion Products Markets Supply & Demand Price Traders Eucalyptus Casuarina Subabul Fire Wood Pole Others Media Gallery Launch Meet Farmers Training Cluster Demonstration Plot Research Trials Value Addition Mechanization CIC & CAC Review Team Baseline Study Audio Video News and Events News Events Institute Departments and Faculties Education Research Schemes/Projects Extension Contact Us Contact Address Location Map   Briquetting Technology « prev 1 2 3 next » What is Briquetting? Briquetting is the process of converting low bulk density biomass into high density and energy concentrated fuel briquettes . (compacting the biomass into dense block ) BRIQUETTE A briquette (or briquette) is a block of flammable matter which is used as fuel to start and maintain a fire. Advantages Eco friendly & Renewable Energy fuel. Economical and cheaper than other solid fuels i.e. coal & wood. Higher thermal calorific value around 4000 Kcal/Kg. Pollution free because there is no sulphur or any hazardous material. Lower ash content 2 to 5%. There is no fly ash when burn. Consistent high burning efficiency due to the low moisture. Contain high density & Higher Fix Carbon value. Easy for Transportation, feeding & combustion due to unique shape. Combustion is more uniform compared to other coal. Demandable market due to high rise in fossil fuels price. History of Briquetting First biomass briquetting technology developed  - Europe and the    United States. Industrial methods of briquetting date back to the second part of the 19th century. In 1865, a report was made on a machine used for making  fuel briquettes from peat -  current machines  Screw extrusion briquetting technology was invented and developed in Japan in 1945. As of April 1969, were 638 plants in Japan engaged in manufacturing sawdust briquettes, known as 'Ogalite',. The Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency (IREDA) -  A finance granting agency - has financed many briquetting projects. The use of organic fuel-briquettes  - 70’s -  Scandinavia, the USA and Canada. Biomass Briquetting Densification of loose biomass (viz., agricultural and agro-industrial wastes , wood wastes) is called Biomass briquetting. Biomass briquettes are a renewable source of energy and avoid adding fossil carbon to the atmosphere. It facilitates easy transportation, better handling and storage besides being efficient in use as an alternative fuel to coal and firewood 1  t Coal = 1,25 t BriquettesBIOMASS DENSIFICATION BIOMASS DENSIFICATION Flow ability and cohesiveness (lubricants and binders can impart these characteristics for compaction) Particle size  (too fine a particle means higher cohesion, causing poor flow) Surface forces  (important to agglomeration for strength) Adhesiveness Hardness « prev 1 2 3 next » Project Profile Project Team Technologies Value Chain Farmers and Area MIS Media News and Events Institute Contact Us Website Developed by Samantha Technologies No.of Visits