Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Business Delegation to Las, Myanmar and Thailand Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Written by Administrator on 28 June 2014 . Posted in Gallery Twitter FINER BUSINESS DELEGATION TO LAO - PDR, MYANMAR AND THAILAND   North East to Myanmar :  FINER Business delegation headed by Ms. Indrani Chaudhury, Deputy Director General, alongwith with 8 other delegates comprising of Directors and Members are on a visit to Myanmar.   The main objective of the FINER Business Delegation is to is to enhance the visibility of North Eastern Region in the global business map of world economic forum. New technologies and methodologies of the County can be adopted  to enhance the productivity and quality for global competitiveness and  new investment opportunities which every entrepreneur is looking at can be achieved. The delegation in its endevour had a meeting today with His Excellency Gautam Mukhopadhya, Ambassador of India to Yangon, at the Embassy’s office at Yangon. His Excellency briefed the delegation about opportunities available in Myanmar and also about the bilateral private and government sector development provided by both Myanmar and India. He also mentioned that there is untapped potential to increase economic interaction between Myanmar and India and Economical ties between these two countries offer great economic growth opportunities. The delegation also had an Interactive meet today with the Mr. Win Aung ,President of Union of Myanmar Federation of Commerce and Industry (UMFCCI) and The President and Vice-President of Myanmar India International Business Association (MIIBA) at Yangon alongwith the members of trade and commerce of Myanmar.   The Interactive meet was organized by the Embassy of India to Yangon to showcase the Trade and Investment opportunities in Myanmar. The main objective of this Interactive meet was to share the opportunities for Investment in both India and Myanmar and also to promote and enhance future business relationships between both the Countries and share the vision and policies of the governments of the Republic of India and Myanmar.   The delegation also attended a dinner meet organised by Shri Naresh Kr Dinodiya, President, Indian Association of Myanmar ,at Yangon, alongwith members of the association.  North East to Thailand : FINER Business delegation headed by Ms. Indrani Chaudhury, Deputy Director General, alongwith with 8 other delegates comprising of Directors and Members were on a visit to Thailand.   The main objective of the FINER Business Delegation is to is to enhance the visibility of North Eastern Region in the global business map of world economic forum. New technologies and methodologies of the County can be adopted  to enhance the productivity and quality for global competitiveness and  new investment opportunities which every entrepreneur is looking at can be achieved.   The delegation in its endevour  had a meeting with Shri Susheel Saraff, President India-Thai Chamber of Commerce and members of India-Thai Chamber of Commerce at the Chamber’s office at Bangkok.   Shri Saraff briefed the delegation about the  opportunities of  Trade and Investment in Thailand and policies of the Government of Thailand for trade facility. Both the parties also exchanged views to develop the untapped potential areas to increase economic interaction between these two countries and this economical ties between Thailand and India would offer great economic growth opportunities for both the Countries.   North East to Lao - PDR :  FINER Business delegation headed by Ms. Indrani Chaudhury, Deputy Director General, on their visit to Laos attended the India – Lao PDR Business Seminar promoting business links with the theme –“Working together towards sustainable growth, at the Vientiane Plaza hotel, today, which was attended by visiting Indian business people and representatives from the Lao Ministries of Agriculture and Forestry, Planning and Investment, Foreign Affairs and the Lao National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LNCCI). The Business seminar on Trade and Investment opportunities in Lao PDR – supporting current vision and policy of Governments of Republic India and Lao PDR, was organized by The Indian Chamber of Commerce in Laos (INCHAM) in cooperation with the related Lao government sectors The themes of the business seminars were in line with India’s “Look-East-Policy”. The mission of this business seminar was to promote and enhance future business relationships between India and Laos and share the vision and policies of the governments of the Republic of India and Lao PDR. The seminar created awareness about opportunities that India and Laos provide for bilateral private and government sector development. There is untapped potential to increase economic interaction between these two countries. Economical ties between Laos and India offer great economic growth opportunities, which were addressed by several speakers during the seminar. Laos provides great opportunities for foreign investment, especially in mining, hydropower, infrastructure development, agriculture, construction and trading to name a few Director General of Asia Pacific, from the Lao Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mr Mai Sayavongs expressed the particular interest the Lao Government has in cooperating with other Asian countries, particularly India, through bilateral trade and economic and cultural exchange. Office Head of the Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI) Dr Kikeo Chanthaboury highlighted the opportunities which are offered to Laos by recently becoming a full member of WTO and in 2015 of the Asean Economic Community (AEC) and its relevance for future economic growth. The Business Seminar also highlighted the high economic relevance of road connectivity and the importance of link to India via the north eastern region which integrates these markets into Indian national and also international markets. The North Eastern Region connectivity to the Indian heartland has always been a problem The north eastern region needs to be transformed into an attractive hub for Asian, Southeast Asian and Chinese traders. Among the dignitaries present were Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Planning and Investment Dr Kikeo Chanthaboury, who was principal guest and gave a keynote speech. Also in attendance was Director General of Asia Pacific, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mr Mai Sayavongs, Ambassador of the Royal Embassy of Cambodia Hos Sereythonh, Economic Offi cer of the Embassy of the United States of America Mr Andrew Buntrock, Third Secretary of the Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia Mrs Septania Rubi Prameswari, Head of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization Operations Mr Sommai Famming and Head of Office for the International Finance Corporation Mr Phongsavanh Phomkong . More than 80 participants attended the Business Seminar including 9 delegation from FINER. The Business Seminar was attended by high-ranking members from government and non-government political and economic organizations and Ministries, the United Nations, embassies and chambers of commerce.  Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Comments Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS No comments found Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Home About Finer What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com