Hanging Gardens - Timings, Address, Entry fee | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Travel / Hanging Gardens – Terraced Gardens in Mumbai Hanging Gardens – Terraced Gardens in Mumbai May 29, 2013 by Priyanka An unforgettable walk at the Hanging Gardens in Mumbai Away from the hustle and bustle of city life, if you are seeking for a place to unwind and relax in Mumbai, the Hanging Gardens would be a nice break. A welcoming spot for kids, the garden is beautiful with a variety of flowers and well maintained greens all around. These gardens are also known as Pherozshah Mehta Gardens. It is also said that there is a huge reservoir underneath the gardens. Key Attractions : Interesting animal shaped hedges and topiaries  all around the park. A great place to capture a sunset view of the Arabian Sea. Well maintained pathways for a good stroll or a jog around the park. Its a great place for morning walks. Capturing a lot of pictures. You will cherish them all. The water fountains put on during the evening add to the charm of the place. The bird’s eye view of Marine Drive and Chowpatty. A small playground for kids where they will get to enjoy some basic rides likes swing, slide, see-saw, etc. For the best experience, make sure the weather is in your favour. A hot sunny day at the garden would be dejecting and uncomfortable as there are no big trees. Beware of street hawkers. Location : Opposite Kamla Nehru Park, Malabar Hills, Mumbai Entry Fee : Free Timings : 5am to 9pm (open all days) Places around the Hanging Gardens : Kamla Nehru Park (famous for the big boot), Jain Temple, Mani Bhawan Gandhi Museum For more related information you may refer to the following: Manori Beach in Mumbai Flora Fountain in Mumbai Babulnath Temple in Mumbai Elephanta Caves Siddhivinayak Temple in Mumbai ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens in Mumbai Garden Mumbai Priyanka I am an independent person who respects the virtues of patience, versatility and creativity. I like to travel around and if by chance I cannot, my dreams help me explore the world! More articles from Priyanka : Khusro Bagh – A tranquil garden surrounding Mughal structures Ocean Park in Hyderabad An Architectural Wonder called the Shore Temple at Mahabalipuram Teli Ka Mandir in the Gwalior Fort: Stunning Blend of North and South Indian Architecture Historical Treasures of Gujari Mahal Archaeological Museum Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Baidyanath sah on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd omprakash on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd VIJAY MANGLIK on Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012