Open Journal Systems | Public Knowledge Project Software Open Journal Systems Open Monograph Press Open Conference Systems Open Harvester Systems Research R&D Initiatives Scholarly Inquiry Research Associates Funders Publications Community Development Partners Sponsors Strategic & Technical Partners PKP Conference 2015 Past PKP Conferences Services CrossRef PKP LOCKSS PKP Publishing Services Support Forum For Developers Documentation PKP School Education and Training PKP is a multi-university initiative developing (free) open source software and conducting research to improve the quality and reach of scholarly publishing Public Knowledge Project > Open Journal Systems Open Journal Systems “Scholars need the means to launch a new generation of journals committed to open access, and to help existing journals that elect to make the transition to open access…” Budapest Open Access Initiative, 2002 Open Journal Systems (OJS) is a journal management and publishing system that has been developed by the Public Knowledge Project through its federally funded efforts to expand and improve access to research. OJS Features OJS is installed locally and locally controlled. Editors configure requirements, sections, review process, etc. Online submission and management of all content. Subscription module with delayed open access options. Comprehensive indexing of content part of global system. Reading Tools for content, based on field and editors’ choice. Email notification and commenting ability for readers. Complete context-sensitive online Help support. OJS assists with every stage of the refereed publishing process, from submissions through to online publication and indexing. Through its management systems, its finely grained indexing of research, and the context it provides for research, OJS seeks to improve both the scholarly and public quality of refereed research. OJS is open source software made freely available to journals worldwide for the purpose of making open access publishing a viable option for more journals, as open access can increase a journal’s readership as well as its contribution to the public good on a global scale (see PKP Publications ). Hosted Solutions For Developers Download Documentation Demo Languages OJS Usage About History People Organization Informational brochures Financial Support Donations Copyright Notice Contact Us For PKP Publishing Services please use the PKP|PS contact form . For support with PKP software we encourage users to consult our wiki for documentation and search our support forums . For any other correspondence feel free to contact us using the contact form here . Find Us Twitter Twitter Copyright © 2014 Simon Fraser University Library