Arvind Kejriwal Biography: India's Modern Crusader: Biography, Family, Early days in Politics, Criticisms & Awards India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Government and Politics » Arvind Kejriwal Biography   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Arvind Kejriwal Biography Arvind Kejriwal is the present Chief Minister of Delhi. He is also one of the most controversial and popular figures of contemporary Indian politics, having risen as recently as late 2012. Within such as short span of time, he has generated tremendous discussion after becoming the Chief Minister of Delhi twice and resigning within 50 days in support of the Jan Lokpal Bill during his first term as the CM. Also, in the general elections of 2014, he contested from the most-hyped Lok Sabha seat of Varanasi against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, the verdict of the people was not in his favour. For someone who believes that "change begins with small things", Kejriwal has embarked upon a rather tough mission of making India corruption-free through the more popular means of seeking public support - standing for elections. His Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came out with flying colours in the 2015 assembly election in Delhi, bagging 67 out of the 70 seats. It was a historical victory for the newly formed party to sway away the major political parties of the country. In the 2013 Delhi assembly elections too, the AAP had come as a surprise in the political race by bagging 27 seats. More drama was to follow as the Congress extended its support to the AAP and a government was formed under Kejriwal's leadership. The Man An average, bespectacled Indian with a soft demeanour, Arvind Kejriwal, born in Siwani, Haryana on 16 August 1968, began his career with Tata Steel after graduating in mechanical engineering from IIT, Kharagpur in 1989. This was not to hold his interest for too long as he left the same in 1992 to have a shot at the Indian Civil Services exam. Kejriwal successfully entered the Indian Revenue Services and began his service in the New Delhi Income Tax Department. Kejriwal soon married Sunita, an IRS officer; they now have a daughter and a son. Kejriwal is a vegetarian and likes watching comedies and Aamir Khan's movies. He has also authored a book Swaraj that came out in 2012, in both English and Hindi. Social Service In 2000, Kejriwal quit his IRS job and gave vent to the feelings of social activism and started an NGO, Parivartan, in Kaushambi, to fight against corruption and bring change in the field of education and the public distribution system in India. Kejriwal strongly feels that political corruption is the root cause of corruption in the country as can be seen from the various scams involving political figures that have been exposed by the media. Kejriwal had met several social activists and personalities like Mother Teresa and was impressed by their vision and thoughts early on. Soon enough in the public eye, Arvind Kejriwal gathered many followers. He was awarded for his initiatives with the prestigious Ramon Magsaysay Award for Emerging Leadership in 2006. He was also able to meet and garner ample support from Anna Hazare, who was rising as an anti-corruption Gandhian. The two joined hands along with others like Kiran Bedi, Prashant Bhushan, etc., to spring up the momentum of the anti-corruption movement. Kejriwal became the architect of the Jan Lokpal Bill movement, aiming to bring an ombudsman over the government and a strong RTI (Right to Information) in the country. New Chapter in Kejriwal's Life As Hazare's movement began to lose steam over slow-progressing talks with other political parties, Arvind Kejriwal decided to rejuvenate it through the political route. This brought in major differences in opinions between Anna, who did not want to politicise the movement, and Kejriwal, who thought otherwise. The two parted ways and in November 2012, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came into existence. When the assembly elections concluded in Delhi in December 2013, nobody had imagined that the AAP would win 27 of the 70 seats. While the party was nowhere close to the required majority, the event was hailed as a mass transformation in which the common man had finally stood up against decades of corruption and exploitation. However, fate had decided to enthrone Kejriwal. The Congress party extended its support, asking the AAP to form the government. They did so and Kejriwal became the seventh Chief Minister of Delhi. However, the government was not to last long as the BJP and the Congress opposed some aspects of the Jan Lokpal Bill, leading to confrontation in the assembly. 14 February 2014 was the last day of the AAP government, as the opposition wouldn't let it table the Jan Lokpal Bill without getting it approved from the Centre first, which Kejriwal saw as unnecessary and a hurdle. But fate has something else to offer to Kejriwal. When re-elections were held in Delhi in 2015, the AAP created a historical moment by achieving a stupendous victory with winning 67 out of the 70 seats. These numbers proved that Delhi and its common men not only supported and trusted Kejriwal but also wanted a change in politics and the society. Arvind Kejriwal Facts and Information Born 16 August 1968 (Siwani, Haryana) Religion Hinduism Father Gobind Ram Kejriwal (Electrical Engineer) Mother Gita Devi Wife Sunita Kejriwal (IRS officer) Son Pulkit Daughter Harshita Residence Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh Education Did schooling from Campus School in Hisar and B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering) from IIT, Kharagpur. Indian Revenue Service (IRS) Joined the IRS in 1995 through the Civil Services Examination. Social Activism Resigned from job in February 2006. Founded the NGO called Public Cause Research Foundation from the prize money of the Ramon Magsaysay Award. Parivartan Founded Parivartan, an NGO, in 1999 to assist citizens in matters related to property, electricity, etc. Right to Information Act Instrumental in getting the Right to Information Act (RTI) enacted as a law. Jan Lokpal Movement Key person in the Jan Lokpal movement led by Anna Hazare. Participated in the hunger strike of 5 April 2011 against the government's Lokpal Bill. This was in reaction to the rejection by the former Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh of his request for the formation of a joint committee comprising government and civil society representatives. Jail Journey Arrested on 16 August 2011 in connection with the protests. Political Party Founded the Aam Aadmi Party in 2012 to present a 'clean' democratic alternative. Chief Minister of Delhi The first term as the Chief Minister of Delhi started after the 2013 assembly elections on 28 December 2013 and then, the second term started on 14 February 2015. Resignation Resigned from the Delhi Assembly over the Jan Lokpal Bill on 14 February 2014. Writing Swaraj, published in 2012 Awards Ashoka Fellow, Civic Engagement (2004), Satyendra K. Dubey Memorial Award (2005) from IIT Kanpur for contribution to society, Ramon Magsaysay Award for Emergent Leadership (2006), CNN-IBN Indian of the Year Award in Public Service (2006) Distinguished Alumnus Award, IIT Kharagpur for Eminent Leadership (2009), the Association for India's Development awarded grant and fellowship (2009), Policy Change Agent of the Year, The Economic Times Awards for Corporate Excellence (2010), NDTV Indian of the Year (2011, shared with Anna Hazare) and CNN-IBN Indian of the Year Award for Politics (2013) Others A strict vegetarian and practitioner of the Vipassana meditation. Blogs about Arvind Kejriwal Top 10 Takeaways from Kejriwal’s Speech at Swearing-in Ceremony :                                              It was an emphatic moment when Arvind Kejriwal took to the podium and addressed the people of Delhi as their new Chief Minister, minutes after the swearing-in ceremony. The seemingly unwell CM did not relent from packing few punches at his detractors. His impromptu speech also exuded genuine willingness to serve the people… read more... Kejriwal – Cornered by Women Leaders Kiran Bedi, Kiran Walia, Nupur Sharma, Jaya Prada : Despite the chilly weather in the Capital, the heat of the upcoming Delhi Assembly election is rising day by day. The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal is familiar to the electorate but, Kiran Bedi after her entry into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) appears to be sharing the limelight with the AAP chief. Not only Bedi, Nupur Sharma, a former DUSU president, and Congress party's seasoned political campaigner Kiran Walia's entry in the… read more... Kejriwal – Seen as a Chief Minister Who Had No Idea What to Do, and Ran Away! : Arvind Kejriwal, former Chief Minister of Delhi, is still a popular leader in the city because of his public image as a clean politician with robust credibility earned due to his anti-corruption programmes and his election campaigning style of personally visiting the voters. In fact, this was one of the most important reasons why the party won in 2013. But the resignation of Kejriwal as the Chief Minister, considered a political debacle, in fact has… read more... It’s Now or Never for AAP – Delhi Assembly Election Will Decide : Will the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) prove to be a flash in the pan of India’s political couldron? The party had sprung a surprise in last year’s elections to the Delhi Assembly by winning 28 of the total 70 seats, proving all political pandits wrong in their predictions. With support of the Congress from outside, AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal became the Chief Minister. However, he resigned after 49 days in office after the Congress and… read more... Why Arvind Kejriwal Failed? : It’s a question that will take us back to the current political problems and their offshoots.  A man who made a surreal entry in the political arena hanged his boots of Chief Ministership within 49 days. From forming a government in Delhi to ending up with only four Lok Sabha seats, the downhill ride for AAP carries the same intensity of any acclaimed tragedy. You feel bad for the protagonist, who languishes in a dark… read more...   Related Links   Chief Ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda Vijay Bahuguna Arvind Kejriwal Ptithviraj Chavan Nallari Kiran Kumar Reddy Kalvakuntla Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) Prem Kumar Dhumal mamta Banerjee Tarun Kumar Gogoi Omar Abdullah Nitish Kumar Naveen Patnaik Arjun Munda Neipiu Rio Sheila Dixit N Rangasamy Manohar Parrikar Pawan Kumar Chamling D V Sadananda Gowda Ashok Gehlot Oommen Chandy Jayalalitha Shivraj Singh Chouhan Parkash Singh Badal Akhilesh Yadav Chandrababu Naidu Last Updated on : May 18, 2015             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule