Hotels in Karnataka Destinations Destinations Travel To | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Karnataka Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Places to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan Palace Cubbon Park Raja's Seat Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary Lalitha Mahal Karanji Lake Murudeshwara Temple Mysore Palace Group of Monuments at Pattadakal Bangalore Fort Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Cities to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Travel Belur Travel Coorg Travel Halebid Travel Hampi Travel Mangalore Travel Mysore Travel Badami Travel Belgaum Travel Sringeri Travel Karnataka Hotels Bangalore Hotels Coorg Hotels Udupu Hotels Mysore Hotels Hubli Hotels Mangalore Hotels About Karnataka Geography & History Fairs & Festivals Food Quick Facts Home » Hotels » Hotels in Karnataka Hotels in Karnataka HOTEL SEARCH Search by Location Search by Places Select State Select City Location of Hotels in Karnataka Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Karnataka is one of the most enchanting tourist destinations in India. Surrounded with misty mountains, lush green forests, beautiful waterfalls, cute chirping birds etc, the state of Karnataka presents nature at its best. Fragrance of the sandalwoods, aroma of the fresh coffee beans and the beauty of the roses in Karnataka will surely make you go mad. The state comes with the perfect blend of tradition and technology. The manifold attraction of Karnataka which compliments Karntaka Tourism beautifully includes varied things of interests for the tourists to enjoy. Eco-tourims places like Kudremukh, Madikeri and Agumbe are well known. It also houses national parks and wildlife sanctuaries. The remainings of the Vijayanagara Empire at Hampi, the monuments of Pattadakal, the rock temples of Aihole, the cave temples at Badami, the Hoysala temples at Halebid and Belur are some of the best heritage sites of the place. One of the tallest waterfalls of India, Jog Falls, is also located at Karnataka. The state is also emerging as a centre for health tourism. Karnataka is easily accessible. It is linked with all the important places in India through the airport of Bangalore. The state also has a good network of railways. The road network with bus services and other transports helps in traveling between the towns and cities. Since tourism business in Karnataka has made the state one of the popular and sought after tourist destinations, so a huge number of hotels have emerged in Karnataka. Be it a five star hotel in Karnataka or a budget hotel in Karnataka, you would get the best of facilities and accommodation in the Karnataka hotels. The travelers also have the scope to choose from a wide range of Karnataka Hotels. The hotels in Karnataka are so designed that it suits the test and budget of all classes of people. Star Hotels in Karnataka Le Meridien Hotel Located centrally to the business and shopping centre of Bangalore, Le Merridien Hotel is among the well known fives star hotels in Karnataka. This star hotel in Karnataka comes with ample accommodation options comprising of 201 elegantly furnished rooms outfitted with all the modern amenities. The rooms can be categorized into Superior rooms, Royal Club rooms, executive rooms, Royal Club suites and Deluxe suites. The hotel is known for its dining services. Both ala carte menu and buffet are served by the restaurants of the hotels. Other amenities of the hotel include Fax machine, High-speed Internet, working desk, bar, conference and recreation rooms, business services. Hotel Quality Inn Southern Southern Star Situated in the beautiful city of Mysore, Hotel Quality Inn Southern Star is a 5 star hotel in Karnataka. It is only 0.5 kms from the railway station and 1.5kms from the bus stand. This Karnataka hotel comes with 108 well designed rooms equipped with modern services. The dining needs of the guests are also taken care of at the multi cuisine restaurants and bar of the hotel. 24 hour room service, Business services, Swimming Pool, Beauty Parlour, jhealth club, Secretarial Services, Credit Cards, Doctor on Call etc are some of the facilities offered to the guests by the hotel. Budget Hotels in Karnataka Hotel Southern Star Hotel Southern Star is a budget hotel in Karnataka. It is strategically located in Hassan. This Karnataka Hotel is replete with 46 rooms and suites outfitted with TV, Phone, Water supply, etc. The hotel also has a multi-cuisine restaurant offering mouth watering eateries. It has the facilities of doctor on call, conference rooms, party venue etc. Hotel Hasan Ashok Another sought after budget hotel in Karnataka is Hotel Hasan Ashok. It is just 1km from the railway station and 0.5 km from the bus stand. It has 46 rooms and suites which are both AC and non AC. Some of the other services provided by this Karnataka hotel are 24 hour room service, doctor on call, travel desk, restaurant and many more. Last Updated on : 05/06/2013   Hotels in Karnataka   Hotels in Indian States Hotels by City and Destination Hotels in Goa Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Mahabaleshwar Hotels in Ooty Hotels in Manali Hotels in Mysore Hotels in Puri Hotels in Nainital Hotels in Udaipur Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Pondicherry Hotels in Mount-abu Hotels in Aurangabad Hotels in Bhopal Hotels in Jodhpur Hotels in Kanpur Hotels in Mussoorie Hotels in Delhi Hotels in Jaipur Hotels in Bangalore Hotels in Mumbai Hotels in Hyderabad Hotels in Pune Hotels in Chennai Hotels in Agra Hotels in Chandigarh Hotels in Mangalore Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Mathura Hotels in Nashik Hotels in Noida Hotels in Raipur Hotels in Rishikesh Hotels in Bhubaneswar Hotels in Ahmedabad Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Amritsar Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Gurgaon Hotels in Dehradun Hotels in Haridwar Hotels in Lucknow Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Nagpur Hotels in Allahabad Hotels in Secunderabad Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Surat Hotels in Thane Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Shirdi About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule