Bandhavgarh National Park Home » Madhya Pradesh » Bandhavgarh National Park   Madhya Pradesh मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Indore Bhopal Jabalpur Gwalior Ujjain Sagar Neemuch Morena                    more... Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Bandhavgarh National Park Map of Bandhavgarh National Park Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing Rest houses, Villages and other important landmarks in Bandhavgarh National Park. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. The prime tourist attraction in Bandhavgarh is the Bandhavgarh National Park. The reserve named after the highest hill Bandhavgarh (807 m) in the center of it, falls between the Vindhya hill range and the eastern flank of Satpura hill range and is located in Shahdol and Jabalpur districts of Madhya Pradesh. Bandhavgarh is one of the remaining havens for the pride of Indian wildlife-the Royal Bengal Tiger. This is also known as White Tiger territory. These have been found in the old state of Rewa for many years. How to Reach Bandhavgarh It is easy to reach Bandhavgarh, famous for its tigers and adventure tourism. By Air The nearest airports are Khajuraho and Jabalpur, which are air linked with the major cities of India. Perhaps the most convenient to take the air route to Khajuraho from where it is about a six-hour drive (280Km) to Bandhvagarh National Park. The drive though long affords the pleasure of traveling through interesting places like the Panna town, famous for its diamond mines and by the Ken River, which has a crocodile sanctuary. By Train Bandhavgarh can be reached from a number of railway stations near Bandhavgarh-Jabalpur (170 kms), Katni (102 kms), Satna (112 kms) on the central railway and Umaria (35kms) on the southeastern railway. By Road You can reach Bandhavgarh from Jabalpur (3-4 hrs), Satna (3.5hrs), Katni (2.5), Kanha (7hrs), Katni (2.5hrs) and Khajuraho (6hrs). Bandhavgarh is located equidistance from the city of Jabalpur and world famous tourist spot of Khajuraho. Both state and private transport buses ply between all these places and Bandhavgarh. History of Bandhavgarh Bandhavgarh boasts of a long history with references to it, which can be traced to the ancient books, the Narad-panch Ratra and the Shiv Purana. Legend has it that Lord Rama, hero of the epic, Ramayana stopped at stopped at Bandhavgarh on his way back to his homeland after defeating the demon King Ravana of Lanka. Two monkey architects, who had engineered a bridge between the isles of Lanka and the mainland, are said to have built Bandhavgarh's fort. Later Rama handed it over to his brother Lakshmana who became known as Bandhavdhish "The Lord of the Fort". Lakshmana is the particular God of the fort and is regularly worshipped in a temple there. Bandhavgarh was ruled by a by a succession of dynasties but lost its importance in the 17th century with the shifting of court life to Rewa. Without royal patronage Bandhavgarh became more and more deserted until forest overran the area and it became the royal hunting reserve. At independence Bandhavgarh remained the private property of the Maharaja until he gave it to the state for the formation of the National Park in 1968. After the park was created poaching was brought under control and the number of animals rose dramatically. Small dams and water holes were built to solve the problem of water shortage. Grazing by local cattle was stopped and the village within the park boundaries was relocated. The Tigers in particular prospered and the 1986 extension provided much needed forest to accommodate them. Bandhavgarh has been an excellent habitat of tiger and is known for the highest density of tigers in the world. Considering the importance and potentiality of the National park, it was included in the Project Tiger Network in 1993. The adjoining Panpatha Sanctuary too was declared as a part of the Reserve. Bandhavgarh Fort and National Park There are 32 hills in this part of the park, which has a large natural fort at its center. The fort's cliffs are 2625 feet (800 meters) high, 1000 feet (300 meters) above the surrounding countryside. The fort still belongs to the Maharaja of Rewa and permission is required to visit it. However permission is available locally and no trip to Bandhavgarh is complete without making an effort to climb up the fort .The natural ramparts of the fort give breathtaking view of the surrounding countryside.. The fort has a small population of Blackbuck, which have been reintroduced and to some extent protected from Tigers in the park below by repairs to the masonry walls at the edges of the fort. Thus Bandhavgarh offers excellent game and bird viewing and a historical interest which most other parks lack. Flora and Fauna in Bandhavgarh Much of the park is covered in Sal forest, replaced by mixed forests in the higher elevations of the hills. There are extensive stands of bamboo and grasslands. Generally the forests are less dense here, thus offering better sightings of wildlife, notably mammals, including the daylight sightings of Tigers in the grassy 'maidans'. Bandhavgarh is justifiably famous for its Tigers, but it has a wide range of other game. Other inhabitants of the park include the Muntajac, Jungle Cat, Ratel, Jyena, Porcupine, the Rhesus Macaque and the back-faced Langur. The park also has numerous ancient caves and rock shelters, with shrines and inscriptions. About 150 species of birds known from the Tala area are also found over here including the Brown Fish Owl, Grey-headed Fishing Eagle, Malabar Pied Hornbill and Shahin Falcon. Excursions from Bandhavgarh Excursions can be made from Bandhavgarh to the nearest village of Tala. Apart from buying essentials you can also visit the Bhaghela Museum, which is part of the private collection of the Maharaja of Rewa. There is the famed stuffed white tiger, Mohan, other exhibits include military and hunting paraphernalia, a carved ivory and silver chess set and an extravagant swing bench made of Belgian cut glass and silver. Bandhavgarh National Park - Entry Fee, Timing, Address, Official Website Address Village and Post Office Tala, Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve, Umaria, Madhya Pradesh - 484664 Entry Fee : Entry Fee for Indians : 2200 Rs. (with 6 pax Guide, and vehicle) Entry Fee for Foreigners : 4300 Rs. (with 6 pax Guide, and vehicle) Timings : Visiting Hours - 5 to 6 hours (According to season) Phone No (Official) +91-92127-77223 / +91-92125-53107 Official Website www.mponline.gov.in Photography allowed or not Allowed Nearest railway station Umaria Railway Station Last Updated on : May 15, 2015 Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Bandhavgarh Hotels Bhopal Hotels Bina Hotels Gwalior Hotels Indore Hotels Itarsi Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Kanha Hotels Katni Hotels Khajuraho Hotels Khandwa Hotels Kisli Hotels Mandu Hotels Orchha Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Satna Hotels Shivpuri Hotels Ujjain Hotels Travel to Madhya Pradesh Travel to Bhopal Travel to Gwalior Travel to Indore Travel to Jabalpur Travel to Khajuraho Travel to Mandu Travel to Orchha Travel to Sanchi Travel to Ujjain Places to visit in Madhya-pradesh Places to visit in Bhopal Places to visit in Gwalior Places to visit in indore Places to visit in Khajuraho Places to Visit in Mandu Places to visit in Orchha Places to visit in Sanchi Places to visit in Ujjain   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule