Travel to Rishikesh - Tourism, Rishikesh Tourist Map Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Rishikesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Rishikesh Hotels Places to Visit in Rishikesh Bharat Mandir Rishikund Triveni Ghat Geeta Bhawan Lakshman Jhula Rishikesh Ashram Rishikesh to Karanprayag Railway Line Cities to Visit Near Rishikesh Dehradun Travel Haridwar Travel Nainital Travel Bhimtal Travel Chamoli Travel Jim Corbett National Park About Rishikesh Weather Uttarakhand Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Flights to Dehradun Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Home » Rishikesh » Travel to Rishikesh Travel to Rishikesh Tourist Map of Rishikesh Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Tourist Map of Rishikesh in uttaranchal showing hill stations, resorts, temples, rivers, natural beautes and etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Rishikesh Tourism Located in the newly carved state of Uttarakhand (Uttaranchal), Rishikesh is chiefly a pilgrimage destination for the devout Hindus. A travel to Rishikesh would take you to the holy land where the sages and saints of ancient India would choose to do penance. Since times immemorial Rishikesh has known to be the land of the gods. Myths and legends still shroud over the land. Travel to Rishikesh to take a dip and wash away your sins. Even if you were a non-believer, Rishikesh offers you the peace of mind and soul. The majestic Himalayas, the mighty Ganges flowing down peacefully, green-carpeted valleys would bring in solace to your weary soul as you travel to Rishikesh. Rishikesh serves as the gateway to visit the few other holy destinations in the Himalayas, namely: Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri. Do not forget to visit Haridwar in your travel to Rishikesh. Lying close to Rishikesh, Haridwar is also a holy place dotted with temples and ashrams teeming with monks. Rishikesh has today emerged as a prime center of Yoga. The effectiveness of Yoga as a means to stay well is proved beyond doubt and has gained tremendous popularity across the globe. A lot of people travel to Rishikesh to learn the art of Yoga and rejuvenate the soul. How to Reach Rishikesh One of the holiest cities in India, Rishikesh is a famous Hindu pilgrimage destination. Every year a huge number of people travel to Rishikesh in lure of piety. Rishikesh also serves as the gateway to other holy destinations in the Himalayas - Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri. Apart from the religious attractions, Yoga and adventure tourism has gained popularity in Rishikesh. By Air The hilly town of Rishikesh is located in the Garhwal region of Uttarakhand (Uttaranchal). There is no airport in the town. But the nearest airport at Jolly Grant in Dehradun the capital city of the state. The airport is only 35kms away from Rishikesh. By Road An extensive network of roads connects Rishikesh to the other cities in Uttarakhand (Uttaranchal) and India, namely: Haridwar, Agra, Chandigarh, Dehradun, Delhi and Nainital. By Rail The nearest railhead from Rishikesh is Haridwar. Haridwar is a major railway station in the region. Many express, mail and tourist trains link Haridwar to Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Allahabad and so on. Shopping in Rishikesh Rishikesh is one of the most important pilgrimage centers for Hindus in India; the city is located in the state of Uttarakhand. A gateway for the Himalayas, the best time to visit this holy city is from April to August. Other than sightseeing, shopping forms an integral part of the itinerary of Rishikesh. The array of variety of shops makes shopping in Rishikesh a memorable experience. No matter what the tourists are looking for from wall paintings to garments, accessories and many more, there is something for everyone in the markets of Rishikesh. Popular Shopping Items in Rishikesh Paintings Wall paintings and other paintings, which once added glory to the 'havelis' form an integral part of shops of Rishikesh. Wooden Furniture Apart from the wall paintings, the wooden furniture is a popular item sold in the bazaars of Rishikesh. Tourists can select from a wide range of carved furniture made of wood that include chairs, tables, cradles, stools, chests from the shops of Rishikesh. Handicrafts of Rajasthan, Kashmir and Tibet are one of the most saleable items of Rishikesh. Religious Items For those looking to buy some religious items, the area of Swarg Ashram will be a perfect choice. This area involves in the trading of tapes, beads of Rudraksha, books and clothes of religious importance. Ayurvedic Medicines In addition, Ayurvedic medicines are sold in abundance in the Mahesh Yogi Ayurvedic Center of the Laksman Jhula Road. Imitation Jewelry Junk jewelry forms an important part of shopping in Rishikesh. The shops dotting Lakshman Jhula Bridge are not only famous for selling religious accessories but also famous for selling ornaments, jewelry at a very reasonable rate. Gems Semi-precious gems and astrological gems are found in abundance in the shopping centers of Rishikesh. The Jaipur center for gems is one of the best shops for buying gems and stones. Clothes Clothes are sold in plenty in Rishkesh markets. While khadis and Nehru shirts are sold like hot cakes in this region, other apparels like Yoga outfits, t-shirts having images Buddha are also bought in abundance. For buying some really good as well as affordable Khadi items, the best place to look out is the handloom emporium that is owned by the state Government. Some other Government approved shops like Craft Shop; Garhwal Wool remain crowded with buyers throughout the year. For buying quality woolen clothes at affordable prices, the best bet are the emporiums that have dotted Rishikesh. Last Updated on : 25/09/2013 Travel to Uttarakhand Travel to Auli Travel to Dehradun Travel to Haridwar Travel to Gangotri Travel to Bhimtal Travel to Kedarnath Travel to Mussoorie Travel to Nainital Travel to Ranikhet Travel to Dhanaulti Travel to Almora Travel to Rishikesh Travel to Uttarakashi Travel to Chamoli Travel to Pithoragarh Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Places to visit in Auli Places to visit in corbett Places to visit in Dehradun Places to visit in kedarnath Places to visit in Mussorie Places to visit in Nainital Places to visit in Rishikesh Places to visit in Uttarkashi Places to visit in Haridwar About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule