Chandragupta Maurya – the greatest ruler in Indian history | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / History / Chandragupta Maurya – The greatest ruler in Indian history Chandragupta Maurya – The greatest ruler in Indian history September 16, 2013 by Ramandeep Kaur India unified as a single entity for the first time under the rule of the great emperor Chandragupta Maurya (340 BC – 298 BC). Before his rule most of the south Asia was divided into small states whereas Gangetic Plains were ruled by the Nanda Dynasty. Chandragupta Maurya by conquering most of the Indian subcontinent gave political unity to India and laid the foundation of Mauryan Empire. Though very less information about Chandragupta Maurya’s early days is available but it is assumed that he was born around 340 BCE to a mother named Mura. It is also believed that word Maurya came from his mother’s name. He ruled for 24 years as described in Puranas (historical Sanskrit work). He was then succeeded by his son Bindusara who ruled for 25 years. Bindusara was then succeeded by Asoka in 274 B.C. Information about his ancestry is also ambiguous. As per most of the Indian literary traditions, Chandragupta Maurya was connected with the Nanda Dynasty. After about a half millennium, he was called as “Nandanvaya”, i.e. the descendant of Nanda (Act IV) in the Sanskrit drama Mudrarakshasa. As per Vishnu Purana’s medieval commentator, Chandragupta Maurya was born to Nanda prince and his maid Mura. Whereas Buddhist text, the Mahavamsa, says that Chandragupta Maurya is from Moriya, a branch of the Khattiya (Kshatriya) clan. Facts are difficult to separate from fiction. Different lessons of politics and war were taught to Chandragupta by Chanakya. Chanakya or Kautilya was a great scholar, teacher of economics and political science at ancient Takshashila University. Chanakya then became the mentor of Chandragupta Maurya. By defeating Dhana Nanda of Nanda, Chandragupta Maurya established Maurya Empire. His was the largest empire in the Indian history. In east the Maurya Empire extended from Bengal and Assam to Afghanistan and Balochistan, in west was eastern and south-east Iran, to Kashmir in the north, and to the Deccan Plateau in the south. He was just 20 years old at the time when he founded the empire. Chandragupta Maurya was the first one to face the result of a foreign invasion and the state of depression. He set the nation free from the Greek rule. Chandragupta Maurya conquered Alexander the great and his successor Seleucus I Nicator. Then Chandragupta Maurya married to the daughter of Seleucus to set up a policy of friendship with the Hellenistic kingdoms. This had really pushed up the India’s trade with the western world. After the unification of India, important social and political reforms were carried out by Chandragupta Maurya under the advice of Chanakya. A strong central administration was established with extremely ordered bureaucratic structure. Because of such a strong administration both trade and agriculture were thrived and made the economy very strong. Art and architecture flourished to a great extent during Mauryan Empire. Buddhism and Jainism became important religion. In Greek and Latin Chandragupta is also known by the names of “Sandracottos” or “Andracottus. Maurya Empire existed for about 137 years. He took a voluntary retirement and handed over his throne to his son Bindusara in 298 BC.  He was just 42 years old at that time. It is believed that Chandragupta Maurya adopted Jainism and became an ascetic under the Jain saint Bhadrabahu. He ended his days at Śravaṇa Beḷgoḷa (in present day Karnataka) by sallekhana (death by fasting). Chandragupta Maurya is the most influential ruler along with his grandson Ashoka. Unification of India under their rule established the foundation of modern day India.   Related Information : Development of Art During the Mauryan Empire Facts about An Ancient City Ashoka Golden Age of India An Overview of Medieval India The Birth of River Valley Civilisations in India Lost Ancient Indian cities Who Were the Pallavas? Akbar – The Great Ramandeep Kaur I am a mother. A wife. And daughter of my loving parents by heart with passion for creativity, zeal to achieve something big in life but want to live life to its fullest. More articles from Ramandeep Kaur : Enjoy Your Day out at Splash – The Water Park The Importance of Summer Classes 15 Vastu Tips for the Success of Your Business Vehicular Pollution in Delhi and Its Impact on Lotus Temple Which are the Best Cities in India to Live? Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Comments Showing 7 Comments : Shankar Kumar April 19, 2015 at 10:41 pm Chandragupt maurya is greet man of in India Reply umashankar gupta November 13, 2014 at 8:18 pm His son is bindusara Reply raj kumar maurya September 24, 2014 at 11:41 pm they are our forefathers Reply priya soni April 25, 2014 at 7:06 pm He had also a daughter named prabhavati Reply recon March 31, 2014 at 12:40 am Chandragupta was the greatest emperor of Akhand bharat . greater than ashoka . Ashoka chakra should be named as chandragupta’s chakra . ashoka was born with silver spoon unlike chandragupta who started from scratch Reply Karvi prasad dhondye February 11, 2015 at 7:26 pm Ya he was gr8 Reply Rocky April 25, 2015 at 8:29 pm Get your facts. They were both great emperors for united Bharat. Thanks to Chanakya. Ashoka was not born with a silver spoon in his mouth. On the contrary, he had a very tough childhood growing up. Do some research recon before posting vague comments. Reply Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? parmindersingh on Time to feel the heat of Delhi University Admission for session 2015-16 Dheerendra yadav on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd pardeep singh on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits suchithra p s on Human Trafficking in India must end Nimesh Vyas on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012