Travel to Bhalukpong: Destinations, Hotels, Food, Transport and Tour Guide Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Travel to Bhalukpong   Arunachal Pradesh अरुणाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Arunachal Pradesh Map Tawang city map Itanagar city map Naharlagun city map Along Map Ziro Map Districts of Arunachal Pradesh Roads Rivers Tehsils Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Places to visit in Arunachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Sports in Arunachal Pradesh Ita Fort in Arunachal Pradesh Ganga Lake in Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Location Physical Map Arunachal Pradesh Forest Map Lat Long Geography Handicrafts Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels Government & Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Arunachal Pradesh History Arunachal Pradesh Mineral Map Society Information Economy Pin Code       Travel to Bhalukpong Bhalukpong Tourism Facts and Figures Languages Arunachali, Hindi, Assamese and English Best time to visit October-May BHALUKPONG:A SERENE DESTINATION The tiny town of Bhalukpong is located amongst the eastern Himalayan ranges. It is famous for its natural beauty. It has a number of picnic spots along the banks of the Kameng River. Bhalukpong is a remote destination, and like few other Indian towns, it has escaped the virtual tourist invasion in recent times. It also attracts the adventure-seeker with its numerous trekking, hiking trails and fishing stretches on Kameng River. LOCATION Bhalukpong is located in the southwestern part of the state of Arunachal Pradesh, in the northeastern region of India. It is adjacent to the state of Assam. It is located near the Kameng River. It is 52 km from Tezpur. The weather in Bhalukpong is alpine and pleasant. Summers (April-June) are mild, while winters are cool (November-February). It experiences southwestern monsoon rains in July-September. THE PAST The origin of Bhalukpong is lost in time. Local tribal rulers and rulers from Bhutan and Assam generally ruled this region from time to time. The Ahom rulers of Assam did not interfere with the local tribals, except for retaliatory raids into the tribal territory. The British had declared this area of Arunachal Pradesh as off-limits in 1873. TOURIST SPOTS The main places of interest in Bhalukpong are the picnic spots along the charming Kameng River and the nearby forests. Travelers can enjoy the panoramic view of the mountains surrounding Bhalukpong and its environs. There are a number of trekking and hiking trails in and around Bhalukpong. Adventure seekers can enjoy fishing and angling along different stretches of Kameng River. There is excellent scope of fishing mahsheer in the Jia Bhorali River near Bhalukpong. SITES NEARBY The Orchid Research Center at Tipi, 3 km from Bhalukpong, is an interesting place to visit. The best time to visit this center is between April and May, when one can see the exotic orchid collection in full bloom. The small town of Bomdila is located north of Bhalukpong. Bomdila is known for its scenic environs and its Buddhist monasteries and apple orchards. It also attracts the adventure seeker with its numerous trekking trails. The small town of Tawang is located beyond Bomdila amidst the eastern Himalayan ranges. It is famous for its 400-year-old monastery. This monastery is one of the biggest Buddhist monasteries to be found in India and is an important pilgrim center for the followers of Buddhism. FAIRS AND FESTIVALS Bhalukpong is known for its annual festival of Nyethidow, which is celebrated in the month of March. HOW TO REACH Bhalukpong is located in a remote part of India amongst the Himalayan ranges. It does not have an airport or railway station of its own. It is connected by road with other towns in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam. Bhalukpong can be reached from the town of Tezpur by bus or in a shared jeep. INFORMATION Foreign travelers visiting the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh must obtain a Restricted Area Permit from the Foreigner's Regional Registration Offices in Delhi [Arunachal Bhavan, Kautilya Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi, Mumbai (Bombay), Chennai (Madras) and Calcutta [Arunachal Bhavan, 4B Chowringhee Place, Calcutta in order to visit Arunachal Pradesh. Permits are generally valid for 10 days. Permits can also be applied for at any overseas Indian consulates. These permits are checked at the airport and their photocopies have to be submitted in the local hotels while checking in for routine local police verification. Last Updated on : June 7, 2014 Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Travel to Along Travel to Bhalukpong Travel to Bomdila Travel to Itanagar Travel to Tawang Travel to Ziro Places to visit in Arunachal-pradesh Places to visit in Itanagar Places to visit in Tawang Places to visit in Ziro             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule