United Nations - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia United Nations From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search For a list of United Nations member states, see Member states of the United Nations . For other uses, see United Nations (disambiguation) and UN (disambiguation) . United Nations Arabic : الأمم المتحدة Chinese : 联合国 French : Nations Unies Russian : Организация Объединённых Наций Spanish : Naciones Unidas Flag Emblem Map showing the member states of the United Nations [ c ] Headquarters New York City ( International territory ) Official languages Arabic Chinese English French Russian Spanish [ 1 ] Membership 193 member states 2 observer states Leaders  -  Secretary‑General Ban Ki-moon  -  Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eliasson  -  General Assembly President Sam Kutesa  -  Economic and Social Council President Martin Sajdik  -  Security Council President Raimonda Murmokaitė Establishment  -  UN Charter signed 26 June 1945 (69 years ago)  ( 1945-06-26 )    -  Charter entered into force 24 October 1945 (69 years ago)  ( 1945-10-24 )   Website www .un .org This article contains Chinese text. Without proper rendering support , you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Chinese characters . This article contains Arabic text . Without proper rendering support , you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols . The United Nations ( UN ) is an intergovernmental organization established 24 October 1945 to promote international co-operation. A replacement for the ineffective League of Nations , the organization was created following the Second World War to prevent another such conflict. At its founding, the UN had 51 member states ; there are now 193. The headquarters of the United Nations is in Manhattan , New York City , and enjoys extraterritoriality . Further main offices are situated in Geneva , Nairobi and Vienna . The organization is financed by assessed and voluntary contributions from its member states. Its objectives include maintaining international peace and security, promoting human rights, fostering social and economic development, protecting the environment, and providing humanitarian aid in cases of famine, natural disaster, and armed conflict. During the Second World War, US President Franklin D. Roosevelt initiated talks on a successor agency to the League of Nations, and the United Nations Charter was drafted at a conference in April–June 1945; this charter took effect 24 October 1945, and the UN began operation. The UN's mission to preserve world peace was complicated in its early decades by the Cold War between the US and Soviet Union and their respective allies. The organization participated in major actions in Korea and the Congo , as well as approving the creation of the state of Israel in 1947. The organization's membership grew significantly following widespread decolonization in the 1960s, and by the 1970s its budget for economic and social development programmes far outstripped its spending on peacekeeping . After the end of the Cold War, the UN took on major military and peacekeeping missions across the world with varying degrees of success. The UN has six principal organs: the General Assembly (the main deliberative assembly); the Security Council (for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security); the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) (for promoting international economic and social co-operation and development); the Secretariat (for providing studies, information, and facilities needed by the UN); the International Court of Justice (the primary judicial organ); and the United Nations Trusteeship Council (inactive since 1994). UN System agencies include the World Bank Group , the World Health Organization , the World Food Programme , UNESCO , and UNICEF . The UN's most prominent officer is the Secretary-General , an office held by South Korean Ban Ki-moon since 2007. Non-governmental organizations may be granted consultative status with ECOSOC and other agencies to participate in the UN's work. The organization won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2001, and a number of its officers and agencies have also been awarded the prize. Other evaluations of the UN's effectiveness have been mixed. Some commentators believe the organization to be an important force for peace and human development, while others have called the organization ineffective, corrupt, or biased. Contents 1 History 1.1 Background and creation 1.2 1942 "Declaration of United Nations" by the Allies of World War II 1.3 Founding the UN 1945 1.4 Cold War era 1.5 Post-Cold War 2 Structure 2.1 General Assembly 2.2 Security Council 2.3 Secretariat 2.4 International Court of Justice 2.5 Economic and Social Council 2.6 Specialized agencies 3 Membership 3.1 Group of 77 4 Objectives 4.1 Peacekeeping and security 4.2 Human rights 4.3 Economic development and humanitarian assistance 4.4 Other 5 Funding 6 Evaluations, awards, and criticism 7 See also 8 Notes 9 References 9.1 Citations 9.2 Bibliography 10 Further reading 11 External links History Main article: History of the United Nations The Chilean delegation signing the UN Charter in San Francisco, 1945 Background and creation In the century prior to the UN's creation, several international treaty organizations and conferences had been formed to regulate conflicts between nations, such as the International Committee of the Red Cross and the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 . [ 2 ] Following the catastrophic loss of life in the First World War , the Paris Peace Conference established the League of Nations to maintain harmony between countries. [ 3 ] This organization resolved some territorial disputes and created international structures for areas such as postal mail, aviation, and opium control, some of which would later be absorbed into the UN. [ 4 ] However, the League lacked representation for colonial peoples (then half the world's population) and significant participation from several major powers, including the US, USSR, Germany, and Japan; it failed to act against the Japanese invasion of Manchuria in 1931, the Second Italo-Ethiopian War in 1935, the Japanese invasion of China in 1937, and German expansions under Adolf Hitler that culminated in the Second World War . [ 5 ] 1942 "Declaration of United Nations" by the Allies of World War II Main article: Declaration by United Nations The earliest concrete plan for a new world organization began under the aegis of the US State Department in 1939. [ 6 ] The text of the "Declaration by United Nations" was drafted by President Franklin Roosevelt, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, and Roosevelt aide Harry Hopkins, while meeting at the White House, 29 December 1941. It incorporated Soviet suggestions, but left no role for France. " Four Policemen " was coined to refer four major Allied countries,United States, United Kingdom, Soviet Union, and China, which was emerged in Declaration by United Nations. [ 7 ] Roosevelt first coined the term United Nations to describe the Allied countries . [ d ] The term was first officially used 1–2 January 1942, when 26 governments signed the Declaration. One major change from the Atlantic Charter was the addition of a provision for religious freedom, which Stalin approved after Roosevelt insisted. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] By 1 March 1945, 21 additional states had signed. [ 10 ] A JOINT DECLARATION BY THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND, THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS, CHINA, AUSTRALIA, BELGIUM, CANADA, COSTA RICA, CUBA, CZECHOSLOVAKIA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, EL SALVADOR, GREECE, GUATEMALA, HAITI, HONDURAS, INDIA, LUXEMBOURG, NETHERLANDS, NEW ZEALAND, NICARAGUA, NORWAY, PANAMA, POLAND, SOUTH AFRICA, YUGOSLAVIA The Governments signatory hereto, Having subscribed to a common program of purposes and principles embodied in the Joint Declaration of the President of the United States of America and the Prime Minister of Great Britain dated August 14, 1941, known as the Atlantic Charter, Being convinced that complete victory over their enemies is essential to defend life, liberty, independence and religious freedom, and to preserve human rights and justice in their own lands as well as in other lands, and that they are now engaged in a common struggle against savage and brutal forces seeking to subjugate the world, DECLARE: (1) Each Government pledges itself to employ its full resources, military or economic, against those members of the Tripartite Pact and its adherents with which such government is at war. (2) Each Government pledges itself to cooperate with the Governments signatory hereto and not to make a separate armistice or peace with the enemies. The foregoing declaration may be adhered to by other nations which are, or which may be, rendering material assistance and contributions in the struggle for victory over Hitlerism. [ 11 ] During the war, the United Nations became the official term for the Allies. To join countries had to sign the Declaration and declare war on the Axis. [ 12 ] Founding the UN 1945 The UN in 1945. In light blue, the founding members. In dark blue, protectorates and colonies of the founding members. The United Nations was formulated and negotiated among the delegations from the Soviet Union , the UK , the US and China in Dumbarton Oaks Conference . [ 13 ] [ 14 ] After months of planning, the UN Conference on International Organization opened in San Francisco, 25 April 1945, attended by 50 governments and a number of non-governmental organizations involved in drafting the United Nations Charter . The UN officially came into existence 24 October 1945, upon ratification of the Charter by the five permanent members of the Security Council—France, the Republic of China , the Soviet Union, the UK and the US—and by a majority of the other 46 signatories. [ 15 ] The first meetings of the General Assembly, with 51 nations represented, [ e ] and the Security Council took place in London beginning 6 January 1946. [ 15 ] The General Assembly selected New York City as the site for the headquarters of the United Nations, and the facility was completed in 1952. Its site—like UN headquarters buildings in Geneva , Vienna , and Nairobi —is designated as international territory . [ 16 ] The Norwegian Foreign Minister, Trygve Lie , was elected as the first UN Secretary-General. [ 15 ] Cold War era Dag Hammarskjöld was a particularly active Secretary-General from 1953 until his death in 1961. Though the UN's primary mandate was peacekeeping , the division between the US and USSR often paralysed the organization, generally allowing it to intervene only in conflicts distant from the Cold War . [ 17 ] (A notable exception was a Security Council resolution in 1950 authorizing a US-led coalition to repel the North Korean invasion of South Korea , passed in the absence of the USSR.) [ 15 ] [ 18 ] In 1947, the General Assembly approved a resolution to partition Palestine , approving the creation of the state of Israel . Two years later, Ralph Bunche , a UN official, negotiated an armistice to the resulting conflict. [ 19 ] In 1956, the first UN peacekeeping force was established to end the Suez Crisis ; [ 15 ] however, the UN was unable to intervene against the USSR's simultaneous invasion of Hungary following that country's revolution . [ 20 ] In 1960, the UN deployed United Nations Operation in the Congo (UNOC), the largest military force of its early decades, to bring order to the breakaway State of Katanga , restoring it to the control of the Democratic Republic of the Congo by 1964. [ 21 ] While travelling to meet with rebel leader Moise Tshombe during the conflict, Dag Hammarskjöld , often named as one of the UN's most effective Secretaries-General, [ 22 ] died in a plane crash; months later he was posthumously awarded the Nobel Peace Prize . [ 23 ] In 1964, Hammarskjöld's successor, U Thant , deployed the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus , which would become one of the UN's longest-running peacekeeping missions. [ 24 ] With the spread of decolonization in the 1960s, the organization's membership saw an influx of newly independent nations. In 1960 alone, 17 new states joined the UN, 16 of them from Africa. [ 15 ] On 25 October 1971, with opposition from the United States, but with the support of many Third World nations, the mainland, communist People's Republic of China was given the Chinese seat on the Security Council in place of the Republic of China that occupied Taiwan; the vote was widely seen as a sign of waning US influence in the organization. [ 25 ] Third World nations organized into the Group of 77 coalition under the leadership of Algeria, which briefly became a dominant power at the UN. [ 26 ] In 1975, a bloc comprising the USSR and Third World nations passed a resolution , over strenuous US and Israeli opposition, declaring Zionism to be racism; the resolution was repealed in 1991, shortly after the end of the Cold War. [ 27 ] With an increasing Third World presence and the failure of UN mediation in conflicts in the Middle East , Vietnam , and Kashmir , the UN increasingly shifted its attention to its ostensibly secondary goals of economic development and cultural exchange. [ 28 ] By the 1970s, the UN budget for social and economic development was far greater than its peacekeeping budget. Post-Cold War Kofi Annan , Secretary-General from 1997 to 2006 After the Cold War, the UN saw a radical expansion in its peacekeeping duties, taking on more missions in ten years than it had in the previous four decades. [ 29 ] Between 1988 and 2000, the number of adopted Security Council resolutions more than doubled, and the peacekeeping budget increased more than tenfold. [ 30 ] [ 31 ] The UN negotiated an end to the Salvadoran Civil War , launched a successful peacekeeping mission in Namibia , and oversaw democratic elections in post- apartheid South Africa and post- Khmer Rouge Cambodia. [ 32 ] In 1991, the UN authorized a US-led coalition that repulsed the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait . [ 33 ] Brian Urquhart , Under-Secretary-General from 1971 to 1985, later described the hopes raised by these successes as a "false renaissance" for the organization, given the more troubled missions that followed. [ 34 ] Though the UN Charter had been written primarily to prevent aggression by one nation against another, in the early 1990s the UN faced a number of simultaneous, serious crises within nations such as Somalia, Haiti, Mozambique, and the former Yugoslavia. [ 35 ] The UN mission in Somalia was widely viewed as a failure after the US withdrawal following casualties in the Battle of Mogadishu , and the UN mission to Bosnia faced "worldwide ridicule" for its indecisive and confused mission in the face of ethnic cleansing. [ 36 ] In 1994, the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda failed to intervene in the Rwandan Genocide amid indecision in the Security Council. [ 37 ] Beginning in the last decades of the Cold War, American and European critics of the UN condemned the organization for perceived mismanagement and corruption. [ 38 ] In 1984, the US President, Ronald Reagan , withdrew his nation's funding from UNESCO (the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, founded 1946) over allegations of mismanagement, followed by Britain and Singapore. [ 39 ] [ 40 ] Boutros Boutros-Ghali , Secretary-General from 1992 to 1996, initiated a reform of the Secretariat, reducing the size of the organization somewhat. [ 41 ] [ 42 ] His successor, Kofi Annan (1997–2006), initiated further management reforms in the face of threats from the United States to withhold its UN dues. [ 42 ] In the late 1990s and 2000s, international interventions authorized by the UN took a wider variety of forms. The UN mission in the Sierra Leone Civil War of 1991–2002 was supplemented by British Royal Marines , and the invasion of Afghanistan in 2001 was overseen by NATO . [ 43 ] In 2003, the United States invaded Iraq despite failing to pass a UN Security Council resolution for authorization, prompting a new round of questioning of the organization's effectiveness. [ 44 ] Under the current Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon , the UN has intervened with peacekeepers in crises including the War in Darfur in Sudan and the Kivu conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo and sent observers and chemical weapons inspectors to the Syrian Civil War . [ 45 ] In 2013, an internal review of UN actions in the final battles of the Sri Lankan Civil War in 2009 concluded that the organization had suffered "systemic failure". [ 46 ] One hundred and one UN personnel died in the 2010 Haiti earthquake , the worst loss of life in the organization's history. [ 15 ] Structure Main article: United Nations System The United Nations' system is based on five principal organs: the General Assembly , the Security Council , the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), the Secretariat , and the International Court of Justice . [ 47 ] A sixth principal organ, the Trusteeship Council , suspended operations in 1994, upon the independence of Palau , the last remaining UN trustee territory. [ 48 ] Four of the five principal organs are located at the main UN Headquarters in New York City. [ 49 ] The International Court of Justice is located in The Hague , while other major agencies are based in the UN offices at Geneva , [ 50 ] Vienna , [ 51 ] and Nairobi . [ 52 ] Other UN institutions are located throughout the world. The six official languages of the United Nations, used in intergovernmental meetings and documents, are Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish. [ 53 ] On the basis of the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations , the UN and its agencies are immune from the laws of the countries where they operate, safeguarding the UN's impartiality with regard to the host and member countries. [ 54 ] Below the six organs sit, in the words of the author Linda Fasulo, "an amazing collection of entities and organizations, some of which are actually older than the UN itself and operate with almost complete independence from it". [ 55 ] These include specialized agencies, research and training institutions, programmes and funds, and other UN entities. [ 56 ] The United Nations obey the Noblemaire principle , which is binding on any organisation that belongs to the united nations system. This principle calls for salaries that will draw and keep citizens of countries where salaries are highest, and also calls for equal pay for work of equal value independent of the employee's nationality. [ 57 ] [ 58 ] Staff salaries are subject to an