Sankat Mochan Temple Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Shimla Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Travel Agents Shimla Hotels Places to Visit in Shimla State Museum Christ Church Tara Devi Temple Jakhoo Temple Sankat Mochan Temple Hatkoti Temple The Ridge The Mall Wildlife Parks Chail Tattapani Route Maps Dehradun to Shimla Amritsar to Shimla Delhi to Shimla About Shimla Weather History Economy Shimla Map Road Map District Map Railway Map Airport Map City Map How to reach Himachal Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Home » Shimla » Sankat Mochan Temple Sankat Mochan Temple Sankat Mochan Temple is a popular temple which attracts pilgrims of all age groups. Many religious persons visit Sankat Mochan Temple to pay obeisance to the deities of Lord Rama and other notable gods of the Hindu pantheon. Sankat Mochan Temple is adjacent to National Highway 22. Sankat Mochan Temple is about 5 kilometers from Shimla. The temple is the second most popular tourist spot after Jakhu Temple. The USP of Sankat Mochan Temple is its easy accessibility. Sankat Mochan Temple was established in 1950. The idea for constructing a religious temple was mooted by the noted religious figure-Baba Neeb Karori Ji Maharaj, who visited the site and was transfixed by the deep dark woods, emerald meadows, and the majestic Himalayas. He became so impressed that he stayed in a hut for ten days and took the momentous decision of establishing a Hindu temple on the location. Baba Neeb Karori Ji Maharaj influenced the then Lt Governor of Himachal Pradesh to begin the construction of the temple. It helped that the Lt Governor was his disciple. Sankat Mochan Temple was consecrated on the 21st of June 1966. Sankat Mochan Temple started small; the temple slowly gained influence and now the entire temple complex is spread over 18.8 bighas of land. The owner of the temple complex is Shri Sankat Mochan Hanuman Mandir. The temple complex houses a number of structures housing the deities of Lord Rama, Lord Shiva and also includes Hanuman. The complex also includes a three storey building, a portion of which is used for a Langer/ Prasad hall. The rest of the building are hired out as marriage halls for a nominal fee. Last Updated on : 25 March 2011 Shimla Tourism State Museum Tara Devi Temple Arki Shimla Wildlife Sukh Sagar Resort Trekking The Mall Summer Hill Tatapani Wildlife Parks Wildflower Hall Star Resort Shimla Christ's Church The Ridge of Shimla Chail Shimla Tour Packages Shimla Skiing About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule