Fast-moving Farmlands with incredible benefits qualifies for a Like-No-Other-Smart-Bargain. - AgricultureInformation.com Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your Message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store My Orders Need Help? Fast-moving Farmlands with incredible benefits qualifies for a Like-No-Other-Smart-Bargain. FOR SALE > Fast-moving Farmlands with incredible benefits qualifies for a Like-No-Other-Smart-Bargain. Affordable Malabar Neem Farmlands/Weekend Getaways to individuals, with an optional lease agreement of up to 7 years. The Farmlands spanning over 100 acres are located on the proposed 150-ft. Tandur-Zaheerabad Rd. near Zingurthi village in Tandur Mandal, Ranga Reddy Dist. Andhra Pradesh. 1-Acre Farm with fresh Fruits & Vegetables, A farm House with individual Swimming Pool which would serve as a serene weekend getaway, In a gated-community providing additional security and managed by a immensely passionate farming management team, making sure that Farm is professionally managed with complete care. Imperial Meadows with all its Green Serenity makes it a scenic location for offbeat relaxation and a break from regular lifestyle. Located right near state highway just adds to its value. Its close proximity to Vikarabad, a satellite town for Hyderabad, joint capital for Telangana & Andhra Pradesh, which is soon to become a district headquarters a permanent place on the tourism map of India. According to sources & reports, Vikarabad is poised to be promoted as a Tourism Town of Telangana. Abundant water supply, natural nutrient rich soil, apt climatic conditions, easy highway access were few of the strong reasons for the selection of this location for sustainable farming. Â Highlighters:Â  Â· Project being managed by experienced agriculturist having 20+ years of exp. Â· 400 Malabar Neem (Milea Dubia) and Seasonal Fruit plants per acre. Â· Adaptation of cutting edge technology for crop protection. Â· Land ownership in the name of investor giving complete control of investment. Â· Minimum investment required is just 8 Lacs. Â· Available in 1-2-5 Acre Farms. This project is meant for individuals with passion for agriculture and who intend to plan their retirement well, while securing their next generation with farmlands which is increasingly becoming a scarce commodity. Call me at: 9652223860. Email – farmlandsinacres@gmail.com Complete this form to contact the person who posted the above message Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Enter above letters/numbers: You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) Search – messages Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Tags agriculture land agriculture land for sale aloevera capsicum coconut consultancy consultant cows cultivation dairy farm dairy farming distributors farming farm land ginger goat goat farm goat farming green house Job land for sale lease loan mango medicinal plant Melia Dubia moringa mushroom mushroom farming organic organic farming PAKAYOKO NATURAL SEED partner poly house poultry farming project report rice spirulina subsidy training turmeric vegetable vermicompost wanted farm land want land PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Related messages – questions, wanted, for sale Hebbevu plants low price call 08129328796 Log in Sign in Remember me Lost your password? Forgot your details? Reset Password I remember my details