World Commodity Prices | Food Security Portal Food Security Portal About Us Contact Us Join Login Supporters About Documentation Data API World Commodity Prices Temporal Info:  Monthly Units:  U.S. Dollars Source:  FAO 2013, IMF 2013 Footnote:  Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). 2013. Economic and Social Development Statistics Division. Available online at http://www.fao.org/es/esc/prices Oil prices: Official prices pulled on the 18th of each month from International Monetary Fund (IMF). 2013. IMF Primary Commodity Prices. Available online at: http://www.imf.org/external/np/res/commod/index.asp Unofficial prices pulled on the first Friday of each month from the U.S. Energy Information Administration. World Crude Oil Prices. Available online at: http://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/pet_pri_spt_s1_w.htm The world commodity prices are monthly averages of the prices taken on the day of the week indicated below. Prices are given in U.S. dollars/kg. The world wheat price is the monthly average of weekly prices for US No. 2, Hard Red Winter, US FOB U.S. Gulf as reported by the International Grain Council on Thursday of each week. Prices are given in U.S. dollars/kg. The world rice price is the monthly average of weekly prices for White Broken Rice, Thai A1 Super, FOB Bangkok as reported by Jackson Son & Co. (London) Ltd. on Wednesday of each week. Prices are given in U.S. dollars/kg. The world maize price is the monthly average of weekly prices for US No. 2, Yellow, FOB U.S. Gulf as reported by the USDA on Friday of each week. Prices are given in U.S. dollars/kg. Soybean price is the monthly average of weekly prices for US No. 1 Yellow soybeans, FOB U.S. Gulf as reported by the USDA on Friday of each week. Prices are given in U.S. dollars/kg. Global oil prices is the price in U.S. dollars per barrel of crude Oil (petroleum). These prices are calculated as a simple average of three spot prices; Dated Brent, West Texas Intermediate, and the Dubai Fateh. View data Data Print Original file   IFPRI gratefully acknowledges the European Commission (EC) and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) for their financial support of the Food Security Portal. Facebook Twitter About Us The Food Security Portal, facilitated by IFPRI, aims to provide improved food security for the world's poor and increased resilience of global food systems against food and financial crises. The project brings together international, regional, and country-level data, news, and research aimed at meeting countries' immediate food security needs, as well as building long-term global food security. The open-access project encompasses a global research-based monitoring and capacity-strengthening device for successful identification and implementation of the appropriate policy actions in response to food crises. The Food Security Portal is designed to pool information in structured ways and ensure data quality, timeliness, and relevance, as well as the opportunity for collaboration among policymakers, development professionals, and researchers. About Documentation Data API Partners Contact Us Food Security Portal   |   Facilitated by IFPRI   |   2033 K St, NW   |   Washington, DC 20006-1002 USA Copyright ©2012 All Rights Reserved Share Home Countries Commodities Policy Analysis Tools Data Dashboard Blog Food Security News About Us Contact Us Join Login Supporters