Western Express Highway, Map of Western Express Highway Home » Roads » Expressway » Western Express Highway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Western Express Highway Map of Western Express Highway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Western Express Highway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Western Express highway, a 25.33 kilometer long, multiple-lane arterial road stretches from Mahim Creek in south Mumbai to Dahisar in the north western part of Mumbai city. The expressway continues in the north as National Highway 8 connecting Mumbai to Delhi. Before the Expressway was built, Swami Vivekanand road (S V Road) connecting the western suburbs to south Mumbai was the main arterial road and as all the traffic plied on this road, it was one of the most congested roads. With thickly populated residential colonies and business districts such as Borivali, Jogeshwari, Kandivali, Juhu, Santacruz, Malad, Andheri, Goregaon, Khar, Vile Parle and Bandra on the route, the road had traffic snarls all the way. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) built the Western Expressway to reduce the traffic congestion at this key junction. There are road signs and reflectors along the eight to ten lanes of the expressway to make driving smooth and hassle free. There are flyovers at Jogeshwari and Andheri and one under construction at Vile Parle. The Western Expressway connects the suburbs to the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, the city's and country's busiest Airport at Andheri. The long stretch of road with multiple flyovers has reduced the travelling time from the western suburbs to south Mumbai, the commercial heart of the city. The Western Expressway connects Dahisar , the northern most suburb to Bandra and then to South Mumbai and Worli through the Bandra-Worli Sea link. Fort, Nariman point, Ballard Estate and Lower Parel are the important business districts in South Mumbai. The Reserve Bank of India and the Bombay Stock Exchange are also located here, as are the offices of many top multinationals and national companies. Colaba, Peddar road, Cuffe Parade, Altamount road are some of the residential areas here. The Central and Western lines of the Indian railways start from two major railway stations here- the Chhatrapati Shivaji terminus and Churchgate. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule