Official Website:: Indian Veterinary Research Institute A+   |   A   |   A- About IVRI Preface Milestone Mandate Past Directors IVRI Administration Research Milestone Organogram Link & Collaboration Honours & Awards Location Map Contact Directory Research Joint Directorate of Research Preface from Joint Director(Research) Mandate Activities Research Projects Patents Technologies Transfered Technologies for Transfer Contact Details Academic IVRI Deemed University Message from Joint Director(Academic) Deemed University Administration Academic Session Cources Offered MVSc PhD National Diploma Admission Procedure For Sponspred Candidate Fellowship Medals & Awards Facilities Available University News IVRI Alumini Divisions Animal Health Divisions Division of Animal Biotechnology Division of Bacteriology & Mycology Division of Biological Products Division of Epidemiology Immunology Section Division of Medicine Division of Parasitology Division of Pathology Divison of Pharmacology & Toxicology Division of Standardization Division of Surgery Division of Veterinary Public Health Division of Virology Animal Production Divisions Animal Genetics Div. Animal Nutrition Div Animal Reproduction Division Livestock Production & Management Section. Division Physiology & Climatology Divison of Temprate Animal Husbandray Basic & Social Sc. Divisions Biochemistry & Food Sc. Section BEMI Section Extension Education Div Liv. Eco., Statistics & IT Div. Liv. Products & Tech. Div Sections ARIS Cell Bioinformatics Centre Centre Data Cell Communication Centre Engineering Section Farm Section Farm Machinery and Power Workshop Institute Technology Management Unit (I.T.M.U.) Laboratory Animal Resources Feed Technology Unit Germ Plasm Centre Humal Hospital National Library for Vety. Science Wildlife Section Games & Sports Section राजभाषा अनुभाग Extension Joint Directorate (EE) Preface Objectives Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Infrastructure/Facilities Research Projects Scientific Staff Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - Single Delivery Window Kisaan Mela 2011 Training Programmes Contact Details Disease Diagnosis Joint Directorate (CADRAD) Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Scientific Staff Training Programme Contact Details Services Biological Products Diagnostics & Examination Vety. Polyclinic Livestock Products Disease Diagnosis Vermi Biocomposting Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - IVRI Single Window ITMU-Technology Transfer IVRI Publications Campuses Regional Campus Bangaluru Regional Station Kolkata Regional Station Mukteswar Regional Station Palampur Loading » IVRI Deemed University Message from Joint Director (Acad.) Dr. V. P. Singh Joint Director (Academic) The Indian Veterinary Research Institute was established from its mother institution of Imperial Bacteriological Laboratory established in 1889. The Deemed to be University status was conferred by the UGC to IVRI in 1983. The IVRI Deemed University is awarding degrees of M.V.Sc. and Ph.D. to meritorious students from all over the country and abroad. Today the Deemed University undertakes pioneering research in veterinary and animal sciences and promotes high quality education and training to make education responsive to the growing and changing needs of the society. The Deemed University, IVRI, has the mandate of conducting, assisting, promoting and coordinating higher Veterinary and Animal Science education in India. Trained man power can effectively utilize and generate resources in a more efficient manner for helping sustained development and for augmenting overall economic growth. The ultimate objective of our teaching and research programmes is to improve the nutritional, economic and social well being of the rural sector through the promotion of sustainable livestock production system in an eco friendly mode by better utilization of natural resources. As we continue to strive for excellence in our scientific pursuits and teaching, the Institute met astounding success in fulfilling the mandate of providing human resources, skills and technologies for the development of agriculture, animal husbandry and poultry production systems by effectively integrating research, education and extension activities in these spheres of economic endeavour. The IVRI is confident that it has enough talent and resources to take it to new heights. Training and education are closely linked to the Institute activities and complement the research programmes. The University in its persistent efforts to contribute to national agricultural development has been constantly reorienting its education agenda through application of modern educational technology and approaches. The entire success and achievements of the deemed university is due to untiring effort and co-operation of all the sectors of the Institute. In order to obtain details of any programme and further information, all are welcome to our institute website or through any mode of communication. Courses Offered PhD MVSc National Diploma Quick Links IVRI Deemed University Messages from JD(Acad.) University Mandate University Administration Academic Session Admission Procedure For Sponsored Candidate FellowShip Medals & Awards Facilities Available University News Alumni Download Format Related to Deemed University Admission 2015-16 Admission Notice Information Bulletin Application Form Staff Corner IVRI Mail HRMS Self Service Portal Important Circular Downloads ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute भा कृ अनु प-भारतीय पशु-चिकित्सा अनुसंधान संस्थान Visitor number: 1245337 Site Last Updated on: 07 April 2015 at 16:54:59 Disclaimer Privacy Policy Linking Policy Developed and Maintained by ARIS Cell, IVRI. © 2014 reserved with IVRI