Future Growth of India sugar market research and analysis report 2019 - Ken Research AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Press Releases Future Growth of India sugar market research and analysis report 2019 - Ken Research Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Future Growth of India sugar market research and analysis report 2019 - Ken Research LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 3 Weeks Ago #1 rajbksh Join Date Jan 2014 Posts 36 Blog Entries 2 Future Growth of India sugar market research and analysis report 2019 - Ken Research India sugar industry is highly developed and is also one of the most prominent industries in India. India is the second largest producer of sugar in the world after Brazil and the sugar is mainly produced through sugarcane and not through sugar beet as the climatic conditions of India supports the growth of sugarcane and not sugar beet. India produces approximately 24.5 million tons of sugar annually in which the major states that produce sugarcane are Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. These states altogether produces around 85% of sugarcane in the country and the rest is produced by states such as Assam, Bihar, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Punjab. Sugar is produced in 120 countries in which 80% of the production is from sugar cane which is largely grown in tropical countries while the remaining 20% is produced from sugar beet which is grown mostly in the temperate zones of the northern hemisphere. In 70 countries, sugar is produced from sugarcane, sugar produced sugar beet is witnessed in 40 countries while the rest of the 10 countries produce sugar from both the sources. Out of the 20.5 million hectares of sugarcane cultivated, 15 countries such as Brazil, India, China, Australia, Argentina and Cuba occupy for almost 86% of the land area used for cultivation with 87% of production. Brazil is the largest producer of sugar followed by India and European Union. The revenue generated by the sugar industry in India is one of the highest amongst other industries such as car rental and organic food industry. The revenues generated by the sugar industry in India in FY’2009 was valued at INR 612.6 billion which later on grew at a rate of 25% with revenues generating at INR 766.8 billion in FY’2010. The revenues that contributed significantly to the industry revenue are scattered among many companies. Some of the main companies that had a major share in the contribution of the revenues include Balrampur chini mills, Shree Renuka sugars, Bajaj Hindustan Limited The sugar industry in India is one of the most established industries in the country with revenues generating contributing substantially to the country’s GDP. The sugar industry in India was established long back as India was one of the main hub for the production of sugarcane in the world. Having the largest area under sugarcane cultivation, the sugar produced in India is way less than the sugar produced in some of the other countries which have less area devoted for the cultivation of sugarcane but yields greater than India. The main reason behind this shortcoming is the lack of technological advancements and the usage of traditional methods for the production of sugarcane. However, with the passing time, the sugar industry in India has started laying emphasis on the better methods of production of sugarcane in the country which generates greater yield and quality product. The future of the sugarcane in the country is looking bright with great scope of improvement and developments in the near future. For more information on the market research report please refer to the below mentioned link: India Sugar Market Research Report 2019 Reply With Quote Tags for this Thread growth sugar market india , india sugar market report , india sugarcane market , market size india sugar , sugarcane industry india View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 09:39 PM .