Hotels in Tamil Nadu Destinations Destinations Travel To | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Tamil Nadu Travel Tourist Map How to Reach Shopping Hotels in Tamil Nadu Places to Visit in Tamil Nadu Vadapalani Temple Nilgiris Hills Kanyakumari Temples Kodaikanal Lake Sri Meenakshi Temple Brihadisvara Temple Shrine of Subrahmanya Covelong Beach Shore Temple Government Museum in Chennai Vivekananda House Victory War Memorial Temples in Kanyakumari Beaches in Tamil Nadu Temples and Shrine in Tamil Nadu Cities in Tamil Nadu Ooty Travel Kanyakumari Travel Kodaikanal Travel Madurai Travel Thiruvarur Travel Tiruvannamalai Travel Vellore Travel Yercaud Travel Coonoor Travel Tamil Nadu Hotels Madurai Hotels Ooty Hotels Rameswaram Hotels Chennai Hotels Kodaikanal Hotels Yercaud Hotels Coonoor Hotels About Tamil Nadu History of Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Festivals Tamil Nadu Food Tamil Nadu Facts Home » Hotels » Hotels in Tamil Nadu Hotels in Tamil Nadu HOTEL SEARCH Search by Location Search by Places Select State Select City Location of Hotels in TamilNadu Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing the location of hotels in TamilNadu. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. If you are asked to list down your favorite tourist destinations, Tamil Nadu would surely count in that list. It is the state which comes with beautiful combination of trend and tradition. The cities of Tamil Nadu are replete with mesmerizing beaches, revered temples and pilgrimage sites, adventurous forests and many more. Moreover, you can also pamper your taste buds with a variety of mouth-watering dishes for which the state is popular. Since the state of Tamil Nadu attracts visitors all year round, so the state comes with ample accommodation options. A large number of hotels in Tamil Nadu have come over the time. Tamil Nadu Hotels range from luxurious hotels, Budget hotels, to boutique hotels. These hotels make Tamil Nadu tourism even more fascinating and sought after. Luxury Hotels in Tamil Nadu Taj Coromandel Hotel Strategically placed in one of the major cities of Tamil Nadu i.e. Chennai, Taj Coromandel is among the famous Tamil Nadu Hotels. This hotel of the Taj Group is well-known for decor and ambience. It is a five star luxury hotel with ample accommodation. This hotel comes with 205 rooms of all categories. The rooms are excellently well-equipped with all the modern facilities. Guests in this Taj Hotel also have the opportunity to choose from a wide range of delicious dishes and classy drinks. Besides these, there are other facilities as well for you to soak yourself in the luxury of the hotel. These are business centre, recreational facilities, doctor on call, money changer, baby sitting, travel desk, swimming pool, bars and many more. Park Sheraton and Towers Hotels Park Sheraton and Towers Hotels is a beautiful hotel located in Chennai. It is among the popular luxury hotels in Tamil Nadu equipped with all sorts of facilities that you would look for. The hotel's efficient service, touching hospitality beautiful décor make it special and favorite among its visitors. It is only 11kms from the airport and 7kms from the railway station. It offers 283 rooms. The most unique feature about its accommodation is it comes with "hotel within hotels". There are thirty executive clubrooms with valet services. You can feel both the sophistication and warmth while staying in this hotel. The hotel also serves the best of food and drinks. It comes with facilities like restaurants, bar, business facilities, club-hour, airport transfers etc. All these make it one of the best Tamil Nadu Hotels. Budget Hotels in Tamilnadu Hotel Atlantic Chennai Hotel Atlantic is a favorite budget hotel in Tamil Nadu. It is one of the best economy hotels in Chennai. Being 12kms from airport and 3kms from central rail station, the hotel is easily accessible to the travelers. It has sixty rooms which includes air conditioned and non AC rooms as well as suites. You also need not go out as you can dine within the hotel itself. The hotel has a bar, restaurant, 24 hour service, travel desk, parlor, shopping facilities etc. Hotel Kings Park Among the Tamil Nadu Hotels, Hotel Kings Park is a reasonable budget hotel. It is situated in Chennai, the heart of Tamil Nadu and is 17kms from airport and 3kms from railway station. The rooms of the hotel are out-fitted with TV, attached bath, bathtub, phone etc. The hotel also provides dining facilities. The facilities of the hotel include restaurant, 24 hour service, business centre, coffee shop, safe deposit etc. Last Updated on : 05/06/2013   Hotels in Tamil Nadu   Hotels in Indian States Hotels by City and Destination Hotels in Goa Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Mahabaleshwar Hotels in Ooty Hotels in Manali Hotels in Mysore Hotels in Puri Hotels in Nainital Hotels in Udaipur Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Pondicherry Hotels in Mount-abu Hotels in Aurangabad Hotels in Bhopal Hotels in Jodhpur Hotels in Kanpur Hotels in Mussoorie Hotels in Delhi Hotels in Jaipur Hotels in Bangalore Hotels in Mumbai Hotels in Hyderabad Hotels in Pune Hotels in Chennai Hotels in Agra Hotels in Chandigarh Hotels in Mangalore Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Mathura Hotels in Nashik Hotels in Noida Hotels in Raipur Hotels in Rishikesh Hotels in Bhubaneswar Hotels in Ahmedabad Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Amritsar Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Gurgaon Hotels in Dehradun Hotels in Haridwar Hotels in Lucknow Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Nagpur Hotels in Allahabad Hotels in Secunderabad Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Surat Hotels in Thane Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Shirdi About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule