Science and Technology India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Science Technology   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Science and Technology Science and technology have occupied a very important place in India from very early times. Excavations at Kalibangan and Lothal feature the scientific planning of towns and building using standard burnt bricks, interlinked drainage system, wheel - turned ceramics, solid wheel carts and the use of copper and bronze in various products. In the sixth century a lot of work was done in the field of medicine and surgery. Charak Samhita and Sushrita are the finest examples of this. Around the 50th century BC the first work of distillation of Zinc by man took place in Rajasthan. The lost wax process was developed in India .Indian mathematicians and astronomers have played an important role in the development of the fundamental concept of celestial science. A great example of the mastery of Indians in the fields of mathematics, geometry and astronomy is the discovery of coins and concrete evidence of maritime trade. Indian mathematicians introduced the concept of zero. Mahaviracharya, the greatest Jain mathematician mentions the significance of zero. Brahmagupta is another famous Indian Mathematician who was the first one to solve the Pellian equation, Aryabhatta introduced the value of the mathematical constant, Pi. The Bakhsali manuscript, gives rules, examples and solutions to geometric, algebraic and arithmetical problems. Bhadrabahu was another Indian mathematician who solved the Pythagorean Theorem. Amongst the modern scientists and mathematicians S.N. Bose is famous for Bose-Einstein statistics; Meghnad Saha, for Saha theory of thermal ionization, Ramanujam for Number Theory; Jayant Narlikar for his Theories of the evolution of the Universe, C.V. Raman for his "Raman Effect". After attaining independence in the year 1947, India introduced a program of using modern science and technology for national development. At present, it spends about 0.83 percent of its GNP on scientific and technological development. To know more about science and technology in India go through the following links:   Scientists   Prafulla Chandra Roy Homi J. Bhabha M.K. Vainu Bappu Jagdish Chandra Bose G. N. Ramachandran M.S. Swaminathan Bhaskara I Meghnad Saha Bhaskara I Sam Pitroda Aryabhatta II Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar Bhaskara II Sir C.V. Raman Harish Chandra Subrahmanyam Chandrasekhar Aryabhatta Vikram Sarabhai Dr. H. Khorana   Technological Gurus N.R. Narayanamurthy Sabeer Bhatia Mathematician C. R. Rao K.Chandrasekharan Physicist's Satyendra Nath Bose Pictures of Technology     Pictures of Science     Chandrayaan Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule