Springdale School, Amritsar Home » Amritsar » Education » Springdale School   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Springdale School, Amritsar Amritsar, the holiest city of the Sikhs, has always been a forerunner in the field of education. It has been the crucible where various cultures intermingle and has provided excellent prospects for the advancement of art, the sciences and commercial education. One such center of educational excellence is the Springdale School, Amritsar . The foundation stone of the institute was laid by Bhagat Puran Singh, in 1981. He was a famous social worker who toiled tirelessly for the downtrodden. Mr. S. Surinder Singh Sandhu and Late Mrs. Davider Pal Kaur Sandhu were also instrumental in doing the groundwork for setting up this institution. The motto of the school is 'Excelsior'. Their record proved that they have gone a long way in promoting quality education in the region. The school provides individual care for students in the age group of six to eighteen years. The school boasts of excellent faculty and is further equipped with the modern instruments of pedagogy. It has got a state of the art Information Technology center. In addition to that, it has expansive sports grounds, multimedia centers and art workshops. The communication and transportation facilities are also quite commendable. The school is located in Fatehgarh Churian Road, Amritsar, 143001. It is easily accessible from the main city of Amritsar. As the bottom line, we can say that the Springdale School, Amritsar is one of the pioneering institutions in the state of Punjab and a vanguard of the schools in Amritsar, for the advancement of education and all round development. It is one of the finest schools where parents vie to send their children to. Amritsar Education BBK DAV College for Women Government Polytechnic Amritsar college of engineering    & technology Government Medical College DAV College DAV International School Baba Kuma Singh Ji    engineering college Kndriya Vidyalaya No. 1 Shiv Shankar Institute of    engineering & technology Delhi Public School Guru Nanak Dev University Schools Colleges and Institutes Central Institute of Plastics    Engineering Technology Khalsa College Government Institute of Garment    Technology The Institute of Company    Secrataries of India About Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule