100 Days of Modi Sarkar – Day 38 | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Politics / 100 Days of Modi Sarkar – Day 38 100 Days of Modi Sarkar – Day 38 July 3, 2014 by Samudranil Day 38 of Modi Sarkar On the 38th day of Narendra Modi’s reign Singapore has offered assistance to India as far as constructing smart cities across the country is concerned. In fact this is one of the dreams that the Prime Minister has nurtured. The yet to be announced budget is expected to play a major role in this considering the importance of benefits it provides in the end to investors from outside the country. K Shanmugam, the Foreign Minister of Singapore visited India recently and had a meeting with Sushma Swaraj and Ajit Doval, the National Security Advisor. Singapore comes calling This was the first visit by a foreign minister from Southeast Asia after Modi was voted in as the PM of India. In his meeting with his Indian counterparts Shanmugam stressed that India should play a bigger role in the region considering the recent tensions pervading in the same. Singapore is also looking to increase its defense cooperation with India. In fact the Southeast Asian country, noted for its sound economy and overall development, is also waiting for India to loosen its norms pertaining to FDI. The defense minister of Singapore is supposed to visit India during August this year. Both the countries enjoy a cordial relationship with Singapore being a major exporter of arms to India. Economy Only a few days are left for the Union Budget 2014-15 to be presented at the parliament. Before that Arun Jaitley, the finance minister, will have a meeting with UK Sinha, the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). The investment climate in India is a major problem and it is expected that in the meeting Sinha would be suggesting some ways out of the same. It is believed that he will be advising on how household savings can be inducted into the capital market. It is expected that Sinha will also look to impress upon Jaitley the need to make more retail investors take part in the equity and mutual fund market. The budget will be presented at the parliament on July 10. SEBI, which regulates the capital markets in India, has been saying that it is necessary to have a common tax system for all investment vehicles for retired people. This should be done irrespective of the way the investment is done. Recently some mutual funds have launched pension products. It is believed that Sinha will ask for them to be accorded the same treatment that is reserved for the Employees’ Provident Fund Office retirement funds. Technology One of the areas where the Modi administration would do well to look into is the situation of internet services available across the country especially with regards to speed. A new study has shown that India has the lowest average speeds of internet services for users in Asia. The mean speed in India is 1.7 MBPS while for the world the average comes to 3.9 MBPS – this significant difference shows the poor condition that the internet users in India find themselves to be in. In fact, the said study took into account 14 countries from the Asia Pacific region. From the same study it has also been revealed that in the first three months of 2014 there has been a decrease of 1.5% in the average highest connection speed of internet services in India. Narendra Modi, though, has been an avid user of social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter and has made them integral parts of the overall governance procedure. In fact he has allowed Twitter unfettered access to matters pertaining to his administration. As per the social media giant from the US this is a major part of Modi’s initiative to make social media a major part of government. Environmental protection Prakash Javadekar, the Minister of State for Environment, Forests and Climate Change, has stated in a meeting with a team of delegates from France that India will play a positive role when it comes to the important matter of climate change. Javadekar had a meeting with Laurent Fabius, the Foreign Affairs and International Development Minister of France, who was heading the said delegation. He has said that a certain portion of the Green Climate Fund would be employed for financing the operational expenses of IPRs. These IPRs are expected to assist the developing countries get hold of the latest technological tools that help them develop in such a way that it is environmentally sustainable. He also spoke in the meeting about the initiatives that Narendra Modi had taken in his capacity as the chief minister of Gujarat – he had set up an independent department to work on climate change and also focused on developing sources of renewable energy like solar energy. The State Minister also emphasized how, by adding the words climate change to the Environment Ministry, the government had shown its dedication to this issue. Health Doctors in private as well as government hospitals and healthcare units have asked the Indian Government to increase the amount being allotted for the health sector in the upcoming budget. As of now the health sector receives only 0.9% of the GDP – the doctors have requested that this amount be taken up to 3%. Dr. CS Yadav, who is a professor at the orthopedics department of AIIMS, has stated that in Sri Lanka the amount kept aside for the health sector is 6-7% of the GDP. Yadav feels that for a big country like India the allocation should be commensurate enough. He has also pointed out that Pakistan spends a comparatively higher amount on health than India. They have also urged the government to look at other key problems plaguing the health scenario of India – the absence of multi-specialty facilities at both private and government hospitals with the problem being acute in the smaller towns. Quite often it has been seen that if there is an emergency situation either at the time an operation is on or after its completion there are no arrangements or specialists to deal with the same. The doctors have also asked the government to encourage research and development especially of Indian instruments and products in the healthcare sector. Sports Sarbananda Sonowal, the Sports Minister (state) of India has stated that he does not oppose the autonomy of the national sports federations (NSFs) in India. However, at the same time he has also stated that he would want them to be held accountable for their actions. The minister, who hails from Assam, has also revealed that the Union Sports Ministry is looking to get a system in place where the NSFs could be held responsible but without curbing the autonomy that is presently enjoyed by them. He has also stated that there is a need for these federations to perform at the level expected of them by the common people in India. Sonowal has stated that it is important that the NSFs maintain a certain amount of discipline that will allow them to attain a definite standard in their performances. The state minister for sports has stressed on the need for a democratic setup that allows smooth functioning of the different stakeholders in the domain. Now let’s take a look at the important economic parameters of the day gone by: Indicators Value Rise/Fall SENSEX 25841.21 324.66 NIFTY 7725.15 90.45 Rupee/Dollar 59.69 -0.38 Gold 27,654 -92 Silver 44,750 -452 Crude oil 6240 -61 Read More: One Year of Modi Sarkar Top Programmes Launched by Modi  Pradhan Mantri Yojana Narendra Modi 1 Year & 100 Days of Modi Sarkar (Government) - Details of First 100 Days of Government Clean Ganga Project Indian Economy Narendra Modi Narendra Modi as Prime Minister Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna Smart Cities Project Swachh Bharat Abhiyan Samudranil I am from Kolkata. Like any other Bengali I love my fish, eggs and bhaat and sweets but I also feel proud to be a part of the biggest melting pot of the world - India. It is true that I need to go a long way before I finally call it a day but I have come some way and am sure will travel further. Cheers :) More articles from Samudranil : Modi’s Three-nation Visit: As it Turned Out One Year of Modi Government: A Look Back Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY): Ensuring your Future Tracking the Clean Ganga Project: Slow Progress Attracts Criticism Smart Cities Project: New Age Maps for Public Convenience Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 Day 6 Day 7 Day 8 Day 9 Day 10 Day 11 Day 12 Day 13 Day 14 Day 15 Day 16 Day 17 Day 18 Day 19 Day 20 Day 21 Day 22 Day 23 Day 24 Day 25 Day 26 Day 27 Day 28 Day 29 Day 30 Day 31 Day 32 Day 33 Day 34 Day 35 Day 36 Day 37 Day 38 Day 39 Day 40 Day 41 Day 42 Day 43 Day 44 Day 45 Day 46 Day 47 Day 48 Day 49 Day 50 Day 51 Day 52 Day 53 Day 54 Day 55 Day 56 Day 57 Day 58 Day 59 Day 60 Day 61 Day 62 Day 63 Day 64 Day 65 Day 66 Day 67 Day 68 Day 69 Day 70 Day 71 Day 72 Day 73 Day 74 Day 75 Day 76 Day 77 Day 78 Day 79 Day 80 Day 81 Day 82 Day 83 Day 84 Day 85 Day 86 Day 87 Day 88 Day 89 Day 90 Day 91 Day 92 Day 93 Day 94 Day 95 Day 96 Day 97 Day 98 Day 99 Day 100 Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days