Microsoft Word - ATMA.DOC 1 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT AGENCY DISTRICT 1. Name of the Society The name of the Society will be “The Agricultural Technology Management Agency”, hereinafter called “ATMA”. 2. Location of the office The registered office of the ATMA shall be located at district collectorate. 3. Interpretations The following expressions shall have the following meaning unless inconsistent with subject or context : a) The “Society” shall mean the Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA). b) “Governing Board” shall mean the body as constituted under these rules. c) The “Chairman” shall mean the Chairman of the Society referred to in these regulations. d) The “Project Director” shall mean the Project Director cum Treasurer of the Society referred to in these regulations. Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) / Governing Board ; There shall be a Governing Board of the Society and its position would be as mentioned below : 1) District Magistrate / Collector Chairman 2) Chief Executive Officer / Chief Development Officer Vice Chairman 3) Joint Director (Agriculture) / Deputy Director (Agriculture) Member of the District 4) Representative of Zonal Research Station / Krishi Vigyan Kendra -do- 5) Lead Bank Officer of the District -do- 6) One representative of District Industries Centre (DIC) -do- 7) One representative of Agriculture Marketing Board -do- 8) One farmer representative -do- 9) One livestock producer -do- 10) One horticultural farmer -do- 11) One representative from Fisheries / Sericulture farmers -do- 12) One representative of Women Farmer Interest Group (FIG) -do- 13) One representative of SC/ST farmer -do- 14) One representative of NGO -do- 15) One representative of Input Supplying Associations -do- 16) Project Director, ATMA Member Secretary- cum-Treasurer (Ex-Officio) 2 Appointment, Nomination and Tenure of Members a) Non-official members of the Governing Board (G.B.) will be appointed for a period of 2 years by the Agriculture Production Commissioner / Secretary (Agriculture) of the State on the recommendation of the Chairman of the Governing Board. The Member shall hold office for two year unless the authority which nominated / appointed / coopted them terminates their membership earlier. No non-official member shall serve for more than two years. b) If any of the non-official member nominated by the Agriculture Production Commissioner / Secretary (Agriculture) fails to attend three consecutive meetings, he/she shall cease to be a member of the Governing Board and the Governing Board shall appoint another member in his/her place for the remaining part of the two years period with the prior approval of the Agriculture Production Commissioner / Secretary (Agriculture). c) If any non-official member nominated by Agriculture Production Commissioner / Secretary Agriculture fails to discharge his/her duties properly or found interfering with the day to day working of the agency or act in any way pre-judicial to the interest and objectives of the Agency the Governing Board may terminate his / her term by a resolution and nominate another member in his / her place for the remaining part of the two year period with the prior approval of Agriculture Production Commissioner / Secretary (Agriculture). d) Some initial appointments would be staggered to ensure that about two thirds of the members would carry over for an additional year on the Governing Board. e) Persons who sign the Memorandum of Association of the Society shall be the first members of the Society duly admitted. f) Whenever a member desires to resign from the membership of the Society, he shall address his resignation to the Chairman of the Society (ATMA) and present it to him. His resignation shall take effect only after the acceptance by the Chairman of the Society. g) When a person becomes or is appointed or is nominated as a member of the Society by virtue of office held by him, his membership of the Society will terminate when he ceases to hold that office and the vacancy so caused shall be filled by his successor to that office. h) Any vacancy in the membership of the society either by request or under article 5(g) of these regulations or otherwise shall be filled by appointment or nomination or cooption by the Authority of institution entitled to do so, as the case may be. i) A member of the Society shall cease to be a member if he becomes insolvent or of unsound mind or is convicted of a criminal offense involving moral turpitude. j) Each member of the Society shall have one vote. 3 k) The Society may further admit members subject to the approval of the Technology Dissemination Management Committee (TDMC) constituted in the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India, New Delhi. l) The Society shall maintain a roll of members at the registered office and every member shall sign the roll and state therein his occupation and address. m) It shall be incumbent upon a member of the Society to notify to the Project Director any change of his address and occupation. n) The society shall enter into the register of membership, the following particulars : (i) Name and address of each member. (ii) The date on which the member was admitted; and (iii) The date on which the member ceased to be a member. 6. Appointment of Officials a) The Project Director would be appointed by the Agriculture Production Commissioner / Secretary (Agriculture) of the State in consultation with the Governing Board of ATMA. The officer so considered and appointed should be suitably senior so as to lead a multi- disciplinary team of personnel of the ATMA Management Committee and may be selected from offices working within or outside the district and having experience in extension / development work in agriculture and allied fields. He would work on the project on full time basis and will act as the Member Secretary-cum-Treasurer in whom the executive authority of the Agency will vest. Initially, the appointment shall be for one year subject to the extension for two years each in two slots, the total period not exceeding 5 years for an incumbent. b) The Chairman would then seek the concurrence of Cadre Controlling Authority for placing the services of the selected officer on deputation with ATMA. 7. The Project Director of the Society on behalf of the Governing Board, with the approval of the Governing Board, shall perform the following functions : (i) To discharge day-to-day functions of the Society as per the objectives of the Society ; (ii) To prepare and execute detail plan and programme for the furtherance of the objectives of the ATMA. (iii) To process the appointments of such staff (other than those for whom the specific provision has been made elsewhere) as may be required for the efficient management of the affairs of the ATMA and to regulate the requirement and conditions of their services. (iv) Such staff as mentioned at 7 (iii) above would be appointed by Chairman, Governing Board on the recommendations of Project Director, ATMA. (v) To receive and to have a custody of the funds of the ATMA and to manage the properties of the ATMA. 4 vi) To execute contracts, collaboration, agreements, general / special instruments, service agreements, agreements containing arbitration clauses, indemnity bonds, deeds in respect of or connected with sale / lease licences, mortgage hypothecation or other deeds of a legal character of whatever description, powers of attorney, enforce any other legal rights and incur legal expense, provided that these powers are exercised for and on behalf of the ATMA. vii) Purchase, hire, take on lease, exchange or otherwise acquire a property movable or immovable or sale / hire / lease exchange otherwise transfer or dispose of all or any property, movable or immovable of the ATMA provided that for the transfer of immovable property, the prior approval of the State Government is obtained in that behalf. viii) To accept the management of any endowment trust, fund, subscription or donation, provided that it is not attended by any condition inconsistent or in conflict with the objectives of the ATMA. ix) To draw up the annual budget of the ATMA to be submitted for approval of the Governing Board. x) To scrutinise the annual report, balance sheet and audited accounts of the ATMA for consideration / approval of the Governing Board. 8. Key functions of the ATMA Governing Board The Governing Board shall ; i) Meet at least once in a quarter to discuss and deliberate upon the activities of the Society. The quorum of at least 1/3rd of the total strength is essential for the meeting of the Governing Board under this regulation. The fresh meeting may be conveyed immediately by the Member Secretary in case the requirement of quorum is not met at any meeting. Any change in the Society (ATMA) bye-laws should be approved by 2/3rd of the members of the Society and shall be submitted for approval of Technology Dissemination Management Committee (TDMC), Government of India, New Delhi ; ii) Function not withstanding that any person entitled to be a member by reason of his office is not represented on the Governing Board for time being. The proceedings and action of the Governing Board / Executive Committee shall not be invalidated by the above reasons, or from the existence of any vacancy or any defects in the appointment of its members ; iii) Review and approve strategic and annual work plans that are prepared and submitted to the Governing Board by the participating units ; iv) Receive and Review annual progress reports submitted by the participating units ; v) Provide feedback and direction to these participating units as needed about the various research and extension activities being carried out within the district ; 5 vi) Receive and allocate project funds to carry out priority research, extension and related activities within the district ; vii) Foster the organisation and development of Farmers Interest Groups (FIGs) and Farmers Organisations (FOs) within the district ; viii) Facilitate greater involvement of private sector firms and organisations in providing inputs, technical support, agro-processing and marketing services to farmers ; ix) Encourage agriculture lending institutions to increase the availability of capital to resource poor and marginal farmers, especially Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Women Farmers ; x) Encourage each line department, Krishi Vigyan Kendras and Zonal Research Stations to establish Farmer Advisory Committees to provide feedback and input into their respective research and extension programmes ; xi) Enter into contracts and agreements as appropriate to promote and support agricultural development activities within the district; xii) Identify other sources of financial support that would help ensure the financial sustainability of the ATMA and its participating units ; xiii) Establish revolving funds / accounts for each participating unit and encourage each unit to make available technical services, such as artificial insemination, soil testing etc. on a cost recovery basis moving towards full cost recovery in a phased manner ; xiv) Arrange for the audit of ATMA’s financial accounts ; and xv) Adopt and amend the rules and by-laws of the ATMA. 9. Powers of the Governing Board (i) Save as herein expressly provided, as having to be passed by the Society in a general meeting, all the duties, powers, functions and rights whatsoever or consequential and incidental to carry out the objectives of the Society shall only be exercised or performed by the Governing Board either by itself or through the Management Committee subject to such limitation (s) as the Government of India and the State Government may from time to time impose in respect of the expenditure of their grants. (ii) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of foregoing provisions, the Governing Board may :- a) Make, amend or repeal any regulation relating to the administration and management of the affairs of the Society subject to the observance of the provisions contained in the Societies Act under which the Society “ATMA” is registered. 6 b) To consider the Annual Budget and its subsequent alterations placed before it by the Member Secretary from time to time and to pass it with such modification as the Governing Body may think fit. c) To accept donations and endowment or give grants upon such terms as it thinks fit. d) To appoint committees, boards and sub-committees etc. for such purpose and such terms as it may deem fit and to remove any of them. e) If the Governing Board requires to constitute a sub-committee on agro-processing and marketing it may constitute these sub-committees which shall look after the issues relating to the value additions and marketing of the farm produce. The Chairman of the Committee shall be Member of the Society nominated by the Governing Board. The Sub- Committee shall exercise all functions including inviting persons inside or outside the Society depending on the need of the committee. The key functions of this sub- committee may be to review the position of the value addition and marketing of agricultural produce and plan out for future and to put a summary of the report to the Governing Body of the Society. f) To do generally all such acts and things as may be necessary or incidental for carrying out the objectives of the society or any of them provided that nothing herein contained shall authorise the Governing Board to do any act or to pass any bye-laws which may be repugnant to the provisions hereof or to the powers hereby conferred on the Governing Board and other authorities, or which may be inconsistent with the objective of the society. ATMA Management Committee (AMC) There shall be a Management Committee under the Chairmanship of Project Director of the Society to carry out executive functions and shall meet at least once in a month and take necessary decisions on all matters which are explicitly entrusted to the Governing Body subject to ratification by the latter. The Composition of AMC will be as under : 1) Project Director of ATMA - Chairman 2) District head of the Department of Agriculture (DOA) - Member 3) District head of the Department of Horticulture (DOH) - Member 4) District head of Department of Animal Husbandry (DAH) - Member 5) District head of Department of Fisheries (DOF) - Member 6) District head of Department of Sericulture (DOS) - Member 7) District heads of other relevant line departments which may be - Member important in the District. 8) Chief Training Organiser, Krishi Vigyan Kendra - Member 9) Associate Director, Zonal Research Station - Member 10) One representative of NGO/Incharge of farmer organisation - Member 11-12) Two representatives of farmer organisation - Member (one year rotation basis) 7 Functions of the ATMA Management Committee : a) Carry out periodic Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRAs) to identify the problems and constraints faced by farmers of different socio-economic groups within the districts. b) Prepare an integrated, Strategic Research and Extension Plan (SREP) for the district that would specify short and medium-term adaptive research as well technology validation and refinement and extension priorities for the district; these priorities should reflect the important constraints identified during the PRA. c) Prepare annual work plans and budget proposals that would be submitted to the ATMA Governing Board for review, possible modification and approval. d) Coordinate the execution of these annual work plans through participating line departments, ZRSs, KVKs, NGOs, FIGs/FOs and allied institutions, including private sector firms. e) Maintain appropriate project accounts and carry out satisfactory audit thereof for submission to Technology Dissemination Unit (TDU). f) Establish coordinating mechanisms at the block level, such as Farmer Advisory Centres (FACs), that would integrate extension and technology transfer activities at the block and village levels. g) Provide annual performance reports to the Governing Board outlining the various research, extension, and related activities that were actually carried out, including targets achieved; and h) Provide secretariat assistance to the Governing Board and initiate action on policy direction, investment decisions and other guidance received from the Board. 11. Proceedings of the Governing Board (i) The District Collector shall be the Chairman of the Governing Board and in his absence the Vice Chairman of the Society (ATMA) shall preside the meeting. (ii) Not less than 7 clear days notice of every meeting of the Governing Board shall be given to each member. iii) The Chairman may himself call or by a requisition in writing signed by him may require the Secretary to call a meeting of the Governing Board at any time and on the receipt of requisitions the Secretary shall forth-with call such a meeting. iv) Each member of the Governing Board shall have one vote and in the event of an equality of votes on any question to be decided, the Chairman shall have a casting vote. v) Any business which may be necessary for the Governing Board to perform may be performed by a resolution in writing, circulated among all its members and any such resolution so circulated and approved by a majority of the members signing shall be as effectual and binding as a resolution passed at a meeting of Governing Board. 8 12. Annual General Meeting (i) The Society shall hold an annual general meeting at least once in every year and not more than 15 months shall elapse between two successive annual general meetings. ii) The members of ATMA Governing Board and ATMA Management Committee will be members of the Annual General Meeting. iii) The Balance Sheet and the Auditor’s Report shall be placed at the Annual General Meeting of the Society for iv) At least 1/3rd members of the society / Management Committee present at the Annual General Meeting shall form a quorum. 13. The funds of the society shall consist of the following : a) Recurring and non-recurring grants made by the Government of India and the State Government for the furtherance of objectives of the Society. b) Income from investments. c) Income from other sources. 14. The Bankers of the Society shall be appointed by the Governing Body. All funds of the Society should be paid into Society’s account with the said bankers and shall not be withdrawn except on cheques signed by the Project Director to the extent he is empowered and cheques over that value would be countersigned by the Chairman. 15. Accounts and Audit (i) The Accounts of the Society shall be audited by a Chartered Accountant to be appointed by the Governing Board. The nature of audit to be applied and the detailed arrangements to be made in regard to the form of accounts and their maintenance and the presentation of the accounts for audit shall be prescribed by the bye-laws to be framed by the Governing Body and approved by the State Government. (ii) Annual Report of the proceedings of the Society and all of work undertaken during the year shall be prepared by the Governing Board for the information of the State Government, Government of India and the members of the Society. This report and the audited accounts of the Society shall be placed before the Society at the Annual General Meeting. 16. Within 30 days after holding Annual General Meeting the following documents shall be filed with the Registrar of Societies :- i) A list of names, addresses and occupations of the members of the Governing Board, the Chairman, Project Director and of other office bearers of the Society. ii) An annual report of the previous year; and 9 iii) A copy each of the Balance Sheet and of the Auditor’s Report certified by the auditor. Such list and the Annual Report shall be certified by the Chairman and the Project Director. 17. If any change occurs in the composition of the Governing Board or in the holder of the office of the Chairman or the Project Director at any time for any reason arising through, such change shall within 30 days, be notified to the Registrar of Societies. 18. Property of the Society: All property belonging to the Society shall be deemed to be vested in the Governing Board of the Society but shall be referred to as “The property of the Society”. 19. Suits and Proceedings By and Against the Society : The Society may sue or may be used in name of the Chairman or Project Director or any office bearer authorised by the Governing Body in this behalf. (a) No suit or proceeding shall abate by reason of any vacancy or change in the holder or the office of the chairman, the Project Director or any office bearer authorised in this behalf. (b) Every decree order against the Society in any suit or proceeding shall be executable against the property of the Society and not against the person or the property of the Chairman, the Project Director or any office bearer. (c) Nothing in sub-section shall exempt the Chairman, the Project Director or office bearer of the society from any criminal liability under this Act or entitle him to claim any contribution from the property of the Society in respect of any fine paid by him or conviction by a criminal court. 20. Every member of the Society may be sued or prosecuted by the Society for any loss or damage caused to the Society or its property or for any thing done by him detrimental to the interests of the Society. 21. The Society shall keep at its registered office proper books of accounts which should be entered accurately (a) all sum of money expended by the society and the object or purpose for such sums are expended and (b) the Society’s assets and liabilities. 22. The Society shall have its accounts audited once a year by duly qualified auditor* and have a Balance Sheet prepared by him. The auditor shall also submit a report showing the exact state of financial affairs of the society. The three copies of the Balance Sheet and the auditor’s report shall be certified by the Auditor. 23. Every member of the Governing Board (G.B.) shall have the right of inspection of accounts and registers maintained by the Society and Proceedings of the meetings of the Society at any time during the office hours ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ * Duly qualified Auditor means a Chartered Accountant within the meaning of the Chartered Accountant Act, 1949 or a person approved by the Registrar of Societies in this behalf. 10 24. Members shall not receive e any profits upon dissolution of the Society. If after disposal and settlement of the property of the Society and its claims and liabilities, there are any surplus assets, such assets shall not be paid to or distributed amongst the members of the Society or any of them but shall be disposed of as directed by the Government of India and the State Government with the approval of the Registrar of Societies. 25. A notice may be served upon any member of the Society either personally or by sending it through the post in an envelope addressed to such members at the address mentioned in the roll of members. 26 Any notice so served by post shall be deemed to have been served on the day following that on which the letter / envelope, or wrapper containing the same is posted, and in providing such service, it shall be sufficient to prove that the cover containing such notice was properly addressed and put into the post office 27. Alteration or Extension of the Purposes of the Society 28. Subject to the approval of the State Government previously obtained, the Society may alter or extend the purpose for which it is established (a) If the Governing Board shall submit the proposition, for such alteration or extension as aforesaid to the member of the Society in a written or printed report; (b) If the Governing Board shall convene a special General meeting of the members of the Society according to their Rules for the consideration of the said proposition (c) If such report be delivered or sent by post to every member of the society fourteen clear days previous to such special General Meeting as aforesaid; (d) If such proposition be agreed to by the votes of three fifths of the members of the Society delivered in person at such special General Meeting as aforesaid; and (e) If such proposition be confirmed by the votes of three fifths of the members of the Society present at a second special General meeting convened by the Governing Body at an interval of one month for the former meeting 28. The Rules of the Society may be altered at any time by resolution passed by 2/3 majority of the members of the Society present at any meeting of the Society which shall have been duly convened for the purpose. The modified rules will be deemed to have come into force in accordance with the provisions contained in Societies Registration act XXI of 1960. 11 29. The Government of India and the participating State Govt. shall be entitled to obtain information, advice and assistance of the Society on all matters connected with agriculture and allied areas, Agro-Industries service and Business sector and any other programme undertaken or to be undertaken by the Society. Authority 1. Chairman 2. Secretary 3. Member WITNESSES: 1) 2) 12 MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION OF AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT AGENCY Name of the Society : The name of the society will be “The Agricultural Technology Management Agency”, hereinafter called the ATMA Location of the office : The registered office of the ATMA shall be located at District Collectorate premises Aims and Objectives : The aims and objectives for which the ATMA is formed are: • To identify location specific needs of farming community for farming system based agricultural development ; • To set up priorities for sustainable agricultural development with a Farming Systems Approach; • To draw plans for production based system activities to be undertaken by farmers/ultimate users; • To execute plans through line departments, training institutions, NGOs, farmers organizations and allied institutions; • To coordinate efforts being made by various line departments, NGOs, farmers organizations and allied institutions to strengthen research extension-farmers linkages in the district and to promote collaboration and coordination between various State funded technical departments; • To facilitate the empowerment of farmers/producers through assistance for mobilization, organization into associations, cooperatives etc. for their increased participation in planning, marketing, technology dissemination and agro-processing etc. • To facilitate market interventions for value addition to farm produce; To attain these objectives, the society may: • take steps to ensure that problems, constraints and needs of the farming system based agriculture development are identified and diagnosed periodically. • draw up plans for an integrated research-extension linkage approach for farming systems based agriculture development; • ensure that line departments/institutions draw up integrated development plan based upon resources available with them and incremental/supplementary resources mobilized by the ATMA. • forge or develop systematic linkages between national/state/district institutions of excellence in the field of agriculture and marketing. • ensure capacity building of manpower engaged in overall agricultural development and strengthen infrastructural support for the benefit of the farmer/producer; 13 • create suitable mechanism to ensure location specific adaptive, indigenous knowledge based research. • ensure adequate linkages and frequent interaction between scientists, extension functionaries and technicians & farmers, in order to prepare an integrated plan to effectuate their linkage, support each other, better understanding and appreciation of their problems, means adopted to sort out problems and plans etc., and to develop a mechanism of feed back; • ensure capacity building of the ultimate users - the farmers in terms of physical, financial and skill resources base by way of adequate financial support channelised through credit institutions, private investments and training for skill upgradation; • facilitate farmers organization to take lead role on mobilizing support services and resources; • facilitate private investments for infrastructure development, private institutions have to take lead in the delivery of goods and services to ultimate users (farmers); • facilitate the processing and marketing activities of the agricultural, livestock, dairy, poultry, silk and allied produce of the farmers with the help of private sector institutions; • receive and expend project funds, maintain revolving accounts, enter into contracts and agreements, receive donations and provide services & deliver goods to beneficiaries; • accept grants of money, securities or property of any kind and undertake and accept the management of any endowment, trust funds or donations not inconsistent with the objectives of the ATMA, on such terms and conditions as may be fitted with the objectives of the ATMA and be prescribed by the Government of India from time to time; • generate resource in order to bring financial sustainability through charging for selected services rendered to beneficiaries by ATMA • create administrative, technical, ministerial and other posts in the ATMA and make appointments thereto in accordance with the rules and regulations of the State Government; • make rules and bye-laws for the conduct of the affairs of the ATMA and add to amend vary or rescind them from time to time; • do all such other lawful acts and things either alone or in conjunction with other organizations or persons as the ATMA may consider necessary, incidental or conductive to the attainment of the above objectives; • to do all such lawful acts and things whether incidental to objectives in force or not as may be requisite in order to furtherance of the objectives of the ATMA 14 • sell, lease, exchange and otherwise transfer of any portion and the properties of the society (ATMA) • do all other such things as may be considered by the Society (ATMA) and may be incidental or conducive to the attainment of its objectives OTHER CONDITIONS AND CONSIDERATIONS CNCERNING THE ATMA AND ITS OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES • All property, movable or immovable shall vest in the Governing Board of ATMA. • The income and property of ATMA howsoever derived, shall be applied towards the promotion of the objectives as set-forth in this Memorandum of Association subject, nevertheless, in respect of expenditure of grants made by Government of India /State Government to such direction as the State/ Central Government may from time to time give. No portion of the income and property of the ATMA shall be paid or otherwise transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or otherwise howsoever by way of profit to persons who at any time are or have been members of the ATMA, or to any of them or to any person claiming through them, or any of them, provided that nothing herein shall prevent the payment in good faith of remuneration to any member of other persons in return for service rendered to the ATMA or for traveling allowance, halting allowance and other similar charges. • If on the winding up or dissolution of the ATMA, there shall remain after the satisfaction of its debts and liabilities any property whatsoever, the same shall not be paid to or distributed among the members of the ATMA or any of them, but shall be dealt within the manner provided by the section 12 of the Public Societies Registration Act 1950 F. • A copy of the Rules and Regulations of the ATMA certified to be corrected by four members is filled with Registrar of Societies along with the Memorandum of Association CERTIFICATE 1. “Certified that the Association (the ATMA) is formed with no profit motive and no commercial activity is involved in its working” 2. “Certified that the office bearers are not paid from the funds of the Association (The ATMA)” 3. Certified that the Association (The ATMA) would not engage in political activities to ventilate grievances”. DECLARATION We, the undersigned persons in the Memo have formed in to an Association and are responsible to run the affairs of the Association and desirous of getting the society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1961