Chhattisgarh Map Home » Maps » Chhattisgarh Map   Chhattisgarh छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Chhattisgarh Map Cities in Chhattisgarh Naya Raipur Surajpur Kondagaon Baloda Bazar Ambikapur Pendra Kirandul Baikunthpur                      more... Districts of Chhattisgarh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Chhattisgarh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Chitrakoot Waterfall Haat Bazaars Indravati National Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Chhattisgarh Forests Parliamentary Constituencies Economy History Government Politics How to Reach Geography People Culture Festivals Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Area Chhattisgarh at a Glance Capital City Chief Minister Governor Pincode Population Telephone Code Chhattisgarh Factsheet District Map in Hindi Universities in Chhattisgarh       Chhattisgarh Map छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Map of Chhattisgarh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing major roads, railways, rivers, national highways etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Chhattisgarh Location Map Chhattisgarh District Map Chhattisgarh Rail Network Map Chhattisgarh Rivers Map Chhattisgarh Road Map The economy of this state benefits from its Bhilai Steel Plant, S.E.C.Railway Zone, BALCO Aluminium Plant, S.E.Coal Ltd.and National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd. To add to it all Chhattisgarh is a mineral rich state. The service sector boasts of Real estate, Consultancies and Insurance. This state is also enriched with natural beauty and pleasant atmosphere. It is surrounded with dense forests, hilly mountains, streams, waterfalls, natural caves, parks etc. Bastar, also called Kashmir of Chattisgarh, attracts many foreign tourists. Mahanadi, one of the largest rivers in India originates from this state. It has some very good hotels to offer to tourists. Chhattisgarh State Information Capital Raipur Date of formation 1. Nov. 2000 Governor Shekhar Dutt (resigned) Chief Minister Raman Singh Tourist attractions Bastar, Chitrakote Falls, Kailash and Kotamsar Caves, Mahamaya Temple. Festivals Pola, Nawakhai, Dussehra, Deepavali, Holi, Govardhan Pooja Major dance and music forms Panthi, Raut Nacha and Soowa dances; Sohar, Bihav and Pathoni songs Arts and crafts Iron crafting, lost wax method of metal casting, bhittichitras or murals. Languages Hindi, Oriya, Marathi, Chhattisgarhi, Gondi, Korku Size 135,191 sq km Census (2011) Population (Census 2011) 25,545,198 Census (2011) Rivers Mahanadi, Indravati, Son, Pain, Hasdo, Sabari Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Kankerghati NP, Indravati NP, Kanger Valley NP State animal Wild buffalo State bird Hill myna State tree Sal Major crops Rice, wheat, niger Factoids The ancient caves of Kotamsar, Kailash and Dandak in the Kanger forest have stunning limestone formations or stalagmites and stalactites. Approximately 90 languages and dialects are spoken in this state. No. of District 27 Travel to Chhattisgarh Travel to Bilaspur Travel to Bhilai Travel to Raipur Travel to Bastar Travel to Jagdalpur Travel to Dongargarh Last Updated on : November 21, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule