Travel to Ziro - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Arunachal Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Travel Agents Tourist Places in Arunachal Pradesh Picnic Spots Museums Pilgrimage Adventure Sports Ita Fort Buddha Temple Ganga Lake Polo Park Tawang Gompa Bumla Pass Apatani Villages Kile Pakho Taley Wildlife Sanctuary Cities to Visit in Arunachal Pradesh Along Travel Itanagar Travel Tawang Travel Ziro Travel Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels About Arunachal Pradesh History Geography Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Travel to Ziro Travel to Ziro Ziro Tourism Located in the Lower Subansiri District in the state of Arunachal Pradesh, Ziro has been a World Heritage Site for quite a few years now owing to its natural beauty. Ziro is a beautiful valley filled with rice fields and beautiful little villages of the Apatani tribes who inhabit this area. The Ziro Valley is full of uneven hillocks, surrounded by paddy fields. The area is rich in biological diversity owing to the wide variety of flora and fauna. The Apatai tribe who live here worship nature and are very hospitable people. If you are planning a trip to Ziro, thistravel guidewill help you for a hassle-free travel to Ziro. Climate of Ziro Ziro experiences a temperate climate. Summers are cool, though the area witnesses extensive rainfall during the monsoons. Winters are cold and woolen clothes are required. The summer season starts in April till the end of June and the monsoons start in July and end in September. Winter sets in by November and lasts throughout February. Best Time to Visit Ziro The best time to visit Ziro would be from February to October. How to Reach Ziro Ziro is a beautiful valley and is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site, given this, Ziro has become quite a popular tourist attraction and here is how one can reach Ziro. By Rail Ziro does not have its own railway station and the nearest railway station is at Tezpur, which is located at a distance of 300 km. Tezpur is well connected to various parts of the country and tourists can take a bus or hire a taxi to reach Ziro. By Road State Government run buses are available to Ziro from Itanagar, the state capital. These buses depart everyday and are reasonable and cost between Rs.100 to 200. By Air The nearest airport to Ziro is at Tezpur, which is located at a distance of 300 km. The airport at Tezpur is connected to Kolakata and Silchar by weekly flights. Taxis are available at the Tezpur airport to go onwards to Ziro. Shopping in Ziro Ziro is famous for bamboo items, like bamboo baskets, Apatani handlooms and locally made handicraft items. Also worth buying in Ziro are colourful rugs, scarves and jackets. The District Industries Centre, which is located in the town of Hapoli stocks cane items and other handloom and craft items. Tourist Places in Ziro Apatani Villages Paddy cum Fish Farming Tarin Fish Farm Kile Pakho Shiva Lingam at Kardo Forest Taley Wildlife Sanctuary More on tourist attractions of Ziro Last Updated on : 30/09/2013 Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Travel to Along Travel to Bhalukpong Travel to Bomdila Travel to Itanagar Travel to Tawang Travel to Ziro Places to visit in Arunachal-pradesh Places to visit in Itanagar Places to visit in Tawang Places to visit in Ziro About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule