RSS feed widget free from FeedWind, the best RSS widget available 日本語 Feedback Support Features FAQ 460 Million Impression / Month FeedWind is an RSS feed widget. Simply copy & paste the snippet of code to embed into your web page. It's free and ready to use without having to register! FeedWind is an RSS widget which adds dynamic content to virtually any website. Add multiple RSS feeds from your favorite websites, news , YouTube videos and social media then use filters to focus on your preferred topics and keywords. It's free and quick to set up with just three simple steps! 1 Enter an RSS feed URL 2 Choose customizations with a few clicks 3 Copy / Paste the code to your webpage Feed URL Add Feed Enter the URL of RSS feed and click "Add Feed" Button. General Width px Height Specified as a number px Specified as the number of feed items items Scroll Bar On Off Auto scroll Normal Movie Credit Off Direction Upwards Downwards Scroll Step sec Speed Fast Normal Slow Style Text Only Text & Thumbnail Full HTML *If you choose "Full HTML", "Maximum Length of Letters" (Content) will be ignored. Thumbnail Resizing Retain aspect ratio of image Crop image to fill thumbnail Thumbnail Selection Auto Media Content Media Thumbnail Enclosure Advanced Settings Open links in New Window   Same Window   Font Choose Font Family Times New Roman, serif Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif Courier New, Courier, mono Trebuchet MS, Verdana, Arial Verdana, Arial, sans-serif Geneva, Arial, sans-serif Font Size px Text Direction Left-to-Right RIght-to-Left Text Alignment Left Right Centered Justify Keyword Filters Include NEW! Exclude NEW! *Separate the words/phrases with a semi-colon ';'. Corner Square Rounded Border On Off Responsive (Mobile Friendly) On Off URL of Custom CSS Reload CSS Check out some samples Feed Title On   Off Feed Title Feed Link Advanced Settings Background Color# Font Color# Background Image Feed Content Display Content  Both   Title Only   Content Only NEW! Display Link to Original Content On   Off NEW! Maximum Length of Letters Title Content Font Color Title# Content# Background Color# Advanced Settings Background Image How does FeedWind handle backgrounds? Display feed items Sort Order Newest Oldest Random Off Separator Line On   Off Time/Date Off   On  