Travel to Warangal - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Home » Andhra Pradesh » Travel to Warangal   Andhra Pradesh History Geography Climate आंध्र प्रदेश का नक्शा Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Hyderabad Metro Stations Map Cities Amaravati: Andhra's New Capital Hyderabad Tirupati Vishakhapatnam Vijayawada Warangal                    more.. Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Andhra Pradesh Places to visit in Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels         more... How to reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education in Andhra Pradesh Universities in Andhra Pradesh       Travel to Warangal Warangal Tourism Warangal city has Warangal District's municipal corporation in Andhra Pradesh. The city is situated 148 kilometres to northeast of Hyderabad. The city also Warangal District's administrative headquarters. The metropolitan Warangal is a combination of three cities- Warangal, Kazipet and Hanamakonda. The city's population is about 1 million, which includes the cities Kazipet and Hanamakonda. The city is also called as Ekasila Nagaram and Orugallu in Telegu. Sammakka Saralamma Jatara, which is congregation bi-annually, is held in the city. Around 6 million people come to Medaram Village for more than three days. People also visit the stream or rivulet right adjacent to it at Jampanna Vagu, which is 90 kilometres from the city of Warangal. This fair gathers large tribal communities' crowd. It mostly marks the heroic fight over the unjust law by the mother-daughter duo (Samakka and Sarakka) and the then Kakatiya king. After the Kumbh Mela, this is Asia's second biggest celebration and gathering. Earlier Warangal was the capital of Kakatiya Kingdom, which was a ruler of the 12th to 14th Century. Currently, the city is a cultural and industrial centre in Andhra Pradesh. This city is the fifth largest in Andhra Pradesh. The place has huge hillock which are carved out of a single stone. It is also said that in 12th Century, the Kakatiya Kingdom had built a beautiful town, which was called as the Capital city. The traveller Marco Polo has mentioned about this city in his travel diaries. Because Warangal has a rich historical background, number of exquisite monuments, flora and fauna, gardens and sanctuaries, temples, and beautiful lakes, it attracts many tourists. Majority tourists like visiting the Warangal Fort, Bhadrakali temple, Shiva temple of 13th century in star-shape and the temple with thousand pillars. The other tourist attractions are Pakhal Lake as well as the wildlife sanctuaries at Eturnagaram and Pakhal. The best thing about Warangal is the beautiful combination of nature and man-made structures which would leave anyone speechless. Shopping The only place where one can shop is Lepakshi Emporium. Here, you can get the best handicrafts in the region which can be kept as great souvenirs. Tourists like coming to the city for the shopping excitement. Just like other cities in the state, it is a shopper's paradise for visitors. The fine handicraft items here are by locals of the village. One could also shop carpets, brass items, scroll paintings and many more such items. These Warangal's fine carpets are famous in national as well as international markets. The places that you can prefer for shopping are Khadi Gramodyog Bhandar for fine Khadi items, Podduturi Complex for Lepakshi handicrafts, Hanamokonda for fine brass items, Kothawada for Warangal Dharries, and Cherial, which is situated 30 kilometres away from Warangal district at Jangoan for scroll paintings. Apart from all thee place, one can visit DWCRA Bazaar at Hanamkoda's Chowrasta. Places to see in and around Warangal Warangal Fort : It was built during the rule of Kaktiya Kingdom in 13th century. It is known for its four gigantic Sanchi-style gateways. This structure shows an example of architecture of South Indian. Kakatiya Musical Garden : It is situated near the well-known Bhadrakali temple. The garden stretches over 15 acres. The musical fountain has beautiful colourful lights which catch everyone's eyes coming there. Kakatiya Rock Garden : This garden attracts many tourists and local crowd too. It is near the Fort temple and has many rock structures of animals. Pakhal Lake : It is an artificial lake which is constructed in Krishna River's small tributary at a place close to Warangal town. This lake was built in the era of Kakatiya king. The lake gives a beautiful panoramic view within the green and dense forests and hilly terrains. Eturnagaram Wildlife Sanctuary : It is one of India's oldest sanctuaries which is located near Warangal town. It has many teak trees and wild animals like tiger and spotted dear. Bhadrakali Temple : It is an eighth century temple which was built by the Kakatiya dynasty. It is situated on a mount near the city. This temple has an idol of Goddess Kali. Thousand Pillared Temple : This temple is one of the marvels situated on Hanumakonda hill's slope. It falls on the Hanamkonda-Warangal highway which is very close to the city. Kakatiya King Rudra Dev built this temple in 1163 AD. Padmakshi Temple Ramappa Temple Siddeshwara Temple Sri Veeranarayana Temple Best Time to visit Warangal is situated at 302 metres elevation. This city comes under Andhra Pradesh's semi-arid Telangana region. The climate of Warangal is very dry and hot. The summers in this region begin in March. The average highest temperature during summers is 42 Degree Celsius for the month of May. Monsoon begins from June to September. The average rainfall in this region is about 550 mm. The city experiences dry winters from November to February. The best time to visit Warangal would be when the climate is a little humid after the rainfall and the temperature would fall to 22-23 Degree Celsius. Nearest Airport The place had an air force base on Warangal's south-east outskirts in Mamnoor Village, specifically on the Warangal Khammam Road. This place was also used as glider training area. This was India's biggest airport till 1947. It was built by Nizams of Hyderabad for the convenience of Azam Jahi Mill and Kagaznagar Paper Mill. However, to get into the city, the nearest airport is in Hyderabad. Rajiv Gandhi International Airport is at a distance of about 160 kilometres from Warangal. Nearest Railway Station Warangal has a good rail network connection. Warangal comes under Indian Railways's South Central Railway zone. One of the closest stations to Warangal is Kazipet Junction Railway Station, which is situated in Kazipet city. It is about 13 kilometres away from Warangal. On Hyderabad-New Delhi-Vijayawada-Chennai-Kolkata route, Warangal is an important railway junction. Apart from that, Warangal's railway station is also on Hyderabad-Vijayawada-Chennai-Kolkata route. About 132 passenger trains daily pass this station. It is India's biggest railway junction. Distance to Warangal From hyderabad - 140 KM From mumbai - 851 KM From delhi - 1862 KM From bangalore - 702 KM From kolkata - 1376 KM From chennai - 665 KM Warangal Distance Chart Languages Spoken The local language spoken in this city is Telugu. Apart from that, English and Hindi are also understood and spoken in the city. Last Updated on : January 14, 2014 Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Adoni Hotels Kurnool Hotels Puttaparthy Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Srikakulam Hotels Eluru Hotels Nellore Hotels Puttaparti Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Kakinada Hotels Ongole Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Vizianagaram Hotels Travel to Andhra Pradesh Travel to Hyderabad Travel to tirupati Travel to Vizag Travel to Vijayawada Places to visit in Andhra-pradesh Places to visit in Andhra-pradesh Places to visit in Vizag Places to visit in Hyderabad Places to visit in Tirupati Flights to Andhra Pradesh Flights to Hyderabad Flights to Rajahmundry Flights to Tirupati Flights to Vijayawada Flights to Visakhapatnam Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Elevation Map Outline Map Physical Map District Map Railway Map Road Map Latitude Longitude Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel Map Proposed Andhra Pradesh Map Sriharikota Location map Andhra Pradesh About Climate History Geography Languages Population Districts Factsheet Distance Chart Pin code STD code             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule