Fairs and Festivals in Amritsar Home » Amritsar » Fairs and Festivals in Amritsar   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Fairs and Festivals in Amritsar Fairs and Festivals in Amritsar reflect the vibrant tradition of cultural extravaganza. Connoting different mythical and religious significance, the festivals and fairs of Amritsar are celebrated by the enthusiastic inhabitants of the place. The land of Amritsar is enriched with many ancient customs that have evolved over a considerable period of time. Several renowned Sikh Gurus visited Amritsar from time to time thereby making it a holy land. Some of the notable festivals and fairs of Amritsar that held in this district of Punjab are: Ram Tirath Fair - this fair is organized at Ram Tirath, a pilgrim spot of Amritsar and continues for five whole days in which there are arrangements of tulla floating, acrobat shows, wild animal exhibition, magic show etc. Basant Panchami at Chheharta Sahib - this fair is conducted in the Chheharta Sahib Gurudwara of Amritsar and involves a kite playing custom Baisakhi - this festival is celebrated by the people of Amritsar on 13th of April every year when they pay respect to their their religious traditons Guru Parb - in the month of November and January, Guruparab is observed by the Sikh followers to offer prayers to the feet of their revered Masters in Amritsar Hola Mohalla - at anadpur Sahib this festival is held every year to pay homage to Guru Gobind Singh Amritsar is inhabited by jovial people who like to enjoy every moment of their life. In fact the entire region of Punjab is full of such people who celebrate every single occasion with equal fanfare and zeal. As such the religious fairs, traditional festivals and common events are all attended by the local inhabitants with much vigor. Fairs and Festivals in Amritsar primarily glorify the religious heritage of the place as a whole. Baisakhi The festival of Baisakhi has two prime connotations. The first one propounds the evolution of Order of the Khalsa , while the second one speaks of the harvesting season. The religious history of Baisakhi tells of Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth Sikh Master, who initiated the holy Khalsa faith on 13th April, 1699. Whereas, for the peasants of Punjab the vaisakh or baisakh month is very auspicious as they bring back the rewards for their crop during this time. Baisakhi reminds the people of Punjab the devotion and dedication of Guru Gobind Singh who on this day conferred the title of Singh to five of his most beloved disciples. It is believed that on the pious occasion of Baisakhi Guru Gobind Singh came in a place near Anandpur Sahib and demanded sacrifice from about 80, 000 Sikh followers who gathered to listen to the sermons of their holy Master. On his call five brave Sikh people came infront who were later recognized by Guru Gobind Singh as the first representatives of the Khalsa faith. Since the crops of the Punjab fields are harvested in the month of Baisakhi, the farmers of the state celebrate the event with Bhangra dance and folk music. In Amritsar, local fairs are organized where the inhabitants go to enjoy the fanfare and excitement of Baisakhi. Also people of Amritsar take dips in the adjoining rivers or ponds to purify their sins on the day of Baisakhi festival. Being associated with an immense religious importance and agricultural prosperity, Baisakhi truly claims a prominent position among the numerous fairs and festivals in Amritsar. Basant Panchami at Chheharta Sahib Among the various fairs and festivals in Amritsar Basant Panchami at Chheharta Sahib stands as one of the relevant one in the district. Chheharta Sahib Gurudwara host the festival of Basant Panchami with the apt support of many local trusts.Held in the starting of February and end of January, Basant Panchami is celebrated in the Hindu month of magh. Devotees and general people from all over Punjab flock to the gurudwara to take part in the Basant Panchami festival. The celebrations start from the previous day itself when large number of people gather in the site of the festival. The main attraction of Basant Panchami at Chheharta Sahib is the kite flying practice which is a very old custom attached to the festival. On the auspicious day of Basant Panchami, people start flying colorful kites and during the process each of them tries to cut off the other person's kite. The moment someone succeeds in cutting off somebody's twine the spectators and the supporters of the triumphant team starts cheering up. The looser on the other hand tries to fly his kite again with the hope of winning the game this time. A langarkhana is established in the premises of the Basant Panchami site where the visitors can come and have lunch free of cost. Also, many shopping stalls are placed during the Basant Panchami festival which indirectly provides a source of income to the local shopkeepers of Amritsar. People who come from faraway places to the Basant Panchami festival, for them bus services are provided from Amritsar itself. Reflecting the mirth and vigor of the local people of Amritsar, Basant Panchami at Chheharta Sahib successfully celebrate the religious charm of Sikhism. Guru Purab Guru purab is a major festival of Punjab which is followed in two different times of the year. The first one is observed in the month of November whereas the second one is organized in the January month. The first Guru purab celebrated across the length and breadth of Punjab, is followed by the people of Amritsar too. In November, two days are decided upon to celebrate the festival of Guru purab in which the holy sermons of Guru Nanak are remembered in Amritsar. During these two days, Japji Sahib and Granth Sahib, the sacred religious scriptures of Sikhism are read by without any gap. Also, the Sikh devotees visit the various Gurudwaras of Amritsar to pay respect to the Sikh Gurus. The procession of the Sikh followers with the Granth Sahib is an common sight during the festival of Guru purab. The gurudwaras also offer prasad on the pious event of Guru purab in Amritsar. In the month of January Sikhs celebrate the Guru purab festival in order to pay respect to Guru gobind Singh who took birth on this auspicious day. The Patna Sahib place of Punjab which is believed to be the site where Guru Gobind Sigh was born becomes a pulsating ground where people from far flung areas come to gather the blessings of the revered Guru. Both the Guru purabs are followed with much energy and enthusiasm in Amritsar. Free lunch is offered to the Sikh devotees during the Guru purabs. Guru Teg Bahadur and Guru Arjun Singh are remembered on the occasion of Guru purabs due to their ultimate sacrifice to the feet of the Almighty. Out of the many other fairs and festivals in Amritsar Guru purab claims a special mention. Hola Mohalla Hola Mohalla festival is celebrated by the people of Amritsar on a day when Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth and revered Master of Sikhs, had been baptized. Anandpur Sahib which boasts of a significant religious importance in the context of Sikhism, is the place where the festival of Hola Mohalla is followed by the people of Punjab. The day of Hola Mohalla falls the following day of Holi which is considered as one of the biggest festivals of Hindu communities. As one of the pious religious events of the Sikhs, Hola Mohalla attracts a large number of followers who come to Anandpur Sahib from near and far locations of Punjab. On the day of Hola Mohalla Sikh people seek the blessings of the revered Masters and gather in the gurudwara of the place. Various religious processions are taken out in the streets of Amritsar on the auspicious occasion of Hola Mohalla. The local people of Amritsar purify themselves in the early hours and visit the gurudwaras of the district to participate in the holy festival of Hola Mohalla. Such is the religious popularity of Hola Mohalla that people belonging to other faiths and communities are also found in large numbers in the festival of Hola Mohalla. There are many fairs and festivals in Amritsar that are observed by the local people with sufficient interest and devotion. As the inhabitants of Amritsar are known for their lively attitude, some or other kind of festival is organized in the place round the year. Hola Mohalla adds an extra religious value to the array of Amritsar festivals. Ram Tirath Fair Ram Tirath Fair is regarded as an important religious event of Amritsar. The fair is held at a place called Ram Tirath which is situated at a distance of 11 km from Amritsar. A pilgrimage of Punjab, the site at which the Ram Tirath Fair is organized a tank is situated. The myth surrounding the fair says that this tank was dug by the ardent follower of Lord Rama - Hanuman. As per the historic past of Ram Tirath, the place was once used by Devi Sita who was the wife of Lord Rama. During her exile Sita spent her days in a hut in Ram Tirath and gave birth to Lav and Kush in this place only. Also, one of the greatest epics of Hindu Shashtra - Ramayana - is said to have been written by Rishi Valmiki in Ram Tirath. During the five days of the Ram Tirath Fair which takes place after two weeks of Diwali, the women of Amritsar make lamps of flour, fill with mustard oil or ghee and float these in the water of the tank while signing holy songs. This custom is known by the name of Tullu floating in Amritsar. Also, in the wee hours of the fair people come to Ram Tirath to take bath in the holy waters of the tank. After the bath the devotees take a round of the tank while reciting slokas. The fair at Ram Tirath is attended by women of Amritsar in huge numbers as it is said that by visiting this Fair the childless females get the blessings of the Sikh Masters and become capable of giving birth to healthy child. While returning from Ram Tirath Fair the people are often found distributing money, cloths and food items to the beggars who gather in the site. The practice of helping the poor is considered pious for those who visit the Ram Tiarth Fair. Several saints who are popularly called as Jatadhari are also found in the Ram Tirath fair of Amritsar. Magic shows, merry-go-round, acrobatic shows are the additional appeal of the fair. Ram Tirath is counted as a significant occasion in the context of fairs and festivals in Amritsar. The spot of Ram Tirath Fair can be arrived at by the buses that travels from Amritsar in all the five days of the event. Last Updated on 07/25/2013 About Amritsar History Massacre Pin Code STD code Weather Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule