Uttar Pradesh Road Map Home » Maps » Uttar Pradesh » Uttar Pradesh Road Map   Uttar Pradesh Road Map Allahabad Azamgarh Ballia Gorakhpur Jaunpur Lucknow Mau Muzaffarnagar Pratapgarh                    more.. उत्तर प्रदेश का नक्शा About Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                    (in Hindi) Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map Proposed New States Awadh Pradesh Bundelkhand Paschim Pradesh Purvanchal Yamuna Expressway Lucknow Metro Map Noida Metro Map Cities Industries Thermal Power Plants Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Travel to Uttar Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Forts and Palaces in Uttar Pradesh Temples and Shrines in Uttar Pradesh Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels             more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Uttar Pradesh Architectural Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Uttar Pradesh Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Uttar   Pradesh       Uttar Pradesh Road Map Click any location on the map get the Detailed Road Map Road Map of Uttar Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing the entire Road Network of all the districts in the State of Uttar Pradesh, India. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Uttar Pradesh Road Network National highways and State highways in Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh was also called Northern Provinces during British era. It is the most populous state and one of the largest state-economies in India. Uttar Pradesh also has one of the largest road networks in the country, second only to Maharashtra. Around 42 National Highways and 83 state highways form a large network of roads to ensure that every town and most of the villages are interconnected. This is essential to ensure smooth transportation and logistics operations in this densely populated commercial state. National Highways in Uttar Pradesh The longest national highway that passes through Uttar Pradesh is NH2 and it stretches up to a length of 752km in the state. This highway starts from Kosi, which is situated on Haryana border and passes through Mathura. Mathura is famous for Vrindavan, the abode of Lord Krishna, the mythical Indian deity. After that, it goes to famous tourist destination in Agra . The Agra Fort and the Taj Mahal are the centre of attractions in Agra. Then the highway further stretches to Etawah and goes to commercial town Kanpur. From Kanpur it goes to Allahabad and Varanasi, the ancient cities. The last destination of this highway in Uttar Pradesh is Chandauli; the town is located on UP Bihar border. NH24 is starts from Ghaziabad , near Delhi border. It goes through Hapur and Moradabad, the city famous for brass handicrafts. It further goes to Rampur and Bareilly and reaches capital Lucknow , the city of Nawabs. The total length of this road is 431 km. National Highway 76 starts from Madhya Pradesh border. Jhansi is the origin of this highway in Uttar Pradesh; it takes you to Mauranipur tehsil on MP border. From there it goes to Banda and Mau and ends in Allahabad. The total length of this highway is 500 km, approximately. NH91 also begins from Ghaziabad and goes through Dadri and Bulandshahr towns. It also passes through the industrial town Khurja, Aligarh and Kannauj in UP. This road terminates in Kanpur. The length of National Highway 91 is around 400 km. NH93 is another important National Highway in Uttar Pradesh. It commences from the historic city of Agra and cruises through Hathras, Aligarh and Chandausi, before terminating in Moradabad. NH93 is 220km long. The combined length of the National Highways in Uttar Pradesh is around 5,900 km. State Highways in Uttar Pradesh State Highway1 lies in Eastern Uttar Pradesh; it passes through four towns Maharajganj, Gorakhpur, Dewaria and Bal