Central Institute of Coastal Engineering for Fishery (CICEF) Skip to main contents | Accessibility Options | Screen Reader Access मुख्य सामग्री पर जाएं | अभिगम्यता के विकल्प Home About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Guidelines Dairy Development Fishery Fodder Large Ruminants(Bovine) Livestock Extension Livestock Insurance Livestock Health Piggery Development Poultry Small Ruminants Threatened Breeds Trade Bovine Breeding Trade Conferences Statistics Animal Husbandry Statistics Livestock Census Fisheries Poultry Reports Forms Grievances Public Grievances Contact Us Sunabeda Suratgarh Andeshnagar Breeds Chiplima breeds Dhamrod breeds Hessarghatta breeds Sunabeda breeds CHRS-centre names Suratgarh Breeds Tenders English हिन्दी में Welcome to Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries पशुपालन, डेयरी और मत्स्य पालन विभाग में आपका स्वागत है Search : खोजें : Home / Central Institute of Coastal Engineering for Fishery (CICEF) Central Institute of Coastal Engineering for Fishery (CICEF)  The Central Institute of Coastal Engineering for Fishery (CICEF), formerly known as Pre-Investment Survey of Fishing Harbours (PISFH) is a premier institution of the Government of India established in January 1968 with its jurisdiction covering the entire Indian coastline for conducting engineering and economic investigations and preparing the TEFRs for the FH projects with the following mandate: To conduct technical and economic studies for the development of minor fishing harbours for small mechanized fishing boats. To prepare preliminary construction plans for economically suitable harbours and their supporting facilities. To conduct detailed surveys of sites showing immediate economic benefit plans. To prepare cost estimates and specifications. To formulate construction programme for the recommended sites To advise on financing throughout the 5 years period of the project. To advise on engineering and economic aspects on sites where construction is already in progress and on developing fisheries potential of major commercial ports.   The FAO of UN rendered technical assistance in the form of technical expertise and engineering equipment till January 1974.  Thereafter, Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) provided technical assistance in the form of engineering survey and subsoil equipment and technical consultancy services for 2 years from 1974.  After cessation of the technical assistance, the Institute on its own continued the developmental activities of FHs under Central Scheme.  Keeping in view the changed scenario and visible shift in favour of exploitation of coastal aquaculture in the country, the Government of India, Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), Department of Agriculture and Cooperation (DAC) in August 1983 re-designated PISFH as CICEF assigning the following additional mandate and responsibilities: To conduct economic and engineering investigation, prepare suitable engineering designs for coastal aquaculture farms and operation procedure for the types of sites for coastal aquaculture commonly found in the country To test suitability of the design and operational procedures including their economic efficiencies through representative pilot project in selected areas. To establish on the basis of pilot project results, guidelines for designs and operation of small and large coastal farms in different type of sites in the country. To design appropriate shrimp hatcheries and assist in their establishment and operation including the training of personnel; and To train adequate number of personnel to undertake feasibility studies including site surveys, preparation of farm designs and relevant cost estimates.   Achievements:   CICEF, till the end of February 2010 has carried out engineering and economic investigations for the development of fishery harbours and fish landing centers at 79 sites and prepared TEFRs for 78 sites.  The Institute has also reconnoitered about 66,200 ha of brackish water area and engineering investigations were carried out over 15,600 ha in al the Maritime States and Union Territories for the development of brackish water shrimp culture projects.   Revised Mandate:   In order to review the Institute activities and re-define its mandate and goats, the DAHD&F of MOA, Government of India constituted an Evaluation committee to evaluate the CICEF activities and has revised its mandate as follows:   1.   To function as a consultancy organization to provide consultancy services to       Coastal State Governments, Union Territories, Port Trusts and other Public/ Private Sector undertaking by charging consultancy fee in formulation of fishing harbour and fish landing projects in the relevant fields listed below: i)   Engineering and economic investigations. ii)  Hydraulic model studies both mathematical and physical. iii)   Preparation of Techno-Economic Feasibility Reports (TEFR) and Detailed Project Reports (DPR) including planning and designing of fishing harbours in conformity with national international standards, engineering design of associated structures, preparation of construction drawing, estimates, economic evaluation, socio-economic aspects comprising of FIRR, EIRR, cost benefit analysis and management related aspects and other project related documents etc. iv)  Environmental Impact Assessment Studies/ Environmental Management Plan and other environmental related studies as may be required for clearance of fishing harbours and fish landing centre projects from environmental angle by the authorities concerned both in State/UTs and Central Governments. v)   Post-construction evaluation of existing fishing harbours and fish landing centres.   2.  To provide consultancy services on charge basis in developing of coastal aquaculture farms, inland fish landing centres, hatcheries and other fishery based infrastructure comprising relevant fields.   3.  To assist the Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture in the matter formulation of Master Plan for development of fishing harbours and fish landing centres, scrutiny of TEFRs/DPRs, providing inputs if any required to the monitoring committees, formulation of manuals, policy guidelines and any other activities as and when advised by the Department. 4.  To develop in-house expertise in the fields listed at 2.1 and 2.2 above through various means of knowledge acquisition/dissemination proves such as deputing its staff for training, conducting training programmes to the State/UT officials, conducting technical workshops and seminars and any other appropriate mechanism with a view to be self-equipped to take sectoral challenges and provide single window delivery. Contact details:  Director, CICEF, Bangalore. Phone: 080-28385466/28385092 Fax: 080-28385091. website: http://www.cicef.gov.in Help | Terms of Use | Site Map | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer | Hyperlinking Policy | Privacy Policy | Archives | Contact Us This website belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ©  2014 All rights reserved. Designed,Developed & Hosted by NIC