EFITA | WCCA | CIGR Conference - June 29th - July 2nd, 2015, Poznan, Poland Menu Welcome message Committees Papers Programme at a Glance Scientific Programme Conference Technical Tour Prices & other info Location and venue plan Hotels About Poznan How to get to Poznan Registration Sponsorship Contact 2015 CONFERENCE  June 29 - July 2  Poznań, PL REGISTER NOW Dear Colleagues, It is a great pleasure to invite you to attend EFITA/WCCA/CIGR 2015 Conference which will take place in Poznan, Poland from June 29 to July 2, 2015. EFITA/WCCA/CIGR 2015 is a joint conference of three associations: European Federation for Information Technology in Agriculture, Food and the Environment (EFITA), International Network for Information Technology in Agriculture – World Congress on Computers in Agriculture (INFITA – WCCA) and International Commission of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering – Technical Section VII: Information Technology (CIGR VII). All these associations deal with the use of ICT in the agri-food, bioresource and biomass sectors. These, and not only, will also be the leading topics during the conference sessions. We hope that the Polish hospitality will make this conference truly memorable, including social and networking activities that are aimed at forging collaboration and exploring ideas through multidisciplinary approaches. It is important that professionals meet up on a regular basis to interact, network and exchange ideas and knowledge. It is only by sharing ideas that we develop new ones that catalyze technological advancement. Hoping to see you all in Poznan, prof. Jerzy Weres Chair of the EFITA/WCCA/CIGR 2015 Committee prof. Wojciech Mueller POLSITA President dr. Janina Rudowicz-Nawrocka Secretary of the EFITA/WCCA/CIGR 2015 Committee Welcome message Committees Papers Programme at a Glance Scientific Programme Conference Technical Tour Prices & other info Location and venue plan Hotels About Poznan How to get to Poznan Registration Sponsorship Contact HONORARY AUSPICES CONFERENCE ORGANISERS © Efita 2015 event participants registration system This website uses cookies to allow the registration for the event and control over related processes. Using this website you agree on use of cookies, according to the current browser settings. Accept