Architects in India Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Industries we cover         Automobile Aviation Aluminium Cement Cottage Communications Dairy Education Food Fertilizer Hotel Investment Insurance IT Jute Logistics Paper and Pulp Pharmaceutical Petroleum Petrochemical Polymers Retail Steel Software Sugar Telecom Tourism Textile You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home   » Architect » Architects in India Architects in India Overall Rating:  [ 0 / 5 ]Total Votes [   ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 India has always been talked about for its rich architectural heritage. Right from the stunningly decorated facades to the larger-than-life designed interiors have never failed to fascinate any onlooker. Whether you explore its ancient architectural patterns or just browse through some of its contemporary building designs, the magical concept of the architect can well be taken in. Most of the Indian architects using best of the treasury of its diverse culture create an impression of the contemporary world in their styles. Starting from elaborate to simple building structuring and interior decorations, the designers leave a mark of their expertise and skillfulness on their objects of creation. Today, the architecture and interior designing business in India is growing at a fast pace. The credit for this can simply be attributed to the designers, who understand their profession well and have been able to earn a special place of repute not in India alone but in foreign destinations too. Tips to Find Best Architects in India No matter it is your commercial undertaking or a plan for a home of your dreams, you should always look for assistance from professional architects. The architects can understand your vision best. They can offer you the avant-garde suggestions using their knowledge and creative powers for most efficient and environment-friendly building designs. They know how to make best use of every inch of the space so that it neither looks cramped nor wasted. In addition, the architects can also advise you on the perfect building materials and can solve your queries related to any area of the building structuring most efficiently. Hence, it becomes extremely important to hire a professional architect to get your work done. As there are many architects in India, you must be wondering whom to choose and what should be the criteria to find that ideal one? Here, you will find some very simple tips to choose architects. These are: Look for an architect who is well versed with residential designs He/ she should be a registered architect He/ she should be easily accessible He/ she should have prior experience in the field Ask for architect's portfolio to get an idea of his/ her work Visit the site where he/ she has worked See if he or she is ready to listen to your ideas Approach other architects as well to select the best If possible, meet the previous client of the architect for reference A List of Top Architects in India The country like India is full of talent and expertise. Here, you would find countless number of architects, who top the chart in their profession because of their ability to create innovative yet most useful designs for their clients and satisfy their taste. Some of the most popular of them have been listed below for you. They are: Balakrishna V Doshi Hafeez Contractor Vasanth Kamath Kuldip Singh Brinda Somayya Romi Khosla Sen Kapadia I.m. Khadri Shirish Beri Laurie Baker Raj Rewal Here is a list of top 50 Architects in India (http://business.mapsofindia.com/architect/top-50-architects.html) Architect in India     Top 50 Architects   About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED