Welcome to Invest India | Invest India Invest India Home About India Doing Business in India Investment Policies Contact Us About Us Useful Links Menu Home Invest India Brochure Investment Guides Our Partners Events JV Opportunities Studies & Surveys DMIC E Biz Australia-India CEO Forum – Investment Champions Welcome to Invest India Invest India is the country’s official agency dedicated to investment promotion and facilitation. Set up as a joint venture between FICCI (51% equity), DIPP (35% equity held by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Ministry of Commerce & Industry) and State Governments of India (0.5% each), Invest India acts as the first point of contact for foreign investors. Its services include providing quality input and support services – particularly to MSMEs and family-owned overseas enterprises – through granulated, sector- and state-specific information, assistance with location identification, expediting of regulatory approvals, facilitating meetings with relevant government and corporate officials, organisation of investment road shows and roundtables, and aftercare services that include initiating remedial action on problems faced by investors by involving the government department concerned. Invest India regularly partners with similar agencies across the world in an endeavour to enhance bilateral investment and economic engagement. It has signed MoUs with IPAs of Italy, France, USA, UK, Japan, South Korea, Czech Republic and Mauritius. In addition, Invest India actively contributes to the Government of India’s investment-related engagement with Africa. An Investor Facilitation Cell has been set up at Invest India as a part of the Make in India initiative launched by Hon’ble PM of India on September 25, 2014. The Cell acts as primary support for all investment queries and for providing handholding and liaisoning services to investors. Invest India is also a part of the Japan Plus initiative, launched to facilitate and speed up investment proposals and augment economic ties between India and Japan. Invest India has also set up investment promotion and facilitation help desks for select economic ministries and countries. Invest India Copyright 2012