161: With Eric Meyer - ShopTalk View Menu Job Board Ask a Question Archives Store Advertising Subscribe on  iTunes or RSS An internet radio show about the internet starring Dave Rupert and Chris Coyier . @shoptalkshow Editing by Aaron Dowd . Transcripts by @PhamTranscript . Bandwidth by Simplecast . 161: With Eric Meyer April 14th, 2015 01:02:19   Download Show Notes Comments Eric Meyer has been working on the web since 1993, and has been a huge influence on countless web designers. He joins us for a special episode to share what he’s learned about design after going through a difficult and tragic time in his life. We talked Flexbox, layouts, his new talk, improving user experience for stressful medical situations, and more. Sponsors: 16:52 Environments for Humans – Craft CMS Summit – The 2nd annual online, live Craft CMS Conference. Environments for Humans brings together some of the Web’s most notable experts in Craft for an all-new, one-day only online conference, the Craft CMS Summit 2015! Bring the experts to your desktop April 22nd from 9AM to 5PM (CT). Craft CMS Summit is back by popular demand! Join fellow web and mobile professionals for a day of learning about this powerful CMS. Find out where things are headed in Brandon Kelly’s State of Craft opening session, gain insights and learn about best practices from some of the best Craft web developers out there, and meet whole team at Pixel & Tonic in the closing Q&A Round Table. Purchase your tickets now , and get 20% off with coupon code SHOPTALK! 17:56 One Month – One Month is an online video learning platform with a simple premise: What if you could learn anything in One Month? One Month students learn to code by building real websites and apps, growth hacking their businesses and websites, and building payment systems and security solutions. One Month’s courses are the easiest way to learn new tech skills including: Ruby on Rails Python HTML & CSS iOS Development with Swift Content Marketing Growth Hacking and More! Enroll now @ onemonth.com/shoptalk and get 25% OFF your first month. Show Links: Eric Meyer Follow Eric on Twitter Event Apart Jeffrey Zeldman   Looking for a job? Check out the Shoptalk Job Board ! Do you think Shoptalk is the best podcast on the internet? Leave us a review in iTunes , it helps other people find us! Also, you might like Chris’ other podcast, CodePen Radio . It’s good stuff. Standard Podcast [ 1:02:19 ] Download Links Job Board Ask a Question Archives Store Advertising About An internet radio show about the internet starring Dave Rupert and Chris Coyier . @shoptalkshow Editing by Aaron Dowd . Transcripts by @PhamTranscript . Bandwidth by Simplecast .