Retail Sector of Indian Economy Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Indian Sectors         Export Sector Financial Sector Industry Sectors Manufacturing Companies Private Sector Public Sector Agriculture Sector Sectoral Analysis Export Sector Import Sector Retail Sector Service Sector Tourism sector Sectoral Trends IIP You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Sectors » Retail Sector of Indian Economy Retail Sector of Indian Economy Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  6  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 The Retail Sector of Indian Economy is going through the phase of tremendous transformation. The retail sector of Indian economy is categorized into two segments such as organized retail sector and unorganized retail sector with the latter holding the larger share of the retail market. At present the organized retail sector is catching up very fast. The impact of the alterations in the format of the retail sector changed the lifestyle of the Indian consumers drastically. The evident increase in consumerist activity is colossal which has already chipped out a money making recess for the retail sector of Indian economy. With the onset of a globalized economy in India, the Indian consumer's psyche has been changed. People have become aware of the value of money. Nowadays the Indian consumers are well versed with the concepts about quality of products and services. These demands are the visible impacts of the Retail Sector of Indian Economy. Since the liberalization policy of 1990, the Indian economy, and its consumers are getting whiff of the latest national & international products, the with help of print and electronic media. The social changes with the rapid economic growth due to trained personnels, fast modernization, enhanced availableness of retail space is the positive effects of liberalization. The growth factors of the retail sector of Indian economy: Increase in per capita income which in turn increases the household consumption Demographical changes and improvements in the standard of living Change in patterns of consumption and availability of low-cost consumer credit Improvements in infrastructure and enhanced availability of retail space Entry to various sources of financing The infrastructure of the retail sector will evolve radically. The emergence of shopping malls are going steady in the metros and there are further plans of expansion which would lead to 150 new ones coming up by the year 2008. As the count of super markets is going up much faster than rate of growth in retail sector, it is taking the lions share in food trade. The non-food sector, segments comprising apparel, accessories, fashion, lifestyle felt the significant change with the emergence of new stores formats like convenience stores, mini marts, mini supermarkets, large supermarkets, and hyper marts. Even food retailing has became an important retail business in the national arena, with large format retail stores, establishing stores all over India. With the entry of packaged foods like MTR, ITC Ashirbad, fast foods chains like McDonald's, KFC, beverage parlors like Nescafe, Tata Tea, Café Coffee and Barista, the Indian food habits has been altered. This stores have earned the reputation of being 'super saver locations'. With the arrival of the Transnational Companies(TNC), the Indian retail sector will confront the following round of alterations. At present the Foreign Direct Investments(FDI) is not encouraged in the Indian organized retail sector but once the TNC'S get in they would try to muscle out their Indian counterparts. This would be challenging to the retail sector in India. The future trends of the retail sector of Indian economy: The retail sector of Indian economy will grow up to 10% of total retailing by the year 2010. No one single format can be assumed as there is a huge difference in cultures regionally. The most encouraging format now would be the hypermarts The hypermart format would be further encouraged with the entry of the TNC's About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED