Department of Agriculture   FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQ’S) (Agricultural Implements and Machinery Division) ******** Why Mechanization? The mechanization involves judicious application of inputs by using agricultural machinery/equipment e.g. hand tools, bullock drawn equipment, power driven machines including the prime movers for performing various operations required for crop production activities.   The mechanization ensures reduction of drudgery associated with various farm operations as also economize the utilization of inputs and thereby harnessing the potential of available resources.   If mechanization is necessary, what are the priorities? The mechanization is necessary to enhance productivity and conservation of energy required for various operations involved in crop production, threshing, processing, transportation, value addition, storage etc.   The priorities for mechanization are to be decided as per the actual requirements of various agro climatic zones and involve land preparation equipment; crop production techniques for cereal crops, for cash crops, for oilseeds and pulses and horticultural crops etc.      What are the efforts made by the Government to promote mechanization? With a view to enhance the pace of agricultural mechanization, the Government has laid emphasis to provide financial assistance to the farmers and other target groups for purchase of different kinds of farm equipment, demonstration of new equipment among farmers for spread of new technology, human resource development in operation, maintenance/ repairs and management of agricultural machinery and the quality improvement through testing and evaluation besides institutional credit & fiscal measures.   The Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institutes   at Budni (M.P.), Hissar (Haryana), Garladinne (A.P.) and Bishwanath Chariali (Assam) established by the Government have playing a vital role in promoting agricultural mechanization.     Is there Agricultural Mechanization Promotion Law? As of now, there is no Agricultural Mechanization Promotion Law in the country.     Is there any National Policy on mechanization? As of now, there is no separate National Policy on Agricultural Mechanization. This is covered under Agricultural Policy. The Government promote agricultural mechanization in the following directions:- Agricultural mechanization should contribute to sustainable increase in yields and cropping intensity so that the planned growth rates in agricultural production are achieved and maintained.    The income of agricultural workers (cultivators and labourers) should increase at a satisfactory rate so that the disparity between urban and rural incomes is contained, and the agricultural worker given his rightful opportunity to lead a dignified life.     The benefits of agricultural mechanization should be extended to all categories of farmers with due consideration to small and marginal ones and to all regions of the country especially the rainfed areas.    Agricultural mechanization should make the environment worker friendly especially for the women workers by reducing drudgery and health hazards and by improving safety in production operations.    Agricultural mechanization should contribute to conservation of land and water resources and to more efficient use of inputs like seed, chemicals, fertilizers and energy.    Agricultural produce loss, both in quality and quantity, should be reduced through timely operations and improvement in process and techniques.    Agricultural mechanization should lead to reduced costs of production of different commodities, to increase income of farmers and to impart a price advantage to Indian agriculture for competing in the international market.       What is the progress of Agricultural Mechanization? Over the different Plans, emphasis have been laid by the Government on selective mechanization which has resulted in increase in the total power availability on farm from 0.29 Kw/ha in 1971-72 to the level of 1.23 Kw/ha in 2001-02. This is likely to increase to a level of about 1.5 Kw/ha by 2005-06. Farm power availability per unit area is low in comparison to the developed countries of the world.     What is the present status of mechanization in India ? The Indian agriculture has undergone a sea change i.e. from manual and bullock farming to utilization of improved equipment and power farming and has resulted in increasing the cropping intensity. India does not need to import tractors, combine harvesters and other improved equipment, which are available within the country.   Specialized equipment for cultivation of vegetables, oilseeds and other cash crops, however, need to be imported/developed to increase productivity of these crops to with the developed countries in the world.     What are the constraints in promotion of mechanization? The constraints in promotion of mechanization include the varied requirement of equipment for each agro climatic zone, the small and fragmented land holding, low investment capacity of the farmers, inadequate irrigation facilities, know how status of the farmers, repairs & maintenance facilities etc.     Whether there is labour displacement /unemployment due to mechanization? No, the mechanization does not necessarily displace labour rather through mechanization the labour employment particularly for paid employment is enhanced by way of increase in cropped area handling of more produce, expansion of marketing infrastructure etc.       Whether irrigation potential is a limitation for adoption of mechanization? The experiences have shown that rate of adoption of mechanization is certainly linked with the irrigation facilities developed in different parts of the country.   The States with adequate irrigation facilities, the mechanization has progressed at faster rate in comparison to States that have scant irrigation facilities and dependent on monsoon.   However, the equipment for rainfed areas have also been developed which could be adopted for raising crops.      What are the priorities of mechanization in the present scenario? With a view to spreading new technology, the demonstration of newly developed equipment has been taken up through State Governments, ICAR and through Central /State organizations. Efforts are on to improve the quality of agricultural equipment particularly those manufactured in the small scale sector, development of human resource for promotion of new and hi-tech equipment for the benefit of small and marginal farmers.   Due priority to popularize gender friendly agricultural equipment for women farmers is also being given.    Emphasis is also being given on promotion of resource/residue management equipment, water and energy conservation equipment etc. Institutional credit is available to the farmers besides subsidy for the purchase of various identified equipment.      What is the role of Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institutes (FMTTIs) in promotion of agricultural mechanization? The Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institutes contribute in the promotion of agricultural mechanization in terms of Human Resource Development, Test and Performance evaluation of agricultural machinery to assess their functional suitability.      Which are the target groups of the beneficiaries for various training programmes undertaken by the Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institutes? The target groups of the beneficiaries of various training programmes undertaken by the FMTTIs are as under: - Series of training programme Name of Training programme Beneficiaries A Series Agricultural Machinery Utilization Training Course Farmers, technicians, actual machinery users and sponsored candidate from defence   Government departments & organizations. B Series Refresher Course on Agricultural Machinery Utilization Sponsored incumbents from various Government departments and technicians looking for self-employment. C Series Technician Course on Farm Machinery Service and Repairing Technicians working in private workshops, farmers/ actual machinery users experience in the   operation and maintenance of machines, ITI certificate orders etc. D Series Summer Course Development Graduate on Agricultural Machinery and Utilization Under Graduate students sponsored by various agricultural engineering colleges/agricultural universities and ITI certificate a course student sponsored by it is. E Series Training of Rural Youth for Self-employment The unemployment youth sponsored by DRDAs for training under various Government run schemes i.e. SJSRY, PMSRY etc. F Series Trainers Training Course The need based training programmes are conducted for sponsored incumbents from tractor industry, power tiller industry and various Government departments, State/Central Government institutions, banks, extension workers etc.   The programmes are also conducted on familiarization on with the Dangerous Machine (Regulation) Act, testing, interpretation of test reports, farm machinery management and energy conservation for the beneficiaries of above stated institutions. G Series Energy conservation and Management Course The farmers and actual machinery users are imparted on site training on maintenance, proper use energy conservation and & safety aspects of agricultural machinery. H Series Training for foreign nationals The beneficiaries from various countries under bilateral/ international Government aided programmes.         What is the source of information for such training programmes? The information on training programmes conducted by various FMTTIs can be obtained from advertisements released by the institutes in leading newspapers.   The FMTTIs at Anantpur and Assam also release advertisement in regional leading newspapers. The beneficiaries can also obtain the information released by the institutions through All India Radio, TV programmes in Krishi Darshan.   The information can also be obtained at the following addresses: - Director, Central Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, Tractor Nagar,Budni (MP)-466445. Tel. 07564-34729     Fax 234743 email- fmti-mp[at]hub[dot]nic[dot]in      Director, Northern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, Tractor Nagar, Sirsa Road , HISSAR- 125 001 (HARYANA) Telefax : 01662-27684 e mail- fmti-nr[at]hub[dot]nic[dot]in        Director, Southern Region Farm Machinery Training Testing Institute, Tractor Nagar, P.O. Garladinne-515 731, Distt. Anantpur (Andhra     Pradesh) Telefax : 08551-286441 e mail - email-fmti-sr[at]hub[dot]nic[dot]in    Director, North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing      Institute, Biswanath Chariali –784 176, Dist SONITPUR (ASSAM) Telefax : 03715-222094 email- fmti-ner[at]hub[dot]nic[dot]in   What is the difference between the training programmes undertaken by Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institutes and by other organizations? The basic difference between the training programmes undertaken by FMTTIs and other organizations is that the FMTTIs impart skill-oriented training on agricultural mechanization to the various groups of beneficiaries whereas most of the other organizations conduct mainly information based training programmes.    Whether the training programmes conducted by Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institutes have been evaluated?   The training programmes conducted by FMTTIs are evaluated through postal structured questionairs which include information on enhancement of skill of the trainee in operation, maintenance, repairs of agricultural machinery, adoption of practice propagated during training programmes, conservation of various inputs for crop production and energy in use of agricultural machinery, the status of employment and their suggestions on training programmes. etc.   The training programmes have also been evaluated once by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad which has assessed the training needs in various States and have recommended to establish more such Training Centers in different States.   However, it has not been possible to establish additional training institutes over and above the existing 4 FMTTIs located at Budni (MP), Hissar (Haryana), Garledinne (AP) and Biswanath Chariali ( Assam ).   Under the circumstances, the requirement to augment the Human Resource development in Agricultural Mechanization, is proposed to be met by adding a component of outsourcing of training activities through SAUs, Agricultural Engineering Colleges , ICAR Institutes etc. during 10 th Plan.      Is there any post-training follow up system with the trainees? The institutions are collecting information from the trainees through postal survey on adoption of mechanization practices and skills propagated during training programmes, taking up of minor repairs themselves etc. As a result of training there is proper utilization of machines/ conservation of energy.   The refresher courses are also conducted based on requests.     Is the testing of agricultural machinery mandatory? The testing of agricultural machines and implements is not mandatory.   The major equipment like tractors, power tillers, self-propelled combine harvesters, power operated equipment, irrigation, plant-protection equipment etc. are being tested by FMTTIs at Budni and Hissar on regular basis.   Whereas other equipment (manual, bullock operated and tractor/power tiller operated) is being tested at the FMTTIs at Garladinne (A.P.) and Bishwanath Charrali ( Assam ).     Why testing? The Testing of agricultural machinery is essential with a view to assess their functional performance, suitability under varying field conditions, establish, performance data as specifications for marketing and extension services and assist financial institutions/banks etc.   The information developed by way of testing of machines may be of interest to the agricultural machinery users, research institutes manufacturers etc.      Who can request for testing of agricultural machines? Application for test of agricultural machinery/equipment can be made by the manufacturers/accredited importers, ICAR Institutes, State Governments, Agro Industries Corporation and by any interested individual/group.      What are the pre-requisites for the testing of agricultural equipment? Pre-requisites for testing of agricultural equipment at FMTTI’s includes submission of application and specifications for each equipment in a prescribed format, an undertaking to abide by the Rules & Regulations for testing of agricultural machinery at FMTTIs, to provide any additional information which is considered necessary by the Testing Institute/Govt. and payment of Test Fee as fixed by Government.     What types of tests are undertaken by FMT&TIs? The types of tests undertaken by FMTTIs are as under: -   Commercial Tests are for establishing performance characteristics of machines that are in or ready for commercial production. The following types of commercial tests will be undertaken: Initial Commercial Tests on indigenous or imported proto-type machines ready for commercial production.    Batch Test on machines, which have already undergone Initial Commercial Test and /or are being manufactured commercially in the country.      Test in accordance with OECD Standard Test Code shall be undertaken on machines on the specific request of the manufacturer/applicant, exclusively for export purposes. Confidential Tests are for providing confidential information on the performance of machines, whether ready for commercial production or not or to provide any special data that may be required by the manufacturer/applicant.       Are there any regulations to be followed during the course of test? The Regulations for testing of agricultural machinery at FMTTIs has approved by Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India and should be essentially followed during the course of test of various types of equipment.    What is the schedule of Test Fee for various types of equipment? The schedule of test fee for the equipment is as under: - Sl.No. Name of Machinery/Equipment Schedule of Test Fee (Rupees) 1. Tractors    ICT                  BT                 OECD 2,25,000/- 2,15,000/- 1,75,000/- 2. Power Tillers   ICT                         BT 1,25000/-   1,20,000/- 3. Combine Harvesters (Self propelled) 3,15000/- 4. Combine Harvesters (Tractor mouted/operated) 2,40,000/- 5. Hand Tools 1000/- 6. Components 1000/- 7. Power operated threshers 4000/- 8. Animal drawn equipment 2100/- 9. Tractor Drawn/operated equipment 6800/- 10. Manually operated equipment 1900/- 11. Power Tiller driven/self propelled equipment 4000/- 12. Diesel Engine 2400/- 13. Spark Ignition Engine 2175/- 14. Centrifugal Pump 1800/- 15. Plant Protection Equipment (a) Hand operated kransack sprayers. (b) Power operated pheumatic sprayer.