National Seeds Corporations LTD HOME ABOUT US Board of Directors General Managers Regional Offices Organisational Chart FEEDBACK RTI ACT FAQ SITEMAP MAIL GOLDEN JUBILEE For any suggestion in design/content of this website please email us at itsection@nsc.gov.in English | हिंदी CMD's Message Corporate profile Citizen's Charter Highlights Products Services Quality Certification ISO Grower Agreement List of Beneficiary Farmers BANGALORE BHOPAL CHANDIGARH CHENNAI JAIPUR KOLKATA LUCKNOW PATNA PUNE SECUNDERABAD List of Seeds Grower Business Enquiry Offices Farms Regional Area Distributorship Annual Report Financial Performance MOU Central Schemes Import Registration Beej Prabhandhan HRMS Training Programmes Prevention of Sexual Harassment Availability of Seeds Tender/Quotations Current PO Placed Archives Career/Vacancy Current Archives Vigilance Section National Seeds Corporation Limited National Seeds Corporation (NSC) is a Schedule ‘B’-Miniratna Category-I company wholly owned by Government of India under the administrative control of Ministry of Agriculture. NSC was established in 1963 to undertake production of foundation and certified seeds. At present, it is undertaking production of certified seeds of nearly 600 varieties of 60 crops through its registered seed growers. There are about 8000 registered seed growers all over the country who are undertaking the seed production programmes in different agro-climatic conditions. The turnover of the Corporation for the F.Y. 2013-14 was ` 738.75 crores. There are 10 Regional Offices, 5 Farms and 73 Area Offices/Sub-Units of the Corporation spread all over the country. In the seed production, emphasis is given for production of oil seeds, pulses and hybrids including vegetables. NSC has established strict Quality Control procedure to ensure supply of quality seed to farmers. NSC has established 5 Quality Control Laboratories, one each at New Delhi, Secunderabad, Bhopal, Kolkata and Pune to undertake seed testing to check the quality of seeds. Besides, production and distribution of quality seeds, NSC is also involved in the production of Tissue Culture Plants like Banana. It also undertakes supply of seedlings/saplings of fruits crops through procurement from the MOU Partners. Seed marketing is carried out through three channels namely sale through dealers/distributors, Govt. (State/Central) and through NSC owned Sale counter. There are about 2500 dealers of the Corporation who account for more than 69% of the sale turn over. With the launching of the National Seed Project (NSP) in 1974, NSC was assigned the lead role to develop the seed industry in the country on sound lines. NSC has also contributed in the establishment of various State Seed Corporation under the NSP during seventies.   National Seeds Corporation plays a key role in the implementation of various schemes of the Govt. of India like integrated scheme for “Oil seeds, Pulses, Oil and Palm & Maize” (ISOPOM), “National Food Security Mission (NFSM)” and “National Horticulture Mission” (NHM). It also provides technical support to the seed producing agencies including State Seed Corporations by imparting training of personnel engaged in the production of seeds in that organization. NSC is the nodal agency for the implementation of the Central Sector Scheme to create infrastructure facilities for establishment of processing plants and storage godowns in different states in the private sectors. NSC also involves in exports of seeds across the world especially in SAARC and African countries. The SAARC seed bank maintained by the Corporation with the grant in aid of the Govt. of India holds larger qty. of seeds of different crops/varieties that are meant to meet the demand that arises during natural calamities like flood, drought etc. NSC also takes care to meet the demand for quality seed of the farmers in the interior parts of the country like North Eastern States & other hilly regions. What's New Notice of EBT MOU : 2015-16 - Task Force meeting was held under the Chairperson/ Convenor, Smt. Sheela Bhide at NBCC, Lodhi Road, New Delhi on 24.02.2015 Sh.Radha Mohan Singh, Union Agriculture Minister and two MOSs (Agri), Dr. Sanjeev Kumar Balyan, and Sh.Mohanbhai Kundariya alongwith Senior Officers of MOA gathered and had a meeting with all the three Farm Directors and staff at Suratgarh Farm on 19.02.2015 Ambassador of Gambia Embassy H.E. Mr.Dembo M Badjie visited NSC for development of seed industry in Gambia on 27.01.2015 Agriculture Minister of Fiji H.E. Mr. Inia Batikoto Seruiratur alongwith delegation of 5 members visited NSC for discussions on collaboration between NSC and Fiji : 27.01.2015 Current Tender Archieve News Field Crop Vegetables Distributorship Biggest Producer of Certified Seed of Field Crops Click here to read more... Vegetable gardening can be as simple as growing vegetable plants in pots on a balcony or patio. Small backyard gardens do not need to be... Click here to read more... National Seeds Corporation Limited, New Delhi Regionwise Statement showing the details of distributors renewed for the year 2011-12. Click here to read more... Working since 1963, under the control of the Ministry of Agriculture of Government of India. Quick Links Message of CMD Corporate profile Highlights Regional Offices Area Offices Distributorship Beej Prabhandhan Financial Performance MOU Central Schemes Training Programmes Prevention of Sexual Harassment Tender/Quotations Tender Input Form Career/Vacancy Disclaimer Contact Us Seed Dealership terms & Conditions Public Circulars Hindi Cell Archive News Contact Us Beej Bhawan, Pusa Complex, New Delhi-110 012, INDIA Phone Nos : 91 011 25846292, 25846295, 25842672, 25841379, 25842383, 25843357, 25842460 Fax: +91 11 25846462, 25842904 mail : nsc@indiaseeds.com Visitor No: .    