Uttarakhand Government Home » Uttarakhand » Government of Uttarakhand   Uttarakhand Government Economy Secretaries उत्तराखंड का नक्शा Uttarakhand Uttarakhand Map Places to visit in Uttarakhand Travel to Uttarakhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Jim Corbett National Park Mussoorie Tourist Map Tourist Map of Rishikesh Cities in Uttarakhand Districts of Uttarakhand Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Uttarakhand Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Uttarakhand Forests Industrial Map Assembly Poll Uttarakhand Lok Sabha Elections History Geography Information Newspapers Hotels in Uttaranchal Nainital Hotels Srinagar Hotels Mussoorie Hotels Haridwar Hotels Dehradun Hotels Rishikesh Hotels                    more... Society Important Numbers Education Universities in Uttarakhand Uttarakhand Images Haridwar Location Map Uttaranchal Hills Map District Map in Hindi Pin Code       Uttarakhand Government Uttarakhand government Uttarakhand government is devoted whole-heartedly towards the betterment of this Indian state formed as late as in 2000. The Uttarakhand government comprises an extremely efficient legislature, backed by an equally committed judiciary and executive. Presently, the state legislative functions under the governorship of Aziz Qureshi. All the functions of Uttarakhand government are based primarily in Dehradun of Garhwal division, the capital city of the state of Uttarakhand. The Speaker supervises the sessions of the state legislative assembly. Harish Rawat is the present Chief Minister of the state. The Chief Minister spearheads the operations of the council of ministers, which is a body of cabinet ministers and ministers of state and is the core of the government in Uttarakhand. They are handpicked for their enviable record of past activities and their whole-hearted service towards the state. The various ministries of the government of Uttarakhand are devoted to the all round development of the state. The executive body of Uttarakhand's government is formed of members elected from the 70 assembly constituencies of the state. These assembly constituencies are spread over the thirteen districts of the state. The divisional commissioners of the two divisions of Dehradun are also secretaries of the state. They guide their group of state secretaries and special secretaries and ensure that Uttarakhand government is run smoothly. Nainital is the center of the Uttarakhand's judiciary. Legislature Legislature in Uttarakhand is controlled by the State Legislative Assembly of Uttarakhand. The legislature of Uttarakhand is unicameral in nature which means that it is composed of only one legislative body. The state's legislature is one of the youngest in the country, the state being formed as late as in 2000. It is devoted towards maintenance of the existing legislative structure and implementation of new laws and their amendment as and when required. It is the very cornerstone of democracy in the state. Special Secretaries Special secretaries of Uttarakhand play a very important role in the overall functioning of the state's executive. The complete governance of a state is incomplete without the portfolios of the special secretaries. At the same time, the entire financial standing of the state is often enhanced, if not based on the revenues of some of the portfolios that are included in the state's special secretariat wings. The range of portfolios that are held by Uttarakhand's special secretaries come from a wide range of governance concerns. They can ensure the revenue of the state, like entertainment tax and finance. They can be of extreme economic interest like cane cultivation and rural engineering. They can also be of a purely humanitarian nature like looking after the welfare of the freedom fighters. As such, the expertise of some of the most efficient administrators and civil servants are needed for a smooth functioning of the government's departments that the special secretaries are responsible for. Special secretaries in Uttarakhand work in close association with the chief secretary and the concerned ministries. Some portfolios operate as subsidiaries to other portfolios looked after by the concerned secretaries of the state. Chief Engineer Chief Engineer Uttarakhand is a post that talks of the state's willingness to optimize the use of Hydroelectricity resources of the state. The chief engineer of Uttarakhand works in unison with the department of irrigation particularly devoted to the making and maintenance of the Tehri Dam. The chief engineer has his office in Dehradun. The post of the chief engineer Uttarakhand goes back a long way. It was created as early as in 1960, when the state was a part of Uttar Pradesh. This post is a continuation of the post of the chief engineer Yamuna Valley Projects. Divisional Commissioners Divisional Commissioners of Uttarakhand are responsible for the governance of the two divisions of the state. They look after the proper maintenance of all the important civic amenities of the inhabitants of the state, by ensuring a proper running of the departments in each division. The amenities include food, transport, employment, subsidies and executions of the decisions reached by the legislature of Uttarakhand. Both of Uttarakhand's divisional commissioners serve the very important task of coordinating the works of the various districts in the state. The work is mainly that of coordination, and monitoring the proper implementation of all the tenets that the state legislature as ascertained. Judiciary The judiciary of Uttarakhand was constituted in the year 2000, with its seat at Nainital. From that day onwards, the judiciary of Uttarakhand that largely depends on the High Court of Uttarakhand has been operating in the old building situated at Mallital (Nainital). Moreover, it can be said that the Judiciary of Uttarakhand or any other state of India is equivalent to its High Court. In fact, the entire judiciary or the jurisdiction of the State, and in this instance Uttarakhand, lies with the High Court. Therefore, it becomes the duty of the High Court to look after the sound existence of that state. High Court Uttarakhand was constituted after the bifurcation of the state of Uttar Pradesh on 9 November 2000.During the process of creation of the state, the High Court of Uttarakhand also came into being on the same day at Nainital. From that day, the High Court has been operating in an old building located in Mallital, Nainital which was formerly called the old Secretariat.The founder Chief Justice of the court was honorable Justice Ashok A. Desai. Initially, during the time of formation, there were seven judges and the number increased to nine in 2003. Political Parties of Uttarakhand The presence of the state based political parties is a very significant feature of the Indian political scene. They often raise the demands and the problems with much more pertinence than some of the national parties. Although many of them do not enjoy the organizational strength to emerge as single majorities, yet they often play very important roles in the formation of coalitions and decide the fate of the politics of each state. Uttarakhand's political parties include a strong presence of state parties. The Uttarakhand Kranti Dal, also known as the Uttarakhand Revolution Party, is the single most important state level political party in the state. Samajwadi Party also has a strong presence in the state. Uttarakhand was created in 2000. It was the realization of a dream long cherished by the inhabitants of the upper Himalayas for a separate state for themselves. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Indian National Congress (INC) are the two most important national parties in the state's politics. The Bharatiya Samajwadi Party (BSP), along with certain leftist parties, has a strong base in the political scenario of Uttarakhand. The national level parties of Uttarakhand are backed with a strong support from the state level parties of the region. Specially, the Uttarakhand Kranti Dal (UKD), the main thinkers behind the formation of the separate state for the mountain dwellers, still continue to exert a telling influence in the scene of Uttarakhand politics. State Based Political Parties State based political parties of Uttarakhand play a very important role in the political scenario of the state. State level parties are important players in the coalitions created in the formation of the state assembly. The Uttarakhand Kranti Dal and the Samajwadi Party are the biggest names among the state based political parties at Uttarakhand. Uttarakhand Kranti Dal (UKD), also known as the Uttarakhand Revolution Party, is the most important of all state based political parties in Uttarakhand. The party was established in 1979 with the demand to form a separate state in the Himalayas. Their endeavor finally met with success when the separate state of Uttarakhand was created n 2000. Although it has not been able to live up to its promise as the single largest voice for the inhabitants of the mountain regions of Uttarakhand, it still continues to fight for the several demands and the issues raised by the inhabitants of the state. BD Raturi, the founding member of the party continues as the president of the party. UKD played a very important role in the formation of the State Assembly when it joined hands with BJP, who were one seat short in getting an absolute majority in the Vidhan Sabha. Although it was thought to be incongruous to the center-left ideological position of the party that it maintained in its early state of inception, yet it attested to the political importance of the party in the political affairs of the state. National Level Political Parties National level political parties in Uttarakhand have an extremely strong presence in the political scene of the state. These parties, along with the state level parties, are largely responsible in deciding the political fate of this new state. Several elections which were held in the state have shown the extent of influence that the national level political parties exert on the politics of the state. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has the strongest presence of all national level parties at Uttarakhand. The party has reached to a resounding success in the assembly elections and Lok Sabha elections. The state office of BJP is at Balbir Road in Dehradun. Constituencies Constituencies of Uttarakhand are spread over the 13 districts of the state in its two divisions, Garhwal and Kumaon. There are 5 parliamentary constituencies and 70 assembly constituencies in the state. Both the parliamentary and the assembly constituencies in Uttarakhand see a major participation from the major national parties. It also becomes the seat for vigorous competition for some of the state level and exclusively regional parties as well. Both the lists of parliamentary and assembly constituencies of Uttarakhand are enlisted below. There are five parliamentary constituencies at Uttarakhand. Haridwar is the only SC seat and all the others are of the general category. They are as follows: Garhwal Tehri Garhwal Nainital Almora Haridwar (SC) There are 70 assembly constituencies in Uttarakhand. Fourteen of the constituencies belong to SC and Khatima is the only ST constituency. A list of the assembly constituencies of Uttarakhand are enlisted below along with an indication of the SC and the ST categeories whenever applicable: 1 Purola (SC) 25 Bahadrabad 48 Almora 2 Gangotri 26 Yamakeshwar 49 Ranikhet 3 Yamunotri 27 Hardwar 50 Someshwar (SC) 4 Tehri 28 Laldhang 51 Mukteshwar (SC) 5 Deoprayag 29 Kotdwar 52 Dhari 6 Pratapnagar 30 Dhumakot 53 Haldwani 7 Ghansali 31 Bironkhal 54 Jageshwar 8 Narendranagar 32 Lansdowne 55 Nainital 9 Chakrata (SC) 33 Pauri 56 Ramnagar 10 Dhanolti (SC) 34 Srinagar (SC) 57 Jaspur 11 Vikasnagar 35 Rudraprayag 58 Bajpur 12 Sahaspur (SC) 36 Thalisain 59 Kashipur 13 Laxman Chowk 37 Nandprayag 60 Sitarganj (SC) 14 Dehradun 38 Kedarnath 61 Khatima (ST) 15 Rajpur 39 Badrinath 62 Pantnagar - Gadarpur 16 Rishikesh 40 Pindar (SC) 63 Rudrapur - Kichha 17 Doiwala 41 Karanprayag 64 Champawat 18 Musoorie 42 Kanda 65 Lohaghat 19 Roorkee 43 Kapkot 66 Gangolihat (SC) 20 Iqbalpur 44 Bhikiasain 67 Pithorgarh 21 Manglor 45 Salt 68 Didihat 22 Bhagwanpur (SC) 46 Dwarahat 69 Dharchula (SC) 23 Landhaura (SC) 47 Bageshwar (SC) 70 Kanalichhina 24 Laksar       Ministry of Tourism Ministry of tourism of Uttarakhand is responsible for maintaining and generating revenue from tourism in the state. It is also the responsibility of tourism ministry of Uttarakhand to formulate plans for increasing revenue from tourism industry. The ministry has to decide the rules and regulations for the efficient working of the tourism industry. Tourism ministry of Uttarakhand has created two corporations for Garhwal and Kumaon region named as Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam Limited and Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam Limited so as to offer quality service to the tourists. Moreover, these two regions consist of most of the star tourist attractions. Through these corporations, the ministry of tourism of Uttarakhand is trying to woo more tourists in these regions by offering various tourist packages. These tourist packages range from pilgrimage, adventure sports to wildlife tours, etc. This is how it is adding up revenue to the state's economy. WBST171014 Last Updated on : October 18, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule