Language of Jharkhand Home » Jharkhand » Language   Jharkhand झारखंड का नक्शा Jharkhand Map Capital of Jharkhand Jharkhand Cities Jamshedpur Ranchi Bokaro Dhanbad Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Reach by Train About Jharkhand Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Travel to Jharkhand Places to visit in Jharkhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Daasam Falls Sun Temple Population Sex Ratio Map Fact sheet education Universities In Jharkhand Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Lok Sabha Constituencies Business and Economy Ministers and MPs Government Agricultural Map Geography and History Mineral Map District Map in Hindi Hotels in Jharkhand Bokaro Hotels Deoghar Hotels Dhanbad Hotels Jamshedpur Hotels Kumardhubi Hotels Ranchi Hotels Language Jharkhand by Road Ranchi Airport Map Information Media People,Culture and Festivals Pin code STD code       Language of Jharkhand Almost all the major languages of Jharkhand possess a connecting link with the Indo-Aryan languages. As a matter of fact, the language of Jharkhand has descended from three major families of dialects. The prime lingos which predominate in Jharkhand include Oriya, Urdu, Nagpuri, Bengali, Bhojpuri, Khortha, Sadri and Angika. These languages in Jharkhand are also very easy to master and convenient to speak with absolute fluency. Angika is considered to be a language that bears significant resemblance with the 'Cham', a dialect chiefly spoken in Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam and many more places. Actually it has been categorized into Bihari languages. This language of Jharkhand known as Bhojpuri has a lot of similitude with the lingos like Urdu, Hindi and Sanskrit. International venues like Guyana, Tobago, Surinam, Mauritius and Fuji have adopted Bhojpuri as one of their principle dialects. The rest of the Indo-Aryan languages like Bengali, Sadri, Oriya and Hindi are also closely linked. Amongst other common languages at Jharkhand, the Munda languages also have quite a few speakers as well. This particular bunch of languages belongs to the Austro-Asiatic family of languages. The chief feature of the Mundari language that precisely demarcates it from the rest of the dialects includes the use of a trio of grammatical numbers and two animate and inanimate genders. Other languages that belong to this group include Mundari, Ho and Santali. The Dravidian group of languages approximately includes 73 different lingoes, amongst which Oraon, Paharia and Korwa have penetrated into the household of quite a few residents of Jharkhand. Santhali The dialect regarded as Santhali is chiefly and most fluently spoken by the Austro-Asiatic individuals inhabiting the domain of Jharkhand, who possess a blood-line of the Munda sub-family. But the lingo regarded as Santhali is also spoken by the residents of other states like Assam, Tripura, West Bengal, Orissa and Bihar. This language called Santhali in Jharkhand bears a strong resemblance with the rest of the languages spoken in Jharkhand which includes Mundari, Khorta and many more. As a matter of fact, it has been estimated that approximately, six million individuals, dispersed across some of the major countries like Nepal, Bhutan, India and Bangladesh take a lot of pride in speaking this language of Santhali of Jharkhand. Bengali Bengali or Bangla is one of the most important languages in the entire state of Jharkhand in India. The language of Bengali in Jharkhand belongs to the Indic group of languages. The Indic group of languages is again a part of the Aryan or the Indo-Iranian group of languages. The Aryan or the Indo-Iranian group of languages belongs to the family of languages called the Indo-European language family. The language of Bengali is a modified version of the Apabhramsa-Avahatta. The language of Apabhramsa-Avahatta has been one of the most important languages in the eastern part of the subcontinent of India. The use of punctuation in the language of Bengali of Jharkhand is identical to that of the English language. The only exception is the usage of the punctuation mark of full stop. The full stop is replaced by a 'dari' in the language of Jharkhand Bengali. The language of Bengali at Jharkhand offers a number of constructions of sentences that are impersonalized. The language of Bengali does not have different expressions for 'the' and 'a'. This characteristic of the language of Bengali in Jharkhand makes it similar to the Slavonic languages. Karmali Karmali is one of the languages spoken in the state of Jharkhand in India. The language of Karmali is also called Khole. This dialect is actually a classification of the Santali language, which is one of the most important tribal languages in the subcontinent of India. The Santali language is again a type of Munda language. The language of Munda belongs to the family of languages called the Austro-Asiatic language family. There are some languages that have close associations with the Karmali of Jharkhand. Some of these languages are Lohari-Santali, Kamari-Santali, Paharia, Manjhi and Mahali or Mahli. All these languages fall under the category of Santali language. The people of Jharkhand who speak the language of Karmali in Jharkhand basically belong to one of the scheduled tribes of India. The people who speak Karmali at Jharkhand have two main ways of living. These are daily labor and cultivation. The Karmali speaking people of Jharkhand have faith in two major religions. These are Christianity and Hinduism. Hinduism is the chief religion for these people and there are some people who have faith in Christianity. Khariya Khariya is one of the many tribal languages spoken by the ethnic inhabitants of Jharkhand. The Khariya group of people in Jharkhand is located in and around the Chota Nagpur valley regions and forms a major linguistic and ethnic group in the state. Khariya in Jharkhand is also spoken in parts of Orissa and belongs to the Austro-Asiatic group of languages. Despite the colonial influences operative in the state, Khariya in Jharkhand has remained practically unchanged over the years. The three sub-groups in which the Khariyas are divided include the Dudh Kheriya, the Dhelki Kheirya and the Hill Kheriya. In the recent years, social activists and researches have brought Khariya back into the limelight. East Singbhum, Gumla, Simdega and Hazaribagh are districts of Jharkhand that are the areas where most of the speakers of Khariya of Jharkhand are located. Khariya customs are intrinsically related to the language and the Khariya of Jharkhand is usually employed in carrying out the major rites of the region. The speakers of Khariya at Jharkhand are also fairly proficient in the use of languages like Hindi and Bengali, according to the areas of their inhabitation. Mundari Regarded as one of the chief languages of Jharkhand, Mundari also serves to be the mother tongue of the individuals who hail from the Munda tribe who primarily inhabit the eastern and central realms of India. As a matter of fact, Mundari shares a lot of features with another very common language known as Santhali. Mundari of Jharkhand along with Santhali are considered to be two of those languages that have originated from Austro-Asiatic languages. Mundari in Jharkhand is most frequently spoken by the Munda people who are topologically confined to the domain of Jharkhand. However, it has also dispersed across the Indian turf and conquered territories in Orissa, West Bengal, Chattisgarh and Bihar. Some of them have also shifted their permanent abode to Bangladesh as well. The dialect known as Mundari at Jharkhand bears tremendous resemblance with other languages like Sanskrit and Dravidian. The language Mundari at Jharkhand has also been affected by a bifurcation that had caused it to get separated into North and South Munda with the former spoken primarily in the region that is marked by Chota Nagpur Plateau that spans across the state of West Bengal, Orissa and Jharkhand and the latter spoken in the central fringe of Orissa. Last Updated on : 1 July 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule