Directorate of Pulses Development - Profile   Profile Objectives Achievements Staffing Pattern Budget Co-ordination Mechanism Reporting System N FSM Forms Photo Gallery Varieties of Pulses Pamphlet on Pulses Statistics Annual Progress Report NALMOT Report Import and Export of Pulses Right to Information Contact Us   - Profile - Directorate of Pulses Development, one of the eight  Commodity Development Directorates (Jute, Cotton, Wheat, Millets, Rice, Sugarcane and Oilseeds) under the Ministry of Agriculture, Directorate of Agriculture & Corporation (DAC) was established at Lucknow in 1971 with the merger of Regional Extension Units at Ahmedabad (Gujarat). On the recommendation of "Commodity Development Directorates Re-organisation Committee", the National Head Quarter of the Pulses Development was subsequently shifted to Bhopal (M.P.) in 1996. The Directorate of Pulses Development with its HQ in Bhopal (M.P.) is responsible for coordination and monitoring of the implementation of pulses development scheme under National Food Security Mission (NFSM) - Pulses in 607 districts of 27 States in the Country. With the bi-foal responsibilities for the assigned states, this Directorate is responsible for coordination and monitoring of all the crop related Centrally Sponsored Schemes and Missions like NFSM (Wheat, Pulses, Rice, CC, Coarse Cereals), NMSA, NMAET, NMOOP, MIDH & RKVY etc.   With the unabated population increase in the Country, Pulses Production also have to be paralleled with this rise in population as they are the main source of balanced diet particularly for the rural mass. Keeping in view this necessity, various programmes were launched during various Plan periods. A Centrally Sponsored Pulses Development Scheme was initiated from the IVth Plan (1969-70 to 1973-74) with the introduction of production technologies and improved varieties amongst the farmers.   The National Pulses Development Project (NPDP) which merged with the earlier Centrally Sponsored Scheme on pulses has been a boon for the farming communities when the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India launched it from the VIIth Plan onwards. In order to supplement the efforts under NPDP, a Special Food Grain Production Program (SFPP) on Pulses was also implemented during 1988-89 on a 100% Central assistance basis.   It is worth mentioning that under the Government of India-UNDP Co-operation (1997-2003), Pulses Sector was identified as Priority Sector to be strengthened. After Pulses were brought within the ambit of Technology Mission, Pulses Production markedly increased. This considerable increase has been attributed to TMOP Division of the Ministry as seen from the difference of Pulses Production during the Pre and during TMOP Scenario.   Keeping in view the spectacular achievement in Oilseeds Sector,  during 2004-05, pulses along with Oilseeds, Oilpalm and Maize were brought under one scheme namely Integrated Scheme of Oilseeds, Pulses, Oilpalm and Maize (ISOPOM). The new technologies, timely supply of inputs, extension supports, remunerative price, marketing infrastructure and post-harvest technologies were the focused area to increasing pulses production with the Mission Mode approach.   Beginning of XI Plan (2007-08 (Rabi)), in pursuance of the resolution adopted in 53 rd meeting of National Development Council (NDC), a Centrally Sponsored Scheme on National Food Security Mission was launched. It was resolved to enhance the production of rice, wheat and pulses by 10, 8 and 2 million tonnes, respectively by the end of XI Plan. The implementation of the NFSM scheme is continued during XII Plan.   The NFSM aimed at increasing production of rice, wheat and pulses through area expansion and productivity enhancement; restoring soil fertility and productivity; creating employment opportunities; and enhancing farm level economy to restore confidence of farmers of targeted districts. The basic strategies were implementation of interventions in a mission mode through active engagement of all the stake holders at various levels. These interventions include promotion and extension of improved technologies i.e., Seed, Integrated Nutrient Management (micro-nutrient, soil amendments), IPM and resource conservation technologies  (RCTs) along with capacity building of farmers. Flow of fund closely monitored to ensure that intervention reach the target beneficiaries on time, Interventions proposed were integrated with the district plan and target for each identified district was fixed. Constant monitoring and concurrent evaluation were done for assessing the impact of the interventions for a result oriented approach by the implementing agencies.   To further supplement the efforts accelerate the pulses production, during XI Plan a centrally sponsored Accelerated Pulses Production Programme (A3P) (2010-11 to 2013-14)-as cluster demonstration approach; Special initiatives for pulses and oilseeds in dry land area (2010-11); and Integrated development of 60000 Pulses villages in Rainfed Areas (2011-12) both under RKVY and Special plan to achieve 19+ million tonnes of Pulses production during Kharif (2012-13) were also implemented, in addition to NFSM-Pulses.    During the XII five year Plan (2012-13 to 2016-17), the Pulses development scheme under NFSM is under implementation in 27 states viz. Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal with additional production target of 4 Million tonnes by the end of XII Plan (2016-17).      