Maharashtra Physical Map Home » Maps » Maharashtra Map » Maharashtra Physical Map   Maharashtra History and Geography Climate of Maharashtra Maharashtra Map महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Cities in Maharashtra Mumbai Pune Nashik Aurangabad Solapur Shirdi                        more.. Economy of Maharashtra Industrial Map Maharashtra Government Maharashtra Assembly Polls Maharashtra Lok Sabha Elections Maharashtra Assembly Election Results Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Education Universities in Maharashtra Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Maharashtra Physical Map Physical Map of Maharashtra Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Physical Map of Maharashtra showing plateaus, deserts, river basins, lakes and altitude scale. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Spread over an area of about 308,000 square km, Maharashtra is the third largest state in India. This fast moving state claims to have 61, 939 sq km under forest cover whereas 17,432 sq km comes under agricultural land. Among this wheat is grown on 756 sq km of or Maharashtra area while Rice crop get almost double share with 1,519 sq km of area of Maharashtra. This state earning the power house of India has a lot of area under industrial sector. Being one of the largest contributor states to Indian gross industrial output, it has got many Special Economic Zones set up.In the present year, the highest number of SEZ has been approved in Maharashtra Government. Additional Sinnar ( Musalgaon) is an important industrial area.Topography of Maharashtra: Maharashtra has a uniform landscape except in some places where it might get a little rocky. The Western Ghats, Deccan Plateau, Konkan coast are some of the prominent physical features of the state. Plateaus and hills in the region are result of the volcanic activities and the subsequent cooling down of the lava . The river systems of Krishna, Bhima, Godavari, Tapi-Purna and Wardha-Wainganga have also cut through the plateau region and converted them into well defined river valleys. The Konkan region gives rise to many fast flowing streams which end up as estuaries. Administrative Divisions of Maharashtra: Maharashtra state with 35 districts has been divided into six administrative divisions which are the main revenue earning areas of the state. It includes: Amravati Division, Auranghabad Division, Konkan Division, Nagpur Division, Nashik Division and Pune Division. Last Updated on : 09 September 2011 Maharashtra Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Rail Map Road Map Tehsil Map River Map Maharashtra Thematic Maps Forest Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Sex Ratio Map Handicrafts Map Industrial Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel Map About Maharashtra History Geography Weather Topography Festivals Facts Rivers and Lakes Soil and vegetation District Fact Sheet             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule