Education Trade Shows,Education Job Fair,Education & Career Trade Events,Education Expo JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Education Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry EducationTrade Shows Date : 07 Mar - 10 Mar 2016 Geo-Bahrain -  Bahrain Geo-Bahrain 2016 is the largest and most prestigious jewellery exhibition in the middle east, showcasing world famous names and artisan designs from across the globe. it has provided international jewellery houses with unrivalled direct access to.... Venue : Bahrain International Exhibition Centre ,Block 410 Bahrain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Nov - 20 Nov 2015 Educatec -  France Event exclusively dedicated to the Professionals of the Educational and Vocational Training Sectors Venue : Paris Expo Porte de Versailles ,Paris France Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Sep - 11 Sep 2015 WorldDidac India -  India WorldDidac India 2015 is the country’s largest and only event for educational supplies, training, technology and didactic material where education & training professionals from all parts of the globe can see, evaluate and purchase a.... Venue : Bangalore International Exhibition Centre ,Bangalore ,Karnataka India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Jun - 07 Jun 2015 Times Education Expo-Patna -  India Times Education Expo-Patna 2015 is one of the most leading education exhibition in the city, which offering there excellent services ralted to the all kinds of education. Venue : Hotel Chanakya India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Nov - 10 Nov 2015 Istanbul Book Fair -  Turkey The Istanbul Book Fair offers a huge potential for European book market - especially for Germany as a major trading partner. Istanbul Book Fair would be an ideal opportunity for you, to showcase Books & Periodicals to a large urban market in this.... Venue : Tüyap Fair, Convention and Congress Center ,ISTANBUL Turkey Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 May - 11 May 2015 Book Fair -  Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of The 27Th Book Fair 2015 Will Undoubtedly Be A Place Of Literary Readings And Speeches Of Prominent Authors In This Field Which Will Again Highlight The Power Of Literary Works As An Essential Factor For The Cultural Creation Of Every Nation. At.... Venue : Skopje Fair Exhbition Ground ,Macedonia Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 May - 11 May 2015 Book Fair Skopje -  Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of The 27Th Book Fair 2015 Will Undoubtedly Be A Place Of Literary Readings And Speeches Of Prominent Authors In This Field Which Will Again Highlight The Power Of Literary Works As An Essential Factor For The Cultural Creation Of Every Nation. At.... Venue : Skopje Fair Exhbition Ground ,Skopje Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 May - 10 May 2015 EDUCATION WORDLWIDE INDIA - BANGALORE -  India Education Worldwide India Magazine was conceptualized when GEEPL saw a great demand for the fair catalogue that was being published along with every EWWI education fair series that was organized by GEEPL. The information from different other.... Venue : Nimhans Convention Centre ,Bangalore ,Karnataka India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 May - 10 May 2015 AES Conventions -  Poland AES 2015, 138Th International Audio Engineering Societys Convention Is Starting On 07 May, 2015 And Ending On 10 May, 2015. Venue : Sofitel Victoria Hote ,Warsaw Poland Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 May - 10 May 2015 Education Worldwide India - Bangalore -  India Education Worldwide India offers the students a great opportunity to make a well-informed choice amongst the destinations of education and study options. The Unique exhibition of its kind aims at the prospective undergraduate & postgraduate.... Venue : Vivanta By Taj ,Bangalore ,Karnataka India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 May - 10 May 2015 Times Education Expo-Bangalore -  India Times Education Expo-Bangalore 2015 is one of the leading education fair, which is providing brand new career platform by breaking the traditional path of education with innovative alternatives and the best deals. Venue : ABEC Exhibitions & Conferences Pvt. Ltd. ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 May - 09 May 2015 Education Worldwide India - Chennai -  India Education Worldwide India Fairs are the most sought after education fairs in India and in the past these fairs have been extended to more than 30 cities all over India. Venue : Vivanta by Taj - Connemara ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 May - 07 May 2015 Education Worldwide India - Hyderabad -  India The Unique exhibition of its kind aims at the prospective undergraduate & postgraduate students heading towards achieving education in the most renowned & reputed Institutions in India & Abroad. Venue : Katriya Hotels & Towers ,Hyderabad ,Telangana India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 May - 03 May 2015 Education Worldwide India - Delhi -  India Education Worldwide India - Delhi 2015 is the Most Sought After Education Fairs in India and in the Past These Fairs have Been Extended to More Than 30 Cities all Over India. Venue : Hotel Royal Plaza ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 May - 03 May 2015 Education Worldwide India - New Delhi -  India This exhibition of its kind aims at the prospective undergraduate & postgraduate students heading towards achieving education in the most renowned & reputed Institutions in India & Abroad. Venue : Hotel The Royal Plaza ,Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 May - 03 May 2015 Times Education Expo-Pune -  India Times Education Expo 2015 is a professional event dedicated to the business of education, training and lifelong learning. A place where students aspiring for higher education, their parents, teachers, lecturers and veterans from the field of.... Venue : Hotel Le Meridien ,Pune ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 30 Apr - 03 May 2015 ASIAMANIA! -  Korea, Republic of Discover all Asia has to offer, including K-Pop, cosmetics and beauty, fashion, film, food, technology, and more! Satisfying both B2B and B2C needs, the ASIAMANIA! expo represents true convergence between culture and business, in the heart of the.... Venue : Coex ,Korea Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 24 Apr - 26 Apr 2015 Education Boutique Mumbai -  India Times Education Expo is a professional event dedicated to the business of education, training and lifelong learning. A place where students aspiring for higher education, their parents, teachers, lecturers and veterans from the field of.... Venue : Bombay Exhibition Center ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 24 Apr - 26 Apr 2015 Chicago Comic & Entertainment (C2E2) -  United States Chicago Comic & Entertainment (C2E2) 2015 is a convention spanning the latest and greatest from the worlds of comics, movies, television, toys, anime, manga and video games. from a show floor packed with hundreds of exhibitors, to panels and.... Venue : McCormick Place ,Illinois United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 23 Apr - 25 Apr 2015 Digital Technology World 2015 -  Philippines Digital Technology World 2015 is the Premier Digital Show in the Philippines that Caters to the Convergence of the Newest System Standards and Technology for the Business from Various Industries. from Business Solutions to Personal Gadgets,.... Venue : SMX Convention Center, Metro Manila ,Pasay Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 Times Education Expo-Ahmedabad -  India Times Education Expo-Ahmedabad 2015 is one of the famous show,  which is totally educational show, providing an ideal place for the related professionals, institutes, students and who want to make career. Venue : Rajpath Club ,Ahmedabad ,Gujarat India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Apr - 03 Apr 2015 World Of Stationery -  Ukraine The 15-th Trade Fair of Stationery Goods and Office Accessories (in cooperation with the Ukrainian Association of Stationery Goods Suppliers) Venue : Exhibition Centre 'Acco International' ,Kiev Ukraine Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Mar - 15 Mar 2015 Facon Education Fair - Malaysia -  Malaysia Facon Education Fair-Kuala Lumpur is one of the largest education fairs in Kuala Lumpur. Which is being organized by Facon Exhibitions Sdn Bhd. The fair will provide the vital information on suitable programs and institution of higher learning to.... Venue : Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre ,Kuala Lumpur Malaysia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 24 Feb - 28 Feb 2015 Didacta -  Germany The conference "Professional E-Learning" has a permanent place in the program didacta. Erstmals wird sie 2009 auf drei Tage ausgedehnt und gibt so die Möglichkeit, Kompetenzerwerb, E-Learning und seine Anwendungen umfänglicher darzustellen. The.... Venue : Bildungsgipfel im Flachland ,Lower Saxony Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Feb - 22 Feb 2015 New Delhi World Book Fair -  India India is the largest Book Fair in the Afro-Asian reg