Allahabad Bypass Expressway, Map of Allahabad Bypass Home » Roads » Expressway » Allahabad Bypass Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Allahabad Bypass Expressway Map of Allahabad Bypass Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Allahabad Bypass Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Allahabad Bypass expressway is part of the National Highway 2, passing through the state of Uttar Pradesh, and also of the Golden Quadrilateral joining the four main Indian metropolitan cities- Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai and Chennai. The Indian Government is developing the major highway network as part of the infrastructure development in the country designed to give a boost to the tourism in the country and also to the economic development of the areas around the highways. The 85 kilometer long, four- lane dual carriageway expressway is the longest bypass in the country. It was inaugurated in 2009 and built by the National Highway Authority of India. The World Bank has funded the project. The NH 2, which is the historic Grand Trunk Road built by the Shershah Suri connects Delhi to Kolkata in West Bengal and passes through the states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar. It is one of the longest and the busiest highway in the country. The NH 2 passes through Allahabad city in UP and is one of the most crowded roads at this junction with only two lanes. The Allahabad bypass starts at Kokhraj on the NH 2 and ends at Handia, running north of Allahabad city. The traffic from the industrial town of Kanpur to the major tourist town and religious pilgrim point Varanasi does not have to pass through the crowded NH 2 at Allahabad and can instead take the bypass thus reducing travelling time and avoiding traffic blocks. While coming from Varanasi the bypass is 93 kilometers away and while coming from Kanpur the bypass is at 149 kilometers from the city exit. The bypass, built on an embankment along agricultural land passes through a scenic route different from that of the NH 2. Apart from the reduced travelling time, it also makes for an enjoyable road travel on a gently curving road. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule