 10 tasty tomato recipes | Cooking | Best Eats | Best Health Search this site: Ad Tag leaderboard Advertisement Primary links Home Best Looks Beauty Hair Nails Skin Style Best You Ask your pharmacist Cold and Flu Diabetes Fitness Health Heart Health Home Remedies Mental Health Oral Health Prevention Relationships Sleep Wellness Workout Routines Best Eats Cooking Diet Digestion Healthy Eating Nutrition Recipes Smoothies Swap & Drop Contests Blog Subscribe Give a Gift Product Testers Home > Best Eats > Cooking > 10 tasty tomato recipes 10 tasty tomato recipes Looking for recipes to make the most of tomato season? Look no further than this collection of our favourite tomato recipes 10 tasty tomato recipes A great source of vitamin C, beta carotene, folate, potassium and lycopene, tomatoes are known to protect against cancers and heart disease. Tomato-based sauces and salads with plenty of red are obviously great ways to get more of this extra-special fruit. For some variety, try these recipes for starters and main dishes to help you get your fill. Cherry Tomatoes Filled with Pesto Cream Cheese Pesto and tomatoes are one of those time-honoured combinations that taste better every time you try it. Here pesto is thickened with low-fat cream cheese to make a filling that bursts with the flavour of summer. Garlicky Tomato Salad When tomatoes are at their peak of sweetness, this salad is particularly delicious. It’s eye-catching, too, if you make it with a mixture of different-coloured tomatoes—new varieties are coming on the market all the time. Roasted Cherry Tomatoes in Parmesan Cups Parmesan is the key to this tomato recipe; richer cheeses such as pecorino or Romano may have too much fat to hold a shape. Roasted Tomatoes with Garlic and Herbs Although plum tomatoes take a long time to bake, they require very little attention. They’ll keep for several days in the fridge, so eat them as is or use them in pasta sauces and salads. French Onion-Tomato Soup A twist on traditional French onion soup, the addition of tomato juice lends a whole new flavour to the onions. Chunky Gazpacho Originating in southern Spain, this dish is best served in sipping cups as an appetizer or in bowls for a meal. Lentil-Tomato Stew with Browned Onions This hearty vegetarian main course is rich in dietary fibre and also offers more than 300 percent of the daily recommended intake for beta-carotene. Spicy Tomato Fish Chowder A speedy main dish that is hearty and healthy. Tomato and Pecorino Clafoutis For this savoury version of a classic French batter pudding, sweet cherry tomatoes are baked in a light, fluffy batter flavoured with pecorino cheese. Crusty bread or boiled new potatoes and green beans go well with this dish. Tomato-Roasted Mackerel Tired of salmon? Mackerel is also a good source of omega-3 fatty acids. Found this article informative? Subscribe to our magazine today and receive more Best Health exclusives delivered to your door! Related Features 6 healthy fruit smoothie recipes Best Health: Forum - Eat Well Cool cucumber: Our favourite cucumber recipes Select rating Give it 1/5 Give it 2/5 Give it 3/5 Give it 4/5 Give it 5/5 Average: 3 ( 5 votes) [View] Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. Ad Tag bigbox Advertisement Don't miss a day of Best Health Sign up for our FREE newsletters! With Our Partners Johnson Inc. is proud to present the Best Health Nurse Excellence Awards. Click here to submit your nomination! Canadian dairy farmers work hard to produce milk of the highest quality. Click here to learn more about 100% Canadian milk! Contests So Good Contest Guess the mystery ingredients for your chance to win one of twelve weekly prizes and the grand prize trip courtesy of Club Med! Answer and you could win! Enter to win one of three (3) Prize Packs! WIN THE BEST! Enter for your chance to be 1 of 4 lucky readers to WIN an amazing prize! Best Health on Facebook Best Health on Twitter Tweets by @besthealthmag Healthy Recipe Search Select by type 20-Minute Main Dishes Beans/Rice/Grains Bread & Muffins Desserts & Drinks Eggs & Cheese Fish & Seafood Meats Pasta Poultry Sandwiches Snacks and Appetizers Soups & Salads Vegetables Vegetarian Browse all recipes nbsp; Advertise : Contact us Best Health Magazine © 2015 Reader's Digest Magazines (Canada) Ltd. Script StackAdapt footermenu About Us Customer Care Privacy Subscribe Français Reader's Digest Canada Recipes RSS Show Full Site