Advertising & Premium Membership FAQs & Resource Guide - ExportersIndia.com JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome My Account My Profile My Inbox My Products Sign Out Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Buy Post your Buy Requirement Search Products / Suppliers Sell Search Buy Offers Create Your Free Website Display your Products Free Manage Trade Alert Advertise Help Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Exporters India Products / Services Products / Services Companies Buy Offers Search Post Buy Requirement Home Products / Services Companies Buy Leads Trade Shows HOT REGIONS India China UK USA S. Korea Australia Singapore UAE Japan Malaysia View More Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Search ExportersIndia.com from any webpage Add our search to your browser now! No need to download or install More convenient Advertising & Premium Membership Home Help Advertising & Premium Membership Why Advertise with ExportersIndia.com? As the internet penetration in India is increasing, online advertising has proved as an efficient tool for marketing products. At ExportersIndia.com, we suggest you to use our portal for advertising your products to give them maximum exposure to the online visitors. With our portal, you can manage, optimize and make the maximum benefit of online advertising. At Exportersindia.com, business houses are categorized as per their products and services which allow visitors to access your advertisement fast and easily. Tools of online advertising with exportersindia.com: 1. Website 2. Classified 3. Banner advertising Advertising Features and Benefits? With the business sectors giving more preference to online advertising, traditional media advertising has lost its charm. By anyways, online advertising carries more benefits and caters to a larger segment of visitors. Exportersindia.com is the best platform for buyers and sellers to advertise their products online. We offer tools to publishers to manage, optimize and draw maximum benefit form online advertising. Exportersindia.com provides the most distinctive features to publishers for online advertising. The features are: Website: Multicolored website with tools like multilingual option, search option, V-trust certificate, etc. is the most competent way of advertising your products and services online. This website will effectively present your company's background. It will showcase your products in the best possible manner with qualitative content that will be complemented by suitable images. Classified: Display your business listing at the classified section. This will help you to get enquiries from the visitors who are interested to know more about your products and services offered. Banner advertising: We can also provide you with a banner that is designed on theme of your business and products offered by you. This banner will get hosted at our portal, Exportersindia.com. This will prove quite beneficial for your business and help you to attract right visitors to your site. Therefore, the above mentioned advertising features can help you in competently promoting your business online. Premium Membership Benefits? As a website owner, you always want your website to appear on the top of the search engine. Premium membership offered by Exportersindia.com is an important aspect of drawing high quality traffic and generating enquiries for the supplier's products or services. Benefits of Premium Membership: Your firm's name gets highlighted. Visibility of your firm increases. Top position to company's listing in business catalog Generation of effective business inquiries Top ranked listings get a higher click rate than the rest. Premium membership provides 3-5 times as many clicks as normal business listings. Sell directly to the customers Maximum profit at minimum operational cost Hassle free business Expansion of business It is the best way to reach out to the potential buyers and get them to view your products and services offered by you. How do I upgrade to Premium Membership? To further your prospects as a successful business entity on the web you can chose our Premier Membership that offers several trading benefits. You can upgrade Free Membership to Premier Membership, by following these simple steps. Download the Form and Terms and Conditions Form by clicking on the link. The Form would be in acrobat format which will require Acrobat reader to view the file. You can download Acrobat Reader by clicking on the download link. Carefully read and access the form and fill up the required details. In case of confusion you can call our helpline on +91-11-4142-8131/32. Step 3: Send us, the registration certificate for your company along with the ExportersIndia.com Terms and Conditions form by email, fax, courier or post. You can make the payment for Premium Membership through following means. Western Union Money Transfer Bank Wire Transfer You will get confirmation regarding the payment and the details of the membership package from us. Congratulations! Now you are valued premium member of the best B2B portal. Welcome to Exporters India!!! How can I pay at ExportersIndia.com? For making a payment at ExportersIndia.com, you can choose from a variety of payment modes mentioned below: Online payment options: Visa / Master Card Master Credit Card American Express / Diners Club / Citibank e-Cards / JCB Card Paypal Net Banking Option: HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Citibank NRI Rupee Checking Citibank Suvidha Online Account Citibank Bank Account Online UTI iConnect Centurion Bank Punjab National Bank Oriental Bank of Commerce The Federal Bank Ltd Bank of Punjab IDBI Bank Deposit a cheque of any bank into any of our below mentioned bank accounts: ICICI Bank CitiBank HDFC Bank Standard Chartered Bank UTI Bank IDBI Bank Other Payment Option: Visa / Master Card by FAX Cash/Cheque/Demand Draft How Much time it takes to upgrade my Membership? Normally, it takes 48 hours to upgrade your account. Within 48 hours, you will get a confirmation mail from ExportersIndia.com that you have successfully made the payment and have availed the premium membership. How can i get my own Website? The best way of reflecting your ideas and giving exposure to your business is by creating your own website. Allow millions of buyers to access your website, generate inquiries and expand your business. So, if you are looking forward for obtaining an internet presence, ExportersIndia.com is the best platform to start up your own website that will meet your business objectives. Get noticed! What is the Procedure for Money back? Exportersindia.com does not have any procedure of Money back. As it keeps high interaction with the clients and entire process is carried with their prior approval thus there is no provision of full or partial money back or refund. Once the order is placed it is immediately sent for processing thus the order can not be cancelled. The change of personal preferences in the course of time can not serve a reason for money back. How can I renew my premium membership? To renew your premium membership, follow these simple steps: Sign into your Account on ExportersIndia.com Click on the link My Advertisement A box will appear on the page with options of your status of membership (e.g. Silver, Gold, Platinum), Click on the button Renew to renew your premium membership account and do the needful. Advertising & Premium Membership Why Advertise with ExportersIndia.com? Advertising Features and Benefits more faqs >> Buying FAQs What are Buying Leads? Where do I start if I want to buy? more faqs >> Buying Methods Search Products / Offers / Companies Browse by Category ( Products / Offers / Companies ) Post Buying Leads Fraud & security How can I protect my business from fraud? How to Protect Yourself from Phishing Website? more faqs >> General FAQs ExportersIndia - Site Tour Does ExportersIndia.com allow multiple accounts for a company? more faqs >> My Account & Sign In Member Login / Sign In Help Forgot Password / E-Mail Id Help more faqs >> Other Tips & Guide How to Get more Buyers Importance of Sell Offers more faqs >> Registration & Membership Why should I register with ExportersIndia.com? How to register? more faqs >> Selling FAQs Where do I start if I want to Sell? How do I contact Buyers? more faqs >> Selling Methods Search Buy Offers / Buyers Browse by Category ( Importers ) Post your Business Listings / Products Create your own Catalog /Website » Advertising & Premium Membership » Buying FAQs » Fraud & security » General FAQs » My Account & Sign In » Other Tips & Guide » Registration & Membership » Selling FAQs General Links Home Contact Us Sitemap Help About Us Feedback Terms of Use Testimonials Advertise with Us Disclaimer Resources Email this Page Bookmark Page Make EI Home Page Trade Tool Kit Buy Offers Post Buy Requirement Post Products - FREE Services Directory Business Services Real Estate Tours & Travels Employment Services Matrimonials Services Business Directory Manufacturers Exporters Suppliers Service Providers Web Design By WeblinkIndia.NET - ISO 9001:2008 Certified © Copyright 2015. All Rights Reserved. ExportersIndia.com