Travel to Delhi - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Delhi Travel Shopping in Delhi How to Reach Delhi Best Time to Visit Hotels in Delhi Flights to Delhi Delhi Bus Schedule Places to Visit in Delhi India Gate Red Fort Jama Masjid National Museum Adventure island Parliament Museum Bangla Sahib in Delhi Jantar Mantar Qutub Minar Lotus Temple Akshardham Temple Rajghat Old Fort Lodhi Garden Humayun's Tomb Safdarjang's Tomb Delhi Haat Laxmi Narayan Temple Iskcon Temple Tughlaqabad Fort National Agricultural Science Museum Rashtrapati Bhawan National Museum Akshardham Temple in Delhi Delhi Zoo (Chidiya Ghar) The Iconic Dolls Museum in Delhi The Garden of Five Senses National Rail Museum, New Delhi Cinema Halls in Delhi Amusement Parks in Delhi Shopping Areas in Delhi Connaught Place Chandni Chowk Market Lajpat Nagar Central market Sarojini Market Sadar Bazaar Market Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Delhi Faridanbad Expressway KMP Expressway Tourist Destinations Near Delhi Haridwar Travel Mathura Travel Agra Travel Jaipur Travel Chandigarh Travel Vrindavan Travel Dehradun Travel Rishikesh Travel Mussoorie Travel Nainital Travel Route Maps Delhi Shimla Route Delhi Amritsar Route Delhi Jaisalmer Route Delhi Jodhpur Route Delhi Ajmer Route Delhi Siliguri Route Delhi Darjeeling Route Delhi Manali Route Delhi Puri Route Delhi Metro Map Metro Stations Map Metro Phase 1 and 2 Metro Phase 4 Metro Fare Calculator Dwarka Metro Map Anand Vihar ISBT Dwarka to Najafgarh Janakpuri to Kalindi Kunj Badarpur to Faridabad Mukundpur to Shiv Vihar Mundka to Bahadurgarh Jahangirpuri to Badli About Delhi History of Delhi Culture of Delhi Weather in Delhi Delhi Map Location Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Delhi Road Map Railway Map Home » Maps » Delhi » Travel to Delhi Travel to Delhi Tourist Map of Delhi Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the Major tourist places in Delhi. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Delhi Tourism A modern metropolitan city with a historic past is what one may feel while travelling in Delhi. The history of Delhi city is a long and chequered history. Delhi has seen the rise and fall of many empires. Delhi has evolved over the ruins of seven cities, built by rulers from the Hindu Rajputs to the Mughals and finally the British. Delhi is a truly cosmopolitan city which has brought within its fold people of all ethnic groups and their traditions and culture, reflected in a variety of arts, crafts, cuisines, festivals and lifestyles. Delhi combines the traditional and the modern in its own unique way. While traveling in Delhi one can see a range of tourist attractions-from historical monuments to modern architectural marvels, from traditional bazaars to mega malls and from parks to spiritual centers. The major historical tourist attractions in Delhi, which one should not miss out while traveling in Delhi, are the Qutb Minar, Humayun's Tomb, the Red Fort and Purana Quila. Among the colonial tourist attractions in Delhi are the Rashtrapathi Bhavan and India Gate. There are also modern tourist attractions in Delhi like the Lotus Temple, and Dilli Haat. There are many memorials and museums in Delhi like the National Museum, Raj Ghat, Shanti Van, Jantar Mantar and so on. Delhi is part of the famed Golden Triangle circuit that includes Agra and Jaipur . Many tourists who travel to Delhi make excursions from Delhi to these tourist destinations on their India tour. Agra is the home of the world-renowned architectural marvel in marble, Taj Mahal . Delhi is known as shopper's paradise. While shopping in Delhi, tourists find a wide choice of items that are typically Indian- carpets, silks, jewellery, leather and silver ware, handicrafts and hand printed cotton or readymade garments. Whether you are shopping for a designer label, a branded product or local made stuff, you will find it all while traveling in Delhi, be it in air-conditioned malls or on roadside stalls bargaining to the best of your ability. One of the fascinating ways of understanding a city is by wandering through its market places. So while traveling in Delhi do make sure you visit the markets in Old Delhi like Chandini Chowk and Chawri. Bazaar, which have a distinctively Indian ambience, add a unique flavor to the shopping experience in Delhi. One can find up market shops too, in Karol Bagh and Hauzkhas Village. Delhi Tourism has set up a permanent outlet for craftspersons at Dilli Haat, which has become a popular shopping mart over the years. Delhi is India's main entry point for overseas visitors. Delhi is well connected, making it easy for the overseas tourist to reach Delhi by air, rail or road. Best Time to Visit Delhi The best time to visit Delhi is from the month of October to the month of March as the weather is very pleasant and helps tourists enjoy the various sights of the city. The temperature in Delhi during the summers goes up to 45 degrees Celsius and travellers are advised not to travel to Delhi during the summers, as the chances of being affected by a heatstroke are considerably high. Places to Visit in Delhi India Gate Rashtrapati Bhawan Red Fort (Lal Qila) Jama Masjid Gurudwara Bangla Sahib Jantar Mantar Qutub Minar Bahai Temple (Lotus Temple) Raj Ghat Purana Quila (Old Fort) Lodhi Garden Humayun's Tomb Safdarjung Tomb Akshardham Temple Connaught Place Dilli Haat Laxminarayan Temple (Birla Mandir) ISKCON Temple The National Zoological Park Nizamuddin Dargah Raj Ghat Bijay Mandal Sunehri Masjid Indira Gandhi National Centre Jamali Kamali Mosque Lal Kot Mutiny Memorial Kalka Ji Temple National Science Center Digambar Jain Temple The Garden Of Five Senses National Rail Museum More on tourist attractions of Delhi How to Reach Delhi New Delhi, the capital of India is visited by a large number of tourists all through the year. Reaching the city is not a mammoth's task, given its stature as the largest metropolis in the country. There are several continuous flights, trains and buses to the city from different parts of the country and abroad. If Delhi is your destination, look no further. Here are some easy guidelines for you on how to reach the city of Red Fort, Qutub Minar, Lotus Temple and a lot more. By Air Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport is connected to all the important cities of the world with almost all the major international airlines operating from the Indira Gandhi International Airport. Palam Domestic Airport connects Delhi to the major cities in India. Major International Airlines that connect New Delhi to rest of the world British Airways - from London (Heathrow Airport) Air France- from Paris (Charles De Gaulle Airport) China Airlines- Rome-Fiumicino Japan Airlines- Tokyo Sri Lanka airlines- Colombo Domestic airlines that connect New Delhi from other Indian Cities From Mumbai Air India Jet Lite Jet Airways Konnect Indigo Airlines More Flights... From Kolkata Go Air Indigo Airlines Spice Jet More Flights... From Bengaluru Indigo Spice Jet Go Air More Flights... By Train The Indian Railway with their modern and organized network connects Delhi to all major and minor destinations in India. The city has three major railway stations at New Delhi, Old Delhi and Nizamuddin. Luxury trains like the Palace-on-Wheels, Fairy Queen, and Royal Orient Express can be taken from New Delhi Cantonment railway station. Rajdhani Express trains connect New Delhi from the state capitals. Shatabdi Express trains connect New Delhi to the neighboring cities. Below is the list of trains that head towards Delhi from Major Indian cities. From Mumbai Ernakulum- Hazrat Nizamuddin Duronto Express Paschim Express Kerala Sampark Kranti Express More Trains... From Kolkata Kalka Mail Janata Express New Delhi-Howrah Rajdhani Express More Trains... From Bengaluru Karnataka Sampark Kranti Express Bangalore Hazrat Nizamuddin Rajdhani Express Kongu Express More Trains... By Road Delhi is well connected to all the major cities of India by a network of highways and roads. The three major bus stops in the state are Inter State Bus Terminuses (ISBT), at Kashmere Gate, Sarai Kale Khan and Anand Vihar. There are several other points in the city from where various state-managed and privately run transport facilities like air-conditioned, deluxe and ordinary coaches operate. How to travel in Delhi For travel in Delhi there are buses, the Metro train, auto-rickshaws and cycle- rickshaws. Tourist taxis ply interstate while the yellow and black taxis can be used to commute anywhere within the city Delhi and are safe but relatively expensive. Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses go anywhere in the city and are the cheapest mode of transport. Auto rickshaws are another option, but it is always important to bargain for a reasonable fare. Luxurious special tourist buses are also available with packaged tours to all the tourist attractions in Delhi. The recently introduced Delhi Metro railway line is a convenient and efficient mode of transport connecting all major places within the city Delhi. Shopping in Delhi Local Markets and Shopping in Delhi: Delhi is a shopper's delight and you can find almost anything here, from magnificent textiles, brassware, woodwork, jewellery, leatherwork, metalwork to scented oils. Only in Delhi will you find everything right from a posh, high end shopping mall to a local market located right in the heart of this bustling city. Government and State Emporiums: Located on Baba Kharak Singh Marg (near Connaught Place) these are state run emporiums are stock authentic handicrafts from their states. No bargaining here as the prices are fixed. Connaught Place : A shopper's magnet, Connaught Place is brimming with shops and footpath vendors selling jewellery, leatherwear, textiles, clothes, shoes and a host of other interesting and colourful items. Palika Bazaar: This is an underground market in Connaught Place attracting locals in search of bargain consumer goods. Foreign tourists are usually quoted higher prices, so bargaining is a must here. Khan Market: One of Delhi's most popular shopping areas, Khan Market is usually thronging with foreign diplomats and expats. Look out for the many popular bookshops and coffee shops here, like the Full Circle and the Cafe Turtle. Hauz Khas Village: Come here for designer furniture shops, art galleries and boutiques. Dilli Haat : Near INA Market, this is an open air food and crafts bazaar. Famous for its traditional handicrafts, jewellery, and home decor items, this is also where you can sample food from all over the country at a very reasonable price. Ansal Plaza : A modern shopping mall where you shall find everything from popular foreign brands of clothing to authentic cosmetics and perfumes. More Shopping places in Delhi Hotels in Delhi Delhi is one of the most important cites in India from the point of business and tourism. It is visited by many tourists throughout the year. New Delhi is home to numerous top end hotels, deluxe as well as budget hotels. The hotels in Delhi are suited for all tastes and pockets. From the luxury comfort point of view, Delhi has first-class Indian and international chains to accommodate tourists from all over the world. Some of the top end hotels in Delhi are; The Leela Palace, The Imperial, The Oberoi, Taj Mahal Hotel, ITC Maurya, Hilton Garden, Le Meridien and Shangri-La's Eros Hotel amongst others. Standard budget hotels and moderately priced guesthouses to economy youth hostels and lodges, Delhi has all kind of accommodation. The Paharganj locality near the New Delhi Railway Station is lined with budget hotels and lodges. Many foreigners prefer to stay here as these hotels are money savers. Just check the hotel and room thoroughly before checking in these hotels. Apart from these there are many hotels through out Delhi which cater to all travellers budget. More Details... Last Updated on : November 25, 2014 About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule