Dwarka City Map Home » Maps » Gujarat » Dwarka City Map   Gujarat Cities Ahmedabad Anand Dwarka Gandhinagar Jamnagar Rajkot Somnath Surat Vadodara                        more.. गुजरात का नक्शा About Gujarat History Geography Weather Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Region Map District Map Road Map Railway Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Port Map Ahmedabad Metro Map Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Gujarat Places to visit in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Beaches Wildlife Sanctuaries Hotels in Gujarat Ahmedabad Hotels Saputara Hotels Surat Hotels Vadodara Hotels Rajkot Hotels Jamnagar Hotels              more... How to reach Airports Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Schools Universities in Gujarat India Map in Gujarati World Map in Gujarati Gujarat Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Gujarat       Dwarka City Map City Map of Dwarka Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Dwarka city map showing roads, railways, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Get the Dwarka Location Map Dwarka Situated in the Jamnagar district of Gujarat , Dwarka is a popular religious destination in India. The city is regarded as one of the seven oldest cities in India. The city has long-standing associations with Lord Krishna and it is believed that the place was the abode of the famous Hindu deity. Mythologies state that the city went underwater on six occasions and as a result of this, the contemporary Dwarka is the seventh city to be constructed in the territory. The Janmashtami festival is celebrated in this place with a lot of pride, enthusiasm, and distinctiveness. Travel to Dwarka Dwarka is famous for the following tourist destinations: Shree Swaminarayan Temple Nageshwar Temple - It is a renowned place of worship for Lord Shiva and is also one of the 12 Jyotirlingas. The distance is approximately 8 km. Brahma Kund Rukmini Hrid - Rukmini Hrid is an accumulation of seven small lakes. Bet Dwarka - It is a tiny islet close to Dwarka. Dwaraka Pitha Somnath Temple - It is a legendary place of worship for Lord Shiva Dwarkadhish Temple - It is a famous Pushti Marg Temple. Gopi Talav - It is the area where Lord Krishna played with the Gopikas. Hanuman Mandir - It lies in Bet Dwarka and it is believed that Hanuman engaged into a battle with Makaradhwaja in this place. Lord Dwaraknath, which is another name of Lord Krishna, is worshipped by different kinds of Sevas and Darshans. The attire of the god is altered in view of that. The Darshans take place after the Pushti Marg Vaishnava sacred writings instituted by Shree Vitheleshnathji and Shree Vallabhacharya. The Darshans can be categorized into the following phases: Shringar Mangala Rajbhoj Gval Bhog Uthapan Shayan Sandhya Aarati The Sharada Peetha is a prominent studying hub of Sanskrit language. In addition, it is the place of Adi Shankaracharya, who set up four "monasteries" in four separate regions in the country. How to reach Dwarka By Railways Jamnagar and Dwarka are well connected through railways and the distance between two places is 132 km. Train services are available to Mumbai, Ahmedabad, and Rajkot. Distances from these cities are 945 km, 457 km, and 217 km respectively. Dwarka is situated on the meter gauge railway track, which travels from Viramgam to Okha. By rail, it is 217 km from Rajkot and from Jamnagar, the distance is 137 km. By Air The closest airport is located at Jamnagar and the distance is approximately 150 km. However, tourists can go to Dwarka from Jamnagar either by train, bus, or car. By Road A superb state highway joins Dwarka. State Transport Corporation buses ply to all important places in Surat, Ahmedabad, and Dwarka from different areas in Gujarat. Distance to Jamnagar From delhi - 1217 KM From chennai - 2128 KM From ahmedabad - 302 KM From pune - 962 KM From hyderabad - 1510 KM From kolkata - 2226 KM Jamnagar Distance Chart Hotels in Dwarka The most popular hotels and accommodations in the city are mentioned below: Hotel Damji Shivrajsinh Road, Near Dwarkadhish Temple Dwarka: 361335 Tel/Fax: [02892] 235777, 234700, 234000 Hotel Dwarkesh Opposite Swaminarayan Mandir Dwarka - 361 335 Gujarat Toran Tourist Bungalow Close to Circuit House Hospital Road, Dwarka Jamnagar Gujarat India Darshan Hotel Jawahar Road Near Old Bus Stand, Dwarka Gujarat India Hotel Dwarka Residency Near ISKCON Gate, Dwarka Tel.: 235032/33, 9426208910 Guruprerna Hotel Near The Temple Ravel Talao, Dwarka Gujarat - 361335 India Hotel City Palace Jawahar Road, Teen Batti Chowk, Dwarka - 361335 Tel: + 91 - 2892 234312 Last Updated on : 01/09/2013 Related Links Mathura, Uttar Pradesh Vrindavan, Uttar Pradesh Gokul Dwarka City Map Mathura City Map Vrindavan City Map Gokul Map Dwarka Location Map Mathura Location Map Vrindavan Location Map Gokul Location Map Cities in Gujarat Ahmedabad Ambaji Amreli Anand Bharuch Bhavnagar Bhuj Bilimora Dahod Botad Veraval Jetpur Navagadh Dwarka Gandhinagar Garia Godhra Jamnagar Junagadh Navsari Palanpur Mahesana Muzaffarpur Patan Mandvi Porbandar Rajkot Somnath Surat Surendranagar Vadodara Valsad Vapi Palitana Gandhidham Nadiad Morbi Travel to Gujarat Travel to Ahmedabad Travel to Bhavnagar Travel to Bhuj Travel to Dwarka Travel to Gandhi Nagar Travel to Gondal Travel to Surat Travel to Utelia Travel to Vadodara Travel to Zainabad Places to Visit Gujarat Places to visit in Ahmedabad Places to visit in Bhavnagar Places to visit in Bhuj Places to visit in Gondal Places to visit in Surat Places to visit in Utelia Places to visit in Vadodra Places to visit in Zainabad             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule