TNAU Agritech Portal :: NGO & SHG Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact SHG and NGO:: SHG SCHEMES SCHEMES Mahalir Thittam Centrally sponsored scheme   Mahalir Thittam Mahalir Thittam – http://www.tamilnaduwomen.org/ At the  state  level mahalir thittam is organizing SHG among the rural poor.   Mahalir Thittam is a socio-economic empowerment programme for women implemented by Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women Ltd. Tamil Nadu Women Development Project under the name of “Mahalir Thittam”, with state funding covers all rural and urban areas of the entire state, except the six city corporation areas since 1.4.2000. The original announcement made in 1996 can also be seen as a path-breaker, involving a massive replication of TNWDP to cover about 10 lakhs poor women of the State. This scheme is intended to promote economic development and social empowerment of the poorest women through a network of Self Help Groups formed with active support of NGOs. The Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women Ltd., was incorporated on December 9, 1983 under Companies Act 1956. It's registered office is located in Chennai while it's area of operation extends to the entire state of Tamil Nadu. The immediate goal of TNCDW is to ensure that all poor women particularly widows, destitutes and marginalised are included in SHGs in the next three years. TNCDW’s vision is to build strong and self reliant SHG federations at the Village Panchayat, Block and district levels throughout the State. Mahalir thittam - current status 3,58,251 SHGs Membership - 57,56,026 women Total savings - Rs. 161569.03 Lakhs  628 NGO partners PROJECTS UNDER MAHALIR THITTAM Some the important projects and schemes under Mahalir Thittam are:- IFAD assisted TN Women Development Project Bangaru Ammaiyaar Ninaivu Mahalir Thittam Entrepreneurship Development Programme Vocational & Skill Development Programmes IFAD Assisted TN Women Development Project This project is indeed the jewel in the crown. Originally programmed as a agriculture and land - based project in 1989, the year of launch, it evolved into a movement for economic empowerment of women, through formation and careful nurturing of Self Help Groups with the help of Non-Governmental organizations. Indian Bank has been our partner in extending credit of over Rs.800 million in a span of 9 years to about  1,20,960 women in 5207 Self Help Groups. The project officially came to a close on 31.12.1998. However post project activities involving release of Capital Development Fund(CDF) Assistance, loans to unassisted groups (with subsidy) and sustainability training is going on. These SHGs have made remarkable progress as documented in the evaluation reports mentioned below. IFAD SHGs, most of which have become self-reliant, are a testament to the epoch-making work of NGOs, Government of Tamil Nadu and Indian Bank. Bangaru Ammaiyaar Ninaivu Mahalir Thittam Based on the success of the IFAD assisted Tamil Nadu Women's Development Project (TNWDP), the State Government announced in the Budget for 1996 - 97 the extension of the project to rural areas of all districts(except Chennai) of the State in a phased manner. Since 1996, the project has expanded every year and now covers all 28 rural districts of Tamil Nadu Entrepreneurship Development Programme          The major focus of this Corporation has been to provide support to economically disadvantaged women. However, the Board of Directors viewed that for development of entrepreneurship among women and to encourage them to set up their own business ventures,exclusive adherence to poverty criteria would be unsuitable. Therefore the Corporation will be funding entrepreneurial programmes which will be open to all potential women entrepreneurs, preferably first generation.     Commenced in 1998-99, the EDP programme was conducted by a Industry and commerce at Chennai and Madurai for DeW. We have conducted to follow-up session and we are happy to note that women have commenced own business and ----have got financial Assistance from banks. Vocational & Skill Development Programmes The Corporation implements the following Vocational and Skill development programmes.The State Government has been allocating funds for Vocational Training programmes. Interested Training Institutions and Non-Governmental Organizations are required to take note of the following: CENTRALLY SPONSORED SCHEME Top Swarna Jayanti Gram Swarozgar Yojana (SGSY) SGSY is being implemented since April 1999 as a major anti-poverty scheme for the rural poor, by organizing them into Self Help Groups (SHGs), providing them with skill development training and helping them to get credit linkage with financial institutions and providing infrastructure and marketing support for the products produced by them. Government of India and the State Government are sharing the costs in the ratio of 75:25.   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.