Tamil Nadu Local Government Home » Tamil Nadu » Local Government   Tamil Nadu तमिलनाडु का नक्शा Tamil Nadu Map Cities in Tamilnadu Chennai Coimbatore Ooty Tiruchchirapalli Madurai Salem Thanjavur Kanyakumari Vellore Districts of Tamilnadu Roads Tamilnadu Railways Rivers of Tamilnadu Tehsils of Tamilnadu Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Tamilnadu Facts History of Tamilnadu Festivals in Tamilnadu Government and Politics Travel to Tamilnadu Travel to Chennai Travel to Coimbatore Travel to Ooty Travel to Kanyakumari Travel to Tiruchirappalli Places to visit in Tamilnadu Beaches in Tamilnadu Wildlife Sanctuaries Temples in Tamilnadu Victory War Memorial Ooty Botanical Garden Ooty Lake Temples in Kanyakumari Shore Temple Government Museum in Chennai Vivekananda House Hotels in Tamil Nadu Chennai Hotels Ooty Hotels Salem Hotels Kodaikanal Hotels Coimbatore Hotels Madurai Hotels             more... Tamil Nadu Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Tamil Nadu Pincode Tamil Nadu Std Code Art and Crafts Tamil Nadu Economy Tamil Nadu Ministries How to Reach Local Government Music and Dance Road Transport Tamil Nadu People Tamil Nadu Thematic Map Factsheet Universities In Tamil Nadu       Tamil Nadu Local Government Lying on the southernmost tip of the Peninsular India, Tamil Nadu, one of the 29 states in India, had a bicameral legislature till the year 1986, after which it was replaced by a unicameral legislature, like the other Indian states. The Tamil Nadu local government comprises of the Governor, Konijeti Rosaiah who happens to be the Constitutional head of Tamil Nadu and the Chief Minister O Panneerselvam who heads the Council of Ministers and the government. The head of the judiciary is the Chief-Justice of the state's high-court. The administrative units of Tamil Nadu comprises of: Districts: 32 Revenue Divisions: 76 Firkas: 1,127 Taluks: 226 Revenue Villages: 16,564 Municipalities: 125 Municipal Corporations: 10 Panchayat Unions (Blocks): 385 Village Panchayats: 12,618 Town Panchayats: 561 Lok Sabha Constituencies: 39 Assembly Constituencies: 234 Tamil Nadu local government has pioneered the initiatives of the E-Governance in India. A major portion of the local government of Tamil Nadu records information such as land ownership etc has been digitalized and the important offices of the state government such as the urban local bodies, municipal office activities, revenue collection, the corporations etc, transport offices, land registration offices and several others have been computerized. This has led to quality services coupled with transparent operations. The state of Tamil Nadu consists of 10 city corporations namely, Coimbatore, Chennai, Madurai, Salem, Tirunelveli, Tiruchirapalli, Tirupur, Vellore, Erode and Thoothukudi. The Corporation of Chennai (capital and the largest city of Tamil Nadu) that came into existence in the year 1688 is the oldest Municipal Corporation of India. Election constituencies Tamil Nadu Election Constituencies are created to make the procedure of conducting election easier. The Election Commission of India is responsible for conducting elections in all the parts of the country. Since India is a vast country with many states so to reduce the chance of mistakes they have divided the election areas of India into different constituencies. Tamil Nadu Election Constituencies are also a result of this effort. Municipalities The local government and the municipalities of the region were famous during the Chola regime as the Kudavolai. The existing municipal structure has incorporated several changes and works for the facility of the town people. The municipality engages in the urban and town planning programs. The land within the area is regulated for constructions by the municipalities. The municipalities are responsible for the construction of roads and bridges in the area. Public health and sanitation fall under the supervision of the municipalities. They are also responsible for the management of solid wastes in the urban and town areas. Some of the other areas that fall under the administration of the municipalities are mentioned below: Providing water supply for all the sectors. Improvement and upgradation of the slum areas and alleviation of poverty in the urban regions. Registration of births and deaths in the region. Providing street lights and public conveniences in the urban regions Promoting the educational and cultural aspects of the region. Panchayats Tamil Nadu has a distinguished panchayats system of administration. It is the Local Self Government in the rural areas. This empowers the government with administrative powers in the grass root level. Tamil Nadu has a well developed panchayat system and is also the first in promoting town panchayats in the country. Council of Ministers in Tamil Nadu There are several departments handled by the Council of Ministers in the state. Some of such departments are: Public Works Department Tamil Official Language & Tamil Culture Department Irrigation including Minor Irrigation Department Welfare of the Differently abled Department Programme Works Department Legislative Assembly and Elections Department Finance Department Planning Department Electricity Department Non-Conventional Energy Development Department General Administration Department Industries Department District Revenue Officers Department Minorities Welfare Department Social Reforms Department Rural Development Department Panchayats and Panchayat Unions Department Municipal Administration Department Poverty Alleviation Programmes Department Urban and Rural Water Supply Department Rural Indebtedness Department Agriculture Department Agro Service Cooperatives Department Horticulture Department Agricultural Engineering Department Sugarcane Cess, Sugarcane Development Department Waste Land Development Department Cooperation Department Statistics Department Ex-Servicemen Welfare Department Electronics Department Science and Technology Department Higher Education including Technical Education Department Mines and Minerals Department Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department Law, Courts and Prisons Department Family Welfare Department Health Department Medical Education Department Nationalized Transport Department Transport Department Motor Vehicles Act Department District Revenue Establishment Department Revenue Department Rural Housing and Housing Development Department Small Industries Department Animal Husbandry Department Rural Industries including Cottage Industries Department Film Technology and Cinematograph Act Department Information and Publicity Department Stationery and Printing Department Urban Development Department Town Planning and Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority Department Tourism Department Civil Supplies, Food, Consumer Protection and Price Control Department Labour Department Employment and Training Department Environment and Pollution Control Department Sports and Youth Welfare Department Information Technology Department Highways and Minor Port Department Fisheries and Fisheries Development Corporation Department Social Welfare Department including Women's and Children's Welfare, Integrated Child Development and Beggar Homes Khadi and Village Industries Board Department WBST141014 Last Updated on : October 15, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule