Services Data | Welcome to Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics Ministry of Commerce and industry, Govt. of India Home FAQ Contact Us Home Organization Profile History Foreign Trade Statistics Ancillary Statistics Indian Trade Journal Commercial Intelligence Commercial Library Press Notes Data Summary Trade Data Priced Detail Data Price Information System Notice Publications Registration Trade Directory Feedback Contact Us RTI FAQ Sitemap Data Dissemination Policy Data Privacy Policy Dynamic Data Revision Policy Quick Estimate Commercial Library Services Recruitment Rules Events / Announcements Media Gallery Highlights Latest 24-months Export final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website Latest 24-months Import final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website DGCIS has introduced 168 new commodity groups for publication of principal commodity level foreign trade data Are you interested in doing business with the Government of India Organizations? Click Here Visit the Related sites RFD CITIZEN'S CHARTER Grievance Redressal This site has been visited 995417 times on Friday, May, 29, 2015 PUBLIC GRIEVANCES Home DGCI&S along with ICRIER launches an online survey for collection of trade in services data. Details Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics (DGCI&S), Ministry of Commerce & Industry, has been mandated to develop a comprehensive database on India's services sector trade. DGCI&S has engaged ICRIER, a New-Delhi based think tank to conduct on-line survey of companies for select category of services. This data will provide critical inputs to the Department of Commerce for policy formulation, including designing of appropriate benefit schemes for our much valued exporters. This data will also be used to compile a database of companies who will be invited for government meeting related to policy formulation, export incentives and trade negotiations among others. The links to the on-line survey questionnaires for four sectors namely telecommunication services, audio-visual services, logistics services and professional services are given below. Service providers in these sectors are requested to register and fill up the questionnaire. This will enable the government to create a business directory for providing benefits. You can fill the questionnaire online or can download the offline form and upload it after duly filling the information. All information will be treated as confidential . Links to the online survey questionnaires (A) Telecommunications Survey Questionnaire (B) Audio Visual Services Questionnaire (C) Logistics Services Servey Questionnaire (D) Professional Services Questionnaire Top Related Sites :: Contact Us :: Feedback :: Sitemap Source : Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Last Updated on 19-05-2015 Home Downloads & Plug-ins Help Accessibility Statement Accessibility Options Privacy Policy Hyperlinking Policy Copyright Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Contents of this website is published and managed by DGCI&S , Government of India. For any queries regarding this website please contact Web Master. © Copyright reserved by Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 565, Anandapur, Ward No. 108,Sector - 1 , Plot No. 22, ECADP, Kolkata - 700107