Anup Sridhar: Profile, Biography and Records India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Sports » Anup Sridhar   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Anup Sridhar Anup Sridhar, the 23 years old National Badminton Champion, made a triumphant mark in the year 2005 in the 30th Hungarian International. Winning this prestigious international tournament, Anup Sridhar attracted the attention of many a famous badminton personalities. Anup Sridhar reached the quarter final of BWF World Championships in the year 2007 where he played against Lin Dan - one of the top seeds. Being a National Champion for two times, Anup Sridhar has become one of the most popular badminton players of India. Having a lot of potential and determination, Anup Sridhar is counted as one of the most talented players of the country. Although Anup Sridhar was determined to participate in the All England Open Championships but owing to fitness problem he could not take part in the same. Anup Sridhar dedicates his achievements to U Vimal Kumar and Prakash Padukone. According to him all his talent and capabilities have been finely shaped up in the Prakash Padukone Academy where he had been trained. With a long way to go, Anup Sridhar is regarded by the badminton proponents of India as a storehouse of potential. It is said that at such an early age only a few of the badminton players have made it to the international arena. Realizing his immense potential many sponsors are coming forward to sponsor him at national and international-level tournaments. Last Updated on : February 3, 2014   Related Links   Famous Badminton Players of India Anup Sridhar Prakash Padukone Saina Nehwal Aparna Popat Pulella Gopichand Dipankar Bhattacharya Chetan Anand Parupalli Kashyap P. V. Sindhu             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule