Other Tips and Guide - ExportersIndia.com JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome My Account My Profile My Inbox My Products Sign Out Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Buy Post your Buy Requirement Search Products / Suppliers Sell Search Buy Offers Create Your Free Website Display your Products Free Manage Trade Alert Advertise Help Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Exporters India Products / Services Products / Services Companies Buy Offers Search Post Buy Requirement Home Products / Services Companies Buy Leads Trade Shows HOT REGIONS India China UK USA S. Korea Australia Singapore UAE Japan Malaysia View More Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Search ExportersIndia.com from any webpage Add our search to your browser now! No need to download or install More convenient Other Tips and Guide Home Help Other Tips and Guide How to Get more Buyers? You can easily attract more buyers at Exportersindia.com by following some simple steps, which will eventually increase the number of inquiries. Some of these steps are: Make sure that you post specifications and description of your offerings with appropriate images for providing required exposure to your products. Accurate keywords assist buyers in finding your offerings easily. Introduce new products and post sell offers for making buyers aware about the quality of your products. Ensure to update sell offers frequently so that the buyers can find your new offers. Incorporate all the relevant information asked by the buyer in the content of your e-mail. Price, models, payment system and delivery method should be clearly specified. Do not use the same information for all the buyers; frame your content according to the needs of the buyer. Keep the price of your offerings competitive and as per the prevailing industry trends. Your company profile is the reflection of your business, so it must be accurate. Buyers judge the credibility of your organization through your company profile only. Importance of Sell Offers It is essential to update your Sell Offers frequently because it helps buyers understand about the details of your offerings. Through this, you also generate awareness among the buyers regarding the ongoing trends and demands of the market. By posting sell offers you inform clients about the products you are having in bulk and also about your high business potential. Multiple sell offers can also be generated depending on the models, quality, design, etc. of every product you are offering. You can also delete and re-post sell offers as per your need. But, there are certain points, which you should consider while posting Sell Offers, like: Sell Offers posted by you should contain good quality pictures that generate interest in the buyers and also help them in visualizing your product. At Exportersindia.com, a premium Gold member can post 25 sell offers, whereas, a premium Platinum member can post unlimited sell offers at any time. You should update your Sell Offers frequently with relevant information for making your sell offers look afresh. The more sell offers you post, the more exposure you get on your website. Sell Offer posted by you is the most reliable and effective promotional strategy that briefs about the benefits they can enjoy with your short term offer. It is better to update Sell Offers in small chunks that too at weekly basis, instead of updating all the sell offers at once. Try to provide all the relevant information like quality, quantity, price, mode of payment, delivery time etc. in a concise manner. Importance of Company Profile Your Company Profile at Exportersindia.com plays a key role in effective marketing of your products. If your company profile is well written and contains all the relevant information then it conveys the credibility and authenticity of your business. It is observed that companies with complete and presentable company profile attract more buyers than others. There are certain things that you must include in your company profile. Some of them are: You must include a strong logo to your company profile for effective marketing and branding. Adding history of your company to the company profile creates good impression on the visitor. Information about the infrastructure adds prominence to your name. The presentation of your company profile gets you noticed and result in more business. Detailed and attractive profile reflects authenticity and credibility of your company. Importance of Business Listings Your business listing at Exportersindia.com is your key to success. It also helps in creating a brand image in the B2B market. Some of the benefits of business listings are: Your business listing generates more inquiries It increases reliability and credibility of your business Business listings improves your ranking on the search engines It offers your company a wide exposure Importance of own Website / Products Catalogs Having your own website at Exportersindia.coM is highly beneficial for your business in following ways: It provides worldwide exposure to your business Your website gives you a strong hold among the competitors Cheaper and more flexible Diversified revenue streams Provides 24 X 7 access to your business Offers Convenience Adds value to your business Maximizes customer satisfaction Enhances credibility and authenticity Provides tremendous growth opportunities Offers cheap market research Importance of V-Trust Certificate The increasing number of E-Fraud cases has made it indispensable to have trusted stamp on your website. Once you become member of Exportersindia.com, we will provide you various benefits that add credibility to your business. One of them is our V-Trust Certificate, it is a stamp of trust and reliability provided by us that authenticates the existence and legitimacy of your business. With our V-Trust Certificate stamp on your website, you inform the world that your business is safe. The major benefits of having V-Trust Certificate stamp on your website at Exportersindia.com are: It makes your company genuine and reliable It ensures that your offerings are good Buyer becomes more convinced about your company and shows interest in starting dealing with you It breaks the ice of terrifying E-Frauds Adds a reason to make buyer deal with you and not with your competitor How to create an attractive Quotation In B2B world quotation is the essential part of business as it enhances the chances of receiving more business. A company having account on Exportersindia.com should consider following things before creating a quotation for attracting more buyers: Make sure that the quotation you are providing is up to date Quotation quoted by you must posses the potential of competing with your rivals It should be thoroughly analyzed and well structured Your sale quotes must contain the below mentioned components: Contact information Customer support contact information Internal quote number Date of sending the quote Payment terms Quote body Lead time Shipping terms Price Signature and title Reference to the terms and conditions Advertising & Premium Membership Why Advertise with ExportersIndia.com? Advertising Features and Benefits more faqs >> Buying FAQs What are Buying Leads? Where do I start if I want to buy? more faqs >> Buying Methods Search Products / Offers / Companies Browse by Category ( Products / Offers / Companies ) Post Buying Leads Fraud & security How can I protect my business from fraud? How to Protect Yourself from Phishing Website? more faqs >> General FAQs ExportersIndia - Site Tour Does ExportersIndia.com allow multiple accounts for a company? more faqs >> My Account & Sign In Member Login / Sign In Help Forgot Password / E-Mail Id Help more faqs >> Other Tips & Guide How to Get more Buyers Importance of Sell Offers more faqs >> Registration & Membership Why should I register with ExportersIndia.com? How to register? more faqs >> Selling FAQs Where do I start if I want to Sell? How do I contact Buyers? more faqs >> Selling Methods Search Buy Offers / Buyers Browse by Category ( Importers ) Post your Business Listings / Products Create your own Catalog /Website » Advertising & Premium Membership » Buying FAQs » Fraud & security » General FAQs » My Account & Sign In » Other Tips & Guide » Registration & Membership » Selling FAQs General Links Home Contact Us Sitemap Help About Us Feedback Terms of Use Testimonials Advertise with Us Disclaimer Resources Email this Page Bookmark Page Make EI Home Page Trade Tool Kit Buy Offers Post Buy Requirement Post Products - FREE Services Directory Business Services Real Estate Tours & Travels Employment Services Matrimonials Services Business Directory Manufacturers Exporters Suppliers Service Providers Web Design By WeblinkIndia.NET - ISO 9001:2008 Certified © Copyright 2015. All Rights Reserved. ExportersIndia.com