Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Written by Administrator on 26 May 2014 . Posted in Gallery Twitter Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Under the initiative of the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Assam, Sjt. Tarun Gogoi to promote entrepreneurship, value-addition and international trade in Assam, the Department of Industries & Commerce, Government of Assam, in association with the Federation of Industry & Commerce of North Eastern Region (FINER) organized the 1st ever “ Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair, 2015 ” from 19th -25th February, 2015 at Jorhat, Assam. India’s immediate neighbour Myanmar joined as Partner Country, Thailand as Focus Country and Assam’s prosperous neighbouring state Meghalaya as Partner State. The event, which was North East India’s largest Trade and Industrial Fair, saw 75 international participants from eight countries namely Bangladesh, Pakistan, Bhutan, Thailand, Myanmar, Afghanistan, Vietnam, Lao PDR. Jorhat, the 2nd largest urban centre of Assam and the centre of North East Region hosted over hundreds of national exhibitors, regional entrepreneurs, MSME and SSI Units. The fair also gave opportunities to several Self Help Groups. The fair opened doors to the unexplored areas of the North East and provided multiple windows to explore the trade and investment opportunities of the region. Sectors like Tourism, Tea and allied industries, Infrastructure, IT and Communications, Roads and Railways, Power and Renewable Energy, Oil, Handloom and Handicraft among others were present. Jorhat, the 2nd largest urban centre of Assam and the centre of North East Region hosted over hundreds of national exhibitors, regional entrepreneurs, MSME and SSI Units. The fair also gave opportunities to several Self Help Groups. The fair opened doors to the unexplored areas of the North East and provided multiple windows to explore the trade and investment opportunities of the region. Sectors like Tourism, Tea and allied industries, Infrastructure, IT and Communications, Roads and Railways, Power and Renewable Energy, Oil, Handloom and Handicraft among others were present. It was for the first time that Jorhat hosted a major event like AITIF of such large magnitude offering opportunities for businesses, investors, entrepreneurs and trade alike while showcasing its culture and tradition and positioning it as the gateway to the North East and ASEAN with the rest of India. North East India’s largest trade and industrial fair hosted by Jorhat saw 75 international participation from countries like Bangladesh, Pakistan, Bhutan, Thailand, Afghanistan, Vietnam, Lao PDR, Myanmar, Hongkong.   Jorhat, the 2nd largest urban centre of Assam and the centre of North East Region hosted over hundreds national exhibitors and regional entrepreneurs, MSME and SSI Units. The fair also gave opportunities to several Self Help Groups.The fair was inaugurated by Hon’ble Chief Minister of Assam Tarun Gogoi in presence His Excellency Ambassador of Afganishtan and Nepal, Cabinet Minister from Partner State Meghalaya and Union Minister from Partner Country Union of Republic of Myanmar. Senior Ministers of the state, Chief Secretary and senior government officers, host of foreign dignitaries , distinguished delegates and guests from across the country Heads and Members of the Diplomatic Missions of SAARC, ASEAN and BCIM countries in India graced the inaugural session, technical and business sessions.   Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Comments Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS No comments found Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Home About Finer What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com