Secretary DARE & DG ICAR's Desk | Department of Agricultural Research and Education Skip to main content Department of Agricultural Research and Education Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India Search form Search Home About us From Secretary's Desk RTI Tenders Contact Us English हिन्दी What's New Agriculture Minister Addresses G-20 Agriculture Ministers Meet Crop Residues Management Unit Inaugurated at IIVR, Varanasi Annual Group Meeting of AICRP - National Seed Project (Crops) DG, ICAR Inaugurates Meat Processing Unit of ICAR-NRC on Meat, Hyderabad Union Minster for Agriculture Appriciated ICAR-NBAIR Admin Setup Telephone Directory RFD Parliament Questions Lok Sabha Rajya Sabha Publications Annual Reports Circulars Events Public Grivances DARE Organizations ICAR Central Agricultural University Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University Agrinnovate India International Cooperation Bilateral Multilateral CGIAR Important links Citizen's / Client's Charter Interact with Hon’ble PM What's New Secretary DARE & DG ICAR's Desk October - December 2014 Indian agricultural research and development has witnessed one of the larger patterns of innovations through the National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) that has concluded this year. As we all know the project was implemented by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research with extramural funding support, jointly from the Government of India Plan funds and the World Bank. Read more about October - December 2014 July-September 2014 Of the 141 million ha of net sown area in the country, 78 million ha is rainfed that contributes 40% of foodgrain production and supports two-thirds of the livestock population. Despite considerable progress made in irrigation development over the successive five year plans, 85% of coarse cereals, 83% pulses, 42% rice, 70% oilseeds and 65% cotton are still cultivated as rainfed. In rainfed regions, the annual precipitation is lower than the evapo-transpiration rates particularly in arid and dry semi-arid zones. Read more about July-September 2014 April - June 2014 Having achieved a satisfactory level of food security in the country through technology led enhancement in farm productivity and diversification of food basket, the challenge before Indian agriculture is to ensure household nutritional security for an ever growing human population. The projections are that our population will be around 2 billion by 2050 A.D. surpassing China. Read more about April - June 2014 January - March 2014 Indian agriculture is facing diverse challenges and constraints due to growing demographic pressure, increasing food, feed, fuel, and fodder needs, natural resource degradation and climate change. Diversification of land use with agroforestry can address some of these challenges. Read more about January - March 2014 October - December 2013 Indian Agriculture to a large extent depends on the weather and climatic conditions. In early 1988, a National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting (NCMRWF) was established by the Government of India to develop suitable numerical weather-prediction models to issue weather forecasts, and to inform and guide farmers in advance to undertake farming activities. Read more about October - December 2013 July - September 2013 Engineering inputs to agriculture by way of mechanization have increased considerably during the recent years. Agricultural mechanization that started with sharpened stones, wooden and metallic tools has now moved to electric operated sophisticated machineries, all to meet the timeliness of farm operations, reducing drudgery, capacity enhancement and efficient utilization of inputs. As early as in 400 BC, Krishi Parashara provides details of farm mechanization, tools as well as practices, indicating the best possible real-time farm management solutions. Read more about July - September 2013 April - June 2013 For more than a decade, Indian agriculture is encountering frequent occurrence of climatic extremes in form of droughts, floods, cyclones, sea-level rise, cold-and heat-stress. At any given time, one or the other region in the country experiences some form of climatic stress that results in considerable loss of agricultural production. Most climate models indicate that such trends will get further magnified in future which could result in greater instability in food production and threaten the livelihood security of farmers. Read more about April - June 2013 January - March 2013 The livestock population is expected to grow at the rate of 0.55% in the coming years, and the population is likely to be around 781 million by 2050. Though India is among the leading producers of milk, meat and eggs; productivity of our animals is 20-60% lower than the global average due to improper nutrition, inadequate health-care and management, and also due to the lack of scientific breeding of animals. Half of the total losses in livestock productivity are contributed to by the inadequacy in supply of feed and fodder. Read more about January - March 2013 October - December 2012 The rapid growth and diversification of development activities have resulted in much needed expansion of employment opportunities, but at the same time have triggered rural to urban migration. This trend has inadvertently resulted in shift of farm labour to nonfarm sectors. To sustain food security, it is imperative to encourage farmers to continue with agriculture, wherein the rural youth have a crucial role to play.  Read more about October - December 2012 July-September 2012 Gender issues are receiving increasing attention in the context of higher and inclusive agricultural development. The challenge we are facing is two fold: identifying context specific gender issues in agriculture and addressing them on priority through appropriate socio-economic, technological, and knowledge and policy-based interventions. Read more about July-September 2012 Pages 1 2 next › last » Home | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Linking Policy Copyright © 2012 Department of Agricultural Research And Education Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India New Delhi-110 001. INDIA Site hosted by NIC Developed and Maintained by vivekdubey [at] gmail [dot] com (Vivek Dubey) Content updation by mitaligr [at] icar [dot] org [dot] in (Mitali Ghosh Roy) , DKMA , ICAR