Vision JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    About Us    Vision Vision To serve as a National Institution for research, education and training in the area of post harvest processing of crops of wetlands and storm prone regions. To undertake basic, applied and adoptive research in post-production sector of cyclone/storm prone areas and wetlands, also including plantation, spices and other important crops. To act as a National Organization for information on post-production systems of mandated crops. To undertake transfer of technology, consultancy and analytical services for raw and processed agricultural commodities. To establish linkages with related processing industries and other academic as well as R&D institutions for achieving its goals effectively. No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com