Accessibility Statement : The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. Skip to main content Text Size: Contrast Scheme: Home Submit Query Feedback Related Links Faq Contact Us Search: You are here: Home Accessibility Statement Print (Opens in a new window) Large Print (Opens in a new window) Accessibility Statement We are committed to ensure that The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. website is accessible to all users irrespective of device in use, technology or ability. It has been built, with an aim, to provide maximum accessibility and usability to its visitors. As a result this website can be viewed from a variety of devices such as Desktop / Laptop computers, web-enabled mobile devices; wap phones; PDAs, etc. We have put in our best efforts to ensure that all information on this website is accessible to people with disabilities. For example, a user with visual disability can access this website using assistive technologies, such as screen readers and screen magnifiers. We also aim to be standards compliant and follow principles of usability and universal design, which should help all visitors of this website. This website is designed using XHTML 1.0 Transitional to meet Guidelines for Indian Government Websites and also adheres to level AA of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 laid down by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Part of the information in the website is also made available through links to external Websites. External Websites are maintained by the respective departments who are responsible for making these sites accessible. CCI is working towards making its website accessible for persons with disabilities, however currently the Portable Document Format (PDF) is not accessible. If you have any problem or suggestion regarding the accessibility of this website, please write to us to enable us to respond in a helpful manner. Do let us know the nature of the problem along with your contact information. Related Accessibility Links You can also learn more about the different accessibility related topics on Cotton Corporation website. Accessibility Help Accessibility Features Quick Links About Us Open List Hon'ble Minister of State Textiles (Independent Charge) CCI - An Organisation Board of Directors Highlights of Achievements Objectives Operations Network Procurement of Kapas Sale of Cotton Financial Performance Brief note on Financial Performance Ten Year Financial Result Annual Report Developmental Activities National Cotton Scenario Current Cotton Scenario Press Releases CSR Statistics Vigilance Citizens Charter Right to Information Act Technology Mission on Cotton (TMC) Property Return (Immovable) Lokayukta Return Public Notices Open List Tenders Auctions Awards Recruitment Notices Complaint Policy (101.71 KB) Centralized Public Grievance Redress And Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) E-Magzine / E-Journal Open List Rajbhasha Rashmi Quarterly Report (140.12 KB) Day's Sales Quotes Export Sitemap Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Disclaimer Help Accessibility Statement Website designed and developed by: Barrierbreak Technologies | © 2011 The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. All Rights Reserved.