Languages in Andhra Pradesh Home » Andhra Pradesh » Languages in Andhra Pradesh   Andhra Pradesh History Geography Climate आंध्र प्रदेश का नक्शा Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Hyderabad Metro Stations Map Cities Amaravati: Andhra's New Capital Hyderabad Tirupati Vishakhapatnam Vijayawada Warangal                    more.. Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Andhra Pradesh Places to visit in Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels         more... How to reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education in Andhra Pradesh Universities in Andhra Pradesh       Languages in Andhra Pradesh Telugu, Urdu, Hindi, Banjara, and English are the main languages spoken in Andhra Pradesh, followed by Tamil, Kannada, Marathi and Oriya. Also referred to as `Tenugu' in the past, Telugu is considered as the main and official language of the State. Being the most spoken Indian language, after Hindi and Bengali, Telugu ranks 15 among the World's languages in the largest number of speakers. As many other languages, Telugu has also been influenced by Sanskrit and includes Nannaya, Tikkana, Sri Nathudu, Tenali Rama Krishna, Sri Krishna Devarayulu and a host of others as its most prominent poets. It also includes some Kannada and Tamil words which do not earn much currency. Several Persian and Arabic words also entered into the Telugu language, with the arrival of the Muslim rule but they were only confined to the spoken language and to the language of the judiciary and the executive. Urdu, which is regarded as the second official language of Andhra Pradesh came to the Deccan, late in the 15th century. With poets such as Mohammed Quli, Mulla Wajhi, and Sheikh Ahmed contributing their fine work the 17th century was known as the golden age of Urdu. Origin The Indian languages are basically divided into four classes of languages i.e. the: Mon-Khmer, Sino-Tibetan, Indo-European and Dravidian. Telugu originated from the Dravidian family which consists of 24 languages, stretching the whole South-Asia, i.e. from Baluchistan to Sri Lanka. Also popularly referred to as the 'Italian of the East' by various admirers, Telugu is a sweet and pleasing language. Apart from Andhra Pradesh , the Telugu language is also spoken in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Orissa, Puducherry, and among various other countries around the world. According to some experts, early Telugu goes back up to 400 BC, which is the time of its origin. After this, the beauty of this language inspired poets and during 500-1100 AD, it was a rage amongst scholars and courtiers. But, Telugu language was given real emphasis during the period 1100-1600, as this was the period when the language came under the influence of Sanskrit language. During the 17th century, which was the era of Muslim rule, several Persian and Arabic words were also added in the Telugu language, and its influence went on till the 19th century. Change took place in the late 19th century and the early 20th century when the English language marked its influence on Telugu. Modern technologies of communication and the printing press came into being during the British rule which brought in a blend of classic and modern styles and the result was the start of a new development. Other means of mass communication of the modern world such as television, radio and newspapers further helped in changing the format of Telugu literature and this is how Telugu language got through a dramatic quality change. Contemporary influences In spite of first printed Telugu book being out in 1796, it took some time before the modern period in literature to set in. Young artists familiar with English literature tried to imitate Shelly, Keats and Wordsworth which gave birth to a new kind of romantic poetry called the Bhavakavithwa. Bengali novelists were also a very great influence on modern Telugu fiction such as Rabindranath Tagore, Bankim Chandra Chatterjee and Ramesh Chandra Dutta. Now-a-days the drama, novel, short story, essay and criticism in Telugu have reached great heights, although they started only a century ago. Last Updated on 20 June 2013 Andhra Pradesh About Climate History Geography Languages Population Districts Factsheet Distance Chart Pin code STD code             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule