 Northern Region Farm Machinery T Northern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute Hisar (Haryana) ABOUT US          Northern Region Farm Machinery Training and Testing Institute (NRFMT&TI), Hisar is not merely a name within the country among agricultural machinery institutions but a living culture. Transformation of this culture is the end result of untiring, dedicated and faithful services of a team of engineers, technicians and other personnel for the last four decades in the field of farm mechanization. The institute conducts training courses in operation, maintenance and repair of farm machinery and equipment, and in the improved mechanized farming techniques for the benefits of progressive farmers, tractor owners, technicians, in-service personnel and foreign nationals sponsored under international co-operation programmes.   Institute also conducts energy conservation and management camps and arrange training programmes for the women working in the field of agriculture. It is the official institution in the country for the testing of combine harvesters, farm implements and machinery, irrigation pumps, stationery power engines and plant protection equipment. LOCATION : Hisar is situated at latitude of 29º 10´ North and longitude of 75º 46´ East at an altitude of 215.2 m from Sea level.   The Northern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, at Hisar is located on National Highway No. 10 and is about 170 Km from Delhi by road and 185 Km by rail.   This institute is situated on Sirsa road about 5 Km from Hisar town.   Hisar is well connected by road from Inter-state Bus Terminus (ISBT) Delhi & is also connected with New Delhi by rail. CLIMATE: Hisar is tropical monsoonal climate and is characterized as   arid type of climate. It has characteristically four seasons during the year viz. summer (March to May), South West monsoon (June to September), Post Monsoon (Oct. to Nov.) and winter (Dec. to Feb.).The summers are generally quite hot and winters are fairly cool. Annual average precipitation is about 350-400 mm. The minimum and maximum temperature at Hisar during different months is given below Temp. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Max deg. C 17.2 22.7 30.3 39.7 40.9 39.6 37.5 36.4 33.5 31.4 27.9 21.6 Min. deg. C 7.7 8.6 11.1 16.2 23.0 25.1 26.9 24.6 24.6 19.6 11.4 6.4   HOW TO REACH: Hisar is located in Haryana state on National Highway No.10 and is about 170 KM away from New Delhi by road and 185 KM by train.   Frequent bus service to Hisar is available from Inter state Bus Terminal (ISBT), Delhi.   Auto / Rickshaws are available at Bus stand (4 Km) / Railway station (6 Km) of Hisar for reaching the institute situated at Sirsa Road.   This institute is popularly known as Tractor Training Centre (TTC) in the surrounding areas. SURROUNDING OF INSTITUTES: Hisar is an ancient city of historical importance, which was established by Mughal Emperor Firozshah Tuglak.   Remains of Firozshah Tuglak fort are still existing in Hisar. A place of religious importance Agroha is situated at a distance of 17 KM from the Institute.   Haryana Agricultural University, one of the leading agricultural university in Asia is situated in Hisar.   Central Institute for Research on Buffaloes (CIRB) and National Reaseach Centre for Equines (NRCE) both institutes governed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) are also situated near our Institute. FACILITIES:   1.           ESTABLISHMENT                The Institute enjoys the pioneer status under the Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriuclture and Co-operation, Govt. of India. The responsibility for organisation and management is vested with the Director. He is assisted by the Technical and other Staff responsible for   testing, training, workshop, farm and other sections at the Institute. The training staff consist of Senior Agricultural Enginner, Agricultural Engineers, Senior Technical Assistants, Training Assistants , Technicians and Junior Technicians . A farm superintendent assists for imparting training on the improved farming techniques. Specialists from manufacturing units and Govt. organisation are also invited to deliver lectures on the subjects.   2.       HOSTEL FACILITIES   The Institute has reasonably equipped hostel facilities (for 150 trainees) where they are provided free accommodation.   The boarding is managed contract mess. The present charges per day is Rs. 66/- per person   for breakfast, lunch and dinner. However, for the trainees sponsored by ITEC / SCAAP/FAO and other collaboration programmes of Government of India, efforts are made to provide accommodation in Rest House   and their boarding is managed as per the interest/choice of trainees .  Facilities for sports and indoor and outdoor games are provided in the campus for the trainees. Besides the above, social, educational and cultural programmes, movies on technical subjects are organised.   3.       LIBRARY   A Library with a large collection of technical and other reference books, periodicals and magazines on mechanised farming, general agriculture and related subjects is provided for the use of trainees and staff.   4.       REST HOUSE    A Rest house   with a capacity   for   8 visitors is   equipped   with modest facility.   5.       DISPENSARY   A dispensary equipped with medicines of day-to-day requirements is maintained for the benefit of staff and trainees. The dispensary is staffed with a Compounder and a part time Medical Officer.  6.       FARM     The Institute possess 153.20 ha of farm.   Out of 153.20 ha of land 56 ha of land is under irrigation.   Regular crops are grown as a part of training & testing    programmes. The main crops on the farm include wheat, gram, paddy, Bajra,   J o war, Mustard etc