Required WORKING PARTNERS..NO INVESTMENT....PROFIT SHARING - Page 5 AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Job Vacancies Required WORKING PARTNERS..NO INVESTMENT....PROFIT SHARING Page 5 of 5 First ... 3 4 5 Jump to page: Results 41 to 44 of 44 Thread: Required WORKING PARTNERS..NO INVESTMENT....PROFIT SHARING LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… February 10th, 2010 #41 nisarga Join Date Nov 2009 Posts 26 Namaskara hi, i completed MBA & also agro experienced person.plz send the details. Thank you Reply With Quote February 21st, 2015 #42 sntiwari Join Date Feb 2015 Posts 1 kindly mail me back on v4uconsultant@gmail.com Originally Posted by ravi_vkokate Dear Sir, With respect to below mail, I am a mechanical engineer by profession and hold a master degree in International Business with 3 yrs exp in export, logistics and supply chain. We are in process of starting a business venture for export of fruits from Maharashtra and in search for a potential investor. As India In 2nd largest country behind China in Production of Fruits but due to availability of proper infrastructure and supply chain we are able to export just 1 % of the same. Maharashtra tops in production of many potential fruits like Banana, Mangoes, Papaya and Pomegranate which has immense potential for export in Gulf and European market. I find a positive ray of hope in the below mail for our possible start up. Kindly let me know how we can proceed in this matter. Regards Ravi Kokate kindly mail me back on v4uconsultant@gmail.com Reply With Quote 1 Week Ago #43 sunziv Join Date Sep 2012 Posts 13 Manufacturing Hub Dear Bhupesh, I am interested in the Venture .,I can work from any of the south Indian state.Presently I am in Bangalore. I am an MBA (Project Management ) With 25 years of Hands on Experience in Mechanical CAD/CAM Designing and manufacturing .Have worked in Asia Pacific region for nearly 7 Years . Just retired as Director Technical from a Pvt Ltd company . I Can Organize,Operate,Evaluate ,Control,Execute large projects at Multiple site. At present ,I am planning for a large manufacturing Project .Outlay will be over 100 crores.This project will be the first of its kind in india .Make in India is the inspiration for this project .I am scouting for Investment .The project report is under process. Hope to hear from you soon. Sanjeev Kumar Originally Posted by rudra_herbal Dear Entrepreneurs, We are operates into various diversified areas mainly, Education, Agro Retailing, Wellness and Nutrition , Finance and Investments consultancy, Franchising setup, corporate training etc. Currently we are working in Maharashtra region and now we would like to grow in other parts of India specially Maharashtra, Madhyapradesh, Karnataka, Andhrapradesh, chhatisgarh, Gujrat states. We are in search of Entrepreneurs who can handle our company expansion work as a Working Partner (Not as a Employee).We can offer and workout a Huge return on your time Investment (No Money Investment is required). No matter whether you are working or unemployed either experienced or non-experienced, if you are looking to start your own Business then we are here to help you in every aspect. We believe that now Indian youth should not spoil life in searching and doing JOB for others and make others rich by their own skills. You should use these skill in building your own Enterprise. If you are entrepreneur and go gater type person then we have a exciting Business Proposal for you. You can contact us . We are into partnership with Leading Multinational Company for Pan India region. And as stated above We are dealing in Agro Products which are used for water scarcity problem, Saline and Alkaline soil problem, Bio Silica based foliar spray, Growth maximizer, and for Pest and Insect Control on almost every crop (includes Floriculture, Horticulture) by every farmer. Very nominally priced and having huge benefits(For our Partners and for Farmers both) are available for distribution in your area. No deposit is required as we want WORKING PARTNERS for this expansion work. If you are interested in Sell / Marketing / Promoting these wonder products through your network of farmers or contacts then we can workout a very attractive income package (between 20000 to 75000 per month) for you. All training and Information shall be provided at Pune Office. If you can come for initial meeting to Pune then please do contact through private message or on above given contacts. You can visit to this link to know more details : All the Best. Bhupesh Reply With Quote 1 Week Ago #44 sunziv Join Date Sep 2012 Posts 13 Manufacturing Hub Dear Bhupesh, I am interested in the Venture .,I can work from any of the south Indian state.Presently I am in Bangalore. I am an MBA (Project Management ) With 25 years of Hands on Experience in Mechanical CAD/CAM Designing and manufacturing .Have worked in Asia Pacific region for nearly 7 Years . Just retired as Director Technical from a Pvt Ltd company . I Can Organize,Operate,Evaluate ,Control,Execute large projects at Multiple site. At present ,I am planning for a large manufacturing Project .Outlay will be over 100 crores.This project will be the first of its kind in india .Make in India is the inspiration for this project .I am scouting for Investment .The project report is under process. Hope to hear from you soon. Sanjeev Kumar Contact me at sanjeev316@yahoo.com Originally Posted by rudra_herbal Dear Entrepreneurs, We are operates into various diversified areas mainly, Education, Agro Retailing, Wellness and Nutrition , Finance and Investments consultancy, Franchising setup, corporate training etc. Currently we are working in Maharashtra region and now we would like to grow in other parts of India specially Maharashtra, Madhyapradesh, Karnataka, Andhrapradesh, chhatisgarh, Gujrat states. We are in search of Entrepreneurs who can handle our company expansion work as a Working Partner (Not as a Employee).We can offer and workout a Huge return on your time Investment (No Money Investment is required). No matter whether you are working or unemployed either experienced or non-experienced, if you are looking to start your own Business then we are here to help you in every aspect. We believe that now Indian youth should not spoil life in searching and doing JOB for others and make others rich by their own skills. You should use these skill in building your own Enterprise. If you are entrepreneur and go gater type person then we have a exciting Business Proposal for you. You can contact us . We are into partnership with Leading Multinational Company for Pan India region. And as stated above We are dealing in Agro Products which are used for water scarcity problem, Saline and Alkaline soil problem, Bio Silica based foliar spray, Growth maximizer, and for Pest and Insect Control on almost every crop (includes Floriculture, Horticulture) by every farmer. Very nominally priced and having huge benefits(For our Partners and for Farmers both) are available for distribution in your area. No deposit is required as we want WORKING PARTNERS for this expansion work. If you are interested in Sell / Marketing / Promoting these wonder products through your network of farmers or contacts then we can workout a very attractive income package (between 20000 to 75000 per month) for you. All training and Information shall be provided at Pune Office. If you can come for initial meeting to Pune then please do contact through private message or on above given contacts. You can visit to this link to know more details : All the Best. Bhupesh Reply With Quote Page 5 of 5 First ... 3 4 5 Jump to page: « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 06:14 PM .