Check various traffic signs used for road safety in Andhra Pradesh | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > Check various traffic signs used for road safety in Andhra Pradesh Check various traffic signs used for road safety in Andhra Pradesh Transport, Roads and Buildings Department, Andhra Pradesh Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Information on various traffic signs followed while driving on the roads is provided by the Andhra Pradesh Transport Department. Details of all traffic signs and their use on the roads are available. Users applying for learner's driving licence can also refer these signs before taking the test. Related Links Website of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation > Transport, Roads and Buildings Department, Andhra Pradesh Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) provides road transportation services across the state. Users can find information on reservations, fare, bus timings, chartered services, pilgrim services, tourist services, type of coaches, bus time table, bus pass, etc. Details related to publications, passenger schemes, tenders, recruitment, etc. are available. Toll free number of APSRTC for enquiry is also given. Form no 8 for addition of a new class vehicle to a Driving Licence in Andhra Pradesh Transport, Roads and Buildings Department, Andhra Pradesh Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   The Transport, Roads and Buildings Department of Andhra Pradesh has provided Form no. 8 for addition of a new class of vehicle to Driving Licence. Users have to send form to the Licencing Authority with details furnished for name and address, class of vehicle to be added such as invalid carriages, light motor vehicle, road rollers, heavy goods vehicle etc. Certificate of test of competence to drive is also to be provided with the application. Applicants have to enclose a medical certificate, driving licence and driving certificate in the form as notified for application. Form LLD for intimating loss or destruction of Driving Licence and applying for duplicate licence in Andhra Pradesh Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   The Form LLD can be used in case a driving licence is lost/destroyed or mutilated anywhere in Andhra Pradesh. The form is provided by the Transport Department of Andhra Pradesh. Users can download the form and apply with details such as their name and address, licence number, day and date on which licence has been lost, mutilated, damaged. Avail driving licence services provided by Andhra Pradesh Transport Department Transport, Roads and Buildings Department, Andhra Pradesh Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Users can get detailed information on how to avail various driving licences provided by the Andhra Pradesh Transport Department. Information on where to get a driving licence, how to apply, when to get it, certificates etc. is provided. Information on getting learner's licence, permanent driving licence, duplicate licence etc. is provided. Downloadable forms are also provided. Website of Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Information about Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited is given. Details related to Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) project, project profile, highlights, etc. are given. Users can get information about metro stations, traffic catchment areas and metro route map. Access to manual of specifications and standards, tenders, news clipping, photo gallery, etc. is also available. Application form for licence to drive motor vehicle in Andhra Pradesh Transport, Roads and Buildings Department, Andhra Pradesh