 Indian Commodities Home About Us Why Us Managerial Team Our Services Our Clients Our Presence Careers News & Events Contact Us Managerial Team Board of Directors Mr. J. P. Sekhsaria, Director: Mr. J. P. Sekhsaria, is the Founder of Suvidh Commodities E com Pvt. Ltd and is responsible for exponential growth of right from the startup of the company. He is a B.Com, L.L.B. Graduate having a rich experience in various fields of the agri commodity business such as cotton ginning, International Trade of cotton & various other Agri-Commodities, Import and Export of Cotton for the past 44 years. Mrs. Vidya Sekhsaria, Director: Mrs. Vidya Sekhsaria is the Director of Indian Commodities and has been associated with the Collateral Management business since 2006. She has been the driving force behind Indian Commodities’ continuous growth and expansion. She is a B.Com Graduate. Mrs. Vidya Sekhsaria’s dynamism does not cease here. She also holds the position of a Trustee for many charitable trusts closely associated with Women Empowerment in India. Mr. Alok Sekhsaria, Director: Mr. Alok Sekhsaria is the co-founder of Suvidh Commodities E com Pvt. Ltd. He is an MBA (Finance) and has graduated from International Cotton Institute at Memphis, USA. He has over 12 years of experience of the Agri-Commodity Industry and has been forging strategic partnerships essential to manage the scale and transform it into a cohesive umbrella of services in the agri-commodity market. Mr. Dinesh Hedge, Director: Mr. Dinesh Hedge is the Director of Indian Commodities. He is a B.Com L.L.B. from Mumbai University Previously he was associated with a leading finance company (previously known as Century Bank). Presently, Mr. Dinesh Hegde with his vast experience in trading cotton, pulses and other agricommodities is heading the Quality Management, Commodity Trading Desk and Information Services Unit of Indian Commodities since 1999. Executive Team Mr. Snehal Mhapankar, General Manager: Mr. Snehal Mhapankar is M.Sc. and MBA with more than 20 years of comprehensive experience in Collateral Management, Commodity Management, Warehouse Operations, Logistics, Materials and related aspects. He has been associated with organizations like Arya collateral Warehousing Services P. Ltd. (J M Baxi group), Godrej GE appliances, TVC Networks, Kuwait and Gulf Link (KGL, Kuwait), catering to US and British forces across the Gulf region. At, Indian Commodities he has been handling the entire Collateral Management and Warehousing activities. Mr. R. K. Swamy, Deputy General Manager: Mr. R.K. Swamy is a B.Sc. Graduate with a Diploma in Food Technology. He has an extensive experience of over 40 years in Warehousing industry. Prior to his current role he was the Training Head of the company. Mr. R. K. Swamy's experience ranges from Operations Management, Personnel Management, Purchase & Procurement, Commercial & Business Development with strategy definition. At Indian Commodities, he is handling the entire Operational & Functional activities. Mr. Rajesh Gurav, Assistant Manager – Operations: Mr. Rajesh Gurav is a B.Com Graduate. He has prior experience in similar field also handled Collateral Management Division in Similar Industry. At present, Mr. Rajesh Gurav is handling the entire Operations team including various Hubs & Clusters across the country. Home | FAQs | Sitemap | Feedback | Disclaimer © Indian Commodities ( A Division of Suvidh Commodities E Com Pvt. Ltd.) Website designed by Compusoft Technologies