 Our Work Location in India | CareIndia Jump to navigation NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India HOME CONTACT US Search Search form Search ABOUT US Overview History Vision/Mission Board Members Management Team OUR WORK Our Approach Where We Work Our Programmes Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness & Response GET INVOLVED Careers Internship Campaigns Volunteer Partnerships Power to Empower NEWS National International CARE India in Media Media Contact DONATE NOW You are here Home » where we work CARE has been working in India for more than sixty years, focusing on ending poverty and social injustice.The focus is on promoting quality healthcare, inclusive education, sustainable livelihood options, and disaster relief and preparedness.Our presence is in 14 states of India. CARE India is a part of the CARE International Confederation working in 87 countries for a world where all people live in dignity and security. Donate Now Where We Work CARE India has been working extensively in different parts of India. We work with grassroots initiatives, state and district governments, communities and individual from all over the country. As of now, CARE India is present in 14 states of India. Our head office is in Delhi. Please see below for the list of the 14 states. *This map highlights the states in which CARE India is present. These states form three different Programming Hubs, one focused on the Adivasi long term program, another on the Dalit long term program, and the third, ie. The “Linked Learning Sites”, focuses on states which are not a part of either of the first two hubs.  CARE Initiatives CARE works with more than 200 districts, in a total of 13 states and union terriotories across India Engage educate empower Assurance of a secure life Livelihood Initiative Tsunami Power to Empower Cyclone Hudhud Horlicks Ahaar Abhiyan GiveAssure Help Shanti JK Flood crisis Join my village VIEW ALL Latest Publications Pages from booklet 1 pages from booklet hindi-7-2.pdf READ MORE Case Studies Education Health Livelihood Emergency Blog Resources © 2014 CARE India. All Rights Reserved