Qutb Shahi Dynasty Map Home » History » Qutb Shahi Dynasty Map   Indian Dynasties Chola Dynasty Chalukya Dynasty Pallava Dynasty Chera Dynasty Pandyan Dynasty                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Qutb Shahi Dynasty Map Map of Qutb Shahi Dynasty Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing the Qutb Shahi dynasty with current country boundaries. Qutb Shahi dynasty existed from 1518 to 1687. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. In the small area of Telangana of the Bahamani kingdom of Deccan there were some disturbances observed in 1463. A Turk, who was serving as an officer under Muhammad Shah Bahamani named Sultan Quli Qutbul Mulk, was sent to look into the matter. In 1495, since he successfully solved the issue he was rewarded the position of the Subedar of Telangana. The head- quarters of it was located at Golconda. The Bahamani Kingdom came to end in the early 16th century and so Sultan Quli gained virtual independence. This was when the Qutub Shahi dynasty was founded. This dynasty lasted from 1518 to 1687. The Qutub Shahi dynasty ruled for 171 years in the Southern India. There were eight kings in this royal line who were believed to be great builders and patrons of learning. A lot was done to strengthen and improve the condition of the capital Golconda by the founder of the Qutub Shahi kingdom. The fortress capital was decorated and beautified with mosques, palaces and gardens. At the age of 99, Sultan Quli died and Jamsheed Quli who is blamed for his father's death took over the throne. Jamsheed, the third son of Sultan Quli ruled for just about seven years and couldn't do much but was believed to be a great poet and highly educated. He died in 1550 after which the youngest son of Sultan Quli, Ibrahim succeeded his brother. It was during his reign that Golconda was further strengthened Ibrahim Quli Shah was praised for his sound administration. His daughter Hayath Bakshi Begum was married to his successor, Sultan Muhammad Qutub Shah who was his nephew as well. At a mere age of 15, Muhammad Quli was crowned and is often remembered as the planner of the city of Hyderabad. He patronized the Telugu language like Ibrahim. In 1612, after a long rule of 32 years he died and his son-in-law Sultan Muhammad Qutub Shah took over the throne. Sultan Muhammad was known for a deeply religious temperament. The chronicles of the Qutub Shahi dynasty were accomplished during his reign. It was under his rule that development in the field of architecture was seen. Sultan Muhammad had laid down the foundation of the mosque Mecca Masjid in 1617. His son, Abdullah ascended the throne at the age of 12. His mother took over the rule until he attained maturity. The empire was expanded under his reign but in 1636 he was pressurized much by the Mughals. Even the capital Golcanda was attacked in 1656 which caused a lot of destruction. He died in 1672 his son-in-law, Abul Hasan famously known as Tana Shah proved to be a good ruler. He defended the capital and the people from the Mughal attacks several times. He's believed to be a tolerant king and for him the wellness and interest of his people was important to him more than anything else. He was the last ruler of this dynasty and finally in 1687 the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb stormed into the capital city and took Abul Shah as a prisoner of war. Last Updated on : 4/6/2012               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule