Programmes/Schemes-Banking Division : Department of Financial Services,Ministry of Finance, Government of India Skip to Main Content | Skip to Navigation Text Size A A A A A A A Hindi Home Functions New Initiatives Financial Inclusion Documents & Publications RTI Who's Who Contact Us Dept. of Financial Services Ministry of Finance, Government of India Finance Minister Minister for State Allocation of Business Citizen's Charter Acts & Rules Work Allocation Banking Insurance Pension Reforms Notifications Circulars Appointments Press Releases Data & Statistics Vacancy Circulars Tenders/Auctions The National Portal of India National E-Governance Plan Public Grievances Invest India Tenders You are here : Home Banking Division Programmes/Schemes Print (Opens in a new window) Large Print (Opens in a new window) Programmes/Schemes Guidelines for Selection of Part Time Non Official Director(122 KB) Promotion and support of Women Self Help Groups in Backward Districts of India(388 KB) Agricultural Debt Waiver and Debt Relief Scheme, 2008(224 KB) (To view the scheme in desired language, Please select desired language and press GO Button) Hindi Assamese Bangla Gujrati Kannad Kashmiri Malyalam Manipuri Marathi Oriya Punjabi Tamil Telgu Urdu Bankwise Data on Agricultural Debt Waiver and Debt Relief Scheme, 2008 Clarifications on queries raised by lending institutions on Agricultural Debt Waiver Debt Relief Scheme, 2008 (206 KB) GoI Interest Subvention Scheme for Short Term Crop Loans 2011-12(81 KB) Interest Subvention on Pre and Post shipment Export Credit With a view to insulate the employment oriented export sectors from the global slowdown, Government of India decided to extend interest subvention of 2% w.e.f. 1.12.2008 till March 31, 2010 on pre and post shipment credit, for seven employment oriented export sectors i.e. textiles (including handlooms), handicrafts, carpets, leather, gems & jewellery, marine products and SME sector. The Scheme was extended during the year 2010-11 and 2011-12 to four employment oriented export sectors i.e. Handicrafts, Carpets, Handlooms and Small & Medium Enterprises (SME). During the year 2012-13, the Government has extended the Scheme to 8 sectors namely, Handicraft, Carpets, Handlooms, SMEs, Readymade Garments, Processed Agriculture Products, Sport Goods and Toys. With a view to insulate the employment oriented export sectors from the global slowdown, the Government of India decided to extend interest subvention of 2% to 3% w.e.f. 01.18.2013 till 31.03.2014 on pre and post shipment credit. During the year 2013-14, the Scheme has been extended to the 8 sectors/sub-sectors till 31.03.2014. viz; Handicrafts, Carpets, Handlooms, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), Readymade Garments, Processed Agriculture Products, Sport Goods and Toys. The subvention is provided to the Banks through RBI as per existing RBI guidelines. The Rupee export credit by Scheduled Urban Cooperative Banks holding Authorised dealer category I license has also been included in the scheme. Further, GoI has decided to widen the Interest Subvention Scheme during 2013-14 as under; (a) To extend interest subvention to export of ITC (HS) and Textiles good to 6 tariff lines. (b) To cover additional 101 tariff line in engineering good sector in addition to the existing 134 lines. The Nationalised Banks (Management and Miscellaneous Provisions) Scheme, 1970/80.(14 MB) Home Sitemap Accessibility Options Terms of Use Policies Disclaimer Accessibilty Statement EBook Feedback Site is designed and hosted by National Informatics Centre Contents on this website is published and managed by The Department of Financial Services, Govt. of India.