e-Granthalaya: A Digital Agenda for Library Automation and Networking Header NIC Software, Technologies and Services to the Indian Libraries e-Granthalaya Support Users Training Photo Gallery   Feedback/Query View Feedback eG in News Discussion Forum Contact Us Ram Kumar Matoria Technical Director Library and Information Services Division NATIONAL INFORMATICS CENTRE  A-Block, CGO Complex, Lodhi Road New Delhi -110 003 Ph.011-24305487 Email: rkmatoria@nic.in Other Links e-Granthalaya_Mail forum http://www.egLibNet.nic.in http://inbonline.nic.in http://informatics.nic.in Hit Counter Documentati on eG Brochure Installation Guide for 32 Bit PC Installation Guide for 64 Bit PC User Manual Compact User Manual Excel to eGranthalaya (eG3) Data Migration Guide G2 to eG3 Migration Guide General Data Migration Guide How to Create and Restore Database Manually in MS SQL Server 2005 How to Update eG3 Client Program How to Install SQL Server 2005 Manually eG User List 2002-2004 eG User List 2005 eG User List 2006 eG User List 2007 eG User List 2008 eG User List 2009 eG User List 2010 eG User List 2011 eG User List 2012 eG User List 2013 eG User List 2014 e-Granthalaya Profile 2010 e-Granthalaya Presentation PPT File about eg e-Granthalaya e-Granthalaya is an Integrated Library Management Software from National Informatics Centre , Department of Electronics & Information Technology , Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, Government of India. The software has been designed by a team of experts from software as well as Library and Information Science discipline. Using this software, the libraries can automate in-house activities as well as member services. The software provides built-in Web OPAC interface to publish the library catalog over Internet/Intranet. The software is  UNICODE Compliant ,thus, supports data entry in local language. Latest version of e-Granthalaya i.e. Ver.4.0 is a 'Cloud Ready Application' and provides a Web-based data entry solution with enterprise mode with a centralized database for cluster of libraries. e-Granthalaya 4.0 uses PostgreSQL - an Open Source DBMS as well as Free Edition of MS SQL Server (any version) as back-end database solutions. e-Granthalaya 4.0 is made availab in NIC National Cloud for Government libraries on request basis where free hosting is provided. History e-Granthalaya was started as an in-house project at 'Karnataka State Centre of NIC,Bangalore' and first version of the software was designed for the Public Libraries in the State. Later, NIC HQs 'Library and Informatics Services Division' took over the designing of the software where library professionals were involved in the designing process and, thus, improved the software with enhanced user interface and simplify the work-flow of library functions so that it can suit to all kinds of libraries. Following table shows the release of various versions of the software: Technology/Platform used  Version  Year  DBMS Visual Basic 6/ASP/HTML 1.0 2003 MS SQL Server 7 Visual Basic 6/ASP/HTML 2.0 2005 MS SQL Server 2000 VB.NET/ASP.NET 2.0 3.0 2007 MS SQL Server 2005 ASP.NET 4.0/AJAX/JQUERY/JSON/SilverLight 4 .0 2015 PostGreSQL -an Open Source DBMS/Free Edition of SQL Server (Any version) System Requirements Hosting in NIC National Cloud :          Application is hosted in VMs (Virtual Machines) in the NIC National Cloud         Hosting as per NIC Hosting Policy, presently hosting is free for Government Libraries         DBMS: Postgresql - an Open Source DBMS   Software Components e-Granthalaya 4.0 contains following components: - Database e-Granthalaya 4.0 Application Crystal Reports Executables Distribution Policy The software is provided at zero cost to the Government and Government Funded Organizations. The support is given by email/phone/vc/remote access, etc.  The on-site training, Data Entry, Maintenance, Migration, and dedicated support, etc are provided on Payment basis by the NICSI Emapnelment Agency. Hosting in NIC National Cloud as per NIC hosting policy, no charging from Government Libraries. How to get the Software   The e-Granthalaya software can be get from NIC Hqs, New Delhi by sending one official letter on letter head duly signed by Authority along with duly filled request form. The Request Form can be downloaded from here...   Features at a Glance Uses PostgreSQL - an Open Source DBMS as well as free edition of MS SQL Server (Any version). Provides Web-based Data Entry Solution UNICODE Compliant, supports data entry in local language Module - Wise Permission to the software Users Work-flow as per Indian Libraries Retro-Conversion as well as Full Cataloging Modes of Data Entry Authority  Files/ Master tables for Authors, Publishers, Subjects, etc Multi-Vol, Multi-Copy and Child-Parent Relationship pattern Download Catalog Records from Internet Z39.50 Client Search Built-in Exhaustive Reports for Print Export Records in CSV/Text File/MARC 21/MARC XML/ISO:2709/MS ACCESS/EXCEL formats Merger databases into Single Database Common/Centralized Database for All libraries under One Organization, minimize data entry Main/Branch Libraries Acquisition/Cataloging Print Accession Register Search Module built-in with basic/advance/boolean parameters Library Statistics Reports CAS/SDI Services and Documentation Bulletin Updated Regulalry with enhanced Features Compact/Summary/Detailed Reports Option Generate Bibliography in AACR2 Data Entry Statistics Built-In Full Text News Clipping Services Built-in Digital Library integration with uploading / downloading of pdf/html/Tiff, etc documents Micro-Documents Manger (Articles/Chapter Indexing) with uploading of full-text articles in pdf/html format SERIALS Control System for Subscription with Auto-Generate Schedule Budget Modules with Bill Register Generation, manages Multi-Budget Head Import Data from any structured Source (MARC21/EXCEL) Well exhaustive Web Based OPAC Interface with separate Membership module Multi-copies of Accession No can be accessioned in bulk with single click with Auto-Accession Number. Manages e-Books with digital files in pdf or other formats, provides facilities of e-Book Viewer. Photo Gallery available for uploading photo and pictures of the organizations - published on the Library Web site. Manages Meta data for Non-Book Materialas also.  Includes database fields for Legal documents thus equally suitable to Law Libraries also. Rolling Out Services NIC has empanelled agencies under National Informatics Centre Services Inc ( NICSI ) - a Section 25 company under National Informatics Centre, DeITY, MCIT, Government of India. These agencies are selected based on Tender and empanelled for Rolling Out various Services of e-Granthalaya Software. These services includes Implementation of e-Granthalaya Software, on-site training, data entry, data migration and support services, etc The rates and Terms & conditions are listed in the pdf documents here ..  Any Government organization who wish to avail rolling out services from NICSI for e-Granthalaya software may need to contact NICSI and request them to send 'Perform Invoice PI)' in your name. Request for PI may be sent to nicsi-pi@nic.in .  Payment has to be made to NICSI Only and not to the empanelled agency and then NICSI will release work order in favour of one Agency of your choice. Agency will do the job and will get completion certificate from users for getting payment from NICSI. e-Granthalaya team will provide technical support for software. 1. M/s/ Total IT Solutions Pvt Ltd, WZ 248, Plot No.7, Inder Puri, New Delhi-12. Ph. 011-25836316. Contact: Ms Puja Mitra (09350277031). puja@totalit.com   NICSI may be contacted for getting Proforam Invoice: http://www.nicsi.nic.in Email: pi-nicsi@nic.in eG News Images Training Announcement * 2-Days Workshop on e-Granthalaya Software At BSF Academy, Tekanpur, Gwalior, MP during 25-26 May 2015 Downloads Download latest eG3 LAN Client Program Update for 32 bit PC(Rev. 26: 19-May-2015) Download latest eG3 LAN Client Program Update for 64 bit PC(Rev. 26: 19-May-2015) Download Data Migration tool from Excel to eGranthalaya (eG3) Download Crystal Report for 64 bit Processor Download SQL Server 2005 Express Edition Service Pack 3 for Windows 7, 64 bit Processor Download SQL Server 2005 Express Edition, 32 bit Processor Download eG3 Web OPAC (Rev.11, Date: 29-Sep-2014) Download Barcode Fonts .NET Framework 2.0 for 64 Bit PC .NET Framework 4.0 for 64 Bit PC Live Web OPACs Anand College of Engineering and Management, Kapurthala, Punjab(eG3) Archival Library, Bapu Bhavan, UP Secretariat, Lucknow, UP(eG3) AP Public Libraries Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, Punjab (eG3) Botanical Suvey of India Libraries Network (eG3) CBSE Library Deptt of Food and Public Distribution, MOFPD, GOI Election Commission of India (ECI) Gauhati High Court Library Govind National College, Narangwal Haryana Civil Secretariat Library Himachal Pradesh Secretariat Library, Shimla (eG3) ICAR Library (eG3) J & K Public Library System JNV, Morigaon, Assam(eG2) Kendriya Vidyalaya, Mankhurd, Mumbai Kendriya Vidyalaya, Mehsana Kendriya Vidyalaya, Khadki, Pune, MS Kendriya Vidyalaya, ONGC, Surat Kendriya Vidyalaya, ONGC, Surat- News NIC Services Kendriya Vidyalaya, NHPC, Sainj Kullu, HP Kendriya Vidyalaya, Bhandup, Mumbai Kendriya Vidyalaya No.1 salt Lake, Kolkata Kendriya Vidyalaya, Mehsana, Gujrat Mahant Darshan Das Mahila College, Muzaffarpur, Bihar MP Council of Science and Technology (MPCOST), Bhopal, MP MIMIT Library, Malaout, Punjab Ministry of Water Resources, GOI(eG2) Ministry of Earth Science Ministry of Finance, Government of India (eG3) National Science Library, NISCAIR (eG3) NIC Libraries Network (eG3) National Informatics Centre - Andhra Pradesh NEC, Shillong (eG3) National Foundation for Communal Harmony (NFCH), New Delhi (eG3) National Institute of Siddha, Chennai NIELIT, Agartala, Tripura Nepal Bharat Library, Kathmandu, Nepal Rajya Sabha Secretariat (GOI) Library Sanskrit Libraries (RSkS)-(eG3) Secretariat Library / Vidhan Saudha, Government of Karnataka-(eG3) SIPARD, Agartala, Tripura Dr Shri Krishna Institute of Public Administration, Ranchi, Jharkhand State Central Library, Shillong Tripura Commission for Women, Agartala, Tripura Tripura High Court, Agartala, Tripura UP Secretariat Library, UP Government, Lucknow(eG3) Zoological Survey of India Libraries Network (eG3) Read Articles Engineering Colleges in Maharashtra State with special reference to Library Automation: A Survey. / By Santosh Dnyanobarao Kadam. e-Library Science Research Journal. vol2(2), Jan 2014. SQL Server 2005 Express Edition Overview <