Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> About Us >> Awards Awards DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category DHAN Foundation bags Jindal Prize 2011 DHAN Foundation bags Jindal Prize 2011 for its contributions in rural development and poverty alleviation. Read More...   DHAN Foundation wins the India NGO Award, 2009 DHAN (Development of Human Action) Foundation, an NGO based in Madurai was awarded the India NGO award, 2009 by Mr. Mukul Wasnik, Honourable Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment. The award was conferred on 17th September, 2010 at the award ceremony organized at New Delhi. Read More...   'Best NGO' by Ministry of Tourism and Culture, Govt. of India under the National Tourism Awards 2008-09 DHAN (Development of Human Action) Foundation, was awarded as the 'Best NGO' by teh Goverment of India, Ministry of Tourism and Culture under the National Tourism Awards 2008-09 for its contribution in promoting rural tourism. Read More...   Manthan Award 2008 for Community Broadcasting at South Asia level Kalanjiam Community Radio promoted by DHAN Foundation was awarded the prestigious Manthan Award 2008 for Community Broadcasting at South Asia level. Read More...   DHAN bagged award from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development consequently for 3 years for its highest SHG-Bank linkage .   DHAN Foundation has received Tourism Award from the The Hindu, as part of Discover-India-Enchanting Tourism event 2008, as an honour for the contributions of DHAN towards promoting endogenous tourism.   DHAN Foundation has received Aram Award 2004 instituted by the Shriram Ilakkiya Kazhagam, The award is given to those who follow the teachings of saint-poet Thiruvalluvar.   Smt. Chinnapillai, the grassroots leader promoted and nurtured by DHAN was awarded the Stree Sakthi Puraskar in 1999 by the Government of India. She was also awarded "Jankidevi Bajaj Puraskar-2007" by the Ladies Wing of Indian Merchants Chamber, Mumbai and the Tamil Nadu Government awarded her - Porkizhi in the same year. She was subsequently awarded Doordarshan Podhigai award for meritorious social service in 2007. ﻿ news & events Inviting Applications from qualified Post Graduates and Professionals to pursue 2 years Post graduated in Development Management (MBA) Development Management programme in Community Radio, June 5-7, 2015 SBI Youth for India fellowship applications now open : DHAN Foundation is a partner of the SBI Youth for India fellowship program 2015-16. The program aims at providing opportunity for the young professionals to enjoy a life with grassroots. It would help them to unleash their skills and knowledge on various development activities for the betterment of the rural communities. To find out more about the programme please click.. DHAN Foundation has been chosen as one of the top 20 for the RISK AWARD announced by United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Reduction (UNISDR), Global Risk Forum (GRF Davos), and Munich Re Foundation. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 Walkathon 2015 Photos of DHAN Collectives More News >> support us Development of Humane Action (DHAN) stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved Back to Top