Travel to Bomdila: Destinations, Hotels, Food, Transport and Tour Guide Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Travel to Bomdila   Arunachal Pradesh अरुणाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Arunachal Pradesh Map Tawang city map Itanagar city map Naharlagun city map Along Map Ziro Map Districts of Arunachal Pradesh Roads Rivers Tehsils Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Places to visit in Arunachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Sports in Arunachal Pradesh Ita Fort in Arunachal Pradesh Ganga Lake in Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Location Physical Map Arunachal Pradesh Forest Map Lat Long Geography Handicrafts Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels Government & Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Arunachal Pradesh History Arunachal Pradesh Mineral Map Society Information Economy Pin Code       Travel to Bomdila Bomdila Tourism Facts and Figures Languages Arunachali, Hindi, Assamese and English Best time to visit April-October STD Code 37833 THE TOWN OF BOMDILA The small town of Bomdila is perched amongst the panoramic settings of the lofty ranges of the eastern Himalayas. It is a remote destination and like few other Indian towns, it has escaped the virtual tourist invasion in recent times. Bomdila is known for its scenic environs along with its Buddhist monasteries and apple orchards. It also attracts the adventure seeker with its numerous trekking trails. LOCATION Bomdila is located in the northwestern part of the state of Arunachal Pradesh, in the northeastern region of India. It is set amongst the mighty Himalayas at an altitude of 2,530 m above sea level. The weather in Bomdila is alpine. Summers (April-June) are short and mild, while winters are cold (November-February). It experiences rainfall between July and September. THE PAST The origin of Bomdila is lost in time. It was a part of the kingdom of Tibet in medieval times. Local tribal rulers and rulers from Bhutan generally ruled it from time to time. The Ahom rulers of Assam did not interfere with the local tribes except for retaliatory raids into the tribal territory.The British had declared this area of Arunachal Pradesh as off-limits in 1873. The area has remained a cause of disagreement between India and China since India gained independence in 1947. China invaded the area around Bomdila in 1962, but later withdrew its troops from the area. TOURIST SPOTS Bomdila is the headquarters of the West Kameng district of the state of Arunachal Pradesh. Bomdila offers to the tourist panoramic view of the awesome Himalayan terrain with its snow-covered summits. It is famous for its apple orchards and travelers can take a walk through them. It also has a couple of Buddhist monasteries or gompas. The area around Bomdila has a number of trekking and hiking trails that attracts the adventure seeker. SITES NEARBY The small town of Tawang is located north of Bomdila and the journey from Bomdila to Tawang takes the traveler through some breathtaking mountainous terrain. Tawang is perched at a height of over 3,400 m above sea level, and is world-renowned for its 400-year-old Buddhist monastery. The origin of this monastery can be traced to the mid-17th century and is an important Buddhist center of northeast India. SHOPPING Bomdila is also known for its crafts. The main craft center within the town is known for producing exquisite woolen carpets and traditional masks. Travelers hunting for souvenirs can buy traditional craft items from the main craft center or from various shops around the town. HOW TO REACH Bomdila is located in a remote part of India. It does not have an airport or railway station of its own. It is connected by road with other towns in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam. Bomdila can be reached from the town of Tezpur by local bus or shared jeep. PLACES TO EAT Tourists can relish traditional Tibetan food like momos and thoopa in Bomdila. INFORMATION TIT BITS Foreign travelers visiting the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh must obtain a Restricted Area Permit from the Foreigner's Regional Registration Offices in Delhi [Arunachal Bhavan, Kautilya Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi (Ph: 011-3013915)], Mumbai (Bombay), Chennai (Madras) and Calcutta [Arunachal Bhavan, 4B Chowringhee Place, Calcutta (Ph:033-2486500)] in order to visit Arunachal Pradesh. Permits are generally valid for 10 days. Permits can also be applied for at any overseas Indian consulate. These permits are checked at the airport and their photocopies have to be submitted in the local hotels while checking in for routine local police verification. Last Updated on : June 7, 2014 Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Travel to Along Travel to Bhalukpong Travel to Bomdila Travel to Itanagar Travel to Tawang Travel to Ziro Places to visit in Arunachal-pradesh Places to visit in Itanagar Places to visit in Tawang Places to visit in Ziro             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule