Arunachal Pradesh Government and Politics Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Arunachal Pradesh Government and Politics   Arunachal Pradesh अरुणाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Arunachal Pradesh Map Tawang city map Itanagar city map Naharlagun city map Along Map Ziro Map Districts of Arunachal Pradesh Roads Rivers Tehsils Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Places to visit in Arunachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Sports in Arunachal Pradesh Ita Fort in Arunachal Pradesh Ganga Lake in Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Location Physical Map Arunachal Pradesh Forest Map Lat Long Geography Handicrafts Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels Government & Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Arunachal Pradesh History Arunachal Pradesh Mineral Map Society Information Economy Pin Code       Arunachal Pradesh Government and Politics Arunachal Pradesh government and politics is avidly followed by everyone interested in the state of Indian politics. Arunachal Pradesh is an extremely significant border zone and therefore Arunachal Pradesh government and politics is of grave significance to the holistic betterment of the Indian state. The national parties dominate the Arunachal Pradesh politics, whereas a unicameral legislative along with a modest but highly effective council of ministers look after Arunachal Pradesh government. Arunachal Pradesh Government Arunachal Pradesh government involves the functions of a unicameral legislative body. The legislative council is formed of 60 members of the legislative assembly. They are the very center of the government and politics of Arunachal Pradesh. The governor Nirbhay Singh is the legislative head of the state and Nabam Tuki is the Chief Minister. The executive of Arunachal Pradesh also includes a council of ministry with 11 cabinet ministers. Various secretariat and directorate wings smoothly carry out the functions of the various government departments. They are also involved in the planning and the execution of various government projects in the state of Arunachal Pradesh. Arunachal Pradesh Politics Arunachal Pradesh politics is largely woven round the three parliamentary constituencies and the 60 state assembly constituencies of the state. Arunachal Pradesh politics involve the participation of many a national level party. Indian National Congress (INC) and Bharatiya Janata Party are the two most important national level parties in the state. There are not many significant state level parties in the state, excluding the armed outfits of certain fringe cessationist groups. Arunachal Congress is the biggest state level political party in Arunachal Pradesh. Last Updated on : September 15, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule