 Forum | Access Agriculture Skip to main content Access Agriculture Login | Register Home About us What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Sponsors Core sponsors Associates Contribute and make a difference Using this site How to use this website Submitting videos Translating videos Radio stations DVD packs information Useful technical information FAQ Contact us Forum Quotes Job Vacancies Awards User facts World map Video use Impact studies User login E-mail * Password * Create new account Request new password Languages English Français Custom FAQ Search All languages Adioukrou Adja Arabic Ateso Attié Bambara Bangla Baoulé Bariba Bassa Berba Bomu Buli Burmese Chichewa Dagaari Dagbani Dendi Dioula Ditammari Ebrié English Ewe Fon Frafra French Gonja Gourmantche Hausa Hindi Idaatcha Ife Indonesian Kabye Kannada Khmer Kikuyu Kiswahili Kpelle Krio Kusaal Lao Lobiri Luganda Lugbara Luo Malagash Mende Moba Mooré Nago Nepali Persian Peulh Fulfuldé Portuguese Runyakitara Sena Sisaala Spanish Temne Thai Twi Vietnamese Wolof Yao Yoruba Zarma Secondary menu Quotes Job Vacancies Awards Home Forum Quotes on videos and DVDs "I am very happy to read the details of the work being done by Access Agriculture. I congratulate you and your colleagues on this most valuable work, and wish you continued success." Prof M S Swaminathan , India   "Thank you so much for this excellent initiative which is greatly needed at this time!  It is initiatives like this that make me optimistic of the future of mankind on this planet!  I am writing from Samoa (Pacific islands) as part of the Education Department's SchoolNet Project where we are trying to find electronic resources to install on servers in our high schools' Learning Centres for our students." Nacanieli Tuivavalagi, SchoolNet Project, Samoa   "I have watched the videos on your Access Agriculture website. These type of videos are recommended for our students, especially at the end of training in agricultural colleges. It would be desirable to meet the rectors of universities and see how to crystallize this in situ knowledge in the memories of our students. Other relationships with the United Nations (FAO, UNDP and World Bank) should be developed, especially with regard to the very distinctive way of presenting knowledge in local languages on development." Gominan Osséni Séïdou, FAO, Benin   “Thanks, I have verified my account. I want to be part of this great team working towards sustainable agriculture in developing countries.” Alice Ruto, University of Nairobi, Kenya   “We are very happy that now there is the Arabic version of the "Fighting Striga" videos on the Access Agriculture website. We will share the content with as many relevant organizations as possible.” Khalid Ayoub, Ministry of Science and Communication, Sudan   “These images give us the visible answer to all information that we have heard and discussed during the farmer field school meetings. The DVD “Fighting Striga” needs to be shown in all those villages that have not attended the FFS activities, so that they also can see the different methods for controlling Striga.” Youssou Arama, Farmer Trainer, Thien-Doucourani, Mopti region, Mali   “I am a proprietor of Jezza Sustainable Organic Farm located 35 km from Kampala which is a startup farm in its second year of operation and found the resources on your Access Agriculture website valuable for our operation and the community around us – particularly the drip irrigation video has impressed and educated me and would really like to learn from your other videos.” Samuel Byamukama, Jezza Sustainable Organic Farm, Uganda   “The long awaited "Integrated Striga and soil fertility management" DVDs are being distributed in Nigeria to stakeholders who assist in airing programs to farmers and farmer groups in all the States where sorghum is an important crop and Striga and soil fertility are important constraints. Some 10,000 DVDs have gone to farmer groups, village Television centres, TV and Radio Stations, Research Institutes, ADPs, CBARDP`s cooperating farmers and villages groups, Sorghum Transformation Value Chain and interested partners who assist in not only showing the various modules but also take data and encourage discussions among rural farmers.” Dr. Hakeem Ajeigbe, ICRISAT, Kano, Nigeria   “For starters we looked at the [rice seed]bed preparation and transplantation combined together and the weed management part. These have been compressed into three minute videos, may not be as lovely as the original but getting them summarized is not a simple task. On the other hand we are using the videos as reference materials and we have also been trying to make out some JPEGS for soil fertility issues that can be put on the data bank to be accessed by the whole network of Community Knowledge Workers (CKW). We have not had the chance to show the whole video to the farmers but we are looking at providing these videos to some of the super CKWs (lead community workers) in the rice growing area in Gulu so that they can show this to the farmers.” Annette Bogere, Grameen Foundation, Uganda   “I am pleased to have seen this film as the producers in our village will start caring much better for their rice seed to obtain good crops. As such it has given us courage, we rice traders, to keep on buying paddy from them to resell, and this will give us joy.” Affoussath, trader, Oroukayo, Benin   "Some people asked to watch the video a second time, whereas still others wanted to have a copy of their own, so they can watch at their own convenience." Germain Zossoungbo, NGO Un Monde, Benin   “Farmers were excited to see what other countries do compared to their own methods and it was also an eye opener to see Asian farmers who have grown rice for centuries use simple methods of seed handling. Every sub-county where the video was shown had a resource center equipped with TV and video deck.” Robert Anyang, APEP, Uganda   “According to the facilitators, watching the videos on seed has stimulated them to start looking for local solutions to common problems that farmers face. It is by drawing on local knowledge that sustainable solutions can often be found at almost no cost. They did not say they are going to copy all what they saw, but they will apply the most essential.” Louis Béavogui, IRAG, Guinea Forum Quotes Job Vacancies Awards Sponsored by