Avenue Plants Manufacturer by Greenworld Nursery Andhra Pradesh India List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Greenworld Nursery Member Since : 2009 | Country : India Home Products Services Send Inquiry Blog Contact us Gardening Herbs, Garden Plant, Shrub Plant, Palms Plant, Indoor Trees Company Information we r the largest plants suppliers to all over india Company Facts Business Type : Manufacturer / Exporters / Service Providers / Wholesale Suppliers Year of Estd. : 1999 Company Turnover : Below Rs. 0.5 Crore Approx. No. of Employee : 20 - 50 Ownership : Individual (Sole proprietorship) Business Markets : all over india & abroad Website : http://www.greenworldnursery.net Featured Products/Services Avenue Plants Shrub Plants Ornamental Plants Landscape Plants Indoor Plants Garden Plants Fruit Plants Flowering Plants Grandis Palm Plants Our Blog Bambusa Plant- the symbol for good luck and prosperity [ 14-Nov-2014 ] Bambusa vulgaris or in common language called as the Golden Bamboo or the Buddha&rsquo;s Belly Bamboo is becoming a widely found plant in the gardens as well as in the homes. According to Feng shui, Bamboo has always been associated with good charms and for bringing in prosperity with them to the place of their establishment. &lt;a href="http://www.greenworldnursery.net/bamboo-buddha-belly.htm"&gt;&lt;b&gt;Golden Bamboo&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/a&gt; is another variety of the family bamboo. Though cultivated in the Indochina and in the Province of Yunnan in southern China, it ... Read More... How to get ficus starlight plants? [ 11-Dec-2014 ] When you need beautiful flora to decorate your house, then you need to get hold of the best nursery, for they have knowledge about all the plants, and sell them. A few plants can be grown with the seeds, but not all can be done so. You can craft the beautiful roses from the friends, but not the Ficus Starlight plants. When you want to grow such plants, it is apt to contact the nursery. The wholesale nursery can tell you all about the plants, and you need to check with them if the plant can survive in your locale. If you are a retailer, then considering too many things while choosing the wholesale nursery is ... Read More... Lawn Grass Suppliers offer better pastures [ 26-Dec-2014 ] If you have noticed some magnificent lawns of a luxury hotel, gardens or golf courses, chances are that you are admiring the well-kept space that is being maintained by professionals. The lawn grass suppliers are busy almost every time of the year as they keep good nursery to offer exciting pastures. Here is what you should know if you wish to get the best grass or alternatives to it. Now days eco-friendly alternative turfs are also preferred choices.&nbsp; Choose the right grass typeHopefully, you would have determined the need for the grass-a tennis court, mini-gold course, a garden restaurant or a cricket ... Read More... View E-Brochure Search Contact Details Mr. Gatti Venkateswaraswamy Primary Number : 08043693120 Telephone : +91-883-2454052 Fax No : +91-883-2453946 Mobile Phone : +91-9908240630,+91-9642113355 » More detail Hot Products » Adenium Hybrids » Aglaonema Plant » Alpinia Zerumbet » Avenue Plants » Bamboo Buddha Belly » Bambusa » Bauhinia Variegata Alba » Bismarckia Palm » Caesalpinia Pulcherrima » Champion Palm » Chlorophytum Comosum » Citrus Lemon » Cycas Revoluta » Excoecaria Cochinchinensis » Ficus Benjamina Black » Ficus Panda » Ficus Prestige » Ficus Starlight » Flowering Plants » Foxtail Palm View more products Other Products » Adenium Obesum » Aglaonema » Cannas Yellow » Dypsis Leptocheilos » Ficus Black » Furcraea Foetida Cv Striata » Graptophyllum Excelsum » Lantana Camara » Latania Lontaroides » Phyllostachys Aurea Holochrysa » Plants » Ravenala Madagascariensis » Xeranthemum » Yellow Cannas SERVICES WE OFFER » Landscape Designing Service Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com