Tools Trade Shows,Industrial Equipment Trade Fairs,Hand Tools Exhibition JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Tools & Equipment Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Tools & EquipmentTrade Shows Date : 21 Jun - 24 Jun 2016 Maintain-Germany -  Germany Maintain-Germany 2015 is the european trade fair for the maintenance industry. the exhibition presents an international range of the key areas of inspection, maintenance, repair and optimization of machinery, equipment and technical.... Venue : Muenchner Order Center (MOC) ,Munich Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Jun - 19 Jun 2015 Western Canada Farm Show -  Canada Agricultural Equipment Trade Show specializing in Dryland Agriculture, Livestock Equipment, Agricultural Chemicals, Farmstead Products and Services Venue : Evraz Place Canada Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Dec - 11 Dec 2015 Mda India -  India World of Industry INDIA 2015, will be demonstrating complete range of products and services, from Hydraulics and Pneumatics to Electro-Mechanical Transmission, automation components to process and factory automation systems, materials handling.... Venue : PRAGATI MAIDAN ,Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Oct - 24 Oct 2015 Moldagrotech-Moldova -  Moldova, Republic of Moldagrotech would focus on the huge untapped potential of the Moldova market for agricultural products and technology in the emerging sectors of dairy, poultry, fruits and vegetables, especially in view of the approaching WTO deadlines. Venue : I.E.C. Moldexpo ,Chișinău Moldova, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 11 Jun 2015 Automation Technology Expo East -  United States Exhibiton on the latest advances in automation including adhesives/dispensing equipment, assembly systems, custom automation, control software/hardware, materials handling, motion control, robotics, sensors, vision inspection systems. Venue : Jacob K. Javits Convention Center ,New York United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Nov - 19 Nov 2015 ATX South -  United States Your gateway to the Southeast's advanced manufacturing marketplace, ATX South features leading suppliers of custom automation/assembly systems, robotics, vision inspection systems, control software and hardware, sensors, motion control,.... Venue : Orange County Convention Center ,Orlando United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Oct - 16 Oct 2015 IFEX : International Flower Expo Tokyo -  Japan IFEX : International Flower Expo Tokyo 2015 is asia's largest and most significant business-generating trade venue in the industry. flower and garden industry professionals such as florists, garden centers, home center buyers, wholesalers,.... Venue : Makuhari Messe Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Jul - 28 Jul 2016 QME-Queensland Mining & Engineering Exhibition-Australia -  Australia QME-Queensland Mining & Engineering Exhibition-Australia is the largest regional event in the heart of the coal mining area, exhibiting products and services for the mining mineral processing, power generation, sugar processing and metal.... Venue : Mackay Showgrounds ,Mackay Australia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Mar - 09 Mar 2017 Asia Pacific Sourcing -  Germany Asia-Pacific Sourcing - International Exhibition for Home and Garden Products from far east. The event is a separate platform presenting Asian products from the house, garden and leisure sector. Venue : Exhibition Centre Cologne Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Mar - 08 Mar 2016 International Hardware Fair -  Germany The leading global trade fair for the hardware and DIY industry. Impressive organisation of the trade fair to cater for market and visitor interests from the international hardware and DIY industry. Venue : Exhibition Centre Cologne Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Mar - 05 Mar 2016 International Power Transmission Expo -  India International Power Transmission Expo (IPTEX 2016) will be marketed through broad and sound marketing and communication techniques. Our communication and publicity strategy will ensure relevant and serious business visitors from across the globe..... Venue : Bombay Exhibition Centre ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Sep - 25 Sep 2015 FEBRAVA 2015 -  Brazil 19th International Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, Ventilation, Heating and Air Treatment Fair.  Febrava-Brazil 2015 will be the largest generator of business and information, the fair will offer tools to expand.... Venue : Imigrantes Convention Center ,SP Brazil Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Nov - 27 Nov 2015 HVACR Indonesia 2015 -  Indonesia The one and only dedicated exhibition on heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, air-filtration & purification & refrigeration systems in indonesia. Venue : Jakarta International Expo ,Jakarta Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Sep - 15 Sep 2015 (CWE) Cutting & Welding Equipment Expo -  India Cutting & Welding Equipment Expo is a leading business event on Cutting/Welding Equipments, Consumables and Accessories. The event is an ideal B2B platform for entrepreneurs, CEO\\\'s, consultants, senior government officials, decision makers and.... Venue : Bombay Convention & Exhibition Centre ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 23 May - 25 May 2015 18th East Africa International Trade Exhibition 2015 -  Tanzania, United Republic of This is the 18th EAITE on Industrial equipment and machinery, is the largest trade show in Tanzania, as it is the hub of the vast East African market. This exhibition attracts exhibitors from more than 30 countries and visitors from all over East &.... Venue : Mlimani Holdings Limited ,Dar es Salaam Tanzania, United Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 May - 15 May 2015 Sviaz-Expocomm 2015 -  Russian Federation International Exhibition of Telecommunications, Navigation Equipment, Control Systems and Information Technologies. “Sviaz Expocomm” in the largest International Exhibition and Conference in Russia and Eastern Europe for.... Venue : EXPOCENTRE ,Moscow Russian Federation Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 May - 11 May 2015 Guangzhou Int'L Garden Machinery Fair -  China Guangzhou Int'L Garden Machinery Fair 2015 is one of the leading fair which is providing common international business opportunities for the related industries and related professionals and show will there showing quality products. Venue : China Import and Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,Guangdong China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 May - 09 May 2015 18th Kenya International Trade Exhibition 2015 -  Kenya This is the largest international trade exhibition in Africa for industrial equipment and machinery, in Nairobi, Kenya at the KICC. Exhibitors and trade visitors are said to increase by 40% respectively at the 18th edition of the Kenya International.... Venue : Kenyatta International Conference Centre ,Nairobi Kenya Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 May - 07 May 2015 Glassman Europe -  France Glassman Europe is the leading exhibition of industrial–scale primary glassmaking equipment and service. With a wealth of new features for 2015, including local site visits and the 'Innovation Zone' to view new product presentations.... Venue : Cite Centre de Congres France Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 29 Apr - 01 May 2015 Mini India Show 2015 -  Nepal Relations between India and Nepal have traditionally been close since ancient times as a result of geographical location and common religious, linguistic and cultural identities that overlap the two countries. India contributes to the development.... Venue : Bhrikuti Mandap ,Kathmandu Nepal Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 23 Apr - 24 Apr 2015 Fastener Fair India -  India Fastener Fair India is part of the Fastener Fair series of trade exhibitions targeting fastener and fixings industry in selected markets, with Fastener Fair Stuttgart in Germany being the international flagship event. The exhibition covers a wide.... Venue : Bombay Exhibition Centre ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Apr - 17 Apr 2015 MTA Metal Asia -  Singapore MTA MetalAsia 2015 is the largest international exhibition of machine tools, precision engineering, metalworking and manufacturing technology in the asean region.mta will focus on the technology and quality required to machine parts and.... Venue : Singapore Expo Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Mar - 20 Mar 2015 Automation World -  Korea, Republic of Automation World is a combination of two shows, ‘aimex’ and ‘Korea Vision Show’ The event is now in its 26th year. Originally launched as KOFA (Korea International Automation System Exhibition), Automation World was the first ever.... Venue : Coex ,Gyeonggi Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Mar - 14 Mar 2015 Aahar International Food Fair -  India Aahar 2015 - 30th AAHAR The largest fair on Food & Hospitality Sector in India. This will cover two separate but concurrent exhibitions. Hospitality India covering Hotel & Restaurant Equipment and Supplies and Food.... Venue : Pragati Maidan, Hall No. 7-12A ,Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Mar - 09 Mar 2015 Beauty Trade Special -  Netherlands Beauty Trade special is the trade fair for the personal care industry. Visit the exhibition for the latest beauty news, advice on treatments and smart entrepreneurs tips. Venue : Jaarbeurs Utrecht ,Dutch Netherlands Book Your Stall General Inquiry