Plastic Industry Trade Fair,Plastic Products Exhibition,Plastic Trade Shows,India JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Plastic & Plastic Products Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Plastic & Plastic ProductsTrade Shows Date : 01 Mar - 03 Mar 2016 Plastics & Rubber Vietnam -  Viet Nam Plastics & Rubber Vietnam 2016 is the 6th international plastics & rubber technologies and materials exhibition, show will is showcase threr quality plastics & rubber products, which is providing best place. Venue : The Saigon Exhibition & Convention Center (SECC) ,Vietnam Viet Nam Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Mar - 17 Mar 2017 Pro-Plas Africa Expo -  South Africa Pro-Plas Africa Expo - 2017 is the definitive packaging and food processing exhibition, which is providing an ideal platform for local and international exhibitors to network, exchange ideas, and display the latest products, information and.... Venue : MTN Expo Centre ,Bertsham ,Johannesburg South Africa Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Dec - 10 Dec 2015 FIRE RESISTANCE IN PLASTICS 2015 -  Germany Fire Resistance in Plastics is one of the comprehensive event in Germany. The exhibition will be attaract many visitors for different part of the world. A conference also will be held in conjunction with the event. Venue : Maritim Hotel ,Cologne Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 19 Jan - 23 Jan 2017 10th Plastivision India 2017 -  India 10th Plastivision India-Mumbai 2017 is One of the leading trade show on Indian plastics will prove to witness the development of the industry with latest technological in the country. 1500 Exhibitors. Participation of.... Venue : Bombay Convention & Exhibition Centre (BCEC.) ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 Nov - 07 Nov 2015 Plastics Philippines -  Philippines Philippines International Plastics, Packaging will once again reinforce its position as the only one professional exhibition to evaluate profitable investment decisions in Plastic, Printing and Packaging equipment as well as technology.... Venue : SMX Convention Center Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Jun - 16 Jun 2016 Argenplás-Argentina -  Argentina Argenplas was without doubt the world's largest gathering for business, and for the plastic industry. It is performed in Argentina every two years for all the Spanish speaking countries, which is why it deserves to host the 3rd Congress of.... Venue : Ciudad Universitaria ,Buenos Aires Argentina Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Nov - 21 Nov 2015 Plastics & Rubber Indonesia -  Indonesia Plastics & Rubber Indonesia is now the only dedicated plastics and rubber event in Indonesia with the sole focus of serving the needs of those industries. Now in its 28th edition Plastics & Rubber Indonesia is well known and.... Venue : Jakarta International Expo Kemayoran ,Jakarta Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jul - 12 Jul 2015 Plastpack East Africa -  Kenya Plastpack East Africa 2015 is the specialized industry trade show for plastics and rubber industry promises to be an excellent platform to forge business alliances, showcase your products and services and interact with east african traders with.... Venue : Kenyatta International Conference Centre ( KICC ) ,Kenya Kenya Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 May - 08 May 2015 FEIPLASTIC (BRASILPLAST) 2015 -  Brazil Brasilplast is a unique opportunity for you to consolidate your corporate image, expand your market penetration and reap the profits of an expanding market in a reviving economy. Venue : Parque Anhembi ,Sao Paulo Brazil Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 29 Apr - 01 May 2015 Mini India Show 2015 -  Nepal Relations between India and Nepal have traditionally been close since ancient times as a result of geographical location and common religious, linguistic and cultural identities that overlap the two countries. India contributes to the development.... Venue : Bhrikuti Mandap ,Kathmandu Nepal Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 Feb - 10 Feb 2015 Plast-india 2015 -  India Plast India (International Plastic Exhibition and Conference), exhibition on Plastic Technology, Machinery Product & Raw Material providing the latest and the best in plastic materials for all manufacturing and processing industries.... Venue : Exhibition Centre ,Gandhinagar ,Gujarat India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Feb - 05 Feb 2015 Plastimagen Norte 2015 -  Mexico PLASTIMAGEN Norte 2015 will be the business center of the plastic industry in the north of the country. Exhibitors will showcase the latest in technology, machinery and global solutions to industry-related professionals. Venue : Cintermex ,NL Mexico Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Jan - 17 Jan 2015 India Rubber Expo-Mumbai -  India The Indian Rubber Expo 2015 is a testament to the confidence and relevance of India's largest rubber body - the All India Rubber Industries Association AIRIA , the organiser of the India Rubber Expos Established in 1945, the AIRIA is.... Venue : Pragati Maidan ,Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jan - 13 Jan 2015 Arabplast 2015 -  United Arab Emirates ARABPLAST 2015- the FASTEST way to enter the vast MENA region’s plastics, petrochemicals and rubber industry. ArabPlast 2015 is envisioned to make better business sense to the participants who are giving shape to a better world. The.... Venue : Dubai International Convention & Exhibition Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jan - 13 Jan 2015 Arab Plast - Dubai 2015 -  United Arab Emirates Arab Plast - Dubai 2015 is traditionally known for its wide reach among the middle eastern markets through its comprehensive display of innovative solutions for the plastics & rubber industry. no wonder it is now firmly established as the.... Venue : Dubai International Convention & Exhibition Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jan - 10 Jan 2015 Indian Medical Devices & Plastics Disposables / Implants Industry 2015 -  India With Special Focus On - Medical Polymers and Processing - Device Manufacturing - Market Trends & Export Marketing - Regulations - Technology - Research & Market Developments - Packaging & Sterilization Professional Attendees - Medical Device.... Venue : Ahmedabad Management Association ,Ahmedabad ,Gujarat India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration « Prev 1 Next » Trade Shows by Month May 2015 Jun 2015 Jul 2015 Aug 2015 Sep 2015 Oct 2015 Nov 2015 Dec 2015 Jan 2016 Feb 2016 Mar 2016 Apr 2016 Trade Shows by Country Argentina Australia China Germany France India Italy Japan South Korea Mexico Russian Federation United Kingdom United States WELCOME GUEST Join Us! Its Free or Sign In For Supplier For Buyers Create your catalog FREE Suppliers... Get listed in our catalogs, advertise your products to thousands of buyers worldwide, and much more! Advertise FREE Get listed in our catalogs, advertise your products to thousands of buyers worldwide, and much more! Read More Post your Buy Requirement Get instant detailed quotes from pre-verified Suppliers Search Products / Suppliers Send inquiries directly to the Manfacturers/suppliers Read More General Links Home Contact Us Sitemap Help About Us Feedback Terms of Use Testimonials Advertise with Us Disclaimer Resources Email this Page Bookmark Page Make EI Home Page Trade Tool Kit Buy Offers Post Buy Requirement Post Products - FREE Services Directory Business Services Real Estate Tours & Travels Employment Services Matrimonials Services Business Directory Manufacturers Exporters Suppliers Service Providers Web Design By WeblinkIndia.NET - ISO 9001:2008 Certified © Copyright 2015. All Rights Reserved. ExportersIndia.com