BAE Graduate School Application Process | Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering University Home About OSU Academics Faculty and Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Growing Oklahoma Search... Division Home Calendar Campus Map OSU Quicklinks Local Weather Menu           Division Home People Faculty (All) Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Resources CEAT Giving Page DASNR Giving Page CASNR Alumni Page OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation Hire OSU Grads BAE Newsletters OSU Job Search Employment Opportunities Student Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Degree Options Degree Sheets and Flowcharts Recruitment and Application Process Scholarships and Financial Aid Senior Design Projects Study Abroad Student Projects Student Links Graduate Student Welcome Graduate Programs Biomechanical Systems Bioprocessing and Biotechnology Environment and Natural Resrouces Food Processing BAE Graduate School Application Process Assistantships BAE Graduate Courses BAE Research Labs Graduate Student Links Accreditation Research BAE Research Labs Advanced Technology Research Center BioEnergy BioEnvironmental BioTechnology BioPhysical Properties Bioprocessing Lab Environmental Preperation FAPC Ground Water Machine Testing Machine Vision Research Shop Sensors Lab SPREC Welding and Engines class Wind Tunnel BAE Research Shop Bio Products and Energy Hydraulic Engineering OK-FIRE EPSCoR Extension Extension News Agriculture Machinery Systems AgWeather Applications Engineers BAE Fact Sheet Biobased Products and Energy Center OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Stored Products Research and Education Center (SPREC) Stormwater and Low Impact Development SUNUP Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Program News and Events News Events BAE Newsletters Publications and Outreach Impact Statements – April 2014 Archive Links Professional organizations American Society of Agriculturaland Biological Engineers North American Benthological Society American Society of Civil Engineers Energy Management Institute American Meteorological Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Automotive Engineers Collegiate organizations Alpha Epsilon ASABE student club ASABE Facebook page Cowboy Motorsports BAE Sites AGMACH$ Agricultural Machinery Systems Agweather BAE Extension fact sheets BAE Labs OSU Biobased Products and Energy Center Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit OK EPSCoR BREOI Oklahoma Mesonet OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Poultry Waste Management Stormwater and Low Impact Development Sun Grant Initiative – South Central Region Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Programs DASNR Sites DASNR OCES county office directory Robert M. KerrFood & Agricultural Products Center SUNUP CEAT OSU Sites OSU Home Hire OSU Grads News OSU Athletics Stillwater Resrouces Oklahoma Resources Oklahoma Departmentof Agriculture, Food, and Forestry Oklahoma Bioenergy Center Oklahoma Departmentof Environmental Quality Federal Resources Agriculture Research Service ARSGrazinglands Research Laboratory ARS, Conservationand Production Laboratory USDA U.S. Departmentof Energy – Bioenergy U.S. National Science Foundation U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency, Region 6 Other Resources Worldwide Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Directory The Environmental Working Group Microsoft Research Maps (formerly Microsoft Terra Server – satellite photos) Ground Water Protection Council, GWPC Center for Advanced Spatial Technologies, CAST Contact Us BAE Links BAE Home About BAE Archive People Undergraduate Resources Graduate Students Resources Research Extension News and Events Links and Resources Alumni Resources Contact Us BAE Graduate School Application Process Application Fee Waivers A limited number of application fee waivers are available to graduate applicants. To qualify, domestic students must have a GPA of 3.4 or higher in an engineering discipline, and international students must have a score of 160 or higher on the quantitative portion of the GRE test. To apply for an application fee waiver, sent your current resume and transcripts via email to melissa.s.moore@okstate.edu How to Apply Complete the Application for Admission at the OSU Graduate College website .   To complete the application, you will need to attach copies of transcripts from all colleges you have previously attended. You will also be prompted to enter TOEFL and/or GRE test scores and the names of three references.  As a part of the online application, you will be asked to upload your résumé or CV and and a one page personal statement of academic objectives. Through this application system there is no need to mail anything to the BAE department. If you have graduated with a B.S. in engineering from an ABET accredited program (most in the USA), we do not need a GRE. If you have graduated from a foreign university, GRE scores are not required but are helpful in evaluating applications. There is no minimum required GRE score. We only use the score together with your transcripts and references. However, we seldom grant foreign students financial assistance unless they report their GRE scores. The OSU TOEFL Institution Code is 6546 and the BAE Department Code is 99. The OSU GRE Institution Code is 6546 and the BAE Department Code is 1602. When to Apply Applications for admission to the BAE Graduate Program are processed as they come in. There is no deadline. We accept applications from US citizens and residents up to the first day of the semester. However, the sooner you apply, the better your chances of receiving financial assistance. Foreign students without visas are encouraged to apply three months before the start of the semester to allow for the time needed to obtain a visa after admission. The BAE Department does not respond to inquiries concerning the availability of financial assistance before a Graduate Application for Admission has been submitted. Admission Requirements Usually students with an B.S. degree from an ABET accredited Biosystems or Agricultural Engineering program (most U.S. programs) are admitted automatically if their grade point average is 3.0 or higher. Persons with a grade point average less than 3.0 will be considered, particularly if they have two or more years of professional engineering experience. Since BAE is a broad discipline, we look favorably on degrees from other engineering fields. Usually, persons with degrees in Mechanical, Civil, Environmental and Chemical Engineering are admitted without condition. Electrical and Industrial Engineering majors may be required to take one or more “make-up” undergraduate classes. Students with undergraduate degrees in closely-related scientific fields such as Chemistry, Geology, Mathematics, and Physics are also invited to apply for admission to our graduate program. Such applications are evaluated on an individual basis, and specific plans of study are developed for each student. Students with a Bachelor of Science who have already taken calculus through differential equations, physics, chemistry and biology will typically have two to four additional undergraduate engineering courses required in addition to their normal graduate work. We are a tradition-based engineering department. People with degrees in agriculture, the life sciences and biology-based biotechnology programs, who have not taken college level calculus, physics and at least some applied technology (electronics, fluid mechanics, material sciences, etc) will usually not be accepted. Graduates from three-year undergraduate programs (some foreign institutions) will not be accepted. Students with only a B.S. will be considered for the M.S. degree program. To be considered for the Ph.D. program, a student should have a MS. We do not generally allow a student to obtain a Ph.D. without obtaining a M.S. first. It is common for students who successfully complete their M.S. to be admitted to the Ph.D. program. Teaching and research assistantships are available to qualified applicants. In the past we have provided financial support to about 90 percent of new graduate students with engineering degrees from American institutions. Only about 10 to 20 percent of students with degrees from foreign schools are offered financial aid. The BAE department generally does not respond to inquiries concerning the availability of financial assistance before a Graduate Application for Admission has been submitted. Oklahoma State University - Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Home Accessibility Safety Legal and Trademarks © 2015 - Biosystems and Agriculture Engineering @ Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved