Places to Visit in Jammu and Tourist Destinations near Jammu Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Jammu & Kashmir Travel About Tourist Map How to reach Places to Visit in Jammu & Kashmir Vaishno Devi Sanasar Sudh Mahadev Temple Hemis Monastery Nubra Valley Hemis Wildlife Sanctuary Shanti Stupa Victory Tower Cities to visit in Jammu Kashmir Pahalgam Travel Amarnath Travel Ladakh Travel Katra Travel Patnitop Travel Leh Travel Jammu Travel Route Maps Jammu Amritsar Route Map Jammu Chandigarh Route Map Jammu Delhi Route Map Katra Vaishno Devi Route Map Jammu Sri Nagar Route Map Amarnath Yatra Route Map Hotels in Jammu Kashmir Hotels in Gulmarg Hotels in Katra Hotels in Patnitop Hotels in Pahalgam Hotels in Sri Nagar Hotels in Leh Ladakh Home » Maps » Jammu & Kashmir » Places to Visit in Jammu Places to Visit in Jammu Places to See in Jammu Jammu Category : History & Culture Jammu is a city that is considered as a paradise on earth. The city is divided into two parts old and new city. The city has a number of temples wrapped in age-old myths and quite a few forts and palaces. Sanasar Category : Nature As one of the wonderful hill stations in Jammu region, its name is taken from small local lakes 'Sana' and 'Sar'. This town is surrounded by huge conifer trees and has beautiful view. This place has achieved lots of tourist attention in recent times and provides an excellent spot for adventure sports. Bhaderwah Category : History & Culture Popularly known as "Mini Kashmir", the town is gifted with awe-inspiring views and charming beauty due to striking woodlands and gleaming streams flowing through different parts of the town. It also has many historical and religious places. Vaishno Devi Category : Religious Vaishno Devi hills, located in the north Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir, are famous all over the country for housing the Vaishno Devi Temple. This temple, being one of the holiest Hindu temples in the nation, is dedicated to Vaishno Devi, who is even known as Vaishnavi or Mata Rani. Apart from being the Mother Goddess, She is said to be the incarnation of Shakti. More... Patnitop Category : Nature One of the key hill stations in the region, it is famous for its adventure sports like skiing in winters and in summers it offers paragliding rides and picturesque picnic spots. Some other important places of interest in Jammu are: Ranbireshwar Temple Raghunath Temple Bahu Fort & Gardens Peer Baba Mahamaya Temple Lakshmi Narayan temple Amar Mahal Palace Sudh Mahadev temple Gauri Kund Mansar Lake Purmandal Travel Maps Amarnath Yatra Jammu and Kashmir Travel Map Jammu & Kashmir Wildlife Sanctuaries Vaishno Devi Tourist Destinations Near Jammu Amarnath Amarnath is the name of a mountain located in the state of Jammu and Kashmir in the northern part of the country of India. This Mount Amarnath is mainly famous for the Amarnath Caves, which are among the well known holy shrines of the Hindu religion. This shrine is more than 5,000 years old and is dedicated to Lord Shiva. This cave of Amarnath is located at an altitude of 3,888 m and is known for the ice lingams or formations situated within the cave. Earlier, the place was even called as 'Amareshwara' This temple in Amarnath is one of the holiest Hindu pilgrimages in India. Every year, during the months of July and August, the famous Amarnath Yatra takes place, when the place is visited by around 400,000 people. More... Gulmarg Gulmarg, the hill resort with mysterious meadows and mountains provides every reason for travelers across the globe throng here. The meaning of Gulmarg is 'the meadow of flowers',with snow-clad peaks and the wonderful landscapes. The royal and elegant slopes of Gulmarg have made it Asia's only heli-skiing resort. It is located in the Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir; at an altitude of 2730 meters. More... Srinagar The summer capital of the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar is one of the picturesque cities in the Indian subcontinent. Srinagar is not only famous for its places of worship, but also for its lakes, houseboats, dried fruits, Kashmiri handicrafts, and landscaped gardens. Lying in the Kashmir Valley, it is the biggest city in Jammu and Kashmir. More... Leh The former capital of the Himalayan monarchy of Ladakh, Leh is one of the popular tourist destinations in India. It lies in the center of the Leh district. Leh is famous for architectural wonders like the Shanti Stupa, Leh Palace, Leh Mosque and its magnificent landscapes. By area, it is the second biggest district in India following Kutch in Gujarat. More... Ladakh Ladakh is a part of the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir. Ladakh consists of two districts - Leh and Kargil. Leh is at an altitude of around 3505 m while Kargil is roughly at an altitude of 2750 m. Due to the strong influence of Tibetan culture on it, Ladakh is often called 'Little Tibet'. Ladakh has sparse vegetation. Fauna is generally similar to that found in the Central Asia, exception being the migratory birds coming from the warmer parts of India during the summer. More... Last Updated on : 4/09/2013 Hotels in Jammu and Kashmir Gulmarg Hotels Jammu Hotels Katra Hotels Leh Ladakh Hotels Pahalgam Hotels Patnitop Hotels Srinagar Hotels Travel to Jammu and Kashmir Travel to Gulmarg Travel to Katra Travel to Ladakh Travel to Leh Travel to Patnitop Travel to Srinagar Places to Visit Jammu and Kashmir Places to visit in Gulmarg Places to visit in Srinagar Places to visit in Katra Places to visit in ladakh Places to visit in Leh Places to Visit in Patnitop Flights to Jammu and Kashmir Flights to Leh Flights to Srinagar Travel Agents Katra Ladakh About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule