Is open field flower cultivation an attractive business? - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Is open field flower cultivation an attractive business? Home Is open field flower cultivation an attractive business? During the 1990’s, big capital intensive floriculture projects took off in India. Some of them like Karuturi have been a big global success. Many others faced enormous financial difficulties and struggled to repay their bank loans. But what about less capital intensive open field flower cultivation? Is there a future for cultivating flowers without repeating the mistakes of the 1990’s? We invited members to share their opinions in the AgricultureInformation.com forum about the prospects of less capital intensive open field floriculture. The Agri Experts participating in the discussion include: • Mr. G. Ananda Rao, Agricultural Finance Consultant • Mr. Atul R. Patwardhan, Floriculture Consultant • Mr. Ganesh Prajapat, Executive Director, ACI Agro Solution Benefits of Open Field Cultivation Mr. Ganesh Prajapat, Executive Director, ACI Agro Solution, says, “Open field cultivation is a good idea. The flower cultivation process must be clearly linked to the end user. There must be a clear chain of process like flower cultivation, storage, processing, product development and marketing. Most of the agriculture produce are perishable in nature, with flowers being highly perishable. Open cultivation should be directly attached to the storage and processing unit.” He adds, “In the open field cultivation,one must be clearly aware of the climatic condition. It is best suited in regions with minimum climatic variations, especially at the time of blooming. Flowers are the precious gifts of the nature that need extensive care. All the questions start and end with one problem: lack of proper training and guidance to the farmer. Risk minimization is very important for the open cultivation.” Mr. Prajapat briefs the primary factors for flower cultivation: • The farm must be near the wholesale and retail market. • The farm must have clear sunshine. • The farm must be located at well aerated place. • There must be refrigerated storage facility. • The flowers must reach the end customer easily within 6 hours. • The farm labor must be well trained. • The cultivation must be market oriented. • Diversification of flower cultivation is essential. • There must be diversification to generate regular income, seasonal demand flowers, essential oil extraction flowers, and export purpose flowers. “Floriculture has great export potential and can bring in foreign reserve,” adds Mr. Prajapat. Mr. Atul R.Patwardhan, Chintamani Consultancy and Services, too avers, “Cut flowers have good market potential. By exporting, cut flowers growers/exporters can earn good foreign exchange reserve,” adding, “Open cultivation flowers have short life span. So if we store them properly and use refrigerated vans for transportation, then we can increase their vase life.” Mr. G. Ananda Rao, Agricultural Finance Consultant, says, “Floriculture gives ample scope for economic development of farming community, and flower industry has very good prospects due to internal consumption and export potentiality,” adding, “Any farmer with a land holdings ranging from 5 cents to any extent can start floriculture depending on the marketing opportunities available in the nearby towns. If small and marginal farmers are going to take up cultivation of jasmine, crossandra, marigold, tube-rose, annual chrysanthimum and roses, besides others, they can earn their lively hood.” Open Field Cultivation AgricultureInformation.com member, Rajsekhar is planning to grow roses to meet the local demand during marriage seasons. “I would also like to know the ground work to be done. I have been to Kadiyam recently where severe power crisis effect can be seen with floriculture companies,” he inquires. Mr. Prajapat responds, “You have to first identify the end user of the flowers like the people involved in floor decoration, making the garlands, decorating the vehicles, and people having tent house business, besides others. This will give you an idea about the requirement. Then you can identify the peak marriage season. Your crop must be ready at that time for the flower plucking. You will have to work out on the post-harvest management like who will deliver the plants, and who will collect the flowers. After that you will have to find out about your financial situation such as what will be the costing and the returns. You should also find out how many types of the flowers they need. Then you have to identify the potential flower growing land for your cultivation.” Mr. C Karuppanan of Madurai, TN, asks, “Could you kindly explain the prospects of open field cultivation of rose, like, the type of rose, cost per acre, the financial return and more?” Mr. Rao says, “Depending upon the scope of marketing, farmers can start floriculture on their lands which are having irrigation facilities. Depending on the following soil and climatic conditions farmers can select flowers suitable to their local conditions: Roses • Soil Type – Well drained light soil • Temperature – Day time 30 degrees C , night time 15C • PH of Soil – 6.5 -7.5 • Open Field/Shade net/Poly House/green House – open field/shade net/poly house /green houses • Remarks: If export potential is available can be cultivated in green houses Gladiolus • Soil Type – Well drained Light, alluvial, black cotton soils • Temperature – Day time 25-43 degrees C , 16-18 night • PH of Soil – 5.5 -6.50 • Open Field/Shade net/Poly House/green House – Open fields • Remarks – Hilly areas are more suitable Carnation • Soil Type – Well drained fertile soils • Temperature – 5 – 18 degrees C • PH of Soil – 6.5-7.1 • Open Field/Shade net/Poly House/green House – Green House • Remarks – Throughout the year Chrysanthemum • Soil Type – All types soils , Sandy loam • Temperature – Up to 35 degrees C • PH of Soil – 6.2 – 6.7 • Open Field/Shade net/Poly House/green House – Field Cultivation • Remarks – Perennial Jasmine • Temperature – Up to 35 degrees C Marigold • Soil Type – All types of soils • Temperature – 18-35 degrees C • PH of Soil – 7.0 -7.5 • Open Field/Shade net/Poly House/green House – Open Fields • Remarks – Winter, summer, rainy season Giving his opinion on flowers suitable for less capital expensive open field flower cultivation, Mr. Atul R. Patwardhan, floriculture consultant, says, “Gladiolus and tuberose are the flowers suitable for least capital expensive open field flower cultivation.” ————————————————————————————————————————- G.Ananda Rao G.Ananda Rao B.Sc (Ag) , Agricultural Finance Consultant G.Ananda Rao is an agriculture graduate. He had served as Technical Supervisor in Tobacco Board and Agricultural Officer in Department of Agriculture, AP. He had also worked in different banks as Rural Development Officer and Agricultural Development Officer. According to him India has good growth prospects in floriculture. He says, “As the climatic conditions are favourable in our country cut flowers being exported to 87 countries valued at around Rs.500 Crores . There is ample scope for increasing employment, lively hood and foreign exchange.” He can be reached at – G.Ananda Rao, Vijaya Agro Consultant Native address-Mattaparru village, colony-bolletigunta, poduru mandal, west godavari district, 534265-AP, Cell-9703128495, Email-garao56@gmail.com ————————————————————————————————————————- Investment Required Member Nidhi Shivani who owns 3 acres of land in Mysore district in Karnataka asks, “Is floriculture profitable? Also I want to do something that is worth the investment.”  Mr. Rao informs about the capital requirement to start flower farm, “For open fields, the cost of cultivation will range from Rs. 20000 – 30000 per acre for flowers like roses, jasmine, crossandra, gladiolus, chrysanthimum, and marigold.” He adds, “Cost of poly houses/green houses will be Rs.3 lakhs per 100 sq mts (Rs.120 lakhs per acre). For raising rose flowers under greenhouse conditions in one hectare area requires (fixed and recurring) Rs.275- 300 lakhs.” Mr. Patwardhan says, “Farmers interested to start production of cut flowers must understand the basics of growing cut flowers. They should also make survey regarding market before starting the business.” Financing Speaking about financing, Mr. Rao says, “For cultivation of flowers like jasmine, marigold, roses, and tuberose (lily) on fields, financial help can be availed. Crop loans up are available (cost of cultivation is Rs.20000 to 25000 per acre) with hypothecation of flower crops with third party guarantee. Farmers can avail short term loans up to Rs. 3 lakhs with 9% interest with 2 – 3 % interest subvention.” “If cost of cultivation is more than 1 lakh for short term loans as well as for term loans, mortgage of land /vacant site/building etc are required with at least 125% value of the loan availed from Bank for new agricultural projects.” “They have to produce the following documents ascertain the unit cost of the project: 1. Ryot Pass books 2. Field Sketch 3. Computerized Adandal copy 4. Land Revenue receipts 5. Encumbrance certificate for 25-30 years 6. Legal Opinion (Bank’s empanelled lawyer) 7. Valuation report of the property (Bank’s approved valuer) 8. Estimates for developmental structures like ,Farm house,Godown,Workers quarters 9. Land development, minor irrigation requirements poly houses/green houses 10. Quotations for pump sets/Drip systems 11. Project Report” “Farmers have to bring 25% margin and ask for 75% of the unit cost as term loan,” he adds. Diversification from Traditional Crops Mr. Patwardhan feels floriculture business is good but it cannot be compared with regular cereal crops cultivation. He says, “Wheat and paddy are required by us during our day to day life and they are essential. So farmers must grow them on regular basis.” Mr. Prajapat shares a news item from The Daily Pioneer, where the center is asking the states to diversify from wheat and paddy since these crops require a lot of water resources. He says, “Floriculture is the major focus area for the diversification. The mild climatic conditions of these states can give very good return. ————————————————————————————————————————- Mr. Atul R.Patwardhan Atul R.Patwardhan Mr. Atul R.Patwardhan is Mechanical Engineer by education. His deep inclination towards agriculture and aspiration to help farmers motivated him to set up the proprietary firm, Chintamani Consultancy and Services in 2006 to provide consultation to farmers.  He says, “I feel that in India if farmers will grow, then & then only our country will grow. I like to provide appropriate knowledge to farmers. I work very transparently with farmers.” He feels India has good potential for Floriculture business. He explains, “The market is large. If farmers can produce good quality cut flowers, then the chances of earning money are good.” “I would like to convey the farmers or promoters who want to start Floriculture business that they should get into this business if they have interest in floriculture. They should be prepared to devote time to take care of the plants. If the business is made with great care, then production of cut flowers is a very good business.” concludes Mr. Patwardhan. Further information from – Mr. Atul R.Patwardhan, Chintamani Consultancy and Services, Chintamani, Patwardhan Baug, 21/22 Erandawane, Pune 411004, India, M- 08055751969 Email: chintamaniconsultancy@gmail.co m ————————————————————————————————————————- But the farmers are suspicious about the success of diversification. It will require a lot of new efforts, new technology, new knowledge, and new equipment. The farmers don’t know the technology for harvesting, storage and processing. The market is also a big problem for the diversification for new crop. “ Adding, he says, “Yes, it is true the farmers need the proper training. This will also open up employment opportunity for young agriculture graduates in the farming sector. The possibility of the new industry will open the gates of employment in other sectors also. The open floriculture as per the climatic condition will help farmers in the cost minimization and it will increase the profit of farmers.” Further speaking about government initiative, he adds, “Government is taking initiative to promote floriculture in India. Please go through the article below that was published in The Times of India for the same.” Mr. Patwardhan maintains though people sustained huge losses in floriculture in 1990’s, things are improving and people are willing to try floriculture again. “I have provided consultation to farmers for rose cultivation under controlled environment like poly houses,” Further replying to Mr. Karuppanan’s query, he adds, “For growing cut flowers under 1 acre poly house (medium tech ) – for cut rose the cots is Rs. 40 lacs, for gerbera it is Rs.47 lacs, and for carnation Rs.50 lacs .” Different Flower Cultivation Methods Mr. Rao informs all types of flowers like roses, jasmine, crossandra, tube rose, marigold, chaina aster, crossandra, heliconia, and chrysanthimim cut greens (filler plants like golden rods and asparagus) can be cultivated in fields. Cut flowers like roses, carnation, and gerbera are cultivated in poly houses and green houses. Mr. Patwardhan further explains the cultivation methods used for cut flowers. “Planting material can be cultivated on beds made up of soil and other required components, in the grow bags or in pots. Cultivation on beds made from soil and other required components is a better choice,” he says. He adds, “Selection of variety is very important. It requires lot of knowledge about the trends in market. So the variety is either suggested by the Project Consultant or by planting material suppliers.” Training Mr. Patwardhan stresses on training before taking up floriculture. “Training should be taken before starting the cut flower production. Training facility is available with Agriculture Colleges. Farmers cannot understand everything about cut flowers business in this training program. But they can get basic knowledge about cut flowers cultivation. Before starting the business farmers also should meet floriculture consultants and under their guidance they should carry out their projects,” he avers, adding, “Training can be had from existing floriculturists, farmers, nurseries, and research institutes.” ————————————————————————— Government to focus more on floriculture, horticulture: Sharad Pawar TIMES OF INDIA, 11/09/2012 Union agriculture minister, Mr. Sharad Pawar has said that the union government will divert its focus from food grain production to floriculture and horticulture, as farmers in India have produced more than enough food grains to ensure food security. Mr. Pawar was speaking at a function organized by the Rose society in Pune on Saturday. He said, “Farmers in our country have worked hard and as a result all government godowns are overflowing. In fact now the government has no space to store food grains. This year India has exported 40 lakh tonne rice, 30 lakh tonne sugar and 25 lakh tonne wheat to other countries. And still we have sufficient food grains in stock” He added, “We have succeeded in resolving the food security problem and now the government is diverting its focus from food grain production. Now India needs to concentrate on floriculture and horticulture. The government will help farmers to establish a chain of cold houses and encourage them to grow more flowers and fruits with international market in mind”.  “World over, the market for flowers and fruits is expanding. In over 600 billion dollar flower market, India’s share is minimal. Efforts will be taken to increase this share” said Mr. Pawar. He said that India stood second in the list of largest fruit and vegetable producing nations in the world. ——————————————————————————- Pros and Cons of Floriculture Speaking about the pros and cons of floriculture, Mr. Patwardhan says, “If the projects are done with care and if farmers are devoting their time in this business, then this is a good business. The flowers are delicate, so the cut flowers should be packed and transported with great care. The time required for transporting to the market should be minimum.” He adds, “Depending on the type of flowers to be cultivated the cost may range from few thousands (for SF/MF) to two to three crores for greenhouse cultivation (large farmers). In flower cultivation higher profits are generated after meeting all the expenses.” Mr. Prajapat lists the benefits of floriculture: • The market is developing and expecting a blast growth • There are both regular and seasonal demand • The production is more in comparison to the other field crops • 365 day employment opportunity • Duration of flowers cultivation is small in comparison to field crops • Domestic markets of flowers are strong • Export demand is also increasing • Maximum utilization of the land • Government is providing assistance for the same He says, “As per Assocham, the floriculture industry will cross the business of INR 8000 crores within 2015. The current business is only of INR 3500 crores. The market share of Indian floriculture industry in world is around 0.61 . Assocham is expecting this figure to go up to around 0.89.” “The current world business is 6 lac crores, which is expected to cross 9 crores within 2015 with a growth rate of 15%. Rose is having a major share in the world floriculture business by around 75%, while the Indian rose business is 65%. There is increase in regular demand from tier II and III cities.” “The major international markets are Australia, Germany, Greece, Italy, New Zealand, Netherlands, US, UK, and other countries of Europe and the Middle East and the major domestic market is Ahmedabad, Chandigarh, Hyderabad, Surat, Kanpur, Lucknow and Patna.”  “In this scenario, the floriculture business is really highly beneficial. One must start it with proper infrastructure so that the post-harvest loss can be minimized and make sure that the flowers are reaching at the final consumption point in excellent condition,” he adds. Our Correspondent To view comments and join this discussion visit http://bit.ly/U3lo0L Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles