Mizoram The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Mizoram Written by Administrator on 04 May 2014 . Posted in About North East Twitter INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES Mizoram, one of the youngest states in the Indian union consists of steep hill ranges, separated from one another by narrow valleys. The state shares national borders with Tripura, Assam and Manipur. It occupies an area of great strategic importance in the north-eastern corner of India as it shares a long international boundary with Myanmar (on the east) and Bangladesh (on the west). This provides it with a unique and distinct advantage of developing international trade with both the countries. Mizoram is predominantly an agrarian state. She has a rich reserve of resources which can be exploited for setting up various industrial units. The abundant availability of bamboo and a variety of horticultural crops can be a source of numerous advantages for the investors. Being the second most literate state in the country, it has the capacity of also becoming the most IT literate state in the country. In addition, the beautiful landscape and rich cultural heritage of Mizoram makes it an attractive tourist destination. Thus, there exists investment opportunities in several sectors of the state and the human resource also consists of hardworking, dynamic and enterprising people, which is an invaluable asset of the state. In order to attract investors, for ensuring the overall development of the State, the Government of Mizoram has taken up several policy measures and incentives. BAMBOO Mizoram has an abundant reserve of bamboo forest contributing 14% of the all India bamboo distribution. It has 20 bamboo species, of which Mautak is predominant and occupies 95% of the bamboo afforested land in the State. Bamboo is widely used in the state – To irrigate vast tracts of agricultural land To make dams, dikes, sluice gates, farm implements, props, stakes, floats fish trap, silk cocoon trays, chicken coops, windbreak barriers and other such articles To construct pillars, posts, stilts, rafters, roofs, floors and walls As an ideal material for earthquake resistant and emergency housing In handicrafts, furniture, handmade papers, handlooms, curtains, toothpicks, chopsticks, and incense sticks To make paper pulp, rayon and charcoal. The State Government of Mizoram invites investors for setting up of industrial units in all these areas, either in Joint Venture with Mizoram Bamboo Development Agency or with other local entrepreneurs. AGRO-HOTICULTURE Agriculture is the mainstay of the people of Mizoram with about 80% of the total population being engaged in it. The main pattern of agriculture followed in the state is ‘jhum’ or ‘shifting cultivation’. The climatic condition of the state and its location in the tropic and temperate zone has contributed to the occurrence of a wide variety of rich and assorted flora and fauna. It offers opportunities for growing a variety of horticultural crops – fruit crops like Mandarin Orange, Banana, Passion Fruit, Grapes, Hatkora, Pineapple and Papaya, flowers like Anthurium, Bird of Paradise, Orchid, Chrysanthemum and Rose, spices like Ginger, Turmeric, Black Pepper and Bird's eye Chillies. The natives have also started extensive cultivation of oil palm, medicinal and aromatic plants. All agri-horticultural output of Mizoram is of very high value in national as well as the international markets. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Mizoram has recognized IT as the fastest and the most advanced vehicle of change for all round progress and development of the state. Accordingly, the government is promoting widespread propagation of IT in the state through a well-defined policy framework for encouraging IT in the fields of e-governance, empowerment of the people and the society, education, industry, health, rural development, agriculture and tourism. The state strongly believes that this will help them to achieve the goal of becoming strong and prosperous. TOURISM Mizoram is a storehouse of natural beauty with an endless variety of landscape, hilly terrains, meandering streams, deep gorges as well as rich wealth of flora and fauna. The rivers, peaks, plains and the lakes are the treasures of Mizoram. With its abundant scenic beauty and a soothing climate, the state has tremendous scope for developing tourism related industries. The investment avenues in the tourism sector includes – Creation of adventure and wildlife facilities, eco-tourism, amusement parks and other entertainment units Hotels, lodges and health farms Travel agencies, tour operators and tourist transport services Convention or seminar centers. The Department of Tourism has also opened tourist lodges, wayside restaurants, recreational centre and a Picnic Hut for facilitating both domestic as well as international tourists. Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Comments Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS No comments found Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Twitter Feeds Tweets by @fineroffice Home About Finer What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com