JAWS Headquarters Skip to main content Search Search 1-800-444-4443    |    About    |      HOME PRODUCTS Low Vision Products Blindness Products Learning Systems Group Products SERVICES Training and Certification Other Services DOWNLOADS JAWS MAGic OpenBook WYNN EyeMerge Synthesizers Hardware Drivers SUPPORT Technical Support Software Activation Documentation Product Registration Product Videos Vision Loss Facts and Resources DEALER LOCATOR SHOP JAWS Headquarters Welcome to your one-stop resource for the world's leading screen reader, JAWS for Windows®. From this page, you can discover more about JAWS, quickly and easily navigate to a number of online resources, download updates, and learn valuable tips and tricks for using JAWS. What's New in JAWS 16 Software Activation JAWS 20th Anniversary Video , produced using contributions from users around the world and released in March 2015, 20 years after the first version of JAWS for Windows was released. JAWS Certification Program J-Say and Leasey , products to enhance the JAWS experience. TypeAbility , the world's best typing tutor for users of screen readers and magnifiers. SMA Renewal Access to Applications You Need With JAWS, you can work with Microsoft® Office®, including Word®, Excel®, Outlook®, and PowerPoint®; Internet Explorer®, Firefox®, Adobe® Reader®, Lotus® Symphony™ by IBM®, and more. JAWS is compatible with the latest Windows® operating systems, including touch screens and gestures on Windows 8. Access to MathML Content Rendered in Internet Explorer and Firefox MathML is a language for including mathematical content on web pages, enabling browsers to present math and science equations and formulas as they would appear on paper. JAWS provides spoken, natural-language descriptions of MathML expressions in Internet Explorer and Firefox using the same terms a teacher would use to explain them in a classroom. Students will benefit from hearing JAWS describe mathematical expressions as their teachers and peers do. Math expressions are also displayed with highlighting in the Math Viewer as they are spoken, so sighted teachers can assist students who are using JAWS to study math. Once JAWS is installed, you can immediately begin reading math and science content. You do not need to install any additional third-party software applications or plugins to use JAWS MathML support. MathML Examples Tandem with JAWS Tandem® lets you access another JAWS computer via the Internet so that you can provide hands-on technical support, write and distribute scripts from a distance, conduct remote JAWS training, or even just let two JAWS users in different places explore a new program together. Tandem support is included with every JAWS install, even the 40-minute demo. Surf's Up Training Surf's Up - A set of Freedom Scientific web pages that explain how to surf the web with JAWS screen reading software and MAGic screen magnification software. You will also find many new and updated exercises for practice throughout. You may also access a downloadable Surf's Up version for use when training off line. Online Training Free Webinars - Valuable for users at all levels Paid Webinars - More advanced training specific to Microsoft Office applications You can learn to use JAWS - from basic steps to more advanced - in the comfort of your home, office, or school dorm. New webinars eliminate travel expenses, making it easier to get approval to learn at work and to find time to train. RSS Feed on the Web Feeds on the web allow you to automatically receive updated information from your favorite websites. Just subscribe to the feed and then your Internet Explorer or other feed reader shows when there is updated content. Learn more about RSS feeds on the web and how to subscribe to and use them. International JAWS Note: A synthesizer that supports the given language is required for reading some of these pages with JAWS. Freedom Scientific European Website Japanese JAWS Website Sight and Sound Technology (UK) Karishma Enterprises for JAWS 9 with a RealSpeak SAPI 5 Hindi voice BUY NOW Brochure (PDF) System Requirements Documentation Success Stories Links and Related Sites ©2015 Freedom Scientific, Inc. 800-444-4443 727-803-8000 Contact Us GSA Advantage Accessibility Policy Conditions of Use Privacy Policy