Saanvi Organics - import-export of exotic fruits &Vegetables - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Saanvi Organics – import-export of exotic fruits &Vegetables Home Saanvi Organics – import-export of exotic fruits &Vegetables Engaged in import-export of exotic fruits and vegetables. Headquartered at Kolkata, West Bengal Saanvi Organics was established in 2011. The company is headquartered in Kolkata with its branch office in New Delhi. Mr. Gaurav Garg is the CEO of the company. He is an MBA in marketing and finance. Saanvi Organics is an import-export firm that deals in perishable produces. The range of products offered by the company includes fruits, flowers, vegetables and fresh herbs, which have readily available markets in hotels and retail stores. Under herbs, the company supplies basil, chive, and rosemary, besides others. Initial Research Speaking about the initial research done to establish the company, Mr. Garg says, “I was looking for some serious buyers for Indian herbs and learned about the huge market for this product. I concluded that if I wanted to export something, I have to jump into the fray and only then I will be useful for my group of farmers.” He adds, “My initial research was mainly focused on choosing the produces. I also tried to get maximum information about the cultivation practices of the same so that if needed, I am able to pass on the same to our Indian farmers. For example, asparagus, which has very good international market, is not grown by Indian farmers.” Challenges Faced The main challenge faced by the company was convincing farmers to start growing new products. “Finding new crops suitable for Indian climatic conditions was not easy. I tried to introduce them with Indian farmers but it did not work because they wanted quick turnover. I thought my hard work will go in vain and that’s why I turned to trading,” says Mr. Garg He informs, “I started with sending fresh mushroom samples to Australia. I sent samples 3 times but it was a waste of time. Next month I have plans to go to Australia. Then I will try to get it done. But still my vision is to see my Indian farmers opt for good crops of commercial grade, at par with their counterparts in other parts of the world.” He further adds, “We got our first break through in imports of asparagus. Now I am trying to spread my knowledge about orchards cultivation in North-East India which has very unique climatic conditions, best suited for orchids and some other spices. Now because I have proofs that I am importing these produces, I think farmers will have more faith in me.” Products Imported & Exported He adds, “Saanvi imports products from Thailand, Canada, Peru, and Chile. Now we are going to start importing from Australia and New Zealand, too. We import a huge range of products including fresh fruits like dragon fruit, rambutan, mangosteens, logan, and cherry, besides others.” The company also exports various other products. “We export vegetables like asparagus, galangal, kaffir leaf, and lettuces and fruits like dragon fruit to Vietnam, Sri Lanka and Thailand; Rambutan to Thailand; asparagus to Thailand and Peru; Cherry to Canada, USA, Chile, and Australia; Stone fruits to Canada, USA, Chile, Australia and New Zealand; and orchids cut flowers to Thailand.” He adds, “India has unique geo-climatic conditions. So here everything can be produced. We need the willingness of the farmers to try new products and the support of the government.” He further maintains, “There is a huge demand for agricultural produce in the international markets. A few young farmers have adopted some spices and they are really earning very handsomely every year. Their crops are over booked.” Future Plans The company plans to enter the retail market soon. “Right now I am doing imports and giving to very big whole sellers but within the next week I am entering into retails. We are to going to open retail shops dedicated for fresh produces only. Our trial shop is ready with infrastructure and will throw it open by next week,” informs Mr. Garg, adding, “Our target is to first increase our import from many more countries and then to initiate export of Indian produces.” He advises, “I will strongly recommend Indian farmers to adopt new crops suitable for Indian climatic conditions instead of going for new technologies. Technologies available right now are more than enough to achieve good crops. Hydrophonics can be a new milestone in urban or social farming.” Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr. Gaurav Garg, CEO,Saanvi Organics, Head Office – 74A, Amherst Row, Kolkata 700009 . Branch Office –  A-1139 , first floor,  New Azadpur fruit market, New Delhi    Tel : 9748462580    Email : saanviagriculture@gmail.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > Others > Saanvi Organics – import-export of exotic fruits &Vegetables Related – articles, consultants, downloads Lawrencedale Agroprocessing India You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water