Environment and Natural Resrouces | Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering University Home About OSU Academics Faculty and Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Growing Oklahoma Search... Division Home Calendar Campus Map OSU Quicklinks Local Weather Menu           Division Home People Faculty (All) Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Resources CEAT Giving Page DASNR Giving Page CASNR Alumni Page OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation Hire OSU Grads BAE Newsletters OSU Job Search Employment Opportunities Student Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Degree Options Degree Sheets and Flowcharts Recruitment and Application Process Scholarships and Financial Aid Senior Design Projects Study Abroad Student Projects Student Links Graduate Student Welcome Graduate Programs Biomechanical Systems Bioprocessing and Biotechnology Environment and Natural Resrouces Food Processing BAE Graduate School Application Process Assistantships BAE Graduate Courses BAE Research Labs Graduate Student Links Accreditation Research BAE Research Labs Advanced Technology Research Center BioEnergy BioEnvironmental BioTechnology BioPhysical Properties Bioprocessing Lab Environmental Preperation FAPC Ground Water Machine Testing Machine Vision Research Shop Sensors Lab SPREC Welding and Engines class Wind Tunnel BAE Research Shop Bio Products and Energy Hydraulic Engineering OK-FIRE EPSCoR Extension Extension News Agriculture Machinery Systems AgWeather Applications Engineers BAE Fact Sheet Biobased Products and Energy Center OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Stored Products Research and Education Center (SPREC) Stormwater and Low Impact Development SUNUP Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Program News and Events News Events BAE Newsletters Publications and Outreach Impact Statements – April 2014 Archive Links Professional organizations American Society of Agriculturaland Biological Engineers North American Benthological Society American Society of Civil Engineers Energy Management Institute American Meteorological Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Automotive Engineers Collegiate organizations Alpha Epsilon ASABE student club ASABE Facebook page Cowboy Motorsports BAE Sites AGMACH$ Agricultural Machinery Systems Agweather BAE Extension fact sheets BAE Labs OSU Biobased Products and Energy Center Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit OK EPSCoR BREOI Oklahoma Mesonet OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Poultry Waste Management Stormwater and Low Impact Development Sun Grant Initiative – South Central Region Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Programs DASNR Sites DASNR OCES county office directory Robert M. KerrFood & Agricultural Products Center SUNUP CEAT OSU Sites OSU Home Hire OSU Grads News OSU Athletics Stillwater Resrouces Oklahoma Resources Oklahoma Departmentof Agriculture, Food, and Forestry Oklahoma Bioenergy Center Oklahoma Departmentof Environmental Quality Federal Resources Agriculture Research Service ARSGrazinglands Research Laboratory ARS, Conservationand Production Laboratory USDA U.S. Departmentof Energy – Bioenergy U.S. National Science Foundation U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency, Region 6 Other Resources Worldwide Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Directory The Environmental Working Group Microsoft Research Maps (formerly Microsoft Terra Server – satellite photos) Ground Water Protection Council, GWPC Center for Advanced Spatial Technologies, CAST Contact Us BAE Links BAE Home About BAE Archive People Undergraduate Resources Graduate Students Resources Research Extension News and Events Links and Resources Alumni Resources Contact Us Environment and Natural Resrouces M.S. and Ph.D. programs are available in the Environment and Natural Resources area within the Department of Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering. Students engage in a challenging program of study and in original and innovative research in four main areas: hydrology and hydrologic modeling, subsurface flow and transport, and surface water quality and erosion. The department also assists students who want to pursue an interdisciplinary Ph.D. degree in Environmental Science. Because the Environment and Natural Resources program accommodates students from diverse backgrounds, specific courses and sequence of course work may be difficult to project. Generally, it can be stated that all students are required to develop significant expertise in one field, such as subsurface water quality or stream ecology, and to complement that expertise with studies in several other areas. This approach produces professionals that have both depth and breadth in Environment and Natural Resources. DEGREE REQUIREMENTS All plans of study will be tailored to the individual student based on their interests and the guidance of the graduate committee. M.S. students must complete 24 credit hours of course work and 6 credit hours of research including a thesis. A minimum of 36 credit hours of course work and 24 credits of research beyond the M.S. degree will be required for each Ph.D. student. The advisory committee must individually approve a student’s plan of study and research. This plan of study will typically include six core courses: BAE 5513, 6313, 6323, 6333, 6343 and 6520. These high-quality, advanced-level courses, taught by Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering faculty and supported by well-equipped laboratories, provide students with a strong background for addressing water problems. Additional courses from this department, the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources; the College of Engineering, Architecture and Technology; the Environmental Science Program; and other colleges may be used to complete the plan of study. Students initially take three to four classes per semester, completing major area and mathematics classes first. M.S. students generally take one and a half to two years to complete their programs. For Ph.D. students, who are expected to complete their programs in no more than three years, course work is usually completed by the end of the second year. No less than six months before the degree is granted, Ph.D. students take a qualifying examination. This comprehensive examination is both written and oral, covering the entire area of the student’s graduate study. In addition, M.S. and Ph.D. dissertations must be successfully defended before the advisory committee at the completion of the research program. Programs are available which have a non-thesis option. These programs must have additional hours of course work and a creative component including a written report. The creative component must be defended before the advisory committee at the completion of the research program. AREAS OF RESEARCH Hydrology and Hydrologic Modeling According to Federal water agencies such as USGS and SCS, include important areas of hydrology research, stormwater modeling, risk analysis and the incorporation of uncertainty into engineering designs. Potential research topics for graduate students include: Applying and testing Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and other information technologies in hydrologic models. Applying risk analysis to water resource design. Improving parameter estimation for hydrologic models. Characterizing model and parameter uncertainties. Applying microcomputer techniques to water resources studies. Analyzing water resources using stochastic and statistical variables. Subsurface Flow and Transport Ground water is an important source of drinking water and irrigation supplies. While questions concerning ground water supplies are generally well answered, concern is growing about protecting ground water from existing and possible future sources of contamination, particularly in the subsurface zone immediately above water supply. Potential research topics for graduate students include: Testing and modifying ground water models. Analyzing the transport processes of ground water contaminants. Interfacing ground water and soil-water models. Assessing field variability and macropore effects in solute transport. Assessing the variability and impact of soil properties within mapping units. Analyzing the transport and fate of agricultural chemicals. Developing new ground water instrumentation. Surface Water Quality and Erosion An estimated 6 billion tons of soil, more than 73 million in Oklahoma alone, are eroded each year in the United States. Closely associated with erosion is the entrainment and transport of land-applied chemicals, either by direct adsorption to sediment particles or by their transport in water itself. The combined importance of maintaining soil productivity and controlling nonpoint will continue to require professional expertise. Potential research topics for graduate students include: Analyzing detachment forces on bed materials. Analyzing the drainage network of rills. Characterizing rill movement due to headcutting. Modeling spatial uncertainties in surface flow parameters. Developing flow parameters for surface water quality. Incorporating GIS into water quality models. Designing decision support systems for manager of agricultural chemicals. Determining the impact of irrigation on water quality. Determining the impact of irrigation on the transport and fate of agrichemicals. EXAMPLE PLAN OF STUDY (Entering with M.S. in Biosystems Engineering, interests in hydrologic modeling) COURSES MATH 3013 Linear Algebra AGRON 4293 Plant Response to Env. Stress STAT 4113 Intro. to Probability Theory STAT 5133 Stochastic Processes STAT 5053 Time Series MATH 4013 Engineering. Math of Several Variables MAE 5093 Numerical Engineering Analysis CIVEN 6010 Seminar in Groundwater Pollution CIVEN 6713 Seepage Groundwater Flow CIVEN 5913 Groundwater Hydrology BAE 6333 Fluvial Hydraulics BAE 6313 Stochastic Hydrology BAE 5501 Seminar BAE 6000 Research Thesis CORE COURSES BAE 6313: Stochastic Methods in Hydrology. Stochastic and statistical analyses of surface and ground water systems. Topics include frequency analysis, simulation of random events, stochastic models and risk analysis. Prerequisites: BAE 4313 or CIVEN 5843 and STAT 4053. BAE 6333: Fluvial Hydraulics. Principles of detachment, entrainment and transport of sediment in surface flows. Topics include drainage network development, turbulence, suspended transport, bed processes and design of stable channels. Prerequisites: ENGSC 3233 or equivalent. BAE 6343: Ground Water Contaminant Transport. Principles of solute transport in porous media including multiphase flows. Topics include analytical solutions, experimental measurement techniques, saturated and unsaturated flow principles. Prerequisites: AGRON 5583 or CIVEN 5913. BAE 6520: Watershed Modeling and Water Quality. Emphasis on physical processes governing nutrient transport in surface runoff from agricultural watersheds. Application of state-of-the-art watershed scale hydrologic/water quality models. Other topics include parameter estimation, model validation and development of data bases used in watershed models. Prerequisites: CHEM 1515, BAE 4313 or equivalent. FACULTY Glenn Brown , Regents Professor and Graduate Coordinator Ground water contaminant transport Michael Buser , Associate Professor Air quality J. D. Carlson , Associate Researcher Boundary-layer meteorology, agricultural and fire meteorology, and atmospheric dispersion Garey Fox , Associate Professor Environmental and natural resources Doug Hamilton , Associate Professor Waste management Sherry Hunt , Adjunct Assistant Professor and Research Hydraulic Engineer Hydraulic structures, earthen embankment breach wideni