Topics | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > Topics Topics This section links Agriculture Agricultural Licence Agricultural Machinery Agricultural Produces Research & Extension Storage Marketing & Prices Animal Husbandry Certification & Gradation Crops Dairy Fertilizers & Pesticides Fisheries Floriculture Horticulture Irrigation Loans & Credit Organic Farming Plant Protection Seeds Sericulture Soil and Water Conservation Weather Art & Culture Archaeology Dance Fairs & Festivals Handicrafts Heritage Literature Monuments Music Painting Theatre Commerce Export Import SEZs Trade Promotion Communication Information and Technology Post Telecom Defence Air Force Army Navy Paramilitary Forces Education Elementary Education Secondary & Higher Secondary Education Higher Education Adult Education Environment & Forest Environment Forest Natural Resources Wildlife Finance & Taxes Insurance Pension Banking Economy Trade Taxes Food & Public Distribution Commodities Consumer Affairs Consumer Cooperatives Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Embassy & Consulates India & World India and Its Neighbours NRIs Passport & Visa Governance & Administration Constitution Parliament State Legislature Union/State Government District Administration Local Administration RTI & Grievances Health & Family Welfare Family Welfare Health Housing EWS Housing Rural Housing Urban Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Enforcement Organizations Internal Security Police Industries Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises Mining Chemicals and Petrochemicals Corporate Governance Cottage Defence Products Fertilizers Food Processing Heavy Industries Manufacturing Oil and Natural Gas Pharmaceuticals Retail Textiles Tourism Infrastructure Power Bridges Dams Roads Urban Information & Broadcasting Broadcasting Film Print Media Labour & Employment Employment Organized Sector Workers Unorganized Sector Workers Law & Justice Judiciary Alternative Dispute Redressal (ADR) Enactment of Laws Institutions Law Commission of India Legal Aid Legal Profession Personal Law Power & Energy Coal Conservation of Energy Petroleum & Natural Gas Power Renewable Energy Rural Rural Employment Development Panchayati Raj Science & Technology Scientific Education Research & Development Social Development Other Backward Classes Scheduled Castes Children Disabled Minority Community Senior Citizens Tribal Women Transport Aviation Metro Railways Surface Transport Water Ways Travel & Tourism Places Accommodation Modes of Travel Approved Agents Youth & Sports Sports Infrastructure Games Youth Affairs Topics Indian economy has successfully navigated the turbulent years of global crisis because of the vitality of its sectors. This section pertains to various sectors and provides comprehensive information on myriad activities circling around each of them. Users can get details of the Ministries, Departments, Organisations and their activities in the respective sectors. Schemes, documents, forms and online services related to these sectors are also provided. Agriculture Agriculture, with its allied sectors, is unquestionably the largest livelihood provider in India, more so in the vast rural areas. It also contributes a significant figure to the Gross Domestic Pro... details of Agriculture ... Art & Culture Culture plays an important role in the development of any nation. It represents a set of shared attitudes, values, goals and practices. Culture and creativity manifest themselves in almost all econ... details of Art & Culture ... Commerce Commerce facilitates environment and infrastructure for promoting international trade in the country. This section provides information about the industrial organizations, government departments, c... details of Commerce ... Communications Electronics and Information Technology is one of the fastest growing segments of the Indian Industry. Along with the liberalisation in foreign investment and export-import policies, this sector is... details of Communications ... Defence Defence is one of the major spending sectors in the Indian economy. The geographical and topographical diversity, especially the 15,000 km long border which India shares with seven neighbouring cou... details of Defence ... Environment & Forest Natural resources such as lakes, rivers, forests, wildlife, etc. have a pivotal role in Indian lifestyle but growing population of the country is increasing pressure on environment. The primary con... details of Environment & Forest ... Governance & Administration India is a Sovereign Socialist Secular Democratic Republic with a Parliamentary form of government which is federal in structure with unitary features. There is a Council of Ministers with the Prim... details of Governance & Administration ... Finance & Taxes Finance is the backbone of any economy. In order to propel the economic development of the country, finance and tax related matters are highly essential. This section provides information related f... details of Finance & Taxes ... Food & Public Distribution The Department of Food and Public Distribution is responsible for management of the food economy of the nation. It undertakes various activities, such as procurement of food items, their storage, m... details of Food & Public Distribution ... Foreign Affairs India’s foreign affairs are closely integrated with the country's fundamental security and developmental priorities. This section highlights India’s foreign policy, its relation with the other coun... details of Foreign Affairs ... Health & Family Welfare Health care should be within the reach of every citizen. For providing basic health facilities to all citizens, government has introduced and implemented various health schemes and programmes. This... details of Health & Family Welfare ... Home Affairs & Enforcement Enforcing law is an important function of the Government to maintain internal security of the country. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) ensures the internal security through various organizations... details of Home Affairs & Enforcement ... Industries Growth in the industrial sector is one of the vital figures that affect the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in India. This section provides information about the initiatives taken by the Union and sta... details of Industries ... Information & Broadcasting The mass communication media such as radio, television, films, press and print publications, advertising and traditional modes of communication plays an important role in helping people to access f... details of Information & Broadcasting ... Labour & Employment Labour policies are devised to maintain economic development, social justice, industrial harmony and welfare of labour in the country. To promote these activities, various reforms and initiatives h... details of Labour & Employment ... Law & Justice The Constitution of India guarantees protection of life and personal liberty to one and all. It provides adequate safeguards to fundamental rights against arbitrary decisions. This section has deta... details of Law & Justice ... Power & Energy Power and Energy are two essential inputs for economic development and improving the quality of life in India. Development of conventional forms of energy for meeting the growing energy needs of so... details of Power & Energy ...