Jaipur City Map Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Jaipur City Map   Rajasthan Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar Amer Barmer Bharatpur Pali Sikar Nagaur                         more.. राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan History and Geography Weather Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Jaipur City Map City Map of Jaipur Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest in Jaipur City. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The abode of architectural marvels like the majestic City Palace, the splendid Jantar Mantar, the glorious Hawa Mahal, the history laced Amer Fort, Jaigarh Fort and Nahargarh Fort, the land of colorful festivities like Teej and Gangaur- the marvelous Jaipur , the capital city of vibrant Rajasthan is a must-visit tourist destination on the itinerary of every travel buff. Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh, the Second, who gives the city its name, is credited with laying the foundation stone of the beautiful Pink City in the year 1728. The blueprint of the city is the brain child of the supremely talented Vidyadhar Bhattacharya, a descendant of the Shaspati lineage. Shilpa Shastra and the Pithapada form the keystone of his vision. Jaipur has been built in alignment with rules of the grid method of construction. Nine rectangle shaped chokris or city spheres, laid out in broad, spruced up roads comprises the avant-garde architectural framework of Jaipur. Bolstered by munitions to ward off any foreign attack, Jaipur, in its entire pink splendor is a fascinating spectacle to behold. The birth of Jaipur is dotted with engaging historical legends. History has it that Raja Sawai Jai Singh, the Second, conceptualized the creation of Jaipur, led by reasons like the growing head count, the paucity of water resources and the gradual demise of the Mughal aura. The charismatic ruler's sound understanding of the science of engineering is reflected in the nook and corner of Jaipur. The amazing Jantar Mantar or the famous observatory, built between 1728 and 1734, is another architectural delight, credited to the Maharaja. An interesting nugget of information for all those quiz buffs is that the incredibly talented Raja, is said to have contrived the mechanism for watering the sprawling acres of Amber Fort, at the tender age of thirteen. The City Palace of Jaipur forms the cynosure of attraction, both literally and metaphorically. It comprises the Olympian palace, the Jantar Mantar and the Janana Mahals or the dwelling of the Maharanis', an insignia of his political maneuvering. A fervent devotee of Lord Krishna, the King reestablished the idol of the blue hued God, at Jaipur in the year 1719. A real connoisseur of art and culture, Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh's court witnessed an unprecedented spurt of activities in the cultural sphere. Distinguished intellectuals made a beeline for the esteemed Raja's durbar. The wonderful Jaipur, located in Eastern Rajasthan, occupying 11117.8 square kilometers, is situated at a height four hundred and thirty meters. The Temperatures soars up to forty five degrees during the sweltering summer months and plummets down to almost two degrees during the chilly winter season. Ban Ganga and Sabi flow through its historic terrains. The Ramgarh Dam, built upon the Ban Ganga, is a constant source of drinking water. It also houses the Sambhar Lake, which is famed for its salt. English, Rajasthani and Hindi forms the common dialects of Jaipur. Strewn with remnants of yester years, Jaipur houses some of the exquisite tourist highlights. Maps of India lists some of the must visit destinations of the Pink City. City Palace Hawa Mahal Amer Fort Nahargarh Fort Sargasuli, Govind Devji Temple Niwas Bagh Vidyadharji Ka Bagh. Sisodia Rani Ka Bagh Jaigarh Fort, Moti Doongri Jal Mahal Jaipur Facts City Name Jaipur State Rajasthan District Jaipur District Headquarters Jaipur Tehsil/Taluk Jaipur Ward 77 Zone Moti Dungri Zone, Hawa Mahal East, Hawa Mahal West, Vidyadhar Nagar, Civil Line, Sanganer, Amber, Mansarovar Lat Long 26.908787, 75.781631 Area 43.17 sq miles (111.8 km 2 ) Population as per 2011 3,073,350 Official Languages Hindi, Punjabi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) STD Code 0141 Transport Air, Road, Rail, Metro Vehicle registration RJ-14 (Jaipur), RJ-45 (Jaipur North) Food and Cuisine Dal, Baati, Lashun-Ki-Chutney, Mirchi-Bada, Gatte-Ki-Sabji, Bajre Ki Roti, Kadhi, Churma, Gujia, Halwa, Imarti, Ghevar etc. Religion Hindus, Muslim, Jains Festival Camel Festival, Beneshwar Fair, Nagaur Fair, Desert Festival, Elephant Festival, Mewar Festival, Gogaji Fair, Kaliteej, Ramdevra Fair, Marwar Festival, Dusshera, Pushkar Fair, Kolyat Fair, Gangaur Fair, Kaila Devi Fair, Mahavir Ji Fair, Summer Festival Mt.Abu (June), Teej Festival, Kite Festival, Baneshwar Fair, Mewar Festival etc. Monuments Amber Fort, City Palace, Gaitore, Jal Mahal, Rambagh Palace, Albert Hall Museum, Hawa Mahal, Jaigarh Fort, Jantar Mantar, Nahargarh Fort, Statue Circle etc. Places of interest Hawa Mahal, Amber Fort, Jantar Mantar, Jal Mahal, Jaigarh Fort, Albert Hall Museum, City Palace, Nahargarh Fort, Birla Mandir, Govind Devji Temple, Raj Mandir Cinema, Rambagh Palace - Taj Hotels, Jaipur Zoo, Sawai Mansingh Stadium etc. Markets Johari Bazaar, Kishanpole Bazaar, Chaura Rasta, Tripolia Bazaar, Chandpole Bazaar, Chameliwala Market - Gems, Bapu Bazaar, Nehru Bazaar, Jauhari Bazar (Jeweller's Market), Choti Choppad, Badi Choppad, Indira Bazaar etc. Hospital Jaipur Hospital, Santokba Durlabhji Memorial Hospital, Monilek Hospital, Jaipur Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Apex Hospital Pvt. Ltd., Imperial Hospital, Aanchal Fertility and Mother Care Hospital, Bhagwan Mahaveer Cancer Hospital and Research Centre etc. Hotel Raj Palace, Mansingh Hotel, Hotel Jaipur Palace, Hotel Sarang Palace, Umaid Mahal, Hotel Silver Plaza, ITC Rajputana, Hotel Umaid Bhawan, Hotel Jaipur City, Rambagh Palace, Radisson Blu Hotel, Arya Niwas Hotels, Sheraton Hotel, Jaipur Marriott Hotel, The Oberoi Rajvilas, Nana-Ki-Haveli, Shahpura Hotels Jaipur, Trident Jaipur, Jaipur Hotels, Hotel Kalyan, Amer City Heritage Hotel etc. Industries Jaipur Stock Exchange, Anand Industries, Tarun Industries, Rajasthan Electric Industries, Shree Vishwakarma Industries, Jaipuria Group of Industries Private Limited, Jaipur Industrial Services, Jaipur Time Industries, Summer Internship Training, Software Industrial Project Work, Jaipur Textile Industries, Aditya Autolamp India Pvt Ltd, Netescape Technologies Pvt Ltd, CMC Limited, Next Step Web Solution etc. University/College University of Rajasthan, Manipal University Jaipur, National Institute of Ayurveda, Indian Institute of Health Management Research, The LNM Institute of Information Technology Jaipur and Malviya National Institute of Technology, Subodh College, Rajasthan Technical University (RTU), Swami Keshvanand Institute of Technology (SKIT), JECRC, Poornima College of Engineering, Gyan Vihar College etc. Notable people Rajeev Khandelwal - Actor and TV Presenter, Model, Irrfan Khan - Actor, Ila Arun - Singer, Asrani - Actor, Rajeev Khandelwal - Actor, TV presenter, Model, Diya Kumari - Politician, Saawan Kumar Tak - Director, Screenwriter, Producer, Lyricist etc. Blogs about Jaipur Gaitore Royal Cenotaphs: Stone Monuments in Jaipur : Is death bitter? or, is it a way to say goodbye to the mundane world? This is a matter of individual perception. But loss is the essence in both the cases. How different people try to offset the feeling of loss depends on the outllook of those who had once lived and people in their relations. The royal families used to build beautiful and durable crematoriums and memorials. One such memorial is Gaitore, which is… read more... Night Tour of Amber Fort in Jaipur : As dusk descended on the pink city, the yellow bulbs assisted by the moonlight came to the rescue of the Amber Fort, which otherwise slips into darkness. A night trip to the fort is four times costlier than the day trip. While an entry ticket during the day costs just INR 25 per Indian visitor, at night it becomes INR 100. In 2013, Amber Fort (also known as Amer Fort), the hill fort in Jaipur,… read more... Five Places for Family Vacations in India : Planning a family vacation is a bigger task than planning a solo trip. A lot many things need to be kept in mind while choosing the right kind of destination according to each and every member of the family. Bigger the family, wider the choices! Family holidays play a major role in maintaining family ties in this super-hectic city life. A vacation is the time when you can give all your attention and love to… read more... Blue Pottery: The Quintessential Art of Jaipur : There are certain things that eventually become the identities of certain places. Like for instance when you think of Mathura, the first thing that strikes your mind is “pedhe”, similarly, when you think about Kashmir you think about houseboats. So is the case with Jaipur! As I heard someone talk about Jaipur, the first thing that came to my mind was blue pottery! Those of you who have been to Jaipur would definitely agree with… read more... Jaigarh Fort: The Victory Fort of Rajasthan : Location: Jaipur, Rajasthan The best way to delve into the absolute beauty of the city of Jaipur is to stand at a hill-top fort and have a panoramic view of the city.  And Jaigarh Fort is by far the best place to try this. Perched on a promontory called “Cheel ka Teela”, Jaigarh fort was built by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II.  It was precisely built as a military structure in order to protect the… read more... Last Updated on : November 7, 2014 Places to Visit in Jaipur Birla Planetarium Johari Bazar Birla Temple Albert Hall Museum Jaipur Zoo Ramgarh Lake Ganesh Temple Kishanpole Bazar Chandpole Bazar Statue Circle Raj Mandir Cinema Shri Govind Dev Ji Mandir Amer Fort Jaigarh fort City palace Hawa Mahal Jal Mahal Jantar Mantar Nahargarh Fort Cities in Rajasthan Ajmer Alwar Amer Banaswara Barmer Bharatpur Bhilwara Bhiwadi Bikaner Bhadra Bundi Chittaurgarh Kishangarh Didwana Nohar Pratapgarh Churu Dungarpur Jaipurcity Jaisalmer Jhalawar Jodhpur Kota Kumbhalgarh Mount Abu Ganganagar Hanumangarh Gangapur Jalore Sojat Nathdwara Niwai Nagaur Neemrana Pali Pushkar Ranakpur Sawai Madhopur Shekhawati Sikar Udaipur Tonk Baran Dausa Laxmangarh Merta Ladnun Rawatbhata Jaipur Localities Adarsh Nagar Agra Road Ajmer Road Ajmeri Gate Ambabari Amer Road Bais Godam Bajaj Nagar Bani Park Bapu Bazaar Bapu Nagar Barkat Nagar Bhawani Singh Road Biseswarji Brahmapuri Chandpol Civil Lines Durgapura Gangori Bazar Ghat Darwaza Gopalpura Indira Bazar Jagatpura Jalupura Janata Colony Jawaharlal Nehru Marg Jawahar Nagar Jhotwara Jhotwara Industrial Area Jhotwara Road Johari Bazaar Jyothi Nagar Kalwar Road Kartarpur Khatipura Mahesh Nagar Malviya Nagar Mansarovar Mirza Ismail Road Motidungri Marg Muralipura New Colony Pink City Raja Park Ramganj Sanganer Sansar Chandra Road Sethi Colony Shastri Nagar Shyam Nagar Sikar Road Sindhi Camp Sirsi Road Sitapura Industrial Area Sodala Subhash Nagar Sudharshanpura Industrial Area Surajpol Bazar Tilak Nagar Tonk Phatak Tonk Road Transport Nagar Vaishali Nagar Vidhyadhar Nagar Vishwakarma Industrial Area             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule