ï»¿ AED     Gallery Links Site Map FAQ           Home Schemes Central Sector Demonstration of Agricultural Machinery and Implements Training to Farmers on operation and maintenance of Agrl. Machinery State Sector Rain water harvesting and Run off management programme Master plan - Artificial Recharge to Ground Water SWC in Tribal areas under Integrated Tribal Development Programme Pulses Villages in Rain fed Areas - NADP Scheme to Revive Agriculture In Fallow Land - NADP SWC under Hill Area Development Programme Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project Soil Conservations in the Catchment of River Valley Project - NADP SWC under Western Ghats Development Programme Agricultural Mechanization under NADP Training on operation and maintenance of farm machinery Training rural youth on agricultural machinery and implements Diesel Engine Pump set with Rain gun / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation. Solar Powered Pumping system with Micro Irrigation Solar Chilli Drier Onion Storage structures TN IAMWARM Project Centre and State Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Command Area Development and Water Management Programme Services Land Development Minor Irrigation Mandate Downloads RTI Contacts                                 Profile         About Us     "In the process of "Grow More Food Programme" and "Green Revolutions" , more importance was given to the Agricultural Engineering activities for increasing the agricultural production. With this objective, the erstwhile Agricultural Engineering wing was separated from the Department of Agriculture and the new "Agricultural Engineering Department" was formed in January 1981, headed by a Chief Engineer as the head of Department.     Functions     The Agricultural Engineering Department is actively engaged in the conservation, development and management of the agricultural land and the water resources. The main focus of the department is on watershed development, water management and agricultural mechanisation with an aim of achieving the following objectives; Conserving soil fertility by controlling soil erosion Harvesting rain water Efficient use of available water Intensification of farm mechanisation     About the Organization     1. Organization Set up of the Agricultural Engineering Department 1.1. Head Quarters The Agricultural Engineering Department is headed by a Chief Engineer with the head quarters at Chennai. The Chief Engineer is responsible for Direction, administration, all establishment matters, budget, planning, formulation and management of all schemes implemented by Agricultural Engineering Department. There is a separate Chief Engineer, River Valley Project, at head quarters having technical control on Centrally Sponsored River Valley Project, Hill Area Development Project and Command Area Development Programme under the overall control of the Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department. 1.2. Regional Administration The state has been divided into 11 Regions for operational convenience and each region is headed by a Superintending Engineer. He is in charge of the administrative and technical control of the department activities within his region. 1.3. District Administration At the District level, one Executive Engineer is in charge of all the Agricultural Engineering activities of the respective district. The Executive Engineer is responsible for the implementation and management of the Agricultural Engineering activities in his district under the guidance of the respective regional Superintending Engineer. The Executive Engineer at District is assisted by Assistant Executive Engineers for the implementation of all the scheme activities. There is one Assistant Executive Engineer for every revenue division in the district, who is in charge for the implementation of Agricultural Engineering Department activities within the revenue division. 1.4. Special Projects Special projects like River Valley Project, Hill Area Development Programme and Command Area Development Programme are headed by Executive Engineer specially provided as divisional officer for implementing the scheme in some districts and by regular Executive Engineer themselves in some districts. The Executive Engineers are responsible for implementation of respective schemes under the guidance of Regional Superintending Engineer. To assist the Executive Engineer and to execute the schemes, Assistant Executive Engineers with supporting staff are provided at sub-divisional level. 1.5. Agricultural Engineering Training Centre There is a training centre at Trichy which imparts training to Engineers and field staff on various activities of the department. The training programmes also cover Computer application and administration. The training centre is headed by an Executive Engineer. 1.6. Tractor Workshops There are six Tractor Workshops in the State each one at Trichy, Tiruvarur, Madurai, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore and Vellore for undertaking the Schedule maintenance, major overhauling and other repairs of the machinery available in the department. All these workshops are headed by an Assistant Executive Engineer. 1.7. Central Store There is a Central store at Chennai headed by an Executive Engineer. Spare parts requirements for machinery are assessed well in advance and the Central Store takes action for procurement and distribution. The details of the offices of the Superintending Engineers, Executive Engineers and Assistant Executive Engineers functioning under the over all control of the Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department are given in the enclosed organogram.                        