Apof Organic Certification Agency - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Apof Organic Certification Agency Home Apof Organic Certification Agency Independent organic certification agency in Bangalore Apof Organic Certification Agency (AOCA) has been accredited by the National Accreditation Body of India through APEDA for providing inspection and certification services as per NPOP. “We inspect and certify the organic projects as per the National Program for Organic Production (NPOP) Standards of Government of India which is considered equivalent to Council Regulation (EC) No. 834/2007 (European Standard) and Swiss Organic Farming Ordinance for plant products originating in India,” avers Mr. K. T. Suresh, chief coordinator. AOCA is based in Bangalore. Services Provided AOCA offers the following services: · Organic Farm Certification · Small Farmers Group Certification · Organic Processed Products Certification · Certification of organic products at all stages in handling · AOCA offers approval of products like organic fertilizers/bio-fertilizers, bio-pesticides and other organic plant protection materials as per NPOP standards. Organic Certification Categories The various categories of organic certificates are: Certification of Organic Animal Husbandry; Certification of Organic Processing Methods; Certification of all stages in handling (whole production chain-farm, storage, processing, packaging and shipment); Certification of wild products and Approval of inputs for Organic Farming. Process of Certification An individual farmer or a group of farmers can apply for certification. An individual farmer can apply for certification for his organic production methods in his farm. The farmer has to make an application to the certification body with details of organic management plan for his farm. A thorough audit of his farming methods and practices is carried out by the certification agency through on-site inspection and verification of his farm activity records. Soil, water or product samples may be taken for analysis to find out whether there are toxic residues or heavy metal contaminations. If the certification agency is satisfied with the operator’s compliance to NPOP/ and other relevant standards in the production methods, then the Organic Farm certificate is issued. This is done annually. The certificate to an organic farm is given only after going through a conversion period. The conversion period for annual crops is 24 months and for perennial crops 36 months. A group of farmers having similar cropping systems and having farms in geographical proximity can form grower groups and jointly apply for certification. The group can be farmers ranging from 25 to 1500 farmers. The group will be required to conduct a risk assessment and establish an Internal Control System (ICS) to manage the organic integrity in all farm activities. They shall maintain farm diaries and records pertaining to the input usage, contamination control, on-farm processing, storage and transportation practices. The field officers train the farmers in organic management practices periodically. The internal inspectors inspect all the farmers in the group at least twice in a year and present the report to the group’s approval manager. The approval manager, on reviewing the compliance of members to the internal standards and NPOP standards, shall approve or sanction the farmers to continue in the group. The group will then approach an accredited certification body for certification of their group. The certification agency will send its inspector to have on-site re-inspection of a certain percentage of farmers in the group. The sample size will be decided by the inspector based on a risk assessment of the group. Besides this, the inspector shall inspect all the big farmers who have 4 hectares and above in the group. A thorough verification of the internal control documents of the group, the farmer’s diaries the internal inspection reports, approval and sanction procedures, buying and sales records, training records and the implementation of the group’s policies and procedures are carried out. After resolving all the non-compliances pointed out in the inspection, the group is given a common certificate. The certification is annual. The conversion period is the same as mentioned in the individual farm certification. Cost of Certification For an individual farm with an area of 5 to 20 ha, the tariff would be in the range of Rs.10,000-12,000 within Karnataka. “If the farm is outside of Karnataka then, in addition to this tariff we shall add the travel expenses of our inspector.  For group certification, we our tariff would be from Rs.20,000 to 40,000 per group depending on the size of the group and the distance of the project from our office,” says Mr. Suresh. The certificate is valid for one year (12 months). Renewal is required for every year. For renewal too, physical inspection is compulsory and the rest of the procedure remains the same. Benefits of Certification Farmers can earn a premium on organic produce. “Right now the farmers are getting a premium on organic products ranging from 5 to 20% depending on the product range and quality,” says Mr. Suresh. If a farmer wants to export his product to overseas markets, then the organic certification should be obtained through an accredited certification agency. “Even in the domestic market, with the advent of retail chains, the opportunity to market certified organic food is quite promising,” he adds. Challenges Speaking about the obstacles faced by agriculturists while processing for certification, Mr. Suresh says, “The organic farmers are scattered. To get the group certification all the farmers should follow the rules laid by NSOP (National Standard for Organic Products). This problem is seen wherever the farmers cannot go for individual certification due to small holding and so on. Another problem they are facing is non-availability of inputs required for plant protection. AOCA shall guide farmers on both issues regularly.” Future Plans In future, the company plans to expand its program to diversified areas like HACCP, ISO, and GAP. Mr. Suresh is a post graduate from University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Bangalore. “Since 1995, I am into organic movement. Though I have studied chemical agriculture during studies, till today I have not recommended single gram of chemical fertilizer or pesticide to the farmers. I have worked with companies promoting organic production, processing, trading and trade fairs. Now I am with AOCA as Chief Coordinator and one of the promoters,” he avers. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr.Suresh, K.T., Chief Coordinator Apof Organic Certification Agency (AOCA) 126, 1st Floor Govindappa Road, Off DVG Road, Gandhi Bazaar, Basavanagudi, Bangalore, Karnataka, India 560004.  Web: www.aoca.in Email: aocabangalore@yahoo.co.in / info@aoca.in  P: 080-41203848 /26677275 Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Apof Organic Certification Agency Related – articles, consultants, downloads Vedic Organic Certification Agency Uttaranchal State Organic Certification Agency Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Indian Society for Certification of organic Products You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture