Chhattisgarh Telephone Code Home » Chhattisgarh » Telephone Code   Chhattisgarh छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Chhattisgarh Map Cities in Chhattisgarh Naya Raipur Surajpur Kondagaon Baloda Bazar Ambikapur Pendra Kirandul Baikunthpur                      more... Districts of Chhattisgarh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Chhattisgarh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Chitrakoot Waterfall Haat Bazaars Indravati National Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Chhattisgarh Forests Parliamentary Constituencies Economy History Government Politics How to Reach Geography People Culture Festivals Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Area Chhattisgarh at a Glance Capital City Chief Minister Governor Pincode Population Telephone Code Chhattisgarh Factsheet District Map in Hindi Universities in Chhattisgarh       Chhattisgarh Telephone Code In the modern days telephone has become an important medium of communication. Telephone service provided in the state of Chhattisgarh is very advanced. The communication has become very easy with this device. The introduction of cellular phones by the government service provider and the private companies beside the land line service have further advanced the process of communication. Communication can be made across the the state of Chhattisgarh and with other parts of India with the help of telephone services. The telephone service providers in Chhattisgarh have made keeping in touch with family members and friends in abroad. They offer not only local facilities but STD and ISD facilities as well. For better and convenient process of communication via telephone, certain Chhattisgarh telephone code has been introduced. The most important Chhattisgarh Telephone Code is the country code. The country code is 0091 and it is very essential while making international call to Chhattisgarh from outside the country.. The cities of Chhattisgarh have individual area codes or STD codes. This telephone code of Chhattisgarh has to be dialed before accessing any local number when making a call from one city to another or from outside the country. Some of the STD codes of Chhatisgarh are given below: Ambikapur -7774 Bagbahera - 7707 Antagarh - 7847 Bilaspur - 7752 Durg - 788 Korba - 7759 Kunkuri - 7764 Raipur - 771 Udaipur- 7833 Wadrainagar - 7772 Shakti -7757 Saraipali - 7725 Luckwada - 7788 Manpur - 7746 Mahasamund -7723 Last Updated on: 29 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule