Temples and Shrines in Madhya Pradesh Home » Madhya Pradesh » Madhya Pradesh Temples And Shrines   Madhya Pradesh मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Indore Bhopal Jabalpur Gwalior Ujjain Sagar Neemuch Morena                    more... Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Madhya Pradesh Temples and Shrines Madhya Pradesh is famous for many historic temples and shrines. These temples and shrines include both Hindu and Islamic places of worship and pilgrimage hubs. List of Madhya Pradesh Temples Chaturbhuj Temple The original story behind the name of Chaturbhuj Temple, Orchha is that when Lord Rama's idol which was at the Rani Niwas, the private residence of Maharani Gansh Kunwar who was the wife of Raja Madhukar, rejected to move to the temple, an idol of Lord Vishnu with four arms was kept in the temple and this is how the temple came to be known as Chaturbhuj Temple. Chaturbhuj Temple, Orchha in Madhya Pradesh attracts thousands of visitors every year because of its beautiful architectural style. The exterior walls of the Chaturbhuj Temple, Orchha is designed with various religious symbols while the interiors are plain and simple that offers you the divine solace. The congregation hall where the devotees gather to offer prayers are criss-cross in shape. Spires have been built above the sanctuary of the Chaturbhuj Temple, Orchha at Madhya Pradesh. Chaturbhuj Temple of Madhya Pradesh is the finest venue for one to go and seek the divine solace. The environment of the temple is very peaceful and calm. The temple is spacious enough to accommodate a large crowd and is lighted throughout the day with the sunlight. It is also said that Chaturbhuj Temple, Orchha resembles a lot to the Kushak Mahal in Chanderi. Chintaman Ganesh Temple The Chintaman Ganesh Temple is a very old temple in the city of Ujjain. It is also the largest temple devoted to Lord Ganesha in the area. The religious place was constructed on the Shipra River. The word "Chintaman" stands for one that reduces anxiety. The distance from the local railway station is only five km. Devi Jagadambi Temple Devi Jagadambi Temple is also known as Jagadambika Temple or Devi Jagadambika temple. It is a cluster of approximately 25 religious places of worship located at Khajuraho, which is considered a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Devi Jagadambi Temple is one of the delicately adorned temples at Khajuraho. The temple sites many erotic sculptures. All the temples in the Khajuraho region were constructed by the monarchs of the Chandella kingdom in the middle of 10th and 12th centuries. Gajanan Maharaj Temple - Indore The Gajanan Maharaj Temple has been built in various regions of India, especially Indore, the commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh. The followers of Shri Sant Gajanan Maharaj have taken initiative to build these temples. This temple is located at Paliwal Nagar, Indore. The distance from the heart of the city is just 15 min. Kandariya Mahadeva Temple The Kandariya Mahadeva Temple ranks as the biggest and most embellished temple among the famous middle-aged cluster of Khajuraho temples. At present, Khajuraho is one of the famous tourist destinations in the country and at one time, the place served as the spiritual center of the Chandela Rajputs. The temple is a part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site. The Kandariya Mahadeva Temple was constructed by Vidyadhara, who was regarded as one of the famous monarchs of the Chandela dynasty. Within the sacred place for worship, there is a linga made of limestone which stands for Shiva. The responsibility of safeguarding this place of worship is entrusted with the Archeological Survey of India (ASI). Mahakaleshwar Jyotirlinga Mahakaleshwar Jyotirlinga is a very popular Hindu temple in Madhya Pradesh. This temple is devoted to Lord Shiva and ranks as one of the 12 jyotirlingams that are the holiest dwellings of Lord Shiva. This place of worship lies at the corner of the Rudra Sagar lake. Omkareshwar Temple The Omkareshwar Temple,Indore is situated at the confluence of the Narmada and the Kaveri rivers. Located at a distance of 77 kilometers from Indore in Madhya Pradesh, it is also known popularly as the Sri Omkareshwar Mahadeo Temple. The word Omkareshwar is sourced from the word Om, which is the holiest Hindu symbol. The Omkareshwar Temple,Indore is situated on an island resembling the Om. This island is almost 2 kilometers long and 1 kilometer wide. The Omkareshwar Temple, Indore is considered to be a very holy Hindu site owing to the existence of a jyotirlingam. This is one of the twelve to be found in the country. The lingam embodies Lord Shiva. The jyotirlingam or lingam of light is considered to draw sources of power from within itself as contrasted to an ordinary lingam which is usually endowed in public with mantra shakti (power called up by chants) by the priests. The Omkareshwar Temple of Madhya Pradesh is built entirely out of a locally available soft stone which has made possible the elaborate and decorative detailing in the exterior portion, particularly in the form of friezes in the upper portions of the edifice. The closest railway station, Omkareshwar Road, is situated on the Ratlam-Indore-Khandwa line. Omkareshwar is only 12 kilometers from the station. Local buses ply on the Indore-Omkareshwar route at regular intervals. Frequent buses operate from Indore. Pashupatinath Temple The Pashupatinath Temple is a renowned temple which is devoted to Lord Pashupatinath. However, the degree of significance of this temple is not like the mythically consecrated Lord Pashupatinath Temple which is situated in Kathmandu, Nepal. The major god worshipped here is Lord Pashupatinath, which is a depiction of Lord Shiva. The most attractive feature of this temple is that there is a Shiv linga which boasts eight faces of Lord Shiva. There are four gateways of the temple on four sides. Lying on the riverbanks of the Shivna River, the temple is a major place of worship in the city of Mandsaur. The dimensions of the temple are as follows: Length - 90 feet (27.6 m) Width - 30 feet (9.2 m) and Height - 101 feet (31 m). There is a gold-plated pitcher or kalash which weighs 100 kg. Shyam Kaka Temple The famous Shyam Kaka Temple was constructed in 1845 A.D. This religious place of worship has been devoted to Lord Krishna. Many people don't know that Lord Krishna is adorably called as Shyam. The temple is situated in Shaka Jagir village in the district of Rajgarh in Madhya Pradesh. The temple is closely located to Narsinghgarh and the distance from Bhopal , the capital of Madhya Pradesh, is approximately 100 km. The Archaeological Survey of India proclaims it as a protected site. Taxakeshwar Temple The Taxakeshwar Temple is also known as Takhaji Temple. It is a popular place of worship which is located in the district of Mandsaur. This is the abode of Taxak, the serpent king and he is devoted here in the form of Taxakeshwar. However, the local inhabitants know the god in the name of Takhaji. The shrine or temple is located on Hinglajgarh Road at a distance of 22 km from the town of Bhanpura. The site is quite popular in terms of scenic splendor. In 1821, this site was toured by James Tod, an Oriental Scholar and an English administrator of the British East India Company, and he was stunned by the natural beauty of the place. The effigy of Lord Dhanwantari is set up before the figure of Taxaka. In addition, the principal temple also houses the sculpture of Shiva, which is regarded as the husband of Taxaka. Lakshmi Narayana Temple The Lakshmi Narayana Temple, Bhopal is situated atop the Arera Hills and happens to be one of the most important shrines of Madhya Pradesh. It is located in a position which offers a breathtaking and panoramic view of Bhopal. The Lakshmi Narayana Temple, Bhopal is also popularly called by the name of the Birla Temple. This is owing to the fact that the Birlas, one of the most respected industrial families hailing from India, have undertaken the entire process of construction and maintenance. The Lakshmi Narayana Temple, Bhopal has been constructed with the purpose of showing reverence to Lakshmi, the Hindu deity of wealth, and her celestial consort, Vishnu, the 'Preserver of the Universe', who is also known as Narayana.Apart from having shrines devoted to the worship of Goddess Lakshmi and Narayana, the Lakshmi Narayana Temple, Bhopal also houses a magnificent idol of a reclining Shiva with his wife, that is Parvati. Adjacent to the temple is the Birla Museum that contains a vast repository of exquisite sculptures from the Mandsaur, Shahdol, Sehore and Raisen districts of Madhya Pradesh. The collection dates back to the 12th century era of the Paramaras when art and culture flourished in the state. The Lakshmi Narayana Temple, Bhopal is sandy yellow in hue and has an old-world air pervading the place. A lofty tower is to be found on one end of the building. You may pass into the premises of the temple by a grand archway, and the expansive lawns that encompass the complex, bestow on it a sense of aesthetic appeal. The Temple of Dakshin Kali The Temple of Dakshin Kali, also known as Kalighat Bhopal, lies on the side of the picturesque Lower Lake. The temple was established by Shri Shiv Narayan Singh Bagwar with the auspicious consent of Kali, the Hindu deity. Gufa Mandir The famous Gufa Mandir lies at a distance of 7 km from the state capital, on the Lalghati-Narsingh Road. A Shiva Temple was set up in the cave by Sant Narayan Dasji Maharaj and as a result of this, the temple is known as Gufa Mandir. Manua Bhan Ki Tekri A fair is organized every year at Mahavir Giri during Kartik Purnima. Mahadev Giri is a Jain religious hub situated at a distance of 7 km from Bhopal, the capital of Madhya Pradesh. Mosques in Madhya Pradesh The state of Madhya Pradesh houses a large number of mosques, which include the following: Dhai Seedi ki Masjid (one of the smallest masjids in the Asian continent) Taj-ul-Masajid (one of the biggest mosques in the Asian continent) Jama Masjid (constructed by Qudsia Begum in 1837). Taj Ul Masajid Taj-ul-Masajid is also known as Taj-ul-Masjid or Taj-ul-Masaajid. It is a masjid located in Bhopal, the capital of the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. During daytime, it is utilized as an Islamic school or madrasah. The mosque is famous for its Mughal architectural pattern. The masjid features three domes and two minarets and has a pink facade. The meaning of the expression "Taj-ul-Masajid" is "The crown of Mosques". The building of the structure was commenced by Sultan Shah Jahan, Begum of Bhopal. Nevertheless, there was a long gap, and construction work started once more in 1971 with the initiative of Allama Mohammad Imran Khan Nadwi Azhari of Bhopal. Vishwanath Temple in Khajuraho The Vishwanath Temple in Khajuraho is a famous temple in Madhya Pradesh. The temple lies on the renowned western part of the Khajuraho temple compound. This religious place of worship is devoted to Lord Shiva and is famous for its huge sculptural affluence. This temple in Khajuraho was constructed in the former part of the 11th century. Starting from the entrances of the holy place to the central hall of the temple, the Vishwanath Temple is resplendent with stunning rocky sculptures. The Vishwanath temple features one of the most striking architecture and design among all the religious sites in Khajuraho. The southern entrance of the temple is protected by elephants. In addition, the principal shrine of the temple houses a bust of Brahma with three heads. Buddhist Temples in Madhya Pradesh Given below are the names of the popular Buddhist temples in Madhya Pradesh: Dharmrajeshwar Deur Kothar Sanchi Other than the abovementioned mosques and temples, the following are also popular religious places of worship in Madhya Pradesh: Devi Jagadambi Temple Shiva, Karan Temple - Amarkantak Mahakaleshwar Temple - Ujjain Matangeswara Temple - Khajuraho Tomb of Nadir Shah - Burhanpur Kanch Mandir - Indore Jama Masjid - Burhanpur Tomb of Tansen - Gwalior Chor Kot and Malik Mughith's Mosque - Mandu Last Updated on : 15 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule