Untitled Krishi Vigyan Kendra Tiruchirappalli                             The Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Tiruchirappalli Sponsored by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Govt. of India which was established in Tiruchirappalli District, Tamil Nadu in the year 1977. The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University is the host organization of this KVK which was the first KVK established in Tamil Nadu and named as Kumara Perumal Farm Science Centre. The Kumaraperumal Junior Polytechnic trust donated a sum of Rs.2.00 lakhs (Rupees two Lakhs) for starting this centre.Hence this centre was named after the founder of the trust as “Kumaraperumal Farm Science Centre (KFSC)”.This KVK was initially located at Navalurkuttapattu village on the Tiruchirappalli - Dindigul (NH-45) at 15th km from Trichy.During 1993, the KVK functioning at Navalurkuttapattu was shifted to Sirugamani village where in a Sugarcane Research Station was functioning under the aegis of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. The present location of the KVK is at 21 Km away from Tiruchirapalli town in Tiruchirapalli- Karur (NH-67). The Council provided the administrative building in which the KVK is functioning now. The KVK has completed 33 years of yeomen service to the farmers of the district. The main objective of this KVK is Transfer of Technology in agriculture and allied fields. The programme schedule is designed and devoted to impart need-based and skill-oriented vocational training to the practicing farmers, in-service extension personnel and to those who wish to go in for self-employment through "learning by doing". This KVK was adjudged as the Best Performing KVK in Tamil Nadu State in 1996 and recently in 2006 based on its innovative approaches in transforming the technologies from lab to land. New RELATED LINKS Price Forecast-Red chilli Price Forecast-Sunflower Price Forecast-Pulses News Letter Success Story District Profile Enroll ur mobile number  with us to receive instant informations via KMAS Upcomming programmes Updated events                Machinaries available for rent Zero till seed cum fertilizer drill Seed drill cum ridger Seed cum fertilizer drill Post hole digger Tractor mounted straw baler Roto puddler Rotary tiller Disc plough Nine tyne cultivator Ridger Bund former TRAINING - commences from April 2015 onwards