KrishiKosh:Minimally processed foods: Technologies for safety, quality, and convenience Skip navigation Home Browse Communities & Collections Browse Items by: Issue Date Author Title Subject Help Sign on to: My KrishiKosh Receive email updates Edit Profile KrishiKosh (कृषिकोष ) An Institutional Repository of Indian National Agricultural Research System   KrishiKosh  > Bihar Agricultural University  > Books  > Please use this identifier to cite or link to this item: http://krishikosh.egranth.ac.in/handle/1/63864 Title:  Minimally processed foods: Technologies for safety, quality, and convenience Authors:  Siddiqui, Mohammed Wasim, ed. Rahman, Mohammad Shafiur, jt. ed. Keywords:  productivity, horticulture, biological phenomena, wells, preservation, economic resources, postharvest technology, public sector, storage, meat Issue Date:  2015 Publisher:  Springer Abstract:  The safety and efficacy of minimal food processing depends on the use of novel preservation technologies. This book first examines what is meant by minimally processed foods, including fresh-cut, cooked-chilled, and part-baked products. Next explored are the technologies or methods to produce quality products in terms of safety and nutrition, including: edible coating, natural preservatives (i.e., antimicrobial, flavour enhancer, anti-browning), advanced packaging (active, antimicrobial, and modified or controlled atmosphere), and selected non-thermal techniques (high pressure, pulsed electric field, ultrasound, light). Preservation of food is crucial to achieving a secure and safe global food supply with the desired sensory quality. In addition, the increasing consumer demand for safe, ready-to-serve, ready-to-eat-and-cook products with minimal chemical preservatives has raised expectations. However, foods deemed minimally processed, such as fresh-cut fruits and vegetables, cooked-chilled, and half-baked foods, are delicate products that need special care in preparation, processing, storage, and handling. As a result, new technologies to develop minimally processed foods have aggressively advanced. Minimally Processed Foods: Technologies for Safety, Quality, and Convenience explores both the definition of minimally processed foods and the methods and technologies used to achieve the safety and nutritional value consumers demand. URI:  http://krishikosh.egranth.ac.in/handle/1/63864 ISBN:  9783319106762 Appears in Collections: Books Files in This Item: File Description Size Format   Minimally Processed Foods.pdf Minimally Processed Foods 815.15 kB Adobe PDF View/Open Show full item record Items in DSpace are protected by copyright, with all rights reserved, unless otherwise indicated. Maintained By IARI, New Delhi Copyright © 20012 Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi.|   | Powered By Dspace | Feedback ​