Konkan Railway Map Home » States » India » Konkan Railway Map   About India Political Map of India States and Capitals of India Districts of India Physical Map of India India Outline Map India River Map India Satellite Map India Zone Map Tier I And Tier II Cities of India Per Capita Income of India Climate Map of India Temperature Map of India India Seismic Zone Map India Topographic Map Mountain Ranges in India Soil Map of India Vegetation Map of India Lakes in India Telecom Circles Map Hydro Power Plants in India Thermal Power Plants in India Nuclear Power Plants in India Pre Partition Map of India Annual Rainfall in India Water Resources of India Map of Ruling Parties of India India Map in Various Languages Google Map India Universities in India Transport Network in India India Road Map National Highways in India India Railway Map Indian Railways Timetable Railway Zones Map of India Konkan Railway Delhi Metro Airports in India Air Network in India Ports in India Facts about India India Flag Geography of India History of India India Census Maps Economy of India Culture of India AIIMS in India Travel to India Tourist Places in India Religious Places in India Taj Mahal India Taj Mahal Facts Char Dham Yatra Beaches in India Hill Stations in India Hotels in India Jyotirlinga Shrines in India States of India Andhra Pradesh Goa Gujarat Tamilnadu Cities of India Delhi Mumbai Kolkata World Map World Continents Map Custom Mapping Major Events in 2015 My India What is Net Neutrality Land Acquisition Bill Child Labour in India Water crisis in India Unemployment in India Overpopulation in India Poverty in India       Konkan Railway Map Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Konkan railway map showing railway tracks and important stations. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Konkan is a coastal strip of land which is bounded by the Arabian Sea in the west and the Sahyadri hills in the east. It is a blend of many different aspects such as a mix of economic growth and mythology, dense forest covers, rich mineral resources, and mango and coconut trees. The Konkan Railway was constructed to fill the missing gap between Mumbai and Mangalore. The line covers a length of 741 km and connects Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa. The construction of the Konkan project was only possible with the use of various technological innovations. The courage, spirit, skills and efforts of the Indian engineers has led to the success of this project. This project was an accomplishment of a long cherished dream of the people of the region. It proved to be a life- changing experience for the engineers as they had overcome all the odds in completing this project, which also brought a moment of pride and satisfaction among them. The project was completed in the 50th year of independence of India. The first Konkan train was flagged off on the occasion of Republic Day on 26 January 1998. There are no divisions of the Konkan Railways like other Indian railway divisions. However, it has two separate regions along with headquarters at Karwar in Karnataka and Ratnagiri in Maharashtra. The region of Ratnagiri extends across a stretch of 480 km from Roha to Sawantwadi in Maharashtra, and the region of Karwar extends across a stretch of 660 km beginning from Pernem in Goa to Surathkal in Karnataka. It is designed in a manner so that high-speed trains with maximum speed of up to 160 km could pass through it. Presently, Trivandrum Rajdhani Express is the fastest train, which runs on this route at a maximum speed of 110 km. Freight and passenger traffic, both run through this route. It intersects the national highway NH-17 at several places. Even though, it is a single line route, the lines of the Konkan Railway and South-Western Railway run parallel from Majorda to Margao, which makes it a double line. There are a total of 56 stations on this line. The Konkan Railway Corporation Limited runs with an objective to offer safe, comfortable and timely transportation for freight and passengers. It also aims to maximise the net operating revenues with optimum utilisation of resources. It is also an objective of the project division to evolve Konkan Railway Technologies and build the Intellectual Property in order to augment efficiency and reliability of the performance, besides undertaking challenging projects. WBST160315 EBAKB230315 Last Updated on : March 23, 2015   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule