Home Page       Home Resources Contact Us   To implement Dr. P.L. Gautam’s Committee recommendations on DG Half-Yearly Progress Monitoring (HYPM) of the Scientists in ICAR, a web based software has been designed and developed at IASRI, New Delhi with a view to ensure more objective evaluation of the half-yearly performance of Scientists in ICAR. The HYPM is being maintained at the Central Server of IASRI, New Delhi and is accessible at http://hypm.iasri.res.in/. Authenticated access has been given to all concerned scientists, reporting officers, reviewing officers and research managers. ARS (ICAR) scientist posted at any one of the ICAR institutes has access to HYPM software through a unique UserId & Password. Facility has been provided to enter proposed targets for the coming half-year and achievements of the completed half-year independently with respect to Research, Teaching, Training, Extension and Other Prioritized Activities. The Reporting Officer (Head of Division/Regional Station) has access to the Proposed Targets & Achievements details submitted by all concerned scientists. He/She may add his/her remarks and give recommendations on the basis of the progress reports/inputs submitted by the concerned scientists. Reviewing Officer has dual facilities as he/she may be the Reporting Officer and as well as Reviewing Officer for some scientists like Head of Divisions and Reviewing Officer for other scientists. The Reviewing Officer is able to add his/her own Assessment Remarks and Final Overall Grading on the Proposed Targets and Achievements of all scientists. Finally, Institute/SMD/ICAR Level Monitoring Reports are generated. HYPM is open for data entry for period April 2015 to September 2015. Last date for reporting/reviewing has been extended from 20th April to 25th April 2015 . Use IE 6.0 and above version only.(Also compatible with Google Chrome)             Please Select SMD to Enter into HYPM SMD : Select SMD Agricultural Education Agricultural Engineering Animal Sciences Crop Sciences Extension Fisheries Horticulture Natural Resource Management ICAR Headquater     Developed by : Dr. P. K. Malhotra , Dr. R. C. Goyal , Dr. Sudeep Marwaha , Dr. Alka Arora Division of Computer Applications, IASRI, Library Avenue, Pusa, New Delhi - 110 012 (INDIA)    