Museums in Andhra Pradesh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andhra Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Mosques & Shrines in Andhra Pradesh Parks in Andhra Pradesh Caves in Andhra Pradesh Churches in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Temples in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Museums in Andhra Pradesh Cities to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Travel to Srisailam Travel to Tirupati Travel to Visakhapatnam Travel to Vijayawada Travel to Hyderabad Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Srikakulam Hotels in Kurnool Hotels in Tirupati Hotels in Vijayawada Hotels in Nellore About Andhra Pradesh History Climate Home » Andhra Pradesh » Tourism &raquo Andhra Pradesh Museums Andhra Pradesh Museums The Museums of Andhra Pradesh are a collective source of fruitful insight to the historical past of the state. Regarded as the storeroom of oldest of old antiquities, these Museums serve as the apt ancient archives that describe the rich socio-cultural tradition of the place. From antique pieces of ancient kingdoms, statues of the primeval ages to famous paintings and works of art, the Museums of Andhra Pradesh are known to have an inspiring array of historical items. The scholars of history and specialists of ancient civilization frequently visit these depositories where they get elaborate details about the most exotic phase of humankind. The state of Andhra Pradesh accommodates large number important Museums that showcase the rich background of the place. The prominent Museums that efficiently stand on the ground of the state are: A. P. State Museum A magnificent creation of Nizam the third, the A. P. State Museum, Hyderabad offers an incredible overview of the vibrant artistic splendor of Andhra Pradesh. Established in 1928, this excellent pattern of Indo-Saracenic style stands with élan in the beautiful Public Garden of Hyderabad. Specially known for a veritable range of objects of art, the A. P. State Museum boasts of a series of well-structured chambers that belong to different historic phases of human civilizations. The journey of the visitors begin from the Buddhists gallery where one can find an awe-inspiring variety of antiques that were believed to have been used in the times of Lord Buddha. Next comes the Brahmanical and Jain gallery that stores a huge array of historic objects that signifies the importance of the two religions. The armor and arms gallery is another striking possession of A. P. State Museum which provides an enthralling opportunity to view the various equipments with which the brave warriors of the past have fought and won the great battles. The Numismatics, Ajanta and Bronze galleries are the other attractions of the Museum that are famous for a massive collection of rare antiques of the past era. The tourism industry of South India receives considerable amount of revenue from Hyderabad round the year. As one of the most visited cities of India, the place has a wide network of roads, railway tracks and airways. While the South Central Railway has its base in the city, the air domain of Hyderabad houses both national and international air travel counters. Linked to all other prime cities of Andhra Pradesh, the place has direct road connections to states of Maharashtra and Orissa. Hence, the visitors can easily access the place of A. P. State Museum from any corner of the globe. Epitomizing the artistic affluence and historical esteem of Andhra Pradesh, the A. P. State Museum effectively presents a multi-dimensional gamut of cultural extravaganza of the bygone era under one roof. Amaravati Museum The quaint little town of Amaravati is well known not only as an eminent pilgrimage site at Amareswaram, but also for its archeological museum that stores some of history’s most treasured relics. Amravati Museum, Amravati is an exponent of the Amravati School of Art that dates back to antiquity. Amravati Museum is sited in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur District and encompasses the latitudinal parallel of 16?34’ North and the longitudinal meridian of 80 17’ East. The museum rests on the banks of the Krishna River and is easily accessible from Guntur Railway Station, a mere 35 km away from the museum’s site. Archeologists, research scholars, students as well as curators from all across the world visit Amravati Museum. The museum remains open all through the week from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Entry fees are priced a Rs. 2 per visitor above the threshold of 15 years and hence the museum records a very high footfall. The primordial Amravati School of Art finds adequate mention in the chronicles of the Satavahana era. The sculpting and the art forms that once upon a time adorned the ancient Buddhist Mahachaityas are displayed in the principal gallery. The lotus and the purnakumbha motifs, an auspicious symbol of abundant prosperity unravels the erstwhile affluence of the patrons of this art form. Drum slabs, swastikas, and relics of the jatakas find pride of place in the museum’s first floor gallery while the second floor gallery is dedicated to a life size image of the holy Gautam Buddha. The museum also houses several valued pieces that narrate the courage and valor of India’s ancient Satavahana rulers. A trip to Amravati Museum, Amravati takes visitors down memory lane to the pages of history and personifies the triumphs and losses of a bygone era. The Nizam’s Museum Sightseeing in Hyderabad is a real treat for all those who wish to be enlightened about the history and culture of ancient India. The ancient city is shrouded in history and boasts of a cultural legacy that has been handed down the generations. Adding another feather in the city’s cap is the Nizam’s Museum, Hyderabad. The Nizam's Museum was dedicated to the seventh and last Nizam of Hyderabad, the late Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan. The prestigious museum that boasts of an exotic and varied collection of souvenirs, mementos, and models of vintage cars that was gifted to Mir Osman Ali Khan on the Silver Jubilee of his glorious reign in 1936. The museum remains open on all days except Fridays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Situated near Hyderabad’s legendary Purani Haveli, the Nizam's Museum was obtained by the erstwhile second Nizam of Hyderabad in the year 1750. The newly renovated museum flaunts a fabulous collection of historical memoirs. Some of the legends include a 1930 Rolls Royce, Packard and a Mark V Jaguar, several magnificent models of the city’s eminent buildings glittering in their sparkling silver, a gold burnished wooden throne resplendent in its imperial grandeur, several Urdu citations expounding the efflorescence of the Nizam rule, a gold Tiffin box inlaid with diamonds, a miniature gold model of the Jubilee Pavilion, diamond studded silver coffee cups and a silver filigree elephant with its mahout. Tourists can couple the trip to the The Nizam’s Museum, Hyderabad with a stopover at Charminar and Salar Jung Museum, situated in the vicinity. A trip to Hyderabad’s pride, the Nizam’s Museum opens up a treasure trove of cultural delights. The Salar Jung Museum Aficionados of Hyderabad, the cultural treasure trove cant help raving about Salar Jung Museum, India’s third largest museum. The museum sited in the hot seat of cultural splendor contains antique pieces and artifacts from nearly all epochs of history. The existence of the museum is credited to Nawab Mir Yousuf Ali Khan Salar Jung III as well as the Prime Minister of the seventh Nizam, whose passion lay in collecting priceless antiques. His diverse collection has been moved from his ancestral mansion 'Diwan Deodi' to a private museum. Finally these masterpieces were shifted to Afzalgunj’s Salar Jung Muesum in 1968, and was under the jurisdiction of the Governor of Andhra Pradesh, who was acting as the ex-officio chairperson under the Salar Jung Museum Act of 1961. Salar Jung Museum, flaunting the country’s largest ‘one-man collection’ of antiques rests on the southern bank of the Musi River. The museum is a dream come true for those who love to take long trips along the musty pages of history with its varied collection of over 43000 art objects, 50000 books and manuscripts. These compilations include works and relics of Indian Art, Middle Eastern Art, Far Eastern Art, European Art, and Children Art along with an elaborate Founder’s gallery. The semi-circular building is a magnificent architectural edifice with 38 galleries spread across two floors of an imperial building. Each gallery has its own specialty with one housing the Nizam’s personal belongings, another houses Indian artifacts. Others display a plethora of items ranging from paintings, musical instruments, preserved stages showcased in glass cabinets, Kashmiri furniture and handicrafts as well a multitude of other valued historical relics. A visit to Hyderabad’s Salar Jung Meuseum opens up treasure chest of unbelievable cultural legacy an unveils an ancient figurine of Veiled Rebecca, Double figure by Italian sculptor G.H Benzoni, Musical clock, Arabic Al Quran in Nashq (1288 AD), jade crafted knifes of Jehangir & Nurjahan and Famous European paintings like 'Venice', 'Soap Bubbles' etc. Last Updated on 29 March 2013 Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Adoni Hotels Eluru Hotels Hyderabad Hotels Kakinada Hotels Kurnool Hotels Nellore Hotels Ongole Hotels Puttaparthy Hotels Puttaparti Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Srikakulam Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Vizianagaram Hotels Andhra Pradesh Tourism Beaches Buddhist Centres Caves Churches Hill Stations Hotels Monuments Mosques Museums Parks Shopping Temples Andhra Pradesh Handicrafts Wildlife Sanctuaries Travel Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Handicrafts Map Tourist Places in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Tirupati Vijayawada Vishakhapatnam Warangal Puttaparthi Rajahmundry How to Reach Andhra Pradesh Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table People, Culture and Festivals of Andhra Pradesh Art and Craft Fairs Festivals Performing Arts About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule