Wildlife Sanctuaries in Rajasthan, National Parks of Rajasthan Home » Maps » Wildlife » Sanctuaries & National Parks of Rajasthan   Rajasthan History and Geography Weather राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar                         more.. Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Wildlife Sanctuaries & National Parks of Rajasthan Rajasthan Wildlife Destinations Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the Wildlife Destinations in Rajasthan. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Kumbhalgarh sanctuary The Kumbhalgarh sanctuary offers a commanding view of the historical Kumbhalgarh Fortress and derives its name from this fort. Lying at an altitude of 500 to 1,300m in the Aravali Hills, the Kumbhalgarh sanctuary encompasses an area of 578 sq Kms that extends in the districts of Pali, Rajsamand and Udaipur. Location - The sanctuary is located at a distance of 90 kms from Udaipur. The nearest town is Falna that lies at a distance of about 25 kms. Darrah Sanctuary The Darrah Sanctuary is a beautiful sylvan reserve and is located at a distance of about 50 km from the city of Kota. Connectivity to the sanctuary is ensured by the Kota aerodrome or airport. Kota is also the nearest major railway junction connecting this sanctuary with the rest of the country and as the city stands on NH 12, many cities of the state are well connected with the reserve by road. The Darrah Sanctuary is the erstwhile hunting grounds of the Rajput royals and stretches over an area of about 250 km. The many varieties of creatures that inhabit the Durrah Sanctuary include spotted deer, wolves, wild boars, sloth bears, sambars, leopards, panthers and antelopes. The Darrah Sanctuary is lush with green foliage and many rare medicinal herbs and trees grow here. Mount Abu Mount Abu, nestled in the laps of the oldest fold mountains Aravali ranges, is the only hill station of Rajasthan . Being a great site of Eco-Tourism, Mt. Abu houses the Sanctuary that is the natural habitat of a large number of plants, animals and birds species. The sanctuary that an area of about 288 kms is covered by subtropical evergreen forests and the atmosphere of this place is dominated by the fragrance of jasmine flowers especially during the months of March and April. This place which used to be the former summer resort of the Rajput princes was declared as a sanctuary in 1960. Location - Mount Abu is located in the Sirohi district of and lies about 185 kms from Udaipur. Gajner Wildlife Sanctuary The Gajner Wildlife Sanctuary, Rajasthan, is one of the premier natural reserves in the state and is a major tourist attraction. At a distance of about 32 km from the rich and festive city of Bikaner, is located the Gajner Wildlife Sanctuary. Enroute to Jaisalmer, another desert town, lie the thickly forested hillocks of the Gajner reserve. A number of wild creatures such as the foxes wildfowls, boars, hares, antelopes and deer including the blackbucks, chinkaras and bluebulls or the Neelgai inhabit these jungles. Besides providing the tourists with a spectacular view, the clear, blue lake at Gajner attracts avian visitors by the hundreds. Keoladeo Ghana National Park The Keoladeo Ghana National Park is located at Bharatpur, Rajasthan, at a distance of about 56 km from Agra (also the nearest airport). The national park is located 6 km from the Bharatpur railway station which provides excellent rail connectivity between Bharatpur and the major rail junctions of India. A network of good roads connects Bharatpur with Agra, Delhi, Jaipur and other cities in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Set up initially in 1850 as a duck shooting resort for Bharatpur's Raja Suraj Mahl, the Keoladeo National Park is named after the Keoladeo (Shiva) Temple in the locality. In 1982, the reserve was converted into a wildlife sanctuary and in 1985 it was given the distinction of a World Heritage Spot. The Keoladeo National Park houses about 364 varieties of birds and is one of the world's primary avian breeding grounds. A number of migratory birds from colder lands such as Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, China and Siberia make Keoladeo their refuge during the winter months. The incessant monsoons inundate most of the sanctuary thus creating an ecosystem well suited to shelter these avian visitors. Last Updated on : 05 April 2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule