Temples in Karnataka Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Karnataka Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Places to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan Palace Cubbon Park Raja's Seat Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary Lalitha Mahal Karanji Lake Murudeshwara Temple Mysore Palace Group of Monuments at Pattadakal Bangalore Fort Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Cities to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Travel Belur Travel Coorg Travel Halebid Travel Hampi Travel Mangalore Travel Mysore Travel Badami Travel Belgaum Travel Sringeri Travel Karnataka Hotels Bangalore Hotels Coorg Hotels Udupu Hotels Mysore Hotels Hubli Hotels Mangalore Hotels About Karnataka Geography & History Fairs & Festivals Food Quick Facts Home »» Karnataka » Tourism » Karnataka Temples Temples in Karnataka Karnataka temples and shrines forms an inevitable part of Karnataka tourism. Devotees from different corners of the world come to visit Karnataka temples and shrines to pay their homage to their titular deities. Talking about Karnataka temples and shrines, we can say that there is an aura in these temples that provides the visitors with a lot of peace and tranquility. Further, it can be said that the Karnataka temples and shrines that has become almost synonymous with Karnataka tourism, has sustained the adversity of time. Thus, it seems to be a must visit by the enthusiasts. Famous Temples in Karnataka Vidyashankara Temple The Vidyashankara temple at Sringeri is considered to be the abode of 'Sarada Peetham' and founded by Adi Shankaracharya. The Vidyashankara temple, Sringeri is built to commemorate Guru Vidyashankara with some much needed assistance from the emperors of Vijaynagar. Post setting up the image of Sharada in the temple, Adi Shankaracharya also commenced the propagation of the philosophy that preached non-dualism that was known as Bharati Sampradaya. The Vidyashankara temple of Karnataka vividly displays the Dravidian and Hoysalan school of engineering. This is apparent from the 12 pillars epitomizing 12 zodiac signs that shoulder the mandapam and are reckoned as the 'Raasi Pillars'. Another intriguing feature of these pillars is that they are so skillfully erected that each pillar receives sunlight on the basis of the solar calender. The Vidyashankara temple, Sringeri also possesses severals entrance ways, six to be precise. The image of Sharada that was personally inaugurated by Adi Shankaracharya is constructed from sandalwood although it was substituted by another image that was made from pure gold later with the advent of the 14th century. The image of Ma Sharada is indeed a spectacle to watch as she is resting on the Sri Chakra Peetham with a Japa Mala and a parrot enhancing the beauty of both her arms. Sharada Temple The Sharada Temple at Sringeri is considered to be a part of an exceedingly vital 'Hindu Advaita Matha' which encounters a hefty crowd of fervent devotees all throughout the year. Legend has it that Sharada Temple at Sringeri was included in the first 'matha' whose foundation had been laid by Adi Shankaracharya and as a consequence the matha is also reckoned as 'Sankaracharyas'. Being situated at the brink of the placid river called Tunga, a very timid and peaceful ambiance prevails around the area of the Sharada Temple at Sringeri. The location of the Sharada Temple at Sringeri makes it comfortably accessible from any part of the state. The Sharada Temple of Sringeri is positioned at a length of approximately 105 kilometers from the city of Mangalore. Apart from the Sharada Temple in Sringeri there are also a number of schools that are looked after by the officials of the matha. The Sharada Temple from Sringeri is maintained by the Sringeri matha. There is also a very rare collection of books that have been written in Sanskrit that belongs to the matha under which the Sharada Temple at Sringeri lies. A Brahmachari is elected as the supreme commander of the matha. The sole criteria that is considered behind his selection is his knowledge of the 'vedas'. Kollur Mookambika Temple The Kollur Mookambika Temple of Karnataka is situated 135 kilometers far from Mangalore. This is a widely visited pilgrimage center lying at the foot of the Western Ghats of Karnataka. This beautiful temple is mainly known for the gold plated crest and cooper roofs that attracts thousands of devotees every year. Kollur Mookambika Temple is one of the seven pilgrims created by Parashurama and is regarded as a very sacred place by the devotees. The uniqueness about this temple is that while all the pilgrims of Parshurama are dedicated to the deity Shiva, Ganesha, the Kollur Mookambika Temple is the only one devoted to Goddess Parvati. Thus, Kollur Mookambika Temple has a great significance to the Hindu devotees and they go there in large numbers to offer their prayers before her. Beach Temple Murudeshwar Do you aspire to visit a place which not only attracts casual tourists but also the devotees who have great faith on God? Then the Beach Temple, Murudeshwar is the perfect destination for you. This place has a different appeal to its tourists because of the aesthetic beauty that it holds. The Beach Temple, Murudeshwar is around 165 kilometers far from the Mangalore city of Karnataka. This Beach Temple, Murudeshwar is situated between Bhatkal and Honnavara. The main attraction of Murudeshwar is the Shiva Temple. The Arabian sea and the rolling hills of the Western Ghats have made this place a sacred Hindu pilgrimage and a favorite picnic spot for the tourists. The Beach Temple of Murudeshwar is residing on the top of a small hill called Kanduka Giri. Two gigantic concrete elephants stand at the foot of the steps that lead to the temple. There is deity of Jattiga riding on a horse symbolizing as one who ascends the hillock. The big fort behind the temple has a historical background. It is said to have been renovated by the Mysore King, Tipu Sultan. People come here in large numbers not only to see the temple but also to enjoy sunset at the sunset point of Murudeshwar. This shrine looks amazing when the Beach Temple, Murudeshwar emits the rays of the setting sun. Udupi Krishna Temple Karnataka is known for its versatile tourist attractions. The temples of Karnataka are the famous pilgrim places for the devotees. Among them Udupi which is the birth place of the 12th century saint Mahadeva has been regarded a sacred temple place for the Vaishnavites at the Karnataka coastal town. The Udupi Krishna Temple is located 60 km far from the Mangalore city. The Udupi Krishna Temple is commonly known as Krishna Mutt. This shrine is one of the sacred temples of the southern region of India which is dedicated to Lord Krishna. The idol of lord Krishna in the Udupi Krishna Temple was installed by the age old saint Madhavacharya. The reason why the Udupi Krishna Temple in Karnataka allures a large number of devotees every year has a long history behind it. It is said that the idol of lord Krishna was carried by a mariner who took it for a sandalwood lump. In the western coast of Malpe during the mid of his journey the ship was caught by a high storm. Then Madhavacharya appeared there and stopped the storm by mighty power. Being rescued by him the mariner gave the saint the sandalwood lump as a gift out of gratitude. Then saint Madhvacharya installed the deity of Lord Krishna in the temple. Durga Parameshwari Temple Devi Durga is the symbol of power (shakti) and being worshiped by a large number of devotees all over India. The Durga Parameshwari Temple of Karnataka is located 29 km. far from the Mangalore city. Kateel is situated in South Kannad which is a holy pilgrimage for the Hindus. This sacred place is dedicated to the Goddess Durga Parameshwari. Devotees from all over the country come to this divine place to pray and worship the holy deity of Durga in the Durga Parameshwari Temple. The Durga Parameshwari Temple of Karnataka is situated on a small island in the middle of the holy river. The scenic beauty of the temple along with its surrounding greeneries have given a gorgeous look to the temple. Manjunatha Temple Dharmasthala Karnataka is well known to the tourists who are keen to visit the holy places of India. Coming to Dharmasthala, the Manjunatha Temple is one of the sacred pilgrim places of South India. Dharmasthala is a holy place visited by a large number of people irrespective of their differences in cast and creed. Dharmasthala is located in a village of the same name in the South Kannara District of Karnataka. It is situated on the banks of the river Nethravathi which is regarded as a sacred river by the devotees. The water of the Nethravati river is used as the holy water for Dharmasthala. Thus the pilgrims who come to offer their prayers first bathe in this river to purify their soul before entering into the Manjunatha Temple, Dharmasthala. The main lord of the Manjunatha Temple, Dharmasthala is the Shri Manjunathaswamy. Shri Manjunathaswamy is regarded as another form of Lord Shiva. The deity of Lord Manjunathaswamy has a relationship with the temple of Kadri Manjunatha of Mangalore. It is believed that about 5 centuries ago a Jain family was blessed by the angels of Dharmasthala. Later, the Jain people made temples and installed the images of Dharma Daivas. This myth relates that to bring the Shiva Linga from Kadri, Dharma Daivas sent a vassal to Annappa. The temple Annappa faces the idol of Manjunatha in Dharmasthala. Kollur Mookambika Temple The Kollur Mookambika Temple of Karnataka is situated 135 kilometers far from Mangalore. This is a widely visited pilgrimage center lying at the foot of the Western Ghats of Karnataka. This beautiful temple is mainly known for the gold plated crest and cooper roofs that attracts thousands of devotees every year. Kollur Mookambika Temple is one of the seven pilgrims created by Parashurama and is regarded as a very sacred place by the devotees. The uniqueness about this temple is that while all the pilgrims of Parshurama are dedicated to the deity Shiva, Ganesha, the Kollur Mookambika Temple is the only one devoted to Goddess Parvati. Thus, Kollur Mookambika Temple has a great significance to the Hindu devotees and they go there in large numbers to offer their prayers before her. Mahabaleshwar Temple Gokarna Gokarna is a Hindu pilgrim center of South India. It is one of the most worshiped and celebrated pilgrimage in the coast of Karnataka. The Mahabaleshwar Temple, Gokarna is one of the famous places of Gokarna visited by a large number of devotees every year. The Mahabaleshwar Temple, Gokarna of Karnataka is regarded as one of the seven Muktisthala temples of Karnataka. This temple is resided by a huge Shivlinga which is called the Atmalinga. According to the Hindu mythology, Lord Ganesha brought this linga here and it got rooted when he kept it on the ground. This linga was supposed to be given to Ravana by Lord Shiva which would make him very powerful. The other Gods were horrified thinking the result of it. Thus they begged before Lord Ganesha to help them. Then Ganesha took away the linga from the reach of Ravana and then fixed it on the ground so that nobody can pull it out. Virupaksha Temple Pattadakal The state Karnataka holds a number of temples in its land. This culturally inclined state has versatile temples each reflecting the story behind the erection of them. The Virupaksha Temple, Pattadakal tells the history of the Chalukyan period in its architectural beauty. Pattadakal which is situated near Bijapur is the center for early Chalukyan art. The Chalukyan period shows a different style in architecture. Thus the set of nine temples of Padattakal which are mostly made of the same style displays the fusion style of the Chalukyan era. The Virupaksha Temple, Pattadakal is one of the most beautiful temples of South India. One can find a resemblance in style between the Virupaksha Temple, Pattadakal and the Kailasanatha Temple of Kanchi. This temple is mainly dominated by the beautiful Dravidian style. The beautiful artworks at the body of the temple mesmerizes the visitors. Every pillar and every curve of the Virupaksha Temple, Pattadakal attracts the eyes of the visitors. The curves of the 18 pillars of the Virupaksha Temple, Pattadakal illustrates scenes from the Puranas. An image of Lucalisa could be seen there which reflects the dominance of the Pusupata sect of Saiva religion of the Chalukyan period. Mallikarjuna Temple Pattadakal Karnataka is a paradise to the people who have a passion for temples since the state houses a number of outstanding places of worship like the Mallikarjuna Temple, Pattadakal. The temple architecture in the southern peninsula of India especially in the state of Karnataka is absolutely different from that of the east, west or the north. The temples of the south particularly the Mallikarjuna Temple, Pattadakal in Karnataka exhibits the extraordinary craftsmanship and expertize of the artisans and the love and passion of the people for art and architecture, especially of the rulers without whose patronage the temples would not have been built. One of the best temples of the South Indian style is the Mallikarjuna Temple, Pattadakal of Karnataka. This temple was constructed by the queens of Vikramaditya II (734-44) in commemoration of his victorious march against Kanchi, the Pallava capital. The magnificent temple is noted for the nicely carved lively figures on its walls and the massive square pillars in sand stone. Pattadakal is known as Kisuvolal (`Red Town') since the sand stone available here is reddish in color. Sangameshwar Temple Pattadakal Karnataka is a delight to the people who have a passion for temples since the state houses a number of outstanding places of worship like the Sangameshwara Temple, Pattadakal. The temple architecture in the southern peninsula of India especially in the state of Karnataka is absolutely different from that of the east, west or the north. The temples of the south especially the Sangameshwara Temple, Pattadakal in Karnataka exhibits the outstanding craftsmanship as well as expertize of the artisans and the love and passion of the people for art and architecture, especially of the rulers without whose patronage the temples would not have been built. The most significant among the temples depicting the typical South Indian temple architecture are the Sangameshwara Temple, Pattadakal, Virupaksha temple and the Mallikarjuna temple. The most ancient among these temples of Karnataka is the Sangameshwara Temple, Pattadakal. This temple was constructed by Vijayaditya Satyasraya (697-733 AD). Umamaheshwari Temple Aihole Umamaheshwari Temple, Aihole is one of the oldest and most important temples in the state of Karnataka as well as in India. Aihole was the ancient most capital of the Chalukyas. It is a wonderful village town lying on the banks of the Malaprabha river. The village of Aihole is known as the "Cradle of Indian architecture". Umamaheshwari Temple, Aihole constitutes one of the hundreds of temples spotted around the village. The temple is minutely carved with much stress on the detailing. The ambiance is serene and peaceful. If you visit the temple you are sure to be indulged in the nostalgia of the age old days. Umamaheshwari Temple, Aihole enshrines a wonderfully carved structure of Lord Brahma who is seen sitting on a lotus. The image of Lord Brahma is the unique feature of the temple. Iskcon Temple Bangalore Iskcon Temple Bangalore is situated on a seven acre hillock called 'Hare Krishna Hill' on West of Chord Road. ISKCON Temple, Bangalore or the International Society for Krishna Consciousness is a replica of the Gaudiya Vaishnava faith based on the teachings of Bhagvad Gita and the Bhagvad Purana. ISKCON Temple, Bangalore is also known as Sri Radha Krishna temple and cultural complex. It is well known all over the world for its architectural style. ISKCON Temple, Bangalore at Karnataka attracts lots of global tourists. ISKCON Temple of Karnataka was set up to mark the birth centenary of its founder Sri Prabhupada. ISKCON Temple, Bangalore is built in neo-classical style thereby mixing the traditional element of temple architecture with modern facilities. The arches of the ISKCON Temple, Bangalore are very well decorated and the illuminated water falls lead you to the heavily designed Rajagopuram. Banashankari Temple Banashankari Temple of Karnataka is one of the finest piece of Dravidian style of architecture. Banashankari Temple at Karnataka is situated 5 kilometers away from Badami, the capital city of Chalukyas, at Cholachigud. At Banashankari Temple in Karnataka, Goddess Banashankari or Shakambari who is the form of Goddess Parvati is worshiped. The temple is said to be very old and it is believed that the structure of Banashankari Temple in Karnataka was originally built by the Chalukyas of Kalyan but the existing temple was built in 17th century. The temple is named Banashankari Temple because Ban means forest and it is sited within the Tilakaaranya forest. The Chalukyas worshiped her as their Kuldevi. The Banashankari Temple at Karnataka is mainly worshiped by the weaver community. Last Updated on : 27 June 2013 Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Belgaum Hotels Bellary Hotels Bijapur Hotels Chikmagalur Hotels Coorg Hotels Davangere Hotels Dharwad Hotels Gangavathi Hotels Gulbarga Hotels Hassan Hotels Hospet Hotels Hubli Hotels Karwar Hotels Kolar Hotels Mangalore Hotels Manipal Hotels Murudeshwar Hotels Mysore Hotels Sandur Hotels Shimoga Hotels Udupi Hotels Travel to Karnataka Travel to Bangalore Travel to Belur Travel to Coorg Travel to Halebid Travel to Hampi Travel to Mangalore Travel to Mysore Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Belur Places to visit in Coorg Wildlife Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan Palace Cubbon Park Raja's Seat Places to visit in Halebid Places to visit in Hampi Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary Lalitha Mahal Karanji Lake Murudeshwara Temple Mysore Palace Group of Monuments at Pattadakal Bangalore Fort Places to visit in Mangalore Places to visit in Mysore Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule