Bitumen Manufacturer & Exporters German Mirror Lubricants Greases Fze United Arab Emirates List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory German Mirror Lubricants Greases Fze Member Since : 2010 | Country : United Arab Emirates Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Lubricants, Grease, Engine Oil, Motor Oil, Synthetic Oil, Gear Oil Company Information We are manufacturer of lubricants & greases industry with a brand name called mirr.(api certified) we provide our customers superior quality products coupled with competitive prices and outstanding after sales services mirr is distributed to many a customers and organizations in more different countries around the globe. We are producing lubricants & greases out of high quality virgin base stocks to match with superior quality additives with a complete german know how. We have lubricants for a wide range of applications like automotive, marine and industrial and other specialty products. Mirr range of lubricants includes synthetic and semi-synthetic lubricants of different grades and viscosities to work effectively in a wide range of temperatures and conditions with extended lubricant intervals. To enable mirr to stand out in terms of quality and performance we have a team of highly qualified professionals. At german mirror r&d is a continuous process with dedicated efforts for improvising the existing standards with the help of sophisticated technology in order to improve not only the performance but also the environmental compatibility. To top it all we have a well-organized and well-implemented quality control system to ensure that the specified quality is achieved at every stage of production. Every batch, which leaves the plant, is checked and tested in a well-equipped laboratory to ensure that the finished product meets all the international standards and specifications. Above all this, german mirror gives an enormous advertisement & promotional support to its agents and customers in order to enable them an easy promotion and a better market. The ad & promotion department develops new and unique ideas to educate the end user about mirr lubricants. As a dedicated lubricant industry, we have a passion towards exploring new dimensions in product development and improved services to meet the ever-changing demands of the global market. Company Facts Business Type : Manufacturer / Exporters / Wholesale Suppliers Year of Estd. : 2000 Company Turnover : USD 5 to 10 Million Approx. No. of Employee : 50 - 100 Ownership : Individual (Sole proprietorship) Business Markets : Asia, Africa, Middle East, Website : http://www.germanmirror.biz Featured Products/Services Bitumen Semi Refined White Paraffin Wax Gear Oil Transmission Fluid Brake Fluid Synthetic Oil Hydraulic Oil Wismar Walter - (x) Search Contact Details Mr. Vikas J Shahani Telephone : +971-0558564326 Fax No : +971-0555260999 Mobile Phone : +971-558564326,+971-971558564326 » More detail Hot Products » Bitumen » Brake Fluid » Gear Oil » Hydraulic Oil » Semi Refined White Paraffin Wax » Synthetic Oil » Transmission Fluid Other Products » Atf Dex - (iii) » Automotive Oil » Bitumen 60/70 » Brake Fluid Dot 3 » Gear Oil » Hydraulic Oil » Mirr 20w 50 Api Cf-4/sf » MIRR Gear Oil 140 GL-4 » MIRR MEGA X 15W40 » Mulheimer » Petrol Engine Oil » Refined White Paraffine Wax » Rpo ( Light) » Rubber Processing Oil, Rpo » Super Synthetic » Walter - (x) » Wismar Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com