Groundwater consultant - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Groundwater consultant Groundwater consultant Request Price Description Product Description Value of water: Water is an important free gift of nature to life on earth. Unlike air, it is unevenly distributed on earth. About 30% of water is stored under the ground in aquifers and streams unseen by us, and is the main source in rain-dependent areas. Its equitable and judicious use is our collective responsibility. We should recharge it by harvesting the run-off water for our collective advantage. Natural clues for groundwater: (1) The annual rain-fall in the area (2) The catchment area (3) The density of trees (4) Nearby water-bodies (5) The aquifer characteristics of the area. Need for Expertise : With under recharge of groundwater the aquifer areas shrink, water table lowers, stream width and height reduce. Hence, groundwater investigation has to be precise as to the depth, direction and discharge of a stream and drilling has to be perfect( manual and mechanical errors have to be minimized to zero. Services in Groundwater consultancy: 1. Investigation/survey/mapping of aquifers/groundwater streams; 2. Second opinion on borewell points pending for drilling; 3. Exploring the possibility of Revival of weak/failed borewells/dug wells; 4. Water harvesting. Methods: 1. Topography/ Geomorphology, 2. Geobiology, 3. Dowsing Rods, 4. Copper wand, 5. Pendulum, 6. Brunton compass, 7. Infrasonics, 8. Magnetic flux, 9. Vertical Electrical Sounding, 10. Coconut, 11. ‘Y’ notch. Multiple methods are adopted to ensure accuracy of depth, direction and discharge of streams. Features: 1. Methods will be increased with the complexity of the groundwater/streams/aquifers, 2. Video recording of investigations can be done by clients on the site, 3. Demonstration of proof of water-investigated will be given ( subject to time and facility nearby), 4. Investigation/survey at client’s convenient time and date, 5. Genuine reporting on the spot/site, 6. No interference in driller-choosing decisions of the client, 7. Follow-up calls for feedback on our services/successes. Terms and conditions: 1. Prior appointments by SMS/call to (0) 9538909542 (Bangalore) /mail to bmbmath@gmail.com, 2. Fees for my services to be agreed before appointment and payable in cash on site on reporting, 3. Outstation orders by 50% advance payment by NEFT* to my bank account( as detailed below), 4. Conveyance to be arranged from land-mark/Bus /Railway point nearest to the survey-site, 5. Labour/facilities/materials to be provided for investigation/marking of points on identification, 6. My tools/equipments/gadgets are not to be touched or handled by others.Terms and conditions: 1. Prior appointments by SMS/call to (0) 9538909542 (Bangalore) /mail to bmbmath@gmail.com, 2. Fees for my services to be agreed before appointment and payable in cash on site on reporting, 3. Outstation orders by 50% advance payment by NEFT* to my bank account( as detailed below), 4. Conveyance to be arranged from land-mark/Bus /Railway point nearest to the survey-site, 5. Labour/facilities/materials to be provided for investigation/marking of points on identification, 6. My tools/equipments/gadgets are not to be touched or handled by others. Groundwater investigations Gadgets If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: BHU1 . Categories: Experts , Knowledge . Tag: Groundwater . Social share Related Products Free Contact Consultant Directly Request Price Quick View Experts , Knowledge Training program – Stevia & Medicinal Plant’s Cultivation Free Contact the consultant directly Request Price Quick View Experts , Knowledge Textile product development service Free Contact Consultant Directly Request Price Quick View Experts Open cultivation of fruits and vegetables Free Contact Consultant Directly Request Price Quick View Experts Lands for solar power plants Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Knowledge Goat Farm DVD Free Contact consultant directly Request Price Quick View Experts Farm consultancy Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken