Are organic certifications worth it? - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Are organic certifications worth it? Home Are organic certifications worth it? We asked farmers who have purchased organic certifications whether it made any difference to their income generation. We also crosschecked their feedback with organic certification companies in India. Today consumers are very much knowledgeable about organic foods. When purchasing they would ask first, “Is it Organic?” Organic certification assures them that the product is organically grown and priced accordingly. But is it really easy or financially viable for a farmer to have organic certification? Read on the mixed views. Organic and Organic Certification Organic farming is must not the Certification! “Organic certification and organic farming are two different scenarios”, says Mr. Ajeet Singh, Chairman, Agri Age Farms. According to him organic certification is a fine way to minimize the chemical use. If the process is genuine then it will be beneficial for the society. However if it turns into a certification like ISI where certification is availed by paying extra amounts to agents, its essence is lost. The word “organic” is not protected in our country. Organic certification gives that guarantee to the consumers that the certified products are grown as per set of rules and regulations. It is value addition procedure. Mr. Narayana Upadhyaya, Director, Aditi Organic Certifications shares, “Organic product is no more limited to be only free from pesticides or chemicals.” Many additional features are taken into consideration including social and environmental issues. Tracking and traceability of the certified product is very important component in certification. Dr. M. Usha Muthyala, Managing Partner, Vedic Organic Certification Agency says, “As per the standards, the farmer is supposed to source most of his inputs on farm. He has to prefer locally available resources to prepare his own farming inputs. Organic certification is the proof that farmers have done the work organically. It is a wrong notion that organic farming is more expensive than conventional farming.” Mr. Mukesh A.A, Operations Manager, Ecocert India shares, “Organic farming though requires added manpower is certainly less costly than chemical farming. The ever-increasing expenditure of chemical inputs farmer has to incur every year is certainly higher than organic farming.” “During the initial phase of conversion from conventional to organic farming, there may be a reduction in yield but it will get stabilized after the fifth year. Further the farmers get a premium price for their organic produce,” says Director, Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Department (TNOCD). He further adds, “Organic certification helps the farmers to add value to their products by following a set of procedures”. “Farmers are used to using ready-made products and are not ready to put in some more efforts in preparing their own inputs. Also, the Government provides subsidy to chemical fertilizers and pesticides. So the farmers get attracted to these offers so organic farming still not successful in India,” Dr. Usha further adds. On the contrary, Mr. Ramana Naidu, Owner of Friends Farm finds the entire concept of organic to be over-rated and treats it only as coffee table talk for rich and famous. He opines, “I think our farmers naturally live an organic life without much ado”. Mr. Mandar Ratnakar Walawalkar, Member, Abhinav Farmers Club finds all organic certification provider companies more or less the same. He personally believes in self certification rather than in any certified certification from third party. Is it financially worth for individual farmer to take organic certification? Individual certification is costly and small farm holders cannot afford the cost. Mr. Chackochan, Chairman, recommends ICS. It is more trustful because among the farmers’ group they will monitor the farming activity of each other. Also frequent inspections are done by the Internal Control System. So we can assure the genuineness of the final produce. Mr. Walawalkar finds certification to be impractical for an individual farmer but opines it is cost effective for a group of farmers as the cost is shared. Dr. M. Usha Muthyala too feels organic certification for individual farmer is difficult so she proposes grower group certification. Here a group of farmers (min-25 and max-500) in geographical proximity form a grower group, and take the certificate in the name of the group. The group needs to have a legal status (co-operative society etc.). Group members needs to do collective marketing and is not allowed to market the product individually. The cost of the certification is shared by all the members in the group. The process of getting organic certification helps farmer to learn more about the organic farming but the processing of organic certification must be easily accessed so that there will not be any harassment as told by Mr. Ajeet Singh. “It is true that getting certified is labor intensive but I do not say it is a costly affair anymore provided the farmer is having a clear planning and commitment to go for it,” says Mr. Narayana Upadhyaya. Farmers cannot make organic farming economically viable unless they have long term commitments and clear organic management planning. Certification may not be necessary for the short distance markets but it is worth the labor when we think of long distance market. Mr. Mukesh finds it as a misconception that the process of organic certification is labor-intensive. He explains, “At an individual farmer’s level all they have to do is maintain a regular record of their organic farm operations in the farm of field notebook and the necessary justification documents e.g. bills, invoices, delivery notes etc. which confirm purchase of inputs and sales of their organic produce etc. This doesn’t really take a lot of efforts.” Regarding costs, he feels it is the lack of organized, assured, and premium market and weakly facilitated access of small and marginal farmers’ produce to such markets which is the main bottleneck. As a whole, organic certification is strictly not advised for individual farmer. Some feel it is a part of big conspiracy between the Government and fertilizer manufacturers as they don’t really want the general public to consume organic produce. Paying Rs. 15- 18 thousands per year is not affordable in anyways for an individual farmer. The cost is huge and poor illiterate farmer cannot keep the books and records. Secondly, all paperwork increases routine activities of farmers. In reality there are many loopholes for those who are not committed to organic movement. Does certification help in increasing sales in domestic market? According to Mr. Chackochan, organic certification boosting sales in domestic market surely will take some more time. At the moment it is not recommended. There is a need for a proper system to be developed as presently everybody can market sub-standard and conventional products under organic brand. It is happening in domestic market and unfortunately there is no system to control the fake produce. Mr. Mukesh suggests, “Organic certification will help in domestic sales only when there are more and more direct supply chains which bring farmers in direct contact with consumers which will increase the confidence of consumers, enabling optimization of end prices at consumers’ level and giving maximum returns to farmers.” Is organic certification only good for exports? Mr. Ajeet Singh shares, “Our team member, Songpon Tangkatikanakorn, who is from Thailand, is working to provide the strength to our export business and has submitted the demand report to us with more than 90% demand for organic certified products from Japan, Thailand, Singapore & other countries.” He highly recommends organic certification to farmers. “There must be an organic movement and harmful chemicals should be banned,” he further adds. Mr. Mukesh, Dr. M. Usha Muthyala, Mr. Ramana Naidu, Mr. Mandar Ratnakar Walawalkar and Mr. Narayana Upadhyaya are all of the opinion that organic certification is good only for exports but not for the local market. Only to differ here a little is Director, TNOCD. He opines, “It is true partly, but the situation is changing now due to the emergence of a number of reliable organic outlets”. Difference of opinions among various farmers and organic certification agencies about credibility of organic certification continues to remain a topic of discussion. However, it is evident that organic certification helps a farmer group to a great extent during exports. Also another fact that persists is that farmers are mostly in crisis, and they are struggling to survive. A genuine organic farmer never starves but however he cannot come in the mainstream as industrialists. Our Correspondent Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Are organic certifications worth it? Related – articles, consultants, downloads Aditi Organic Certifications Vedic Organic Certification Agency Uttaranchal State Organic Certification Agency Ecocert India – certification to organic produce You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic