Kota City Map Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Kota Map   Rajasthan Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar Amer Barmer Bharatpur Pali Sikar Nagaur                         more.. राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan History and Geography Weather Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Kota City Map City Map of Kota Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest in Kota City. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Kota is a beautiful town in Rajasthan , full of gaiety, cheer and steeped in colorful history. Located on the eastern bank of the Chambal River, Kota once belonged to the princely state of Bundi under the rule of the Chauhans. Kota is well known for its ancient palaces, havelis or mansions and castles. In the 17th century, Emperor Jahangir declared Kota a separate state and it was ruled by Rao Madho Singh the heir apparent to the throne of Kota. The city is a modern settlement now and is known for its natural and man made marvels. Though Kota boasts of a small airport, the main international airport at Jaipur (240 km) connects it to the rest of the world through regular flight services. Kota is a main railhead and connects the city with other major railway junctions in the country. Being situated on the NH 12 (Jaipur Jabalpur Highway) has provided Kota excellent road links with the rest of India. Dussehra is one of the prime festivals of Rajasthan and is celebrated with great pomp and grandeur in Kota. The festival commemorates the 9 day battle between Rama, the Divine king and Ravana, a demon. On the 10th day is called the Vijaya Dashami or the 'Day Of Victory'. Ram Lila enactments of this epic battle and other devotional programs are organized all through this period. The main attractions of the city of Kota are: Kota Fort Chambal Garden Maharao Madho Singh Museum The Government Museum Jag Mandir- Kishore Sagar Haveli Of Devtaji Kota Barrage Kansua Temple Bhitria Kund Adhar Shila Budh Singh Bafna Haveli Yatayat Park Last Updated on : 10 April 2012 Cities in Rajasthan Ajmer Alwar Amer Banaswara Barmer Bharatpur Bhilwara Bhiwadi Bikaner Bhadra Bundi Chittaurgarh Kishangarh Didwana Nohar Pratapgarh Churu Dungarpur Jaipurcity Jaisalmer Jhalawar Jodhpur Kota Kumbhalgarh Mount Abu Ganganagar Hanumangarh Gangapur Jalore Sojat Nathdwara Niwai Nagaur Neemrana Pali Pushkar Ranakpur Sawai Madhopur Shekhawati Sikar Udaipur Tonk Baran Dausa Laxmangarh Merta Ladnun Rawatbhata             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule