Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Library    Rules & Regulations Rules & Regulations Perfect silence should be maintained in the Library. Students can keep the books for two weeks at a time. The Books should be returned on or before the due date, which is marked on the first page of the book issued. A fine of 1.00 rupee will be imposed per day for late returning of Books. The Library will be closed on Sundays and during the summer vacation. Students should make good any loss of or damage to the Library books, magazines or Library property. Reference books, magazines, journals and dailies cannot be taken out of the Library and should not be removed from their places. The Library will remain open from 8.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. on all working days, and from 9.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. on all Saturdays. No member is allowed to pass on the Library books to any one in or outside the Institute. He/She will do so under pain of fine or of suspension of membership of the Library. Students or staff who leave the Institution for any reason in the middle of the term should return the books before they leave the Institution. Writing or underlining in a book or tampering with a book in any manner is strictly prohibited. Research Scholars are invited to make use of the Research carrels available in the Library. No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com