An Indian Customer is Interested in Sawdust Pellet Machine AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale An Indian Customer is Interested in Sawdust Pellet Machine Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: An Indian Customer is Interested in Sawdust Pellet Machine LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 12 Hours Ago #1 rachel123 Join Date May 2015 Posts 10 An Indian Customer is Interested in Sawdust Pellet Machine There are many wasted sawdust and blocks in furniture factory. They are burnt or abandoned before, which will result great waste in our production process. Energy reserve has been less and less in our society, and energy saving has been our inevitable choice. Fote sawdust pellet machine can pelletize the wasted sawdust and blocks into powders, which can be particles through crushing and extruding. The finished wood particles can be burnt, replacing a part of raw coal. By this way, you can save a large amount of energy resource and reduce environmental pollution. This is why sawdust pellet machine are so popular in China. Many new customers have questions about the sawdust pellet machine , such as: should I add some additive in the production process (straw, rice husk, wood flour). I should say that you need’t any additive in your production. Straw, rice husk and wood flour can be pelletized into dense and smooth biomass fuel particles. All of the biomass materials are crude fiber materials which have viscidity. The sawdust pellet machine has great pressure, and finished particles are very compact. As a kind of environmental fuel particles with smokeless and low carbon, biomass particles needn’t any annexing agent. So using our biomass pellet machine, you shouldn’t worry about the quality of finished particles. In recent days, a customer from Indian came to our company, who runs a company producing ceramic materials. They have studied our pellet machine for two days. And they are interested in our sawdust pellet machine and wood pellet machine. And they signed a contract with us for purchasing our sawdust pellet machine. Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 08:47 PM .