Welcome to Codex India WHO'S WHO Composition of the National Codex Committee The membership of the NCC constituted by the Food Safety and Standards Authority. CHAIRPERSON: Chief Executive Officer, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India, Chairperson of the National Codex Committee, in- charge of Food Safety Regulation/Food Standards in the Food Authority; MEMBERS: Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Department of Health or his representative; Joint Secretary, the Ministry of Food Processing Industries or his representative; Joint Secretary, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Department of Commerce (TPD Division) or his representative; Joint Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairy and Fisheries Joint Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture (dealing with milk & milk products), Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries or his representative; Joint Secretary, Ministry of Consumer Affair Food and Public Distribution or his representative; Joint Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Plant Protection or his representative; Joint Secretary, (Sugars & Edibles Oils), Ministry of Food & Consumer Affairs (Department of Sugars & Edible Oils) Joint Secretary, Ministry of Human Resources, Department of Women & Child Development or his representative; Joint Secretary, dealing with Fisheries in the Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairy and Fisheries. Joint Secretary, dealing with Meat & Meat products, Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Animal Husbandry Dairying and Fisheries or his representative; Director, CFTRI or his representative; Director, National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad Chairman, APEDA or his representative; Chairman, NDDB, Anand or his representative; Director EIC or his representative; Director, IVRI or his representative; Director, & Head (Food & Agri), BIS; Representative of CII; Representative of FICCI Codex Cell; Head, Toxicology Division, IITR, Lucknow Head, Division of Agricultural Chemicals, IARI, Pusa, New Delhi. Director, Food Research and Analysis Centre, CIFTI, New Delhi Director, Shriram Institute for Industrial Research, Delhi Director, NDRI or his representative Horticulture commissioner, Ministry of Agriculture Agricultural Marketing Advisor, Ministry of Agriculture or his representative; Representative of Department of Biotechnology; Director, Central Institute of Fisheries Technology Willingdon Island, Matsyapuri, P.O. Cochi-682029 Secretary General, Sea Food Exporters Association, Kolkata Marine Products & Export Development Authority, Collis Estate, Kochi-682016; Edible Oils commissioner, Ministry of Food & Consumer Affairs or his representative. Chairman, Indian Dairy Association or his representative. Representative of the Consumer Coordination Council. Chairman, Spices Board or his representative. Chairman, Coffee Board, or his representative. Chairman, Tea Board or his representative. Secretary General Quality Council of India or his representative. Chairman, National Horticulture Board or his representative. TOP