Page d'accueil | science-and-you.com */--> Skip to main content Fil RSS Google + In Twitter Facebook Home Menu Search form Search FR EN A cultural and scientific international event that is open to anyone interested in science communication. Researchers, PhD students, mediators, business leaders, journalists or just curious... The JHC Conference Scientific Committee Keynote speakers Programme Tuesday 2nd June Wednesday 3rd June Thursday 4th June Friday 5th June Registration General Public Cultural events Interactive and Participatory Stands Performances Opportunities to Meet Exhibits Three Minute Thesis : National Finals Closing Evening with Etienne Klein Schools PhD Study Days Special workshops Media Documents Press releases Press reviews Media resources Newsletter Patrons Partners & sponsors Contact Info Page d'accueil ZOOM Focus on the theme "Women in Science" On June 5th, Science & You shines the spotlight on the theme "Women in Science". A workshop session, a speedsearching session between women researchers and high school students, an exhibition designed by children on how they perceive scientists... According to UNESCO's Institute of   Statistics , less than one in three researchers in the world is a woman. This low representation can be observed from the start of higher education: things are balanced until the end of high school, but after that, only 32% of undergraduates are women. The highr the diploma, the lower this percentage. The gap gets even wider in the professional world: the higher you climb the academic ladder, the fewer the women. Thus, only 11% of the highest academic positions are held by women. But the most striking statistics come from the field of scientific awards: only 3% of Nobel Prize winners are women! And it's no better with the prestigious mathematics award, the Fields Medal: since its creation in 1936, the award was given to a woman for the first time... last year.     How can we explain such a gap? According to the PISA study conducted by the OECD, female high school students have the same success rate as boys in scientific disciplines. So, why do young girls turn away from scientific paths once they get to university? Science & You will devote the 5th June to these questions, which will be discussed during a workshop session from 10.30am to midday. Aurélie Seznec of the Université Européenne de Bretagne, Marie-Agnès Bernadis, of Universcience, Annie Black of the L'Oréal Foundation, and Citlali Bichet, an industrial engineer, will debate on the various aspects of the representation of women in scientific careers.  Other actions are planned on June 5th about this theme, such as a speedsearching session  between women researchers and high school students. Women working in the field of science will share their experience with high school students, and answer their questions about careers paths in science. Finally, there will be an exhibition lasting the whole week inside the "Science & Culture" Forum. Named "How do they see you", this exhibition, designed by the Espace Pierre-Gilles de Gennes, will present drawings made by primary school students. These boys and girls all answered the question "What does being a scientist mean to you?". The exhibition demonstrates just how far male representations are deeply ingrained even at a young age, and how they vary according to the gender of the drawers. Click to find the detailed programmes of the Forum and the Conference .      The L'Oréal-UNESCO For Women in Science programme The first programme to be dedicated to women in science created in 1998, the L'Oréal-UNESCO For Women in Science programme originated from a strong belief: the world needs science, and science needs women. This is the reason why, every year, this programme identifies, rewards, supports and spotlights women across the world who, thanks to their discoveries, contribute to the progress of knowledge.  More information: UNESCO website L'Oréal Foundation website   Galerie images News What future for science communication on a European scale? 22/05/15 Why are you personally, and Elsevier more generally, interested in an event like Science & You, and in science communication as a whole?My... read more Three Minute Thesis National Finals: registration is still open! 19/05/15 National Finals of the "Three Minute Thesis" contest will take place Wednesday 3rd June, from 5.15pm at the Centre Prouvé in Nancy. This challenge... read more The Science & You Program by Theme: 4 Days of Science Communication 12/05/15 [An article by MyScienceWork]The Science & You event is fast approaching. Have you decided yet how you’ll spend these four days in June devoted... read more All news> Bienvenue sur le site de Science&You 2015 ! Our media Teaser Science & You Talking about us Scientific American is talking about early bird registrations! Subscribe to our newsletter To get the Science & You 2015 newsletter directly in your mailbox every month, please send your email email-en * Leave this field blank Key dates PhD Study Days   > May 31st - June 2nd, Metz "Journées Hubert Curien"  Conference > June 2nd to 5th, Centre Prouvé, Nancy "Sciences & Cultures"  Forum   >  June 3rd to 6th, Centre Prouvé, Nancy Cultural events   > April - June, Lorraine   Tweets de @Science_and_you         Mentions légales