Digital Green Change Password Sign Out Skip to content Green Digital About Us and our approach Discover great videos Connect with our community Tools to catalyze change Work with us Sign in Join Us Digital Green is an international non-profit development organization that builds and deploys information and communication technologies to amplify the effectiveness of development efforts for sustained social change, globally. Our approach combines technology and social organization to improve the cost-effectiveness and broaden community participation in existing best practices. We partner with public and private organizations across domains such as agriculture, livelihood, health and nutrition. We are headquartered in New Delhi, India with regional offices in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. We have a country office in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. We are looking for highly qualified and passionate individuals to be part of our movement to ensure communities worldwide live with dignity. We offer a dynamic and enabling work environment and competitive compensation, based on experience and qualifications, comparable to leading national level development sector organizations. If you would like to be part of the Digital Green family, submit your application with a cover note, current CV and at least three references to jobs@digitalgreen.org. If you are student, you can also apply for an internship position. Play the video to learn more about our work environment Learn more about our work Get to know our team Current Openings India Director - Human Resources Assistant Program Manager - Bihar Assistant Program Manager-Monitoring, Evaluation, Research and Learning - Delhi / Bihar Ethiopia Program Manager - Ethiopia Assistant Program Manager - Ethiopia Technical Support Engineer - Ethiopia India Digital Green is an international non-profit development organization that builds and deploys information and communication technologies to amplify the effectiveness of development efforts for sustained social change, globally. Our approach combines technology and social organization to improve the cost-effectiveness and broaden community participation in existing best practices. We partner with public and private organizations across domains such as agriculture, livelihood, health and nutrition. We are headquartered in New Delhi, India with regional offices in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. We have a country office in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Click to know more Director - Human Resources This is a terrific HR opportunity in the NGO/non-profit sector. Digital Green (a non-profit based in New Delhi, India and with operations in the US and several countries in Africa) is looking for an HR Director to build and lead their HR function. Digital Green was spun off from a project started in Microsoft Research India in 2008. Ever since then, this organization has attracted funding from organizations like the Bill & Melinda Gates foundation, World Bank, and USAID. It has grown to become a 75 people organization and plans to grow rapidly in the next 2-3 years. So… if you want to lead the HR function of a growing organization which is making a real difference in the world, you must apply for this role! You can find more details in the attached JD but here are some high level expectations - ~10 years of experience in various sub-functions within HR, very practical outlook, entrepreneurial mindset, and passion for NGO/non-profit work. Digital Green engages and empowers rural communities to produce participatory localized videos, leveraging pre-existing community groups to disseminate these videos through human mediation. These videos are of the community, by the community, and for the community, sharing information and practices that are relevant and that meet the needs of the local community. In 2013, Melinda Gates named Digital Green as one of the four ideas that are changing the world. With roots as an innovative project at Microsoft Research India, Digital Green became its own non-profit organization in 2008. Since then, they have reached nearly 8,000 villages across India, Ethiopia and Ghana, produced more than 4,000 videos in over 28 languages, and improved the lives of more than 640,000 community members of which 70% have been women. Digital Green is focused on expanding effectively and efficiently. With a goal of reaching 2 million households in South Asia and Sub Saharan Africa by 2018, Digital Green is rapidly building strategic partnerships, identifying new sources of funding, and leveraging innovative technology in order to provide more communities with the tools they need to live with dignity. This position reports to the CFO/CHRO of Digital Green and has a dotted line reporting to the CEO of Digital Green. This role will partner with the Digital Green leadership to ensure that the organization has the right talent and a high performance culture in the short and long-term. The Director – Human Resources will lead Digital Green’s HR function end-to-end. This would include developing and implementing Digital Green’s HR strategy, human resources operations, staffing strategies, organization development initiatives, compensation and benefits, and other talent management practices. Digital Green has approximately 75 employees (primarily based in India), which is expected to grow fairly significantly over the next years in several countries including India, Ethiopia, and Ghana. Currently, the Director – Human Resources role has one full-time direct report and as the organization grows, the HR Director will have the opportunity to further grow the HR team. Key Responsibilities HR Strategy and Organization Effectiveness Understand organizational priorities and HR metrics to build Digital Green (DG) HR priorities, positive workplace health, desired organization culture, and effective HR solutions in partnership with DG leadership. Partner with DG leadership to support organizational change activity and required organization development initiatives. Develop and execute compensation & benefits approach and rewards practices that drive desired performance results and organization culture. Develop and implement an effective feedback and performance management process in partnership with DG leadership. Leadership Development Identify key capabilities needed among leaders and managers in Digital Green to lead the organization in the short and long term, and design and implement development solutions. Develop a coaching program comprising a pool of external and internal coaches that can be leveraged by leaders and managers. Institute a mechanism to assess coaching effectiveness and leader and manager development. Talent Management Partner with leadership to design and execute on talent management strategies, including workforce planning, building succession plans, and identification and prioritization of current and future talent requirements. Proactively identify skills gaps and partner with leaders to identify and implement learning & development solutions that address key capability gaps in a timely manner. Staffing & On-boarding Develop and implement immediate and long-term staffing process and strategy in partnership with DG leadership including workforce plans, sourcing, assessing, selecting, making offers, and on-boarding. Provide strategic insights about compensation & benefits and develop offer recommendations in consultation with the function leader. Partner with leadership to onboard new employees, managers and leaders successfully. Actively participate in the selection and offer process for critical positions and key hires. HR Operations and Employee Relations Design, implement and improve HR operations processes related to payroll, employee exit process and interview, HR document management etc. in partnership with leadership and other functions like Finance and Administration. Develop, continuously refresh, and communicate HR guidelines in partnership with DG leadership. Partner with leadership and legal counsel on complex employee relations matters and investigations. Provide solutions and resolve issues. People Management Build and grow HR team in DG. Coach and develop the HR talent to ensure they can build meaningful careers in DG. Qualification and Skills Master’s degree in HR/Psychology/ Business Administration. ~10 years of HR experience in supporting a multi-location organizational setup. Experience in multiple sub- functions within HR – HR Generalist, Staffing, Compensation etc. Experience in the NGO /non-profit sector will be preferred. Basic knowledge of HR function (employment/labor laws, trends in the HR market – particularly in the NGO sector, compensations, staffing etc.) Strong facilitations skills (used for managing meetings, rolling out initiatives in employee forums, delivering basic trainings etc.) Interest and proven understanding in business fundamentals. Strong knowledge of project management processes and practices. Strong verbal/written communication and presentation skills. Strong conflict management techniques. In addition to the competencies shared above, we are looking for someone who has strong passion for working in an NGO and has keen interest in building and leading the HR function to help Digital Green increase its global footprint. Interested candidates can submit their resume the following email address: jobs@digitalgreen.org Assistant Program Manager - Bihar We invite applications from suitable candidates for the positions of Assistant Program Manage to be based in Bihar. Key Responsibilities Working with the state teams and partner organizations, develop annual work plans and quarterly activity plans and ensure their timely execution Using Digital Green project management system, monitor project activities and report on activities, milestones and accomplishments in a timely fashion Nurture and strengthen partnership with area specific NGOs and community groups Using ICT, train and disseminate good practices among target rural populations and motivate them to adopt new practices Identify concerns, issues and problems promptly, address and report them to the Regional Managers Liaise with partners and technical advisors, Identify suitable farming practices, livelihood practices and develop content for video production Process necessary project approval and contractual documentation Familiarity with the region an asset Perform other related duties as required Qualification and Skills University degree in Rural Development, Social Sciences or any other relevant discipline Minimum 1 year of relevant experience in providing performance based training using adult learning principles Experience in transfer of learning to semi-literate and rural populations with an aptitude to use ICT tools for social change Excellent writing, communication and negotiation skills Ability to prepare clear and concise reports Excellent leadership, coordination and information management skills Strong strategic and creative thinking Demonstrated analytical skills applied on a wide range of factors, parameters, policies and priorities for the assessment and resolution of complex situations Personal commitment, drive for results, efficiency and flexibility Ability to work effectively and harmoniously in a team and with colleagues from varied cultures and professional backgrounds Interested candidates can submit their resume along with cover note at jobs@digitalgreen.org Assistant Program Manager-Monitoring, Evaluation, Research and Learning - Delhi / Bihar We invite applications from suitable candidates for the position of Assistant Program Manager-MERL to be based in Delhi and Bihar. The role of APM-M&E is to monitor the effectiveness of the implemented program and evaluate the activities in India. He/ She will focus on the quality impact and assess on different parameters of Digital Green’s projects. Key Responsibilities Responsible for Project progress, problems and strategy Utilize the tools available for the assessment of program’s performance using different parameters Devise the indicators and checks for program activities Responsible for regular updation of indicators considering the socio-economic conditions of the region, feedback from funders, program managers and partners Managing the data for M&E activities and can be accessed on need basis Develop process for regular reporting on findings and dissemination of information Manage day-to-day operation of M&E activities using coordination with field officers Analyze the data and able to present report to the management Create M&E process manual for collecting data using various indicators and recording them Assist Program Manager for data collection and report drafting Qualification and Skills Master's Degree in Management/ Economics/ Statistics Should have hands-on experience on statistical tools Organized and possess coordination skills Able to guide field staff in collecting data and facilitating them with required tools Should have eye for details and good analytical skills Able to connect with the regional participants both formally and informally Open to travel across locations Significant competency modeling, synthesizing and presenting quantitative analysis and data in a variety of formats (Power Point, Word, Excel, etc.) using a variety of software packages (SPSS or equivalent statistical package, Excel, etc.)' Interested candidates can submit their resume along with cover note at jobs@digitalgreen.org. Ethiopia Digital Green is an international non-profit development organization that builds and deploys information and communication technologies to amplify the effectiveness of development efforts for sustained social change, globally. Our approach combines technology and social organization to improve the cost-effectiveness and broaden community participation in existing best practices. We partner with public and private organizations across domains such as agriculture, livelihood, health and nutrition. We are headquartered in New Delhi, India with regional offices in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. We have a country office in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Click to know more Program Manager - Ethiopia Digital Green is inviting applications from suitable candidates for the position of Program Manager to be based in Addis, Ethiopia to help oversee, manage and backstop various sets of programs. This position will report directly to the Deputy Country Representative in Ethiopia and will work in collaboration with the entire Digital Green Ethiopia team. Key Responsibilities Establish strategic relationships with implementing partners and other stakeholders; Provide leadership to project planning; Assist program implementation by providing technical and administrative support; Work directly with partner organizations in order to develop and execute annual work plans Monitor and evaluate field project activities; Conduct regularly scheduled quality assurance site visits in collaboration with on-ground partners and partner teams; Report on program-based challenges to Digital Green Deputy Country Director; Coordinate field travel for team as well as external stakeholders; Prepare efficient trip agendas and lodging logistics in short notice; Backstop programs by reviewing/editing program documents such as briefs, case studies and success stories; Logistically plan and track program events and write/edit documents based on these to be shared with Digital Green headquarters and an external audience; Use Digital Green’s data management system to monitor project deliverables, achievements, and regularly report to the team on activities, milestones and accomplishments; Actively participate in Digital Green’s master training on video production and dissemination Provide supportive supervision to project activities by conducting regular trainings for on-ground partner teams; Coordinate review of project documents and submit necessary documents for home-office approval processes; Familiarity with the country and East Africa required; Perform other related duties as required. Qualification and Skills Bachelor’s degree in Rural Development, Social Sciences or Information Technology; 3-4 years of relevant experience in project/ program design and implementation with national and international consortiums and partners Excellent writing, communication and negotiation skills - ability to prepare clear and concise reports; Excellent leadership, coordination and information management skills – detail orientation is required; Demonstrated analytical skills applied on a wide range of factors, parameters, policies and priorities for the assessment and resolution of complex situations; Ability to work within a team as well as independently Personal commitment, drive for results, efficiency, flexibility and a sense of humor. Interested candidates are requested to send their current CVs, a cover note with motivation for applying for the position and three references to jobs@digitalgreen.org. They should mention the title of the position applied in the subject. All positions are contingent upon funding. Assistant Program Manager - Ethiopia Digital Green is inviting applications from suitable candidates for the position of Assistant Program Manager to be based in Addis, Ethiopia to help provide programmatic, administrative and logistical support to a various sets of programs. This position will report directly to Program Manager in Ethiopia and will work in collaboration with the entire Digital Green Ethiopia team. Key Responsibilities Provide administrative and logistical support to project planning; Work directly with Digital Green Program Manager in order to execute annual work plans Monitor and evaluate field project activities; Conduct regularly scheduled quality assurance site visits in tandem with Digital Green Program Managers, on-ground partners and partner teams; Report on appropriate program-based challenges to Digital Green Program Manager; Coordinate field travel for team as well as external stakeholders; Prepare efficient trip agendas and lodging logistics on short notice; Provide support in gathering evidence from field to be included in various written program materials such as briefs, case studies and success stories; Logistically plan and track program events and regularly report them to Digital Green Program Manager; Use Digital Green’s data management system to monitor project deliverables, achievements, and regularly report to the team on activities, milestones and accomplishments; Provide supportive supervision to project activities by conducting trainings for on-ground partner teams; Familiarity with the country and East Africa required Perform other related duties as required. Qualification and Skills Bachelor’s degree in Rural Development, Social Sciences or Information Technology; Desired at least 1 year of relevant experience in project/ program design and implementation with national and international consortiums and partners; Interest in food security, health-based and/or ICT4D-related development innovations; Commitment to 2 years required; Ability to meticulously plan for events; Strong detail-orientation required; Excellent communication skills; Ability to work within a team as well as independently; Ability to take initiative and conduct tasks with highest level of quality; Personal commitment, drive for results, efficiency, flexibility and a sense of humor. Interested candidates are requested to send their current CVs, a cover note with motivation for applying for the position and three references to jobs@digitalgreen.org. They should mention the title of the position applied in the subject. All positions are contingent upon funding. Technical Support Engineer - Ethiopia The technology team at Digital Green works on exciting new technologies, innovating to create software tools that solve problems faced by development organizations everywhere. Digital Green is a platform for knowledge sharing amongst rural communities. At the heart of our work is a system to collect data on operations that helps us to assess our impact at the level of an individual farmer. We use this data to create aids for business analytics that allow us to scale our operations and maximize our impact. Our web presence, digitalgreen.org, takes this content beyond the communities we work directly with to a global audience. Our ambition is to create tools that benefit rural development efforts worldwide, using innovative and appropriate technology solutions. Key Responsibilities Providing high-quality technical support for the Digital Green's software technology stack Delivering effective technical customer support to our rapidly growing partner base Delivering solutions to both technical and non-technical end users while also supporting a wide range of technologies Programming and documentation projects as required Taking ownership of technical issues, and working with our Software Development Team to resolve more advanced issues when necessary Responsible for providing data query and analysis results using SQL Documenting troubleshooting and problem resolution steps Participation in providing training to customers as required Qualification and Skills At least 3 years of software development experience Firm grasp of how the web works, and how software products function Experience with web site development, HTML, and SQL Knowledge of Windows, XP, Vista and general desktop support issues Able to find creative solutions to unique problems Prior experience in a client-facing role would be a great asset Strong commitment to making a difference in the developing world Interested candidates are requested to send their current CVs, a cover note with motivation for applying for the position and three references to jobs@digitalgreen.org. They should mention the title of the position applied in the subject. All positions are contingent upon funding. Follow Us Facebook 6,366 Likes Twitter 1,800 Followers You Tube 3,948 Videos Linked In 377 Followers Google Plus 112 Followers Blog Press Events Careers Donate Contact Us Site Map Coco (cc) 2013 Digital Green