Expressways in India Home » Roads » Expressways in India   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Expressways in India A well developed network of roadways is a key factor in measuring growth of a country. The fact that India ranks third in the list of countries by road networks next only to United States and China, underlines the improving position of India globally. The rural roads, district roads, state highways, national highways and expressways together comprise the road network in a country. To be a truly developed country and to maintain that growth, it is very essential that the length of expressways, which are the best form of roads in a country, augment continuously. Currently, expressways in India measure 600 kms approximately and work is on to add more to the number. If all goes according to the plans, around 18,637 kms more expressways will be added to the Indian Road Network by the year 2022. To ensure the same, the National Highway Authority of India (NHIA) has given contracts to leading infrastructural groups who in turn are working on these projects to the best of their abilities and helping the government to comply with the target's they have set. A separate department to take care of the project on Expressways in India is planned to be established. The proposed body is planned to be named National Expressways Authority of India (NEAI). The access to these expressways is limited but not through tolls. The expressway may or may not have tolls. This is done with the aim to ensure smooth flow of heavy vehicles. Through the controlled access, it is made sure that the expressways are used for the purpose which motivated their construction. Several lanes on these expressways make sure that traffic flows smoothly. Few of the successful expressways that have reduced the traffic woes of people in India include Ahmedabad-Vadodra Expressway (Gujarat) measuring 95 kms, Mumbai-Pune Expressway in Maharashtra (93 kms), Jaipur-Kishangarh Expressway in Rajasthan (90 kms), Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway (28 kms) among several others. Some of the Expressways awaiting completion include Western Freeway in Mumbai (25.33kms), Mumbai Nashik Expressway (150 km), Pathankot Ajmer Expressway, Yamuna Expressway, Hungund Hospet Expressway among others. A total of 2607.46 kms of expressways are under construction in India at the moment. Besides, there are plans to build the expressways between Mumbai and Vadodra, Bengaluru and Chennai and Kolkata and Dhanbad. The Uttar Pradesh Government alone is planning to build five new expressways in the state. Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway Last Updated on : 06 April 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule