About us | Department of Agricultural Research and Education Skip to main content Department of Agricultural Research and Education Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India Search form Search Home About us From Secretary's Desk RTI Tenders Contact Us English हिन्दी What's New Agriculture Minister Addresses G-20 Agriculture Ministers Meet Crop Residues Management Unit Inaugurated at IIVR, Varanasi Annual Group Meeting of AICRP - National Seed Project (Crops) DG, ICAR Inaugurates Meat Processing Unit of ICAR-NRC on Meat, Hyderabad Union Minster for Agriculture Appriciated ICAR-NBAIR Admin Setup Telephone Directory RFD Parliament Questions Lok Sabha Rajya Sabha Publications Annual Reports Circulars Events Public Grivances DARE Organizations ICAR Central Agricultural University Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University Agrinnovate India International Cooperation Bilateral Multilateral CGIAR Important links Citizen's / Client's Charter Interact with Hon’ble PM What's New About us The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was established in the Ministry of Agriculture in December, 1973. The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) coordinates and promotes agricultural research & education in the country. It has the following two autonomous bodies under its administrative control: Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) Central Agricultural University (CAU), Imphal DARE provides the necessary government linkages for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the premier research organisation for co-ordinating, guiding and managing research and education in agriculture including horticulture, fisheries and animal sciences in the entire country. With over 97 ICAR institutes, 53 agricultural universities, 6 Bureaux, 18 National Research Centres, 25 Project Directorates, and 89 All India Coordinated Research Projects spread across the country this is one of the largest national agricultural research systems in the world. Apart from ICAR the Department of Agricultural Research and Education has one more autonomous body, viz. the Central Agricultural University, Imphal under its administrative control. The Central University, established in 1993, has its jurisdiction over the Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Sikkim and Tripura, and is wholly financed by the Government of India. DARE is the nodal agency for International Cooperation in the area of agricultural research and education in India. The Department liaises with foreign governments, UN, CGIAR and other multilateral agencies for cooperation in various areas of agricultural research. DARE also coordinates admissions of foreign students in various Indian agriculture universities/ ICAR Institutes. The major functions of DARE To look after all aspects of the agricultural research and Education (including horticulture, natural resources management, agriculture engineering, agricultural extension, animal science, economic statistics and marketing and fisheries) involving coordination between the central and state agencies. To attend all matters relating to Indian Council of Agricultural Research. To attend all matters concerning the development of new technology in agriculture, horticulture, natural resources management, agriculture engineering, agricultural extension, animal science, economic statistics and marketing and fisheries, including such functions as plant and animal introduction and exploration and soil and land use survey and planning. International co-operation in the field of agricultural research and education including relations with foreign and international agricultural research and educational institutions and organizations, including participation in international conferences, associations and other bodies dealing with agricultural research and education and follow-up decisions at such international conferences etc. Fundamental, applied and operational research and higher education including co-ordination of such research and higher education in agriculture including agro forestry, animal husbandry, dairying, fisheries, agricultural statistics, economics and marketing. Home | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Linking Policy Copyright © 2012 Department of Agricultural Research And Education Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India New Delhi-110 001. INDIA Site hosted by NIC Developed and Maintained by vivekdubey [at] gmail [dot] com (Vivek Dubey) Content updation by mitaligr [at] icar [dot] org [dot] in (Mitali Ghosh Roy) , DKMA , ICAR