Arunachal Pradesh Home » Arunachal Pradesh   Arunachal Pradesh अरुणाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Arunachal Pradesh Map Tawang city map Itanagar city map Naharlagun city map Along Map Ziro Map Districts of Arunachal Pradesh Roads Rivers Tehsils Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Places to visit in Arunachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Sports in Arunachal Pradesh Ita Fort in Arunachal Pradesh Ganga Lake in Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Location Physical Map Arunachal Pradesh Forest Map Lat Long Geography Handicrafts Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels Government & Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Arunachal Pradesh History Arunachal Pradesh Mineral Map Society Information Economy Pin Code       Arunachal Pradesh Army Camp Near Sela Pass Buddhist Festival Jung Village Near Tawang Kazu Village PTSO Lake Sela Lake Suspension Bridge Over Yomgo River Tawang Gompa Tawang Town Yomgo River Arunachal Pradesh Location Map Arunachal Pradesh Map Arunachal Pradesh Travel Map About Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh , bordered on the south by Assam, on the west by Bhutan, on the north and northeast by China, and on the east by Myanmar (formerly known as Burma) is a sparsely populated mountainous area in the extreme northeastern part of the subcontinent. Arunachal Pradesh (Sanskrit for "Land of the Rising Sun") has an area of 83,743 sq km. Most of Arunachal Pradesh is mountainous. Its terrain consists of lofty, haphazardly aligned ridges that separate deep valleys and rise to the peaks of the Great Himalayas. The state's main rivers are the Brahmaputra known in Arunachal Pradesh as the Siang, and its tributaries, the Tirap, the Lohit (Zayu Qu), the Subansiri, and the Bhareli. The climate of the foothills is subtropical; in the mountains, temperatures decrease rapidly with altitude. Rainfall averages between 2000 and 4000 mm (80 and 160 in) a year. Arunachal Pradesh has a single-chamber Legislative Assembly, which has 60 seats. The state sends three members to the Indian national parliament: one to the Rajya Sabha (upper house) and two to the Lok Sabha (lower house). Local government is based on 12 administrative districts. Facts on Arunachal Pradesh Official Website www.arunachalpradesh.gov.in Date of Formation Feb 20, 1987 Area 83,743 km sq Density 17/Km2 Population (2011) 1,383,727 Males Population (2011) 713,912 Females Population (2011) 669,815 No. of District 18 Capital Itanagar Rivers Siang and its Tribhutaries: Lohit, Kameg, Dikrong, Tirap, Dibang, Subansiri, Dihing, Kamlang are flow through Bharamaputra River. Forests & National Park Namdapha NP, Mouling NP Languages Monpa, Miji, Aka, Sherdukpen, Apatani, Adi, Hill Miri Neighbours State Asom (assam) and nagaland State Animal Mithun State Bird Great Hornbill State Tree Hollong State Flower Retusa Net State Domestic Product (2011) 55789 Literacy Rate (2011) 66.95% Females per 1000 males 920 Assembly constituency 60 Parliamentary constituency 2 City Guide How to reach Travel Guide People & Culture Important Places Tawang City Itanagar City Naharlagun City Along City Getting There Imphal East Railways Senapati Railways Imphal West Railways Road Map Travel Map Tours Geography Hotels History Festivals Art and Crafts Religion Dance Tribes Wildlife Pilgrimage Museums Gardens and Picnic spot Excursions History The region that is now Arunachal Pradesh is mentioned in the Puranas (Sanskrit writings about the beginning of the world), but little else is known of the state's early history. Part of Arunachal Pradesh was annexed by the Ahom kings of Assam in the 16th century. In 1826 Assam became part of British India, but efforts to bring Arunachal Pradesh under British administration did not begin until the 1880s. In 1912 the region became an administrative unit within Assam, called the North Eastern Frontier Tract (NEFT); in 1954 the NEFT became the North East Frontier Agency. Its northern boundary with Tibet has been disputed since 1913, when China rejected British proposals that the border should follow the crest of the Himalayas. This proposed border, known as the McMahon line, has ever since served as the de facto boundary. After the independence of India in 1947, China made claims to practically the whole area covered by the districts of East and West Kameng, Lower and Upper Subansiri, East and West Siang, and Lohit, arguing that the McMahon Line had never been accepted by China and was the result of British "aggression." More Detail... Arunachal Pradesh Geography Arunachal Pradesh shares its national border with Nagaland and Assam to the south, and international border with Bhutan to the west, China to the north, and Burma to the east. The northern part of the state is covered by Himalaya Range. This mountain range actually separates Arunachal Pradesh and Tibet in the east. Apart from the Himalaya Range, the majority of the land is covered by the Patkai hills and the Himalayan foothills. The total area of the state is 83743 sq km. More Detail... Climate of Arunachal Pradesh The weather condition of the state changes with elevation. Upper Himalaya range of the state enjoys a Tundra climate while Middle Himalaya range has a temperate climate. The Sub-Himalaya areas and sea-level areas have sub-tropical and humid summers and mild winters. Government and Politics Arunachal Pradesh government involves the functions of a unicameral legislative body. The legislative council is formed of 60 members of the legislative assembly. They are the very center of the government and politics of Arunachal Pradesh. The governor Nirbhay Sharma is the legislative head of the state. The executive of Arunachal Pradesh includes a council of ministry with 11 cabinet ministers. Various secretariat and directorate wings smoothly carry out the functions of the various government departments. They are also involved in the planning and the execution of various government projects in the state of Arunachal Pradesh. More Detail... Economy and Infrastructure Agriculture is the pillar of the economy of the state. Pulses, rice, wheat, sugarcane, maize, millet, oilseeds, and ginger are the main crops grown here. Since a major part of Arunachal Pradesh is covered by forests, forest products are also important base of the economy. There are a number of fruit preservation departments, rice mills, fruit orchards, handloom handicrafts, and horticulture units in Arunachal Pradesh. Tourism is a missed opportunity in Arunachal Pradesh economy because of unrest in political and social scenario. Arunachal Pradesh is well endowed with an abundant forest cover, mineral, and hydel power resources. The principal crops are rice. Maize, millet, wheat, pulses (edible seeds gathered from pea and bean crops), potatoes, sugarcane, fruit, and oilseeds are also important. More Detail... Arunachal Pradesh Administration Itanagar is the capital and seat of government of the state. There are 16 districts in the state and each division is governed by a district collector. Nirbhay Sharma is the Governor and Nabam Tuki is the Chief Minister of the state. Society and Culture Most of the population of Arunachal Pradesh is of Asiatic origin and show physical affinity with the people of Tibet and the Myanmar. There are dozens of tribes and sub tribes, each with a specific geographic distribution. In western Arunachal Pradesh the main tribes are the Nissi (Nishi or Dafla), Sulung, Sherdukpen, Aka, Monpa, Apa Tani, and Hill Miri. The Adi, the largest tribal group in the state, occupy the central region. The Mishmi occupy the northeastern hills, and the Wancho, Nocte, and Tangsa inhabit the southeastern district of Tirap. These tribal groups speak about 50 distinct languages and dialects, belonging mostly to the Tibeto-Burmese branch of the Sino-Tibetan language family. They are often mutually unintelligible and, thus, Assamese, Hindi, and English are used as lingua francas in the region. As a rule, the tribes do not intermarry, and each follows distinct social, cultural, and religious practices. More Detail... Tourism of Arunachal Pradesh Often termed as a natural wonder, the state has a number of popular tourist destinations. Some of the famous places in Arunachal Pradesh are Itanagar, Tawang, Bomdila, Bhismaknagar, and Akashiganga. There are 4 National parks and 7 wildlife sanctuaries in the state, which are the prime attractions for the tourists. Blessed in abundance in natural beauty the land of the moonlit mountains Arunachal Pradesh has evolved over the years as a happening tourist destination in India. Places of tourist interest in the state include Bomdila, Tawang and the nearby Buddhist monastery, which happens to be the largest in India. Itanagar is famous for its excavated ruins of the historical Ita Fort, and the attractive Gyaker Sinyi or the Ganga Lake. Malinithan and Bhismaknagar are the two important archaeological sites in the state, and Parashuram Kund is a prominent pilgrimage site. Namdapha Wildlife sanctuary in the Changlang district is home to the rare Hoolock gibbon. More Detail... Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Travel to Along Travel to Bhalukpong Travel to Bomdila Travel to Itanagar Travel to Tawang Travel to Ziro Places to visit in Arunachal-pradesh Places to visit in Itanagar Places to visit in Tawang Places to visit in Ziro Last Updated on : December 18, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule