Mumbai Nasik Expressway, Map of Mumbai Nasik Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway » Mumbai Nashik Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Mumbai Nashik Expressway Map of Mumbai Nashik Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Mumbai Nashik Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Mumbai Nashik Expressway connects Mumbai, the state capital of Maharashtra with Nashik, an important industrial town in the state. The Expressway is part of the Mumbai-Nashik segment of National Highway 3. The National Highway Authority of India has developed this segment as part of its national highway development project to facilitate the north south connectivity in the country. Gammon India is the concessionaire for maintenance and the collection of toll on the expressway. National Highway 3 connects Mumbai to Agra passing through the states of UP, Rajasthan and MP. The major cities on its route are Morena, Dhaulpur, Gwalior, Indore, Dhule, Thane and Nashik. The high way begins at Mumbai in Maharashtra. The Mumbai part of the highway is also called the Eastern Express highway. The Eastern Express highway from Mumbai continues as the Mumbai Nashik expressway till Nashik and then onwards as NH 3 to Agra and the north of the country. The total length of the Mumbai Nashik Expressway is 150 kilometers. The 99 kilometer Vadape - Gonde segment on the expressway has been upgraded to four lanes. It runs as a four-lane divided expressway with six flyovers built on its route, from Vadape near Kalyan to Gonde near Nashik. Though some parts of the expressway are still under development it is more than seventy percent complete. The concessionaire has also begun tolling for the entire stretch. There is a toll plaza at Arjhunali near Kalyan, and at Ghoti near Nasik. Nashik, one of the emerging BPO destinations in the IT sector, is well known for its engineering and manufacturing industry. It also has a wine industry. Nashik is connected to Pune, an educational city in the state, through N H 50. The Maharashtra government plans to develop Mumbai-Pune-Nashik as a Maharashtra Golden triangle with Biotech, IT and agriculture economic zones in the areas. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule