Travel to Uttar Pradesh - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Uttar Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Uttar Pradesh Hotels Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Akbar Tomb Triveni Sangam Krishna Janmabhoomi Temple Dwarkadhish Temple Mathura kans Qila Rang Bhoomi Krishna Balram Temple Dudhwa National Park Cities to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Agra Travel Allahabad Travel Ayodhya Travel Jhansi Travel Lucknow Travel Mathura Travel Varanasi Travel Vrindavan Travel Uttar Pradesh Hotels Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels About Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Fair and Festivals Music Quick facts Home » Maps » Uttar Pradesh » Travel to Uttar Pradesh Travel to Uttar Pradesh Travel Map of Uttar Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing important tourist centers in the state of Uttar Pradesh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Uttar Pradesh Tourism Strategically located in the northern part of India (as the very name suggests), Uttar Pradesh has consistently dominated the politics of India to a large extent. Since Independence in 1947 till date the state has produced seven Prime Ministers out of ten in the country. Since times immemorial, several culture and tradition has blossomed in the soil of Uttar Pradesh. Myth, religion and history have engaged into a curious interplay in the land to give birth to a number of interesting destinations. The foremost of all is definitely fabled Taj Mahal , which is as much as the emblem of Indian tourism. No word would be sufficient to describe the beauty of the monument, which is one of the Seven Wonders of the World. Travel to Uttar Pradesh to see how the genius of men has created sheer poetry out solid marbles. A travel to Uttar Pradesh would take you to Varanasi the oldest living city of the world. Thousands of years old temples and the Indian monks would take you to a quaint journey to the past. Demographics Location Northern part of India Bihar in the East, Madhya Pradesh in the South, Rajasthan, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana in the west Uttaranchal in the north Latitude Between 24° and 31° North Longitude Between 77° and 84° East Area 2,36,286 sq kms Climate Summer - hot Winter - cold Max Temperature 43°C Min Temperature 4°C Average Annual Rainfall 120cms Capital Lucknow Population 16,60,52,859 Languages Hindi, Urdu Religion Hinduism, Islam, Christianity, Buddhism, Jainism Best Time to Visit October to March Clothing Summer - Cottons Winter - Woolens How to Reach Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh is popularly known as the land of fabled Taj Mahal. The state also has a few more internationally renowned destinations within it, like: Varanasi, Lucknow. Innumerable tourists visit the state every year in lure of these destinations and many others. Tourism is considered a foremost industry in Uttar Pradesh and it contributes a lot to the state's economy. This has led to a substantial growth of infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh. By Air The state has four domestic airports in it, namely: Agra, Kanpur, Lucknow, and Varanasi. So all major destinations have own airport near it. They are connected by regular flights of important public and private airlines to cities like Delhi, Mumbai. By Road An extensive road network covers the state thoroughly. National Highways 2, 25, 26, 27, 29, and 45 and a number of State Highways run through the state. Agra, the most famous destination in Uttar Pradesh is nearly 4 hours drive from Delhi. By Train Notable tourist destinations in the state, viz: Agra, Varanasi, Lucknow are conveniently networked by Railways with the rest of the country. Many express, super-fast and passenger trains service these stations on a regular basis. Shopping in Uttar Pradesh Shopping in Uttar Pradesh is a veritable delight. The state has a rich tradition of handicrafts, which make for the popular items for shopping in Uttar Pradesh Stone carving, embroidery and weaving have attained a height of perfection at then skilled hands of artisans in Uttar Pradesh. While Mathura and Varanasi have developed the stone carving, Agra and Lucknow the state capital is the seat of embroidery in Uttar Pradesh. In anywhere in Uttar Pradesh you would find exquisite stone carved items like: marble boxes, wall plates, table tops and not to mention the numerous replicas of the Taj Mahal. Most of them are made of marble, sandstone, and precious and semi precious stones. The Chikankari embroidery of Lucknow and Zardozi of Agra are overwhelmingly beautiful art works, which would leave you spoilt for choice while shopping in Uttar Pradesh. Besides, there are many other items for shopping in Uttar Pradesh, like leatherwork in Kanpur, glassware of Firozabad. While shopping in Uttar Pradesh, look for: Zardozi Stone carved artifacts Silk Saris Glassware Chikankari Leather Craft Jewelry Pottery Metalware Bangles You can shop virtually anywhere in the state. Most notable destinations and cities have abundant government emporia and private shops offering you various options for shopping in Uttar Pradesh. The colorful bazaars with the assortment of variegated artifacts would offer you a visual treat. Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh is a union of culture and nature. As a result, people come to this state throughout the year. There are many tourists as well as religious places in the state which are visited by thousands of tourist every year. To accommodate the tourists and travellers, Uttar Pradesh has many hotels which cater to all kind of travellers. There are budget hotels, mid-range hotels to luxurious five star hotels and resorts. So, accommodation in Uttar Pradesh is not so difficult. Some of the popular hotels in Uttar Pradesh are: The Oberoi Amarvilas, Agra Trident, Agra Radisson Blu Agra Taj East Gate Hotel Rivatas by Ideal, Varanasi Vivanta by Taj - Gomti Nagar, Lucknow The Continental Clarks Inn, Lucknow Hotel Yatrik, Allahabad Brijwasi Lands Inn, Mathura Clarks Inn Bareilly Godwin Hotel, Meerut Little Chef Hotel, Kanpur Last Updated on : November 15, 2014 Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Aligarh Hotels Allahabad Hotels Bahraich Hotels Balrampur Hotels Bareilly Hotels Basti Hotels Bhadohi Hotels Ghaziabad Hotels Gorakhpur Hotels Greater Noida Hotels Jhansi Hotels Kanpur Hotels Kosi Hotels Kosi Kalan Hotels Kushinagar Hotels Lucknow Hotels Mathura Hotels Meerut Hotels Mirzapur Hotels Moradabad Hotels Muzaffarnagar Hotels Noida Hotels Orai Hotels Rampur Hotels Sahibabad Hotels Sravasti Hotels Varanasi Hotels Travel to Uttar Pradesh Travel to Agra Travel to Allahabad Travel to Ayodhya Travel to Ghaziabad Travel to Gorakhpur Travel to Jhansi Travel to Kanpur Travel to khushinagar Travel to Lucknow Travel to Mathura Travel to Noida Travel to Sarnath Travel to Sravasti Travel to Varanasi Travel to Vrindavan Places to visit in Uttar Pradesh Places to visit in Agra Places to visit in Allahabad Places to visit in Ghaziabad Places to visit in Gorakhpur Places to visit in Jhansi Places to visit in Kanpur Places to visit in kushinagar Places to visit in Lucknow Places to visit in Mahura Places to visit in Noida Places to visit in Sarnath Places to visit in Shravasti Places to visit in Varanasi   About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule