About us ExportersIndia.com - B2B Marketplace,India Business Directory JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome My Account My Profile My Inbox My Products Sign Out Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Buy Post your Buy Requirement Search Products / Suppliers Sell Search Buy Offers Create Your Free Website Display your Products Free Manage Trade Alert Advertise Help Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Exporters India Products / Services Products / Services Companies Buy Offers Search Post Buy Requirement Home Products / Services Companies Buy Leads Trade Shows HOT REGIONS India China UK USA S. Korea Australia Singapore UAE Japan Malaysia View More Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? About Us Home About Us Global Exposure, 24X7 live showroom, instant enquiries, potential buyers! All this is what B2B entrepreneur dream and wish for. The call from global business village is to recognize the value of Internet and transform businesses with effective E-Presence. Global appeal is the pre-requisite, in the present era, for any business to flourish in an arena where competition grows tougher at every level. With the growing competition, there arose a need among the business enterprises to promote their business online and appeal to global customers. At the same time, the need for a common B2B showroom to exhibit their products and a platform to promote their business became urgent. Besides this, the incessant tussle among the business entrepreneurs to revolutionize their business to attract more of potential buyers and crack more of prolific deals accounted for the presence of a common platform where they can promote their business online. ExportersIndia.com is the answer to all, which continues to serve you with such a common B2B platform where innumerous manufacturers, wholesale suppliers, importers, exporters, service providers, etc. have registered in. A complete solution provider to all your business queries, Exportersindia is the destination where business enterprises have benefited by the much needed promotion and exposure in the current scenario of global market. Exportersindia has become a strong source of reliability because of the use of peerless technology and innovative measures. This online B2B directory is the home of innumerous products and businesses across the globe and hence it serves as the ideal destination for every one who wants to witness a bloom in the global trade scenario. Incepted in the year 1997, this portal is owned and managed by weblink .In Pvt Ltd. , one of the leading names in the realm of web design and development and e-commerce solutions . Backed up by an invincible experience and dexterity, weblink .In Pvt Ltd. has provided this portal the much-required exposure to the global business arena. For the same, this portal has become the sure shot solution for all requirements of the buyers as well as the sellers. We are committed to provide each of the business entrepreneurs with the utmost exposure to the global market conditions and provide them a platform where they can interact with respective community. We intend to be a destination where all the requirements of the business entrepreneur cease. We endeavor to grant a global status to every business irrespective of however small it is and wherever it is located on the earth’s face. Thus, we enable the businesses to have a strong stand against its peers by means of the B2B online interface. Key Strengths We adopt technologically revolutionized measures to give a new dimension to your business. We incorporate the latest updates in this field to make the business of the clients renowned worldwide. A huge databank comprising of both buyers and sellers from across the globe. The user friendliness of the portal has been one of the remarkable features attracting numerous buyers. No matter whatever is the requirement of the buyer, they can find the respective company dealing in that product. This is possible because of the appropriate categorization of the portal into products. Continuous updation of all the business related information makes it reliable. Free registration to the companies. Complete E-commerce solutions in the most cost-effective manner. Updated information about the trade shows-both past and upcoming. Our Mission Our mission is to touch the horizon where our capabilities may successfully meet with the requirements of our clients, that too with ultimate transparency and cost-effectiveness. Our Vision To sow the seeds of par-excellence services with customer centric approach and reap the trust of worldwide clients. Core Values Transpicuous Work Culture - Our words and actions always go hand-in-hand. We strongly preserve transparency to be correct ethically, legally and socially as well. Result-Orientation - By setting clear goals, fixing the priorities, organizing the resources-and rigorously monitoring the growth of project. Customer-Centric Approach - We revere the uniqueness of each client and his requirements and budget thus shape out the mirror-like solutions. Innovation - Think and do out of the box by setting the minds free. We also seek the unrevealed possibilities, hidden in feedbacks and suggestions of clients and co-workers. Our Team The efforts of an experienced and skilled team are rooted at the core of our working. All of our team members are adept in the respective fields and keep themselves abreast with the latest updates. Be it the designing and development, content or the management team, each member is dedicated towards the complete satisfaction of the buyers and the suppliers and carve out solutions accordingly. The experience inculcated over a period of more than a decade gives us the insight into the varying demands of the clients and lets us design solutions accordingly. A patient ear for client’s requirements and a constant effort to bring about those changes in the business arena has gained us a huge clientele across the globe. We have lived up to the expectations of our huge client base till now and intend to be a reliable source for them in the near future as well by embarking upon new arenas of business. General Links Home Contact Us Sitemap Help About Us Feedback Terms of Use Testimonials Advertise with Us Disclaimer Resources Email this Page Bookmark Page Make EI Home Page Trade Tool Kit Buy Offers Post Buy Requirement Post Products - FREE Services Directory Business Services Real Estate Tours & Travels Employment Services Matrimonials Services Business Directory Manufacturers Exporters Suppliers Service Providers Web Design By WeblinkIndia.NET - ISO 9001:2008 Certified © Copyright 2015. All Rights Reserved. ExportersIndia.com