Himachal Pradesh - Travel, Tourism, History and all other Information Home » Himachal Pradesh   Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate हिमाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                 (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Cities in Himachal Pradesh Manali Shimla Dharamshala Dalhousie Kasauli                        more... Travel to Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Himachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Subhash Baoli Shivkul Sankat Mochan Places to Visit in Shimla Travel to Manali Travel to Kullu Travel to Shimla Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una Hotels in Kangra              more... Assembly Polls HP Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities in Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh Colleges       Himachal Pradesh Viceroy Lodge Kasauli Lakkar Bazar Rohtang Shimla Ridge Jakhu Temple Himachal Pradesh Location Map Himachal Pradesh Map Himachal Pradesh Travel Map About Referred to as dev bhoomi or "Land of God", Himachal Pradesh is bordered by Jammu and Kashmir on the north, Punjab on the west, Uttar Pradesh on the south and Uttaranchal on the east. The word "Himachal" means the abode of snow. Shimla is the capital of Himachal Pradesh and the total area of the state is 55,673 square km. The state is covered with immense natural beauty and is, undoubtedly, one of the most popular tourist destinations in the world. A majority of the area is mountainous with lofty ranges, deep valleys, swaying waterfalls and lush greenery. The climate varies extremely from one place to the other, providing heavy rainfalls to some area and no rainfall to others. Being high in altitude, snowfall is a common sight in most parts of the state. There are 12 districts in the state which are further subdivided into blocks and towns and villages for administrative convenience. Himachal Pradesh is known to be the second least corrupt state in the country. Owing to the huge production of apples, Himachal Pradesh is also known as the 'State of Apples'. Facts on Himachal Pradesh Official Website www.himachal.gov.in Date of Formation Jan 25, 1971 Area 55,673 sq km Density 123/Km2 Population (2011) 6,864,602 Males Population (2011) 3,481,873 Females Population (2011) 3,382,729 No. of District 12 Capital Shimla Rivers Ravi, Beas, Chenab, Sutlej, Yumana Forests & National Park Pin Velley NP, Greater Himalaya NP, Renuka WS, Chail WS, Kalatope Khajjiar WS, Simbalbara WS Languages Hindi, English, Punjabi, Kinnauri, Pahari, Kangri and Dogri Neighbours State Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand State Animal Snow Leopard State Bird Western Tragopan State Tree Deodar State Flower Pink Rhododendron Net State Domestic Product (2011) 65535 Literacy Rate (2011) 68.74% Females per 1000 males 974 Assembly constituency 68 Parliamentary constituency 4 History Himachal Pradesh has a rich history because it has been inhabited by several clans of people at different ages from the beginning of civilization. The earliest of all were the people from the Indus Valley civilization, during the second and third millennium BC, and they came here from Gangetic plains only to live life more peacefully. Soon, the Mongolians occupied the region and they were followed by the Aryans. According to the Indian epics, Himachal Pradesh was a conglomeration of several small republics or Janpadas, each constituting a state as well as a cultural unit. Then came the Mughals and kings like Mahmud Ghaznavi, Sikandar Lodi, Timur, etc had conquered many places of the state to establish their supremacy. After their kingdom started declining, the Gorkhas captured the land but ended up losing the territory to the British in the Anglo-Gorkha war. The British were completely smitten by the sheer beauty of the area and continued with their supremacy over the place from 1858 to 1914. Post-Independence, 30 princely states of the area were brought together to form Himachal Pradesh in 1948. When Punjab got geographically reorganised, some parts were included in the latter. In 1971, Himachal Pradesh emerged as the 18th state of the Indian Union. Geography Being situated at the foothills of the Western Himalayas, Himachal Pradesh is located at the higher altitudes around 6500 meters above the sea level. The elevation is from west to the east and from the north to the south. Geographically, the area may be divided into three broad categories: the outer Himalayas (Shivaliks), the inner Himalayas (central zone), and the Greater Himalayas (alpine zone). Wide Valleys, snow clad mountains, exotic lakes and rivers and gushing out streams are the few features that Himachal Pradesh is known for. Around 64 percent of the area is covered by forests that consist of Moist Deodar Forest, Ban Oak Forest, Moist Temperate Deciduous Forest, Coniferous Forest, Alpine Pastures and the Rhododendron Scrub Forests. The climate varies from semi arctic to semi tropical. Summers stay from April-June with a comfortable climate whereas winters are chilly due to heavy snowfalls. Rainy season enhances the beauty of the place and continues from July to September. Rivers and streams get refilled and a lustrous beauty of the green vegetation is visible all throughout. Major rivers of the area are the Chandra Bhaga, the Beas, the Chenab, the Sutlej and the Ravi. These rivers flow all throughout the year and are mainly fed by the glaciers of the mountains. Bara Shigri, Bhaga, Chandra are the few glaciers of Himachal Pradesh. More Detail... Government and Politics The state is divided into 12 districts, 75 tehsils, 52 subdivisions, 75 blocks and almost more than 20000 villages and 57 towns. Being a post-Independence creation, the legislative assembly of Himachal Pradesh doesn't have any pre-constitution. However, the unicameral legislature of the state has 68 seats with almost 14 house committee at the assembly. It has 4 Lok Sabha constituencies and for Rajya Sabha, there are 3 constituencies. Among political parties, only the Indian National Congress (INC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have alternately been able to establish their respective governments in Himachal Pradesh. Like all other Indian states, the Chief Minister has the ultimate powers in the state, and controls all the major operations of the government. Education Himachal Pradesh was the summer capital of British India and hence the standard of elementary as well as higher education here is up to the mark with the rest of the country. Literacy rates of the state are one of the highest among all the Indian states especially Hamirpur, which is one of the districts with a top ranking literacy rate. There are thousands of schools which offer primary as well as secondary education to kids, being affiliated to the CBSE and the ICSE. The government is working hard to make the state the new "educational hub" of the country. In fact, Himachal Pradesh is the first state in the country that has made elementary education possible as well as accessible for every child. There are several universities, engineering colleges, and medical colleges that offer professional courses for aspiring candidates. Apart from that, there are some general degree colleges that help the students to pursue their basic higher education from the state itself. Other than that, there are few NGO-operated educational institutions running successfully in the state. Economy Himachal Pradesh is one state that has transformed itself from being the most backward state to one of the most advanced states in the country. Around 50 percent of the economy of the state comes from agriculture, which is also the primary source of income as well as employment among the inhabitants. Rice, wheat, barley and maize are a few crops that are mainly grown all across the state. Being situated in the lap of the Himalayas, Himachal has been blessed with acres of fertile lands suitable for the cultivation of fruits, which is a boon for the state. Apple is one of the fruits whose cultivation earns around Rs 300 crore for the state annually. Other fruits that can be cultivated here are figs, olives, hops, nuts, mushrooms, saffron and sarda melons. Ancillary Horticulture produces honey, and flowers for the state as well. Tourism is also a source of income for the localities which adds much to the economic growth of the state. The abundant availability of electricity has encouraged the establishment of several small scale industries. The pollution-free climate of the state has helped to develop several electronic complexes in the state which is also a reason why rapid economic growth of the state has become a reality today. Demographics The total population of Himachal Pradesh as per Census 2011, is 68,64,602 which is only minimal percentage of the total population of the country. Himachal Pradesh is one of those states with the highest Hindu population, about 90 percent. Among them, the main communities are the Rajputs who had come to this place long back and settled here since. The Brahmins and the Rathis also form a major part of the population of the state. The Ghirth community or the Choudhury community is mainly found in the Kangra district, they are usually the landowners who rent their lands to poor farmers for cultivation and earn revenue from them in return. The other communities that stay here are the Kannets, Kolis, Gaddis, Gujjars, Lahaulis and Pangawals. There is a strong caste system that prevails in the rural part of the state but it is changing with the advent of modernity. Himachal Pradesh has a good number of Tibetans staying there and hence Buddhism is the next religion that is followed strongly after Hinduism. They, being refugees from Tibet, stay at the Lahaul and Kinnaur districts mainly en masse. Since the state shares a common boundary with Punjab, several people from the Sikh community are found to stay in the towns and the cities. Muslims are the minority community in the state. Tourism Tourist Places in Himachal Pradesh Shimla Christ Church The Ridge Jakhu Temple Lakkar Bazar Manali Rohtang Pass Old Manali Hidimba Devi Temple Adventure Sports at Solang Nal Undoubtedly, Himachal Pradesh is one of the best places to visit due to its vast geo-topographical diversities. The snow-topped mountains, the green forests or the red apple orchards, and the freshness of pure air - the state has everything that attracts people from all over the world. Shimla, Manali, Chamba, etc are those places which draw most of the honeymoon couples all through the year. Otherwise, tourists who love mountain adventures can also enjoy river rafting, trekking, ice skating, para gliding and skiing, apart from spending a peaceful vacation here. There are temples, churches, monasteries, rivers, hill stations, architectural masterpieces and markets which will surely be a traveler's delight. Dharamshala is one of the coldest hill stations where one can witness snow covered valleys at a stretch, lush flora and fauna and freshness that Mother Nature offers to humans. When in Shimla, tourists can enjoy the Jakhoo hills, the ridge, the Lakkar bazaar, St. Michael's cathedral, state museum, or simply roam around the mall road. Mashorba, Kufri, Fagu, are few suburbs which gives enchanting scenery of the beautiful state to a nature lover. Kullu, Chail, Kasauli, Manikaran, Dalhousie, etc are also places worth visiting in Himachal Pradesh. Nagar, Paharpur and Rukkhala offer rural heritage and charm to the urban visitors. Cities to Visit Himachal Pradesh Chamba Kangra Rohtang Pass Kangra Shimla Kullu Manali Dalhousie Solan Society & Culture Himachal Pradesh is a multilingual and a multicultural state of India. Since many races have come and settled here from earlier times, the culture of the state is diverse, colourful and rich in heritage. It is exhibited in colourful clothes, musical melodies, festive celebrations, rhythmic dances and a simple yet rich lifestyle. Arts and handicrafts form an integral part of the culture. The state specialises in preparing pashmina shawl which is exported to foreign countries on a regular basis. Other than that, wooden potteries, metal jewellery, utensils, vessels and many more are prepared by the locals. Music and dance are an integral and essential part of life for the Himachalis. Folk songs are mainly sung to invoke the deities. Special types of songs known as samskara songs, based on Indian Ragas, are popular among the people. Some exclusive dance forms of the state are Shona, Gee, Burah, Losar, Naati etc. Festivals are celebrated with great zeal and grandeur. The international Himalayan Festival is celebrated annually at Dharamshala. Local festivals like Cheeshu and Lahaul for the Lahaulis, and Haryali at the Kangra district are celebrated with pomp and vividness. National festivals like Diwali, Lohri, Baisakhi and Christmas too mean a lot for the people of Himachal Pradesh. Language Being a state located in the northern part of the country, Hindi is widely spoken and understood among all the inhabitants of Himachal Pradesh. Other than that, Pahari or "the hilly language", known to be derived from Sanskrit and Prakrit, is the second most widely spoken language among the people. There are three different forms of the language, northern Pahari, western Pahari and the eastern Pahari. Out of these, the second form is adopted by the people of Himachal Pradesh and they speak it in different dialects. Few of the dialects of Pahari used in Himachal are Churahi, Himachali, Mandeali, Kuluhi, etc. Punjabi is another popular language which people speak, due to the state's proximity to Punjab. English is the medium of instruction in most of the central board affiliated schools and fairly used among the elites. Other than these, Kangri, Dogri, Kinnauri are also used by the natives of the regions. The Tibetans who have migrated from their place prefer to speak in Tibetan languages. Other than that, people from other state of India, who have settled there, like Marwaris, Gujaratis, Biharis, Bengalis, etc, speak in their own languages among their small communities. More Detail... Transport Most of the part of Himachal Pradesh being mountainous, development of proper transport facilities was difficult. However, the government has made notable progress in connecting the roads to the state and today Himachal Pradesh is known to have the highest density of roads among all major hill stations of the country. There are 8 national highways that connect the state with the rest of the country. Inside the state, all the tourist spots are connected through roads for the benefits of travellers. Within the city, people prefer private vehicles and buses to communicate from one part to the other. Two railway stations connect the state with the other part of the country, the Kalka Shimla railways and the Pathankot-Jogindernagar railways. Few more tracks have been proposed by the government for better connectivity. With three airports in the state - Shimla airport near the capital, the Gaggal airport near the Kangra District, and the Bhuntar airport just near to the Kullu District - Himachal Pradesh can be reached through airways as well. However, due to improper weather conditions, most of these flights either get delayed or cancelled in most of the days, causing much inconvenience to the passengers. GP WBST180914 WBST240914 Last Updated on : December 19, 2014 Himachal Pradesh Geography Population Languages Climate Pin code STD code Food Festivals Useful Information Himachal Pradesh Elections Schedule Assembly Constituency Chief Minister Election Commission Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map District Map District Map ( In Hindi) Forest Map Tourist Map Mineral Map Railway Map Road Map Himachal Pradesh Handicrafts Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Dalhausi Rohtang Pass Chamba Places to visit in Dharamsala Travel to Dalhousie Places to visit in Kullu Manali Travel to Hamirpur Naggar Travel to Dharamshala Travel to Shimla Places to visit in Shimla Travel to Chail Travel to Kangra Travel to Kullu Travel to Manali   Places To Visit   Beas River Christ Church Hidimba Devi Temple Lakkar Bazar Old Manali Rohtang Pass Shimla Ridge Solang Nala from Manali Vashisht Temple Viceroy Lodge             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule