Nirmal Seeds - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Nirmal Seeds Home Nirmal Seeds Supplies seeds and bio products such as bio-fertilizers, bio-pesticides bio-soil enrichers and bio-organic plant vitalizers Ashish Wele Nirmal Seeds Pvt. Ltd. was established in 1988 by the agripreneurs at Pachora in Maharashtra. The NSPL is an ISO 9001-2008 accredited company. The R&D Lab of Nirmal Seeds is approved by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Govt. of India. The company specializes in seeds mainly for subtropical region including major field crops and vegetables. “Nirmal is a market leader in crops like red gram, black gram, mung bean and pearl millet. Further, it is a recipient of award for significant research contribution in bajra: Society of Millet Research and All India Co-ordinated Pearl millet Improvement Project awarded the Best Private Sector Pearl millet Research Award in the year 2009; and for pulses: Indian Society of Pulses Research and Development, ICAR has conferred the Certificate of Merit for outstanding contribution in Pulses Research in the year 2011,”says Mr. Ashish Wele, President (Business Head). He adds, “Due to the company’s outstanding research work in pearl millet, CGIAR (Consultative Group on International Agriculture Research) and IFRI (International Food Policy Research Institute) has selected Nirmal Seeds Pvt. Ltd for the Harvest Plus programme, funded by Bill Gates and Melinda foundation, which focuses on nutritional breeding.” Clientele The major clients of the company are farmers and they are served through network of seed distributors, dealers and retailers. “Certain corporate clients for organic inputs all across India are the other important buyers for Nirmal Seeds Pvt. Ltd.,” says Mr. Wele, adding, “Nirmal Seeds Pvt. Ltd is a preferred seed company for bulk supply of seeds and bio-inputs to government of Orissa, government of Rajasthan, government of Assam andgovernment of Arunachal Pradesh.” Sales and Distribution Nirmal Seeds offers 140 seed products in 35 crops. “Besides we market bio-products under various categories like organic manures, soil enricher, plant growth vitalizers, bio-fertilizers, bio-pesticides, which plays an important role in integrated crop management for sustainable agriculture. We focus on organic agriculture to support integrated agriculture approach,” says Mr. Wele. Some if its popular seed varieties are mung bean variety Naval  and desi cotton variety, Ambika (NACH-12), which has coarse and short fibre with high moisture absorbency. “”Ambika cotton has tremendous demand in surgical as well as hosiery industry. Nirmal Seeds Pvt. Ltd; is the leading supplier of seeds in this exclusive segment,” maintains Mr. Wele. The company has marketing and sales operations in 19 states through 1330 direct outlets/ distributors. “Marketing is operated through seventeen regional offices cum depots, which has helped for smooth product distribution to the end users. Company is now poised to develop its marketing links in Middle East, Sri Lanka and East of Africa,” says Mr. Wele. He adds, “We are very focused on marketing of oil seeds and pulses, since last one decade. Additionally, as a strategic planning the company is marketing Gossypiumarborium, a short staple length cotton in central part of India. Marketing Initiatives To spread awareness about its products, Nirmal works closely with farmers across states, educating them in the use of seeds and bio-products. “This is achieved by conducting seminars, farmers meeting, demonstration programs, laboratory to land visits, dealer conferences and other training programs. Most importantly, company organizes demonstration visits in its R&D for distributors and farmers in kharif and rabi season respectively.” Challenges Speaking about the challenges faced by the company, Mr. Wele says, “Being two and half decades in market, Nirmal Seeds has developed its own brand, however, since, last eight to ten years, MNC’s are playing vital role in Indian market due to their tremendous technological back up, which is becoming the major challenge for most of the Indian origin seed companies,” adding, “The other challenges are farmer’s illiteracy, confusion on products with new technological advances, product awareness, spurious seed market, intensifying competition, government policies, protection of intellectual R&D Nirmal Seeds has been its own R&D centre.Mr. Wele avers, “Indian Seed industry with its considerable growth rate and increasing R&D is expected to rise to a higher level in the international market in the future years. Consolidated effort and focus can drive the market towards a farmer friendly and growth oriented industry.” NirmalSeeds also recognizes and supports progressivefarmers. “The company applauds these farmers for adopting proven scientific methods of farming that lead to increases in crop yield. These farmers have gone on to share their new techniques and contributed to the growth of agriculture as a whole. Hence farmers are short-listed and honored by Nirmal Seeds Pvt. Ltd. Nirmal work and contribution to agricultural,” he says. Mr. Wele is a post graduate in agriculture and post graduate diploma in marketing. His focus right now is develop the company in global market with thrust on Africa, facilitate the company working with ERP/ soft skills and R & D project funding through different agencies. He is responsible for developing Centre of Excellence for seed production in Ethiopia. He is also spearheading robust international relationship program with key stakeholders including foreign governments, universities, R & D centers ambassadors, U N organizations and funding agencies to explore opportunities in efficient agriculture farming development and sustainable seeds production model. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr.Ashish Wele, President – Business Head Nirmal Seeds Pvt. Ltd. Pachora – 424 201, Dist-Jalgaon, Tel : 02596-244366, 244396 Fax : 02596-244045 Web : www.nirmalseedsindia.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Nirmal Seeds Related – articles, consultants, downloads Advanta Seeds – field crops Maharashtra Hybrid Seeds Incotec Seeds – Seed technology INCOTEC – seed treatments, technologies and services You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water