KrishiKosh:KrishiPrabha - Thesis Collection Skip navigation Home Browse Communities & Collections Browse Items by: Issue Date Author Title Subject Help Sign on to: My KrishiKosh Receive email updates Edit Profile KrishiKosh (कृषिकोष ) An Institutional Repository of Indian National Agricultural Research System   KrishiKosh  > KrishiPrabha - Thesis Collection Repository Home Page KrishiPrabha is a full-text electronic database of Indian Agricultural Doctoral Dissertations submitted by research scholars to the 36 State/Deemed Agricultural Universities during the period from 1.1.2000 to 31.12.2006. This database, has been created by Nehru Library, Ch. Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar with financial support from Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi under its National Agricultural Innovation Project. Collections in this Repository 01. Acharya NG Ranga Agricultural University 02. Anand Agricultural University 03. Assam Agricultural University 04. Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwavidyalaya 05. Birsa Agricultural University 06. Central Institute of Fisheries Education 07. Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University 08. CSA University of Agriculture and Technology 09. CSK Himachal Pradesh Krishi Vishvavidyalaya 10. Dr Balasaheb Sawant Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth 11. Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth 12. Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry 13. Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology 14. Indian Agricultural Research Institute 15. Indian Veterinary Research Institute 16. Indira Gandhi Krishi Vishwavidyalaya 17. Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwavidyalaya 18. Kerala Agricultural University 19. Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology 20. Maharashtra Animal and Fishery Sciences University 21. Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth 22. Marathwada Agricultural University 23. Narendra Deva University of Agriculture & Technology 24. National Dairy Research Institute 25. Navsari Agricultural University 26. Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology 27. Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhaya Pashu Chikitsa Vigyan Vishwavidhyalaya Evam Go Anusandhan Sansthan 28. Punjab Agricultural University 29. Rajasthan Agricultural University 30. Rajendra Agricultural University 31. Sardarkrushinagar-Dantiwada Agricultural University 32. Tamil Nadu Agricultural University 33. Tamil Nadu Veterinary And Animal Sciences University 34. University of Agricultural Sciences - Bengaluru 35. University of Agricultural Sciences - Dharwad 36. West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences Recent Submissions Cloning And Characterization Of Cold Shock Gene/Protein Fluorescent Psevdomonad Mutant CRPF1 See Genetic Studies On Quality Traits Rice (Oryza Sativa L.) See Numerical Solution Of Some Flow Problems Of Non-Newtonian Fluids See Studies On Long Term Effects Of Herbicide Use In Rice-Wheat System See Comparative Effect Of Organic Probiotics On The Growth Milk Production And Hamatological Characters In Crossbred Calves And Cows See Estimation Of Yield Losses In Rice And Evaluation Of Some IPM Podules Agaisnt Scirpophaga Incertulas (Walker) See Pathobiological Characterization Of Field And Vaccine Strains Of Infectious Bursal Disease Virus Of Poultry See Foraging Behaviour Of Honeybee (Apis Mellifera) On Litchi And Its Impact On Frut Setting See Studies On Integrated Nutrient Management In Sugarcane-Ratoon Cropping System See Biology And Production Technology Of Ganoderma Lucidum (W.Curt. : Fr.) P. Karst With Special Reference To Biochemical Characterization See Studies On Embryo Rescue Regeneration And Acclimatization In Subtropical Peach (Prunus Persica Batsch.) See Study Of Thermoelastic Properties Of Olivine And Forsterite Minerals At High Temperatures See Photoacoustic Measurement Of Composite Electrolytes And Semiconducting Thin Films See Effect Of Tillage Seed rate And Weed Control Method On Growth And Productivity Of Maize (Zea Mays L.) See Effect Of High Temperature And Irradiance Causing Forced Senescence In Wheat (Triticum Aestivum L.) Expression Of Photosynthetic Genes See Studies On Generation Mean Analysis For Yield Traits And Inheritance Of Resistance To Cercospora Leaf Spot In The Varietal Crosses Of Greengram And Wide Cross Of Greengram And Blackgram See Soil Sulphur Status And Response To Applied Sulphur By Wheat-Rice And Wheat-Soybean Crops In Some Soil Of Udham Singh Nagar District See Biodiversity Of Some Chalcid Parasitoids Of Economic Importance With Special Reference To The Mass Production Of Native Bioagent See Cultivar Identification And Characterization Through Chemical Analysis And Isozymes See Heterosis Combining Ability And D2 Analysis For Quantitative Traits In Brinjal (Solanum Melongena L.0 See Browse Discover Author 9 Ashok Kumar 9 Rajesh Kumar 9 Sanjeev Kumar 8 Ajay Kumar 8 Arvind Kumar 8 Rakesh Kumar 8 Sunil Kumar 8 Vinod Kumar 7 Ramesh Kumar 7 Satish Kumar . next > Subject 300 ||| 7 Buffalo 7 Rice 4 Chicken 4 Wheat 3 Guava 3 Soybean 2 Agroforestry 2 Ber 2 Brassica . next > Date issued 81 2010 - 2014 5463 2000 - 2009 159 1990 - 1999 161 1980 - 1989 1 1949 - 1949 Maintained By IARI, New Delhi Copyright © 20012 Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi.|   | Powered By Dspace | Feedback ​