Rev. Fr. Joseph H Pereira – Founder and Managing Trustee of the Kripa Foundation | ngogateway.com Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Latest : Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Posted 1 year ago MARS FOUNDATION Posted 1 year ago St.Theresa’s Educational Society Posted 1 year ago Ray Welfare Society Posted 1 year ago Narain Sewa Sansthan Posted 1 year ago WOMEN ORGANISATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRUST Posted 1 year ago Sewa Bhav Foundation Posted 1 year ago Panrui Swajan Welfare Society Posted 4 years ago Sampark Samaj Kalyan Sansthan Posted 4 years ago The Catholic Health Association of India Posted 4 years ago Home   >   Personalities   >   Rev. Fr. Joseph H Pereira – Founder and Managing Trustee of the Kripa Foundation Rev. Fr. Joseph H Pereira – Founder and Managing Trustee of the Kripa Foundation By admin on June 19, 2009 Rev. Fr. Joseph H Pereira is the Founder and Managing Trustee of the Kripa Foundation, which is devoted to the care, support and rehabilitation of those affected by Chemical Dependency and HIV & AIDS. Since its inception in 1981 in Bombay, the Kripa Foundation has grown exponentially and forms a vital links to providing social stability in thirteen Indian states through various multifunction facilities and also has association in other international locations in Europe, Canada and the USA. Known to all as Fr Joe, and many others as “the Singing Priest”, he prefers not to highlight his academic qualifications of Masters in Psychology & Philosophy from University of Bombay, Licenciate in Divinity (Theology) from Bombay & Poona, Certifications in Counselling Theory & Practice (Carkuff Model) & expertise from the Hazelden Institute of Minnesota, USA. Most cherished of all such gnostic processes is his decades of involvement with Yoga, first as a patient, pupil and practitioner, then in later years as a Certified Trainer and in recent decades as a friend, associate and an International Mentor of the Guruji B K S Iyengar School of Yoga, Poona. This involvement is so extensive that the holistic component of Kripa care has been strengthened by the gift of self knowledge through sets of Yoga practices developed by Guruji Iyengar. Fr Joe carries this message with him and delivers it to all who ask for it, during his national and international travels. These modules and his personal instructions and observations are delivered in a unique style that provides demonstration, learning and solace through the audio cassette titled “The Silence of the Spirit” and a video cassette titled “Living with AIDS”. Academically, Fr Joe is an Adjunct Professor in Yoga Philosophy & Psychology at various Indian Universities, Catholic Institutions and the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. Fr Joe is the Consultant to the Archdiocese of Bombay for “Rehabilitation of the Chemically Dependent” and a Consultant-Member of various High Level Committees constituted by the Government of India, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment. He is a Member of the New York Academy of Sciences. Between 1987 and 2002, various international workshops have been conducted by Fr Joe at Portland, Oregon and Hot Springs, California in USA and at Calgary and Toronto, Canada on Yoga. “Innovative Methods of Healing the Addict” and “Effectiveness of Yoga in Substance Abusers within the Kripa Model” were research activities presented at the Dharam Hinduja Institute of Indic Research at the Faculty of Divinity in University of Cambridge, UK. Besides his seminars and workshops in Canada and the USA, Fr Joe conducts annual Seminars at The Black Forest Institute, Germany and at Zurich, Switzerland and at the Coolmine Therapeutic Community, Ireland. Such a hectic schedule can only be supported by his extreme consciousness in personal practices and empathy and love for the socially marginalized. He constantly says that such commitment can only be through the blessings of great ones like Mother Teresa and Guruji Iyengar and his spiritual guide Rev Anthony D’Mello. These perceptions and applications have resulted in various awards in the field of Drug Abuse Care, Health Sciences and Social Services like Priyadarshini National Award (1989), Perestroika Sanjeevani Award (1990), Anti Narcotic Council of India Award for best Establishment in the field (1994), Sahayogi Foundation Award (1995), Ati Vashisht Sewa Medal of the College of Chest Physicians (1997), International Yoga Journal Karamyogi of the Year Award (2003), Expert to the National Institute of Social Defence (Government of India) (2005) and Christian Chamber of Commerce Award for Excellence in the field of Social Work (2007). Despite all this, Fr Joe is ever ready to listen to all who approach him. This includes the huge numbers of the general community, patients, clients of the Foundation in India and abroad and not least of all, his large organizational staff numbers, not less than 85% of whom are “wounded healers” in their own paths of recovery and spiritual growth. Related Posts: Social Action and Rural Awareness (SARA)Trust Genius Charitable Trust People’s Association For Rural Women Development… Samaj Kalyan Foundation Health, Education and Promotions Of Teeming Association In… Adjunct Professor Amp Philosophy B K S Iyengar Catholic Institutions Europe Canada Fr Joseph Guruji Hazelden Institute Indian Institute Of Management Indian Institute Of Management Ahmedabad Indian States Indian Universities Iyengar Yoga Kripa Living With Aids Masters In Psychology Personal Instructions Poona Rev Fr Social Stability Yoga Philosophy Yoga Practices About admin Related Posts Until There’s A Cure Foundation Until There’s A Cure Foundation Life Care and Cure Mission Life Care and Cure Mission GRAMIN VIKAS TRUST GRAMIN VIKAS TRUST IIM-A students sell scrap to help patients IIM-A students sell scrap to help patients One Comment Moses j July 1, 2011 at 12:45 pm am moses. i want the financial help approximatly 1000000 indian rupees please grant me. You must be logged in to post a comment Login Latest News pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile: A.... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym) –... Posted 8 months ago 0 Society for Peoples Integrated Development General information: Full Name of organization Society for People’s Integrated... Posted 8 months ago 0 Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Address: At – Bhalunka Po- Ramdaspur (Godisahi) Dist – Cuttack... Posted 8 months ago 0 Shri Durga Mahila Mandal (SDMM) Village & P.O. Ghanauli, District Roopnagar (Punjab) Shri Durga Mahila... Posted 8 months ago 0 Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) 1A, D. L. Khan Road,... Posted 8 months ago 0 Feedback Funding Agencies A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W Search Latest Popular Comments pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile:... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2.... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym)... Posted 8 months ago 0 Funding Agencies in India A M M Foundation “Tiam House” No 28, Rajaji... Posted 5 years ago 213 List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs American Jewish World Service Ananda Foundation Asia Foundation Baxter... Posted 6 years ago 116 Funding Agencies – C CAAC OF PIKE COUNTY 941 Market Street Piketon OH... Posted 6 years ago 91 Blog about human anatomy says: Awesome post.... Paul Ponniah says: Dear Sir, II, for Jeevan Sagar Trust, are w... Paul Ponniah says: Fine work for the Cause.... Recently Added pragati welfare society gariasathi Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Society for Peoples Integrated Development Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Copyright © 2007 - 14 | All Rights Reserved: advertisement advertisement