Yuktix Technologies - sensor devices for farming - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Yuktix Technologies – sensor devices for farming Home Yuktix Technologies – sensor devices for farming Designs and manufactures control based sensor devices for farming Yuktix Technologies is a Bangalore-based company designing and offering sensor based smart devices for agriculture. These devices are suitable for open field cultivation, climate-controlled greenhouses and aquaponics. Mr. Rajeev Jha founded the company in October 2013. Devices offered by the company are- (a) Yuktix weather station (both citizen and professional variety) (b) Yuktix AHM – The automatic humidity controller for greenhouses (c) Yuktix ALC – The automatic Lux controller (d) Yuktix solar powered data loggers (e) Yukitx disease prediction system These devices sense the environment accurately, predict the effect, and turn on farming devices only when they are needed. “For example, when it rains, outside moisture is high and mistifier is not required so it will remain off. Mistifier will turn on only when it is required,” says Mr. Jha. Yukitx weather stations provide daily reports, the week trends, and latest data from a single page on the climatic conditions. The company provides packaged solution to its clients. “Our customers don’t have to worry about hardware and software separately. We believe in making simple systems that don’t require manuals,” Mr. Jha informs and goes on to say, “We decided to go solar for our data loggers. We make sure that we built backups so in remote areas when you cannot get GPRS, you can fall back on SMS.” Greenhouse automation enables to boost production significantly by maintaining the right climate inside the greenhouse as needed for the crop cultivation. Yuktix weather station keeps tab on predicting the minimum and maximum temperature during the year as needed for the particular crop for its entire production cycle. Thereby it is instrumental in increasing the quality and quantity of the crop. In addition, greenhouse automation helps in remote monitoring of the farm. “Owners or farm managers can see the real time conditions existing in their greenhouse from anywhere in the world. It takes the guess work out, gives facts, helps save time and utilizes resources optimally,” says Mr. Jha. Once again explaining through a concrete example, he says, “Suppose drip irrigation is required to start when soil moisture falls below a certain level. One way to do that would be to go round with a soil moisture meter and poke it in ground, see the reading and then ask someone to turn on the motor. After the motor starts, it is kept running according to the guess of what a good amount of water is. The same process can be very easily automated via a soil moisture sensor, a wireless module and a motor starter.” Sensor based farming devices enable the farm owners to know accurately what their plantation needs at that particular time. Mr. Jha adds, “Technology and machines can improve efficiency. At the end of the day, it is all about better yield and quality of the product.” Exporters and farmers growing cash crops are the target customers. “So far we have worked with farmers growing cash crops, greenhouse/poly-house owners, fruits growers and Government organizations,” he informs. Awareness on devices is created through online videos, workshops for farmers, emails to greenhouse owners and demonstrations in exhibitions and fairs. Speaking about the challenges Mr. Jha says, “It is tough for us to reach all interested parties on a small budget. Like, I am sure that there would be a good demand for our products in Maharashtra but we are unable to distribute to that market. Traditional channels would require us to hold inventory and upfront investment. I really wish someday we could sell online like they sell phones now.” Another challenge faced is language. “I believe we have to adapt to local languages pretty soon,” he adds. Yuktix Technologies has earned good acceptance for its sensor devices in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu and is in process of reaching to other states. The company consistently targets to reduce the pesticide usage. Mr. Jha and his team wants to develop the model that predicts insect breeding or pest attack and gives warning so that the harvest can be protected well in advance. Another area it is keen to offer solution is resource wastage. “Today to grow for 10 people, it may require some X resources. If it can be managed with X/2 then it is possible to provide for 20 people with the same resources,” he shares. Sharing the future plan, Mr. Jha says, “Plan is to implement more effective prediction models with our data and provide better advisory to the farmers and providing an open source weather data to the users in Bangalore and all over in India.” Mr. Rajeev Jha did his graduation from IIT Kanpur and holds MBA (PGSEM program) from IIM Bangalore. Contact details- Yuktix Technologies Pvt Ltd J-202, Aakruthi Silverline, 27 Main, Sector-2, HSR Layout, Bangalore Mob: 99109 08382 Email: rjha@yuktix.com Website: http://www.yuktix.com/ Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Yuktix Technologies – sensor devices for farming Related – articles, consultants, downloads Shivrai Technologies – software to manage farms Mr. Daneshwar Gawande – Organic farming Friends Farm – Sustainable farming V N Hydroponic Farm – Soil less farming You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water