 Impact studies | Access Agriculture Skip to main content Access Agriculture Login | Register Home About us What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Sponsors Core sponsors Associates Contribute and make a difference Using this site How to use this website Submitting videos Translating videos Radio stations DVD packs information Useful technical information FAQ Contact us Forum Quotes Job Vacancies Awards User facts World map Video use Impact studies User login E-mail * Password * Create new account Request new password Languages English Français Custom FAQ Search All languages Adioukrou Adja Arabic Ateso Attié Bambara Bangla Baoulé Bariba Bassa Berba Bomu Buli Burmese Chichewa Dagaari Dagbani Dendi Dioula Ditammari Ebrié English Ewe Fon Frafra French Gonja Gourmantche Hausa Hindi Idaatcha Ife Indonesian Kabye Kannada Khmer Kikuyu Kiswahili Kpelle Krio Kusaal Lao Lobiri Luganda Lugbara Luo Malagash Mende Moba Mooré Nago Nepali Persian Peulh Fulfuldé Portuguese Runyakitara Sena Sisaala Spanish Temne Thai Twi Vietnamese Wolof Yao Yoruba Zarma Secondary menu World map Video use Impact studies Home › User facts Impact studies Below, we will regularly add some short stories on how videos hosted by Access Agriculture have improved farmers' lives in Asia and Africa. For the full publications of these and other impact studies on video, visit the Agro-Insight resource section.         Video speaks for itself Good videos can be strong enough to speak for themselves without facilitators along to explain the message.         A video in the hand is worth more In Bangladesh 112,000 people attended large, open air video screenings and over 500 community volunteers agreed to show videos for free.           People watch videos, even in Mali Because the “Fighting Striga” videos tell farmers why a technique works and not just what to do, farmers are able to creatively adapt the ideas.         Millers distribute and show videos Farmers adapted various rice technologies and some nearly doubled their yields with little increase in production costs.           Video more effective than workshop In 70% of the villages with workshops, no one passed information on to their neighbours. Yet in all of the video villages the women shared information with each other.        Videos change rural institutions Women in video villages become better organised and develop better relations with local money lenders and other actors of the rice value chain.           Innovative parboiling with videos Only 19% of women attending workshops, whereas 67% of those who watched videos innovated, often by using local materials.         Farmers are more convincing on video than in person Video is better than farmer-to-farmer extension for conveying new scientific knowledge and local innovations.           Videos improve women’s lives Women who watch training videos increase their income and become better at getting support from service providers.         Asian videos are OK for Africa Farmers focus on technical content and ignore the skin colour of the people in training videos.     User facts World map Video use Impact studies Sponsored by