Blog Skip to content Campuses UBC Directories UBC Quick Links [X] close The University of British Columbia a place of mind Faculty of Land and Food Systems Fish On Farms Home Overview People Case Studies Media Photos Partners Contact Us Blog » Home » Blog Blog Chronicling the experiences of project members on the ground in Cambodia. Sorting through FoF’s 24-hour food recall data June 27, 2013 As the data of our current 24-hr food recall was entered by multiple people, it contains multiple entries of the same item, spelling errors and inconsistent Khmer to English translation. Therefore, before we can create a database of foods, the raw data must first be sorted through, to minimize these inconsistencies. In order to do this, […] Posted in Blog | Tagged with 24 hour food recall data , desserts , Eath Many , HKI , Khmer cakes , Khmer desserts , Khmer traditional food , Ly Sokhoing , Prak Sotharoth Field trip to Prey Veng June 27, 2013 In order to check on the current, field conditions of the fish ponds and vegetable gardens, IDRC representatives along with the UBC and HKI team went on a field trip to Prey Veng province on June 6th, 2013.    During the half-day trip, we had the chance to visit two Village Model Farms (VMFs), two […] Posted in Blog | Tagged with FiA , Field trip , field update , fish ponds , Garden , hatchery , HKI , homestead food production , household , IDRC , Prey Veng , UBC , Village Model Farms Fish on Farms Review Workshop & Update for Stakeholders June 27, 2013 With the purpose of updating stakeholders on current FoF activities and progress, a review workshop was held at Himawari Hotel on June 5th, 2013. Aside from the UBC and HKI team, those present include Cambodian government officials, NGOs, international agencies and other development partners.    Following registration at 8 am, the review workshop was opened […] Posted in Blog | Tagged with aquaculture , Cambodian government , field update , Fisheries Administration , gender analysis , HKI , IDRC , June , presentation , review workshop , UBC , update Discussing the Prospects of Thiamine Fortified Fish Sauce & Fish Sauce Factory Visit June 27, 2013 From the various blood collection measurements conducted during the Fish on Farms project, one unexpected finding was low blood thiamine concentration in our research subjects. This low thiamine blood concentration is linked to the prevalence of infantile beri-beri in the region. Thus, to increase thiamine consumption and reduce the prevalence of infantile beri-beri, LFS’s pHd […] Posted in Blog | Tagged with Fish sauce , fortification , Iron , RACHA , Thiamine Cambodia June 2013 Trip – Introduction June 27, 2013 A brief background on myself and the purpose of this trip: My name is Ingrid Chandra and I am originally from Bali, Indonesia. Currently, I am a fourth year student in the Faculty of Land and Food Systems (LFS) majoring in Nutritional Science. As a recipient of LFS’s International Undergraduate Research Award, I will be […] Posted in Blog | Tagged with 24 Hour Recall , Cambodia , database , Fish on Farms , HKI , Ingrid Chandra , Land and Food Systems , Phnom Penh , Prey Veng , UBC Day-by-Day of the Behaviour Change Communication Workshop on the Essential Nutrition Actions. April 10, 2013 A previous blog post gave an overview of the exciting and interactive Behaviour Change Communication workshop held at HKI in early February, 2013. In this post, we talk about the daily activities covered in the workshop in more detail. Day 1: From the first moment of the training, we, the participants, were actively involved with […] Posted in Blog | Tagged with Behaviour Change Workshop on the Essential Nutrition Actions (ENA). April 10, 2013 How do we inspire behavior change to improve the nutrition of women and children?  A Behaviour Change Workshop on the Essential Nutrition Actions. To help the FOF team answer this question, on February 12th – 17th, Helen Keller International (HKI) hosted a six-day training on Behaviour Change Communication focusing on the Essential Nutrition Actions (ENA). […] Posted in Blog | Tagged with The Water Festival November 29, 2012 Today is the last day of the Water Festival, a highly celebrated Khmer traditional holiday that dates back to the 12th century. This festival marks an important natural occurrence – the reversing flow between the Tonle Sap and the Mekong River. The Tonle Sap is a vital source of livelihoods for the Cambodian people and […] Posted in Blog | Tagged with Final Group Analysis November 20, 2012 Our final group analysis was guided by the following objectives: Identifying the key problems and social norms within the communities we visited  Prioritize and group the problems  Look at existing resources within the communities Identify activities we can modify in our existing work plan  Based on the research define what empowerment of females within these […] Posted in Baseline , Blog , Gender | Tagged with alcohol consumption , analysis , baseline gender analysis , book keeping , budgeting , burden , chores , coding , confidence , cultural beliefs , decision , decisions , Education , empower , empowerment , Fish on Farms , household , household assets , household equity , livelihoods , Nutrition , potential , practical matters , proactive approach , social norms , social pressures , Training Body Image Tool November 10, 2012 One of the most interesting tools that we used in the gender survey was the Body Image of Men and Women. The objective of the tool was to illustrate the different behavioral expectations for men and women, how they were learned, and to identify the consequences for people who do not follow them. This was […] Posted in Blog , Gender , Project Information | Tagged with behavioral expectations , body image , domestic violence , Fish on Farms , Nutrition Field Data Collection: Part II October 29, 2012 As mentioned before, our days on the field were paced for one day of data collection followed by a day of summarizing our findings. Once all the raw data was collected from our group discussions and interviews, they were consolidated- to ensure all notes were collected and consistent. Next, the notes were summarized using a […] Posted in Baseline , Blog , Gender | Tagged with districts , domestic violence , Field , Fish , Fish on Farms , gender. nutritional , group discussions , interviews , key informant , Migration , November 6th , women Meeting of the Nutrition Working Group October 28, 2012 This week we attended the Nutrition Working Group (NWG) meeting at the National Maternal and Child Health Center, which is hosted monthly by Cambodia’s National Nutrition Programme. On the agenda were two presentations; one on the work of International Relief & Development (IRD) in Boribo Operational District in Kampong Chhnang Province and another is on Liger […] Posted in Blog | Tagged with Bobor Krup Kreung , Boribo , Cambodia , Child and Maternal Health , childcare , ENRICH , Evidence-based Interventions for Improved Nutrition to Reinforce Infant , food security , Hearth , International Relief & Development , IRD , Kampong Chhnang , Liger , Liger Charitable Foundation , National Nutrition Programme , Nutrition , nutrition rehabilitation , Nutrition Working Group , NWG , positive deviance , school garden , VHV Field Data Collection: Part I October 27, 2012 Our first round of field data collection for Baseline Gender analysis started in Chrey Seima Village, where the garden and fishpond arm of the project is being implemented. After a long day’s journey we were anxious to get started. The first tools to be implemented were the gender timeline and seasonal calendar tools. For these tools we […] Posted in Baseline , Blog , Gender | Tagged with baseline gender analysis , Fish , Fish on Farms , Fishpond , Garden , gender , Key informant interviews , NGO , Nutrition , Timeline Introduction October 24, 2012 My name is Pardis Lakzadeh and I’m a graduate from the Faculty of Integrated Sciences in the area of Human Nutrition and Immunology. My focus was on understanding the impact of Nutrition on overall health and more specifically the relationship between nutrients and the immune system. I was first introduced to this area of research […] Posted in Blog , Project Information | Tagged with blog , Cambodia , Fish on Farms , FNH 355 International Nutrition , FNH 455 Applied International Nutrition , gender analysis , globally , Hellene Sarin , homestead food production , Immunology , Integrated Sciences , Judy McLean , Natural Resources Conservation , Nutrition , Pardis Lakzadeh , Participatory Rural Appraisal Tools , Phnom Penh , research , twitter , UBC Cambodia in Mourning October 23, 2012 On Monday October 15 the former King of Cambodia, Norodom Sihanouk, died of a heart attack in Beijing at the age of 89. His son, King Norodom Sihamoni, together with the Queen Mother and the Prime Minister travelled to Beijing to bring home Sihanouk‘s body for funeral preparations. More than 100,000 people lined the streets […] Posted in Blog , Media | Tagged with Cambodia , Fish on Farms , funeral , Khmer Rouge , King , Norodom , Phnom Penh , Sihanouk Baseline Gender Analysis October 18, 2012 Tomorrow the Baseline Participatory Gender Analysis of Fish on Farms will begin. The purpose of this is to gain a better understanding of the role gender plays in mixed-farm livelihood systems. This process involves a number of Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) tools to collect the data. A participatory process is particularly important as it involves […] Posted in Blog , Gender , Project Information | Tagged with Baseline , Behaviour , gender , HKI , Participatory Rural Appraisal Tools Pond Construction September 18, 2012 Pond construction has begun! After many weeks spent in conference rooms and on field visits with the Fish on Farms aquaculture experts, the innovative fishpond design has been finalized and the first fishponds have been dug. At the heart of the Fish on Farms project, is the novel approach to increase micronutrient intake by increasing […] Posted in Aquaculture , Blog , Project Information | Tagged with aquaculture , Fingerlings , Fishpond , HKI , Micronutrient , Prey Veng Blood Analysis: Part 2 August 18, 2012 Picking up from where we left off… Once the blood arrived at the NIPHL from the field via the Blood Taxi, one of two things happened. 1. For the blood collected in the 4.5 mL tubes containing the EDTA:  a complete blood count (CBC) was conducted. This provides information on the total number of red blood […] Posted in Baseline , Blog , Project Information | Tagged with Anemia , Biochemical Indicators , blood analysis , Blood Samples , Blood Taxi , CBC , EDTA , Folate , Gel Electrophoresis , Hemoglobin , Iron , NIPHL , Serum , UBC , Vitamin A , Vitamin B12 , Zinc Blood Analysis: Part 1 August 17, 2012  As promised, I wrote about the “5Ws” of our blood collection: who, what, when, where, and why. I even threw in the “how”. Today’s post focuses on what happened in the field. One of the most important (and expensive!) components of FoF is the blood collection and subsequent analysis. This process provides us with concrete […] Posted in Baseline , Blog , Project Information | Tagged with blood analysis , Blood Samples , Blood Taxi , HKI , NIPHL , Sampling methodology , VHV World Breastfeeding Week August 3, 2012 This week is the 20th World Breastfeeding Week, an initiative started by the WHO (World Health Organization) and UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund) to promote breastfeeding, especially in developing countries. While New York City Mayor Bloomberg’s breastfeeding initiative, which was appropriately announced this week, has ignited a heated debate in Western media about a mother’s […] Posted in Blog , Project Information | Tagged with Breastfeeding , Complementary Feeding , Latch On NYC , Malnutrition , Nutrition Education , Phnom Penh Post , The Code , UNICEF , WHO Updates August 1, 2012 Unfortunately the blog has been neglected lately due to other projects, such as working on our 6-month Interim Technical Report for the IDRC. It’s a huge undertaking, involving several people in Vancouver and Phnom Penh. Thankfully it’s coming together and should be a wealth of well-organized information on what FoF has accomplished in the past […] Posted in Blog | Tagged with blood analysis , Blood Samples , IDRC , NIPHL , Phnom Penh , Salmon Fishing in the Yemen , Toul Kork Anthropometry: Height and Weight July 26, 2012 Module 8 takes note of other measurements as well. These include height or length (if a child is < 85 cm, measuring their length provides a more accurate measurement) and weight. Since the focus of FoF is to eliminate “hidden hunger”, these measurements provide us with a lot of information about the nutritional status of […] Posted in Baseline , Blog , Project Information | Tagged with anthropometry , BMI , hidden hunger , Malnutrition , SAM , Stunting , Wasting Anthropometry: MUAC July 25, 2012 Module 8 of the survey is Anthropometry and Hemoglobin. One of the measurements we take is the mid-upper arm circumference (aka the MUAC). The MUAC is generally regarded as an accurate assessment of nutritional status in adults and children. Also, it’s easy to do in the field. There are two steps to taking a MUAC […] Posted in Baseline , Blog , Project Information | Tagged with anthropometry , MAM , MUAC , SAM Baseline: Day 16 July 20, 2012 Our last day of baseline has come and gone. Given how smoothly every day had gone, it was surprising that we had a few minor problems on our last day. The village we were going to had the same name as a village in another district, so we got lost. Then we had to track […] Posted in Baseline , Blog | Tagged with Baseline , Culture , Phnom Penh Baseline: Day 15 July 18, 2012 My how baseline has flown! Tonight is our last night in Prey Veng. Tomorrow morning we will go to one more village and then head back to Phnom Penh. I managed to get some videos of women and children at the anthropometry station today, but I’m far too exhausted to edit and post them tonight. […] Posted in Baseline , Blog | Tagged with Anecdotes , anthropometry , Baseline , Khmer food , Prey Veng Baseline: Day 14 (VMF) July 17, 2012 This afternoon our anthropometry and hemoglobin analysis stations were set up at the home of a Village Model Farm (VMF). I was really excited because I hadn’t seen a VMF yet, AND because our VMF concept just received press as of yesterday! (Click here to read an article about FoF in the