The Department | Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home The Department Administrative Setup The Department Directorate Districts TANHODA TANHOPE Hon'ble Minister for Agriculture, Government of Tamil Nadu Thiru R. Vaithilingam Phone: 044-25671142 Fax: 044-25670979 E-mail: ministeragri@gmail.com Agriculture Production Commissioner & Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu Thiru Rajesh Lakhoni, I.A.S., Phone: 044-25674482 Fax: 044-25674857 E-mail: agrisec@tn.gov.in Director of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. Thiru L. Sitherasenan, I.A.S., Phone: 044-28524643 Fax: 044-28512300 E-mail: dirhortitn@yahoo.com Deputy Director of Horticulture shall be the district head of the department and shall be in-charge of all activities of the Horticulture in the district Assistant Director of Horticulture(Planting Materials) shall supervise the State Horticulture Farms and Private Nurseries - their promotion and quality up-gradation etc. and ensure pedigree materials for area coverage under different programmes. Senior most Horticulture Officer shall be the head of the unit in the State Horticulture Farms and other Units wherever needed. Block Assistant Director of Horticulture Officer / Deputy Horticulture Officer, Assistant Seed Officer / Assistant Agricultural Officers working at Block level shall be field officers and shall work under the leadership of Assistant Director of Horticulture in the Block Agricultural Extension Centers. They shall be in-charge of all field activities of the Department. State Horticulture Farms or any other establishment in the jurisdiction of the Block shall come under the administrative control of the Assistant Director of Horticulture. Headquarters of Assistant Directors of Horticulture in delta area shall be fixed in one of the two Blocks of Agricultural Extension Centers and all officers and establishments of both the Blocks shall report to him. 1)  District Head quarters - (a) The Nilgris    2)  District Headquarters - (a) Kodaikanal.   Visitor Counter: 842525 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015