IIEST, Shibpur - Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Techonology, Shibpur Fri, May 29, 2015 Home Institute Vision Statutory Bodies Board of Governors Senate Administration Chairman Director Deans Head of the Departments Registrar Finance Students' Activities Office Annual Report Alumni Association Academics Programme Integrated Dual Degree Undergraduate Postgraduate PhD Departments Engineering & Technology Aerospace & App. Mech. Architecture Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Electronics & Telecomm. Information Technology Mechanical Metallurgy & Materials Mining Basic & Applied Scs Chemistry Earth Sciences Mathematics Physics Social & Mgmt. Scs. Humanities & Social Scs. Human Resource Mgmt. Schools PDSIT SMSE SOMS SOCSAT SDME SEIHSM SM&R SSOH SOVLSIT Cells Research and Consultancy C.E.P Q.I.P Office Projects DRC Forms IIP Cell Contact Us Entrepreneurship Career Counselling Centers Computer Center Facility of Video Conference Green Energy Health Care Sc. & Tech. Curriculum Library DQPAS Admission Ongoing Admissions M.E./M.Tech./M.T.R.P. Master of Science MBA PhD Why IIEST, Shibpur Notification General Notices Admission Notices Employment Notices Student Notices Tender Notices Download Statutory Documents Mandatory Disclosure Calendar/Syllabi Meeting Section Forms Achievements Orders / Notices Government Orders Institute Office Orders Notices / Circulars Student Notices Admission Documents B.E. Admission Documents ME/MArch Documents MSc Admission Documents PhD Enrolment (Engg) PhD Enrolment (Science) PhD Enrolment (Mgmt) Employment Tender Publication By Institute By Print Media Gallery Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), Shibpur was set up as the first IIEST of the country by the Government of India in 2014 by converting the erstwhile Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur. The institute, established in 1856 as Bengal Engineering College, has been a premier seat of higher learning in the field of Engineering and Technology. During its almost 160 years of glorious existence the institute has produced brilliant engineers and technologists who have left their indelible mark over numerous engineering marvels across the entire globe. Located just across the bustling metropolis of Kolkata beside the River Hooghly the 114-acre campus contains all the academic and administrative buildings, hostels, playgrounds, hospital and other amenity centers. In the green and serene campus, a virtual modern day tapovan , modernity lives side by side with heritage. The institute, besides offering the Master's and Doctoral programs in Science and Engineering, is the only institute in the country to offer exclusively 5-year Integrated Dual Degree B.Tech and M.Tech programs in traditional and interdisciplinary areas of engineering and technology. From faculty members to undergraduates, members of the institute community are engaged in research with the pursuit of creating and disseminating knowledge for "A Greener and Smarter World". The theme areas of research include specific segments of Energy, Environment, Advanced Materials, Bio-Medical Engineering, Mechatronics, Sensors, Information and Communication Technology for the society. Quick Links The Director Directors of Schools Research and Consultancy Cell Heads of Departments Alumni Association News letter 2014 Officers Suggestions and Complaints Faculty Members Aerosat Video tour of the campus & Director’s Vision TEQIP-II NRDC- IIEST – IFC Brochure TCGTBI Web Services  Library Information System  Publication Repository  Examination Results  Sarat Rachanabali  Question Bank  Email Service  Email Accounts - Password Change What's New! * Imp: M.Sc Admission 2015-16 * Short Term Cours at CST *Admission of 5-year dual degree * Open Idea Competition * Notice for PG Admission 15-16 * Admission to M.Tech and MURP * Circular for Research Fellow * Senate of IIEST, Shibpur * Achievement : V.H. Joshi Award *CEP Announcement * Short Course Flyer-IIEST Shibpur PO: Botanic Garden, Dist: Howrah, West Bengal, India - 711103 Copyright 1995-2014 Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur