Madhya Pradesh Weather Home » Madhya Pradesh » Geography » Weather   Geography of Madhya Pradesh Weather मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Weather Government Temples and Shrines Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Madhya Pradesh Weather The Madhya Pradesh weather is characterized by very hot summer days and biting cold winter nights. The monsoon however begins in the month of July and continues upto September. The aspect of Madhya Pradesh weather which concerns most is the rise in temperature. It is really difficult for the outsiders to cope up with the extremities. The temperature begins to rise from March onwards. It differs from region to region. In summer days, the mean maximum temperature rises to about 42.5°C in northern Madhya Pradesh especially at places like Gwalior. The maximum mean temperature is 40°-42.5 °C in regions around Bhopal , Sagar, Rewa, Bilaspur as well as Raigarh. The days in the month of May are usually hotter than those of June. The monsoon is a relief to the utterly hot weather in Madhya Pradesh. The temperature remains moderate till September-October. Thereafter it starts declining. This indicates the arrival of winter. Madhya Pradesh weather gets chilled in winter which attains its height in the month of December and January. The average temperature during winters is as low as 10 °C in the north, while in the south it varies from 10°-15°C. Madhya Pradesh weather is markedly different in the following zones : The Northern Plains The Hilly Region of the Vindhyas The Narmada Valley The Malwa Plateau The Plains of Chhattisgarh The mountainous region of Bastar. Eastern Madhya Pradesh receives an average precipitation of over 112 cm. However, the northern as well as the western areas get 50-62.5cm. The best of Madhya Pradesh's weather is experienced in February to June. You must be aware that due to rain the sanctuaries remain closed from July to September. Last Updated on : 14 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule