Travel Agents | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > India at a Glance > Travel Agents Travel Agents This section links Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents Travel Agents   Information on approved travel agents Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about the approved travel agents by the Ministry of Tourism. Users can find contact details of approved agents such as their names, address, phone numbers and email ids. Travel and trade related information by Ministry of Tourism Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find information on the travel and trade provided by Ministry of Tourism. Users can get detailed information about the travel agents, inbound tour operators, tourist transport operators, adventure tour operators, domestic tour operators, etc. in India. Guidelines for respective agencies and operators are provided. List of approved travel trade operators can be accessed. Contact details of tour operators in Meghalaya Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find detailed information about tour operators in Meghalaya. Users can get details of travel agencies in the state, their address, phone numbers and email ids. Access to downloadable guidelines for recognition as approved tour operators and application form for recognition of as approved tour operator in the state is also provided. Information on travel agents and tour operators in Puducherry Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Detailed information on travel agents and tour operators is provided by Department of Tourism, Puducherry. Users can find address, e-mail id and phone numbers of travel agents and tour operators in the state. Contact details of tour operators in Odisha Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Information about tour operators is provided by Odisha Tourism Department. Users can get details related to approved travel agencies, their address, phone number, fax number and e-mail id in the state. Contact details of travel agents in Rajasthan Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about approved travel and excursion agents in Rajasthan. Users can get details about the travel agency, its address, phone numbers and email id. State wise list of domestic tour operators by Ministry of Tourism