Tamil Nadu Forest Department About Us | Contact Us | FAQ | Links | Sitemap | Home  Welcome to Tamil Nadu Forest    Department   Research & Extension Research Thrust Areas Research Centres Nursery Research Afforestation Research Site Specific Afforestation Clonal Evaluation Trials Industrial Wood Research Introduction Trials Forest Utilization Medicinal Plants Key Studies Forestry Extension Bio Fertilizer Back to Home   INDUSTRIAL WOOD LABORATORY     In this lab, various scientific analysis are done such as estimation of oil content in tree borne oil seeds, tannin content, preparation of growth hormones, cost effective plant extracts to control pest and diseases and clonal propagation studies in agro forestry etc Seedlings raised in Mist Tent Activities of the Laboratory ESTIMATION OF TREE BORNE OILS The seed samples were collected from the following species and oil was estimated. Species Estimation of Tree borne Oil Simaruba glauca 72 samples collected from 1995 Simaruba seed stand (Nazareth Range) was estimated for oil content in this laboratory. The oil % varies from 40.2 to 70.5. Caeselpinia pulcherrima The seeds collected from CETP Dindigul of 1998 experiment plot yielded 4.77% oil. Jatropha curcas In order to identify the plus tree based on oil percentage, 32 seed samples were analyzed in the lab and the oil percentage varied from 32.13 to 59.6. The results were utilized for further propagation works. Derris indica From 4 localities, the seeds were received and the oil content found to varry between 14.8 and 41.18. Azadirachta indica Seeds from various locations and from other divisions were received and the oil content was estimated between 32.25 and 49.26.     EFFECT OF PLANT EXTRACTS ON PESTS A study was started for finding out the effect of plant extracts on pests and to develop a new eco-friendly and low mammalian toxic pesticide. Various concentration of (1,5,10%) extracts of Chloroxylon swietenia, Strychnos nuxvomica, Vitex negundo, Jatropha curcas were applied on plants of Teak, Neem, Pungan, and Ailanthus excelsa. The Jatropha curcas 5% extract was found suitable for killing most of the pests attacking Pungam, Neem, and Ailanthus excelsa.   TamilNadu Forest Department © Copyright 2007 l Disclaimer Email: tnfdgis@vsnl.net Site Maintained by National Information Centre    