Tamenglong District Map Home » Maps » Manipur » Districts » Tamenglong District Map   District of Manipur East Imphal West Imphal Churachandpur Ukhrul Tamenglong              more.. मणिपुर का नक्शा Manipur Manipur Map Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Capital Imphal City Map Bishnupur City Map > Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Travel to Manipur Places to visit in Manipur Wildlife Sanctuaries Govindajee Temple War Cemetery Agricultural Map Geography Economy Media Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies- Inner Parliamentary Constituencies- Outer Government Education Universities In Manipur History Mineral Map Society and Culture Sex Ratio Pincode STD code       Tamenglong District Map District Map of Tamenglong Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Tamenglong District Map highlights the National Highways, Major Roads, District Headquarter, etc in Tamenglong . Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Tamenglong is known as the land of Hornbill. The district came into existence in May 1983 and consists of 9 towns and two community development blocks. It has a good infrastructure and links to many parts of the state and within. It is the least populous district of the state. Geographical location The total area covered by Tamenglong is 4391 km and is a small district of Manipur. The district shares its borders with Nagaland to the north, senapati district to the east and south. Curchandpur district lies to the south and Imphal west and the state of Assam to the west. It is situated on an altitude of 1260 m above MSL. The latitude is 24.59 North and the longitude is 93.30 East. The place is rugged hilly and has lofty mountains with valleys and sparse habitation in its bucolic hamlets. The place experiences landslides, earthquakes and avalanches frequently and that is why it has very less population. The rivers that flow in the district are the Makru, Irang, Iyei and Barak rivers. Flora and fauna Tamenglong is famous for its flora and fauna and visitors love to visit the place for its exotic natural beauty and the various trees and flowers and fruits that are found here. The place is full of Pipal trees, Khok, Sileima, Kabulliua, Tairen, Tera etc. The bamboo plantation can be found all over the district. There are various fruit trees like the guava, lemon, mango, amla, plum and banana etc. The district also boasts of wild birds like the snipe, geese, duck that can be seen during the winters. Agriculture Agriculture is the main occupation of the people of Tamenglong. They have more than 70% of the population that are directly and indirectly depended on agriculture. The district is very fertile and has good irrigation facilities as well. The staple food of the people here is rice, which constitutes around 90% of the cultivation. Places of historical importance There are some very interesting places for visitors to see like the Khongjom, which has seen the last war among the Manipur is and the British. Sugnu is also an important trading center in the south from here the Imphal River can be seen in its glory. Waithou is another remarkable place of scenic beauty and has great pineapples. Kakching, is the sub-divisional headquarters and has significant importance due to the variety of fishes, vegetables etc. One can also enjoy the hill range of Khekman, Mantak, Thongam Mondum - Punam and Kwarok. Last Updated on : 15 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule