Chhattisgarh Road Network Map Home » Maps » Chhattisgarh Map » Chhattisgarh Road Map   Roads Map of Chhattisgarh Raipur Bilaspur Durg Surguja Korba Janjgir Mahasamund                      more... छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Chhattisgarh Chhattisgarh Map Cities in Chhattisgarh Districts of Chhattisgarh Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Chhattisgarh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Chhattisgarh Forests Parliamentary Constituencies Economy History Government Politics How to Reach Geography People Culture Festivals Travel to Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Chitrakoot Waterfall Indravati National Park Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Area Chhattisgarh at a Glance Capital City Chief Minister Governor Pincode Population Telephone Code Chhattisgarh Factsheet District Map in Hindi Universities in Chhattisgarh       Chhattisgarh Road Network Map Click any Districts / Neighbouring State to get the Detailed Map Chhattisgarh Road Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing entire road network of the state Chhattisgarh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Chhattisgarh is a newly formed state in India, formed on November 1, 2000 and is said to be the tenth biggest state in India. It was made by dividing 16 districts which came under Madhya Pradesh. The capital of this state is Naya Raipur. Chhattisgarh is also well known for its steel production and electric power generation. Almost 15% of the country's steel comes from Chhattisgarh. This state is surrounded by Madhya Pradesh in the northwest, Maharashtra in the west, Andhra Pradesh in the south, Orissa in the east, Jharkhand in the northeast and Uttar Pradesh in the north. The road infrastructure is slowly developing in this state. Chhattisgarh's total length of road is around 35,388.54 kilometres. Out of this, about 1,827.30 kilometres result in the national highways. Moreover, net road length of 3,611 kilometres is taken by state highways. Another 2,118 kilometres are for district roads; from where one can visit state's every nook and corners. The remaining 27,566 kilometres are served as village roads, which is bigger and lengthier than the regular roads. The Chhattisgarh roadway comes under Chhattisgarh Transport Department's jurisdiction. Shri Rajesh Munat is the Transport Minister of the state. The state has 11 National Highways, which is about 2,225 kilometres. The National Highway 6, which connects Mumbai to Kolkata, goes through Chhattisgarh. This state has National Highway 43 that begins from Raipur to Visakhapatnam. Another National Highway 16, which is begins from Hyderabad, ends in Dantewada district at Bhopalpatnam. National Highway 78 connects from Katni in Madhya Pradesh to Gumla at Jharkhand. It passes through Jashpur district, Koria, Sarguja and Surajpur. The national highways connect all the major district headquarters in Chhattisgarh. The national highways connect Chhattisgarh to all major and important cities such as Mumbai, Howrah, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam. Due to this, it becomes easy for the state for perform activities required for business like transporting steel to various metros and commercial capital. Last Updated on : November 21, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule -->