TNAU Agritech Portal :: Banking & Credit Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact Banking & Credit :: INDIAN FARMERS FERTILIZERS COOPERATIVE LIMITED (IFFCO) IFFCO's mission is "to enable Indian farmers to prosper through timely supply of reliable, high quality agricultural inputs and services in an environmentally sustainable manner and to undertake other activitities to improve their welfare" Our Approach Mission and Objectives Our Vision Our Commitment Address of Marketing division Our Approach Top To achieve our mission, IFFCO as a cooperative society, undertakes several activities covering a broad spectrum of areas to promote welfare of member cooperatives and farmers. The activities envisaged to be covered are exhaustively defined in IFFCO’s Bye-laws. Mission and Objectives Top IFFCO's mission is "to enable Indian farmers to prosper through timely supply of reliable, high quality agricultural inputs and services in an environmentally sustainable manner and to undertake other activities to improve their welfare" -To provide to farmers high quality fertilizers in right time and in adequate quantities with an objective to increase crop productivity. -To make plants energy efficient and continually review various schemes to conserve energy. -Commitment to health, safety, environment and forestry development to enrich the quality of community life. -Commitment to social responsibilities for a strong social fabric. -To institutionalise core values and create a culture of team building, empowerment and innovation which would help in incremental growth of employees and enable achievement of strategic objectives. -Foster a culture of trust, openness and mutual concern to make working a stimulating and challenging experience for stake holders. -Building a value driven organisation with an improved and responsive customer focus. A true commitment to transparency, accountability and integrity in principle and practice. -To acquire, assimilate and adopt reliable, efficient and cost effective technologies. -Sourcing raw materials for production of phosphatic fertilisers at economical cost by entering into Joint Ventures outside India. -To ensure growth in core and non-core sectors. -A true Cooperative Society committed for fostering cooperative movement in the country. Emerging as a dynamic organisation, focussing on strategic strengths, seizing opportunities for generating and building upon past success, enhancing earnings to maximise the shareholders' value Our Vision To augment the incremental incomes of farmers by helping them to increase their crop productivity through balanced use of energy efficient fertilizers, maintain the environmental health and to make cooperative societies economically & democratically strong for professionalized services to the farming community to ensure an empowered rural India. Our Commitment Top Our thirst for ever improving the services to farmers and member co-operatives is insatiable, commitment to quality is insurmountable and harnessing of mother earths' bounty to drive hunger away from India in an ecologically sustainable manner is the prime mission. All that IFFCO cherishes in exchange is an everlasting smile on the face of Indian Farmer who form the moving spirit behind this mission. Address of Marketing division Top IFFCO 128, Habibullah Road,  T.Nagar Chennai 600017  (044) 28340152,28342115,28340454  smm_tamilnadu@iffco.nic.in  For further details  Click here Source http://www.iffco.nic.in   Updated on July 3 rd 2013   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.