Major Hydro Power Plants in India Home » Maps » Major Hydro Power Plants in India   About India Political Map of India States and Capitals of India Districts of India Physical Map of India India Outline Map India River Map India Satellite Map India Zone Map Tier I And Tier II Cities of India Per Capita Income of India Climate Map of India Temperature Map of India India Seismic Zone Map India Topographic Map Mountain Ranges in India Soil Map of India Vegetation Map of India Lakes in India Telecom Circles Map Hydro Power Plants in India Thermal Power Plants in India Nuclear Power Plants in India Pre Partition Map of India Annual Rainfall in India Water Resources of India Map of Ruling Parties of India India Map in Various Languages Google Map India Universities in India Transport Network in India India Road Map National Highways in India India Railway Map Indian Railways Timetable Railway Zones Map of India Konkan Railway Delhi Metro Airports in India Air Network in India Ports in India Facts about India India Flag Geography of India History of India India Census Maps Economy of India Culture of India AIIMS in India Travel to India Tourist Places in India Religious Places in India Taj Mahal India Taj Mahal Facts Char Dham Yatra Beaches in India Hill Stations in India Hotels in India Jyotirlinga Shrines in India States of India Andhra Pradesh Goa Gujarat Tamilnadu Cities of India Delhi Mumbai Kolkata World Map World Continents Map Custom Mapping Major Events in 2015 My India What is Net Neutrality Land Acquisition Bill Child Labour in India Water crisis in India Unemployment in India Overpopulation in India Poverty in India       Major Hydro Power Plants in India Major Hydro Power Plants Map Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Map showing the Major Hydro Power Plants in India. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Hydro power is considered as one of the most economic and non polluting sources of energy. Power generated from water is termed as Hydroelectricity. Hydro electricity means electricity generated by hydropower or from the use of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water. One of the most common forms of power generation since this form of energy neither produces any direct waste matter nor is subjected to exhaustion. The potential for hydro-electric potential in terms of installed capacity in India is estimated to be about 148,700 MW out of which a capacity of 30,164 MW (20.3%) has been developed so far and 13,616 MW (9.2 %) of capacity is under construction. Below is a list of the Major Hydro Power Plants in India Name Location Operator Configuration Important Facts Babail Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh Jal Vidyut Nigam Ltd 2 X 1.5 MW tube The Babail minihydel project was approved in Sep 1986 and was awarded to PGM in Sep 1988 as a Rs 6.22cr turnkey project. Bhandardara-1 Maharashtra Dodson-Lindblom Hydro Power Pvt Ltd 1 X 14.4 MW Francis This plant was acquired in 1996 from Maharashtra Water Resources Dept and overhauled in 1997/98 with assistance from AHEC. Belka Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh Jal Vidyut Nigam Ltd 2 X 1.5 MW tube The Belka and Babail minihydel projects were approved in Sep 1986 and Belka was awarded to FCC and PGM in Jul 1988 as a total Rs 5.66cr project. Construction on Belka did not start until Dec 1996 after delays in securing forest clearance and land acquisition. Chenani-1 Jammu & Kashmir Jammu & Kashmir Power Development Corp 5 X 4.66 MW Pelton The Chenani I&II projects in Udhampur district were inaugurated in 1971 by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. They were closed on 25 Feb 2005 following a landslide that damaged a 700m diversion tunnel. Repairs were completed at a cost of Rs 8cr and the plants put back in service in Jun 2008. Bhatgar Maharashtra Maharashtra State Power Generation Co Ltd 1 X 16 MW Kaplan The dam was part of the world's largest irrigation project, known as Lloyd Barrage. This was a multipurpose scheme which was initiated in 1923 by Sir George Ambrose Lloyd, then Governor of Bombay. The project was opened in Jan 1932. Indira Sagar Madhya Pradesh Narmada Hydroelectric Development Corp Ltd 8 X 125 MW Francis NHDC is a joint venture of NHPC and the MP government set up on 1 Aug 2000. Little Ranjit West Bengal West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Co Ltd 2 X 1 MW Pelton Operations commenced in1970 Jammu Canal Jammu & Kashmir Jammu & Kashmir Power Development Corp 2 X 500 kW Francis This power station has been out of service since 1995 Matatila Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh Jal Vidyut Nigam Ltd 3 X 10 MW Kaplan This dam was built between 1952 and 1964 on the Betwa River in the Ganga Basin. Salal Jammu & Kashmir National Hydro Power Corp Ltd 6 X 115 MW Kaplan Built on the Chenab River this power station has a 118m high, 630m long rockfill dam and a 113m high, 450m long concrete dam plus an 11m, 2,46km tailrace tunnel. The reservoir is 33km long. Project development started in 1970. Omkareshwar Madhya Pradesh Narmada Hydroelectric Development Corp Ltd 8 X 65 MW Francis This 949m long concrete gravity dam reaches a maximum height of 53m. The Annual production is expected to be 1.1 TWh. Samal Orissa Orissa Power Consortium Ltd 5 X 4 MW S-Turbine OPCL is a power company promoted by VBC Ferro Alloys Ltd. Samal uses releases from Samal Barrage reservoir on the Brahmani River. General Maps National Science Museums in    India Jyotirlinga Shrines Geological Map of India Canals in India Major Lakes in India Heritage Map of India Pin Code Zones in India Per Capita Income of India Major Sea Ports Languages in India Climate map of India Parlimentary Constituencies in    India Tourist Circuits in India Metallic Minerals in India Cold Desert Map Major Electricity Generator Plants Religions In India Major Earthquakes in India Major Hydro Power Plants Indian States and Union    Territories Cabinet Ministers Map of Indian States and Union    Territories Enlarged View Physiographic Map of India Religious Places in India Geographical Map of India Dams in India India Coal Reserves Map India Political Map Enlarged    View India Satellite Map Topographic Map of India Population Map Of India Natural Hazard Map of India Tourist Map of India Enlarged   View Tier I and Tier II Cities of India Cyclone Prone Areas in India Outline Map of India Enlarged    View Wine Producing Regions in India Map of Major Airports in India Birth Rate in India Last Updated on : 26 October 2010             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule