San Diego Movers | Gold Coast Moving Company Gold Coast Moving Connect with us: 858-869-5913 Home Rates Schedule a Move Services Locations Get An Estimate Contact Us Schedule a Move Fill out this quick form and someone will contact you shortly! Name * Email * Phone   Local   Over 100 Miles Need Supplies? Moving can be a mess, don’t hassle trying to find everything you need. We have it! Padded Boxes Padding Materials Shipping supplies Shrink Wrap Staging Tap And more Click for more supplies. Rates Per Hour Your Move: With the consumables charge ($45 if within a 30 mile radius of San Diego), minimum labor charge (4 hrs), and drive time minimum 15 minutes) added together. These Rates Include Everything! With 2 Men $94 /hr all minimums included With 3 Men $136 /hr all minimums included With 4 Men $174 /hr all minimums included Move Big Items Don’t even think about trying to move those big items on your own, we’re here to help. Antique Moving Appliance Moving Commercial Moving Extra Large Items Fine Art Moving Delivery & Set-Up Piano Moving Special requests give us a call. Military Discounts! We appreciate the men and women who serve in the armed forces. Also Available Senior Discounts Student Discounts Stationed in Iraq? We offer self-storage. Call us for more info. San Diego Moving Company GoldCoast Moving Inc. is one of the most trust San Diego movers in Southern California. Gold Coast is a highly rated moving company on Yahoo, Yelp and other social sites. Serving all of SoCal for more than 8 years we pride ourselves in treating our customers possessions like we would our own. Putting our customers first and making sure they are satisfied comes first. Fill out our online contact form to get a time and availability quote. We promise to be the best value when choosing our moving company in SD Ca. RENTALS SERVICES Shrink Wrap Piano Moving Rental & Leasing And More COMPANY Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sitemap CONTACT US 9747 Businesspark Avenue #219, San Diego, CA 92131 (858) 869-5913 Contact Us