Anand Mahindra Biography, Anand Mahindra Business Profile Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Top Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Kumar Mangalam Birla Dhirajlal Hirachand Ambani Gautam Adani Indu Jain Jamsedji Tata Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Ratan Naval Tata Shiv Nadar Sunil Bharti Mittal Adi Godrej Anil Agarwal Chandru Raheja Yusuf Hamied Cyrus Ponawalla Grandhi Mallikarjuna Rao Naresh Goyal JRD Tata KP Singh Senapathy Kris Gopalkrishnan Kalanithi Maran Narayan Murthy Pankaj Ramanbhai Patel Rahul Bajaj Ramesh Chandra Subhash Chandra Subroto Roy Gautam Thapar Uday Kotak Top Leaders You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Business-leaders » Anand Mahindra Anand Mahindra Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  10  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 Name Anand Mahindra Born on May 1, 1955 Place of Birth Mumbai, Maharashtra Educated from Harvard University, Cambridge Works for Mahindra & Mahindra Valued at US $ 11.1 billion (M&M) Position Chairman and Managing Director Married to Anuradha Mahindra Mother Indira Mahindra Family K.C Mahindra, the co-founder of the company is the father of three daughters. None of his daughters displayed any interest in his business. His second daughter, Indira Mahindra is Anand's mother, and K.C Mahindra, through this relation, acts as a maternal grandfather figure to him. Anand was born into a well-known business family, and was conscious of this fact. On completion of his higher education, he showed interest in his grandfather's business, and subsequently joined it. Growing Up In the year 1977, he graduated from Harvard College, Cambridge Massachusetts and was an active member of the Phoenix S.K Club. He completed his MBA from Harvard Business School, Boston, Massachusetts in 1981. He studied film and architecture before joining Harvard Business School. Conjugal Relationship Anand married Anuradha Mahindra, who works for various magazines. They enjoy a happy married life and are parents to two daughters. Career In 1981, he returned back home to India, and joined the Mahindra Ugine Steel Company as Executive assistant to finance director. Gradually in 1989, he climbed up to the post of the President and Deputy Managing Director, and diversified the company into new business areas of real estate development and hospitality. His efforts paid off, when he was appointed the post of Deputy Managing director of M&M in 1991, Managing Director in 1997 and Vice chairman in 2003. He was also a co-promoter of Kotak Mahindra Finance Ltd, which was converted into a bank in 2oo3, and rose up to the position of leading private sector banks. Man of Substance Under his guidance and leadership, the Mahindra group has set international benchmarks for success. A rapid growth was witnessed in the company, in the terms of acquisitions, as well as Greenfield business development with several high profile brands, including: Satyam Computer Services (2009) Reva Electric Motors (2010) Ssangyong Motor Company (2010) Scorpio (2002) The launch of Scorpio, an SUV, was a major boost to the group in 2002, while stock prices in the market were running low. He has striven towards making the company an efficient and aggressive competitor in the new liberalized economic environment in India. He has been honored with many awards to his credit, such as : Rajiv Gandhi award in 2004 for his outstanding contribution to field of business Business Leader award (2008-09) by economic Times Most Inspiring corporate leader of the year 2007, by NDTV Profit. 'Knight of the Order of the Merit' by the President of the French Republic. and may more. Company Profile M&M is a company that consists within itself many companies, united with a common purpose. The company enjoys a superior position in various key industries such as utility vehicles, information technology, tractors, and vacation ownership. Its growing presence can be felt in real estate development, aerospace, retail, defense, energy, financial services, logistics and many more. Grown into a US $ 11.1 billion company, it is present in over 100 countries across the world. Obstacles Faced The years 2001-2002, were very low periods for the company. The stock price was low. Anand had full belief in the project of the SUV Scorpio, and drove everyone together with him in this belief, playing the cards well and coming out a winner in this gamble. Scorpio made positive impressions on the company's growth and came out as a well judged risk. Virtues Anand is an active participant in co-curricular activities. He used to play tennis, and now has taken up sailing. He has helped to set up an annual Mahindra Blues Festival in Mumbai, 2011. He is also regular on Twitter. He frequently shares his business ideas and views, through writing in some of India's leading business magazines. He gave USD 10 to Harvard's humanities center, in the name of his mother. This is amongst the largest gifts received by the university, so far. After 65 years, M&M has grown into one of the nation's leading companies, employing more than 117,000 people around the world. Yet as it moves into the 21st century, it carries along a promise to rise and only get better with time. More Indian Leaders Top Business Leaders About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED