Events Skip to main content Ask a question sign in menu LOGIN SIGN UP Search form Search Home Data State of Sanitation Met Data Data Finder Articles Books and Book Reviews Interviews People and Organisations Research Papers Success Stories and Case Studies Travel and Tourism Video, Audio and other Multimedia Weekly News and Policy Updates View All Articles News Jobs Events Questions Topics Agriculture Governance Groundwater Hydropower Mining Rainwater Harvesting Rural Water View All Topics Volunteer Other Portals Sanitation Portal Schools Water Portal Hindi Water Portal Kannada Water Portal Conflicts Water Portal Events 21 to 23 Sep Call for abstracts for the 18th International River Symposium, Brisbane, Australia The theme for the 2015 International Riversymposium is “Healthy Rivers – Healthy Economies” 2 to 17 Jul Invite to ACWADAM's training programme on 'Understanding Groundwater', Pune ACWADAM to carry out a fifteen-day training programme on basic hydrogeology or groundwater science, for professionals from Civil Society Organisations or NGOs at Pune 15 May ECSI-IISC requests participation in a one-day workshop on ‘Wealth from Waste’ The Symposium will include expert lectures on the state-of-art technologies to handle and manage various types of wastes generated by the urban society. 4 Jun Invitation to the workshop on ‘Rainwater Harvesting in Rural Areas’ The objective of this course is to give participants an insight into the concept of rainwater harvesting (RWH) in rural areas. It will specifically focus on various techniques used for RWH. 25 Jun Kalpavriksh invites you to the Monsoon School on Perspectives on Environment, Society and Well-being The course will comprise of a series of sessions focusing on sharing of experiences by people involved in research, advocacy and interventions through discussions, readings, screenings and field trip. 30 Mar Invitation to the talk by Manu Mathai 'Climate Governance for Existing Low-Carbon Realities?', ATREE, Bengalure Manu Mathai is a faculty member at Azim Premji University, Bengaluru. He researches and teaches about the intersection of energy, environment and human development policy questions. 23 Apr Invite to the workshop on Participatory Groundwater Management (PGWM), People's Science Insititute, Guwahati, Assam PSI is planning to organize a workshop in the northeastern region to promote the practice of PGWM and enhance the sustainable and equitable use of local GW resources. 9 Jun Invite to the 9th training workshop on Participatory Groundwater Management (PGWM), People’s Science Institute, Dehradoon, Uttarakhand The aim of this training workshop is to train local development workers and community based activists/organizations in the concept of PGWM. 1 to 6 Mar Invitation to the International Symposium on 'Glaciology in High Mountain Asia', International Glaciological Society and ICIMOD, Kathmandu, Nepal The symposium will provide a forum to discuss advances in measurements, modeling, and interpretation of glaciological and cryospheric changes in high mountain Asia. 14 to 15 Mar Invitation to the National Seminar on 'Water Conservation and Rainwater Harvesting', Indian Water Works Association, Mumbai, Maharashtra The seminar is aimed to cover conservation, security, budgeting, recycling and reuse of water, artificial recharge in groundwater, rainwater harvesting techniques and groundwater management. 10 to 11 Apr Call for papers for the workshop on 'Regulation and management of groundwater in the age of climate change: Need for legal reforms in India', National Law University, New Delhi This workshop seeks to bring together experts to discuss the ways in which groundwater law (and water law more generally) needs to evolve to reflect and respond to climate change. 26 to 28 Feb Applications invited for the training on 'Water Quality Management', Centre for Water Resources Development and Management, Kozhikode, Kerala CWRDM is organizing a KSCSTE sponsored three day training course on ‘Water Quality Management’ for teachers from university departments and colleges. 22 to 24 Feb Applications invited for the 'Climate Reality Leadership Corps Training', The Climate Reality Project, New Delhi Former U.S. Vice President and Climate Reality Project Chairman Al Gore will lead the training for hundreds of new Climate Reality Leaders. 22 to 23 Jan Invitation to the training programme on 'Water, Sanitation & Hygiene (WASH)', TARA Livelihood Academy, New Delhi The training is designed to enrich the participant's knowledge on key elements for success of WASH interventions in India and best practices in WASH. 13 to 15 Feb Invitation to the '4th River Festival 2015', Narmada Samagra, Bandrabhan, Madhya Pradesh The theme of 4th International River Festival is "River, its Catchment Area, Chemicals & Crisis". 13 to 14 Mar Invitation to the 7th IDSAsr National Seminar on 'Recycling Waste Water and Reuse System', Guru Arjan Dev Institute of Development Studies, Amritsar, Punjab All are invited to contribute their well thought research paper on the theme Recycling of Waste Water and Reuse System in the 7th IDSAsr National Seminar. 13 Feb Invitation to the National Consultation on Renewed Sanitation Agenda, Institution of Public Health Engineers and Sulabh International Social Service Organisation The Institution of Public Health Engineers and Sulabh International Social Service Organisation have organised the National Consultation on Renewed Sanitation Agenda. 16 Dec Invitation to the '5th India International Water Summit', Indian Chamber of Commerce, New Delhi The 5th Edition of India International Water Summit aims to provide an unique and ideal forum to bring in policy level interaction/representation along with B2B opportunities. 26 Dec Invitation to the Science Academies’ Lecture Workshop on 'Climate Change', G B Pant University of Agriculture & Technology, Pantnagar, Uttarakhand The workshop will provide an excellent opportunity to students, researchers, scientists and technologists to understand the science of climate change 5 to 6 Dec Invitation to the Environmental Film Festival, Quotes from the Earth, Toxic Links The festival is a collaborative effort by Toxics Link and India International Centre, Delhi to highlight environmental challenges at the national and international level through films Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » All Articles Wednesday, 27 May 2015 16:37 How has water privatisation affected Chattisgarh? Wednesday, 27 May 2015 13:23 Does 24x7 water supply help reduce water storage or hoarding in urban areas? Tuesday, 26 May 2015 9:22 Protests in Arunachal as Centre clears Dibang project Monday, 25 May 2015 20:24 Heat wave claims over 500 lives in the country About us Work with us Contact us Share your content India Water Portal is an Arghyam initiative All content on this website is published under a CC BY-NC-SA 2.5 IN license.   <