Anusaya Fresh India - foreign origin fruits and vegetables in Indian soil - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Anusaya Fresh India – foreign origin fruits and vegetables in Indian soil Home Anusaya Fresh India – foreign origin fruits and vegetables in Indian soil Mumbai based exotic fruits and vegetables supplier encourages farmers to grow foreign-origin fresh produce in Indian soil. Provides technical assistance “We can grow anything and everything in India,” says Mr. Dinesh Shinde, Director, Anusaya Fresh India. He adds, “Here labor is comparatively cheap, overall farming cost is less, hence India is ideal for growing all possible crops. Farmers only need right technology and we give them the same. We export exotic vegetables and fruits to Gulf countries and also our foreign based counterparts at the same selling price but farming cost is less in India. So with this cost difference we can surely compete very well in International market.” Anusaya Fresh India was started in 2009 to import and export fresh produce. Exotic fruits and vegetables are the main focus of the company. Headquartered in Mumbai, it exports Indian vegetables to Dubai and fruits to Thailand, Hong Kong, and Singapore. It also imports exotic fruits from Holland, Australia, Thailand, USA, and Singapore to cater to domestic market, precisely leading five star hotels, (catering), wholesalers and supermarket chains. Within the country, it has its operations in Mumbai, Bangalore, Chennai and New Delhi. The company has cold storage at all these locations which supplies fruits and vegetables to specific areas such as Bangalore and Chennai serves South India. In India, the entire fresh produce is procured from 10-15 farmers’ groups that grow fruits and vegetables for the company through contract farming. “We provide farmers the best possible technical and also financial assistance if needed. They are offered help at every stage of farming, starting from seed and farming inputs supply till the final harvest. We give them 100% buy-back guarantee,” shares Mr. Shinde. He shares the experience of growing colored bell peppers in India: “We brought the seeds of colored bell peppers from Holland and gave to our Indian farmers. We did the experiment to which our farmers cooperated completely. We grew it in poly house. As a result we got perfect bell peppers in compliance with the quality of Holland bell peppers in terms of taste, size and color. We were able to sell it without any hassle to supermarkets and this year we even exported the same bell peppers to Dubai market.” The company provides practical farming tips and details to Indian farmers through its contacts with farmers outside India. When these foreign based farmers visit India, “We take them to our Indian farmer’s field. Like recently one farmer from USA came with us to Mahabaleshwar based blue-berry farm. He shared farming intricacies, information of fertilizers, pest control and provided the much needed guidance to the farm owner which was very helpful,” says Mr. Shinde. Plans are on to get one year old saplings and start with blue-berry cultivation commercially. Anusaya Fresh India consistently does experiments with different exotic fruits and vegetables in Indian soil. So far, in vegetables the success has been achieved in growing bell peppers and 3-4 varieties of lettuce. “We are trying for Belgium Endive, baby leaves lettuce, and baby romaine lettuce.” Among fruits, since last three years the company is working on dragon fruit. It is grown in Maharashtra and in some parts of Karnataka. Local production would be available in June-July. Indian produced dragon fruit will be sold at Rs 60-80/kg whereas dragon fruit from Vietnam sells at Rs. 120-150/kg. “We are also in the middle of our experiment with Thai guava. In next 1-2 years we will get matured fruit that shall compete with respect to quality against our foreign rivals’ produce. It is grown in Raipur, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra belt. Farmers in this area are already growing Thai guava as it suits that weather but it would take some time to get desired quality,” informs Mr. Shinde. Efforts are being put for revolutionizing exotic crops farming in India. Success is achieved to some extent but when asked about less demand and price of Arunachal Pradesh grown Kiwi, Mr. Shinde shares, “Kiwi grown in this state is very small in size (less than 100 gms) and has sour taste unlike the imported kiwi that has sour and sweet taste, with weight minimum 100-150 gm/unit and has long shelf life. Further the supply is not regular and packaging is not commensurate with accepted standards.” He adds, “All our products are packed as per International standards.” The company’s pack house is APEDA recognized and is registered with FISSAI – Food Safety Standard Authority India. Air travel is used for imports and exports outside India whereas refrigerated trucks are used for transportation within the country. The company plans to start its international operations in USA in coming 3-4 months and in India soon they will have their office in Hyderabad and Goa. Contact details- Anusaya Fresh India Pvt Ltd B2/2 Central Facility Building, APMC Fruit Market Sector 19, Turbhe, Navi Mumbai-400705 Mobile – + (91)-9833342337, + (91)-22-41238888 Email: dinesh@anusayafresh.com Web: www.anusayafresh.com Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Anusaya Fresh India – foreign origin fruits and vegetables in Indian soil Related – articles, consultants, downloads SREE DHARSHAN VEGETABLE TRADERS AND EXPORTERS fresh fruits, vegetables and spices Palavi Agro Farm – exotic vegetables supplier in Goa Green Planet Trust – exotic vegetables and medicinal plants Emerald Farms You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water