Back to the Roots - Nikhil Arora - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Back to the Roots – Nikhil Arora Home Back to the Roots – Nikhil Arora Indian origin entrepreneur in US helps people to grow mushrooms using food waste. Plans to explore market in  India for growing mushroom in  farm and grain waste Nikhil Arora & Alejandro Velez Back to the Roots is based in Downtown Oakland. The company grows oyster mushroom in coffee grounds. Nikhil Arora, a young graduate, born and brought up in California, runs and manages the company with his partner and friend Alejandro Velez. The company aims at turning waste into fresh local food, the mushrooms. The annual turnover of Back to the Roots is 3.3 million dollars. The Founders and Their Inspiration : The idea behind the inception of company emerged when both the partners then students heard from a professor that mushrooms can be grown in coffee grounds. It was during a lecture in their last year of graduation in political science. Convinced with the idea of growing fresh food in food waste the duo grew some test buckets. Received initial support from companies Whole Foods, Chez Panisse, and University Chancellor ($5000 grant), Nikhil and Alejandro decided to be entrepreneurs turning their back towards the corporate world. Nikhil’s agri consulting skills and Alejandro Velez’s skills in banking and finance lead the way to the emergence of the company. Their work is driven by passion. “Being around those who you can tell are ‘alive’ – they’re doing what they love, and that energy rubs off on all around them. Seeing others pursue their passions inspires us to keep on working hard too”, shares Nikhil. They look to each other for inspiration and balance energy during ups and downs of the business. “We are each other’s bosses, mentors and inspirations. It’s amazing to be able to share that experience with someone you respect so much and enjoy working with so much!” he further adds. The Company : The business took off in mid-2009. Initially company was growing and selling fresh oyster mushrooms to restaurants, local markets and super markets. When learned that 40 percent of all food produced in the US goes waste, they decided to try selling products that would let families grow their own mushrooms from food waste. “We wanted to share mushroom growing experience with children and families. After a year and a half of selling mushroom ourselves, we then demonstrated the idea in the market. People liked the concept very much and wondered if they could do it too at home. Thus came the idea of designing and selling the kit instead of fresh mushroom production”, shares Nikhil. To that end, Back to the Roots now sell compact oyster-mushroom kits, as well as a fish tank/aquaponics system that grows herbs in its lid. Mushroom kits were made available for sale in 2011. Though more varieties of mushrooms can be grown on coffee grounds, it is currently focusing on oyster mushrooms for home kits. Oyster mushrooms grow very fast in 10 days in home kit. All the other mushrooms grow in 90 to 100 days. Hence for the average customer’s home, oyster mushrooms time span suited the perfect time for growing. As the company grew, it sourced its coffee grounds from Peet’s coffee that paid the company to get rid of the used coffee grounds, the most important raw material for the kit. With the expansion of their business, they learnt various aspects of urban farming. They visited other farms and one such farm had a big aquaphonic farm. In the middle of America, stood a beautiful aquaphonic farm having thousands of fish. The unique feature of the farm, it was growing varieties of mushroom in aqua waste. Another idea triggered to grow fresh mushrooms in recyclable waste. They started working on aqua farm in early 2012, took 6 months to design a big aqua farm into a small system and worked on various designs, size and construction. In December 2012, they got it done and launched the product in June 2013. The response from customers since then has been tremendous with lot of orders pouring in during the holiday season. The product also cropped up as a top holiday gift idea. A hundred thousand mushroom kits and 70,000 to 100,000 aqua farms were sold within the first year of launch itself. Back to the roots now sells nationwide. Internationally, the company has sold its products in Canada, Australia and Russia. It has partners in these countries to whom the mushrooms are sent in containers. These partners then sell the same in the markets in their respective countries. “Mushroom has got lot of vitamins and minerals and it creates lot of energy. It can be grown easily in small places. It also grows in wastes like saw dust, farm wastes, vegetable wastes, animal wastes. In India you can see lot of farm wastes and grain wastes one can substitute for mushroom growing”, shares Nikhil. The Team : A team of 18 currently, Back to the Roots is in focus of execution of the present two products and expansion in retail on large scale. It hopes to reach people in a big way and connect with people through good food especially with the new generation accustomed to have fast food. “Each one of our team is very passionate to move ahead. Each one of us focuses on why we are doing this and not just on the business alone,” says Nikhil on sharing the success mantra of the company. The Tools and Technology : While the folks at Back to the Roots depend on email to stay in touch and move projects forward, they rely equally on face to face meetings for growth of the business. They prefer meeting customers, buyers and partners in-person, as much as possible, through demos and roadtrips. From gmail, google calendar, to google drive, Nikhil keeps a major chunk of his life on for easy access anytime and from anywhere. Both Nikhil and Alejandro use the MacBookAir, which they believe is an incredible tool for entrepreneurs especially for the ones who are constantly on the go. Seventy percent of sale happens through retails like model stores and the remaining 30% happens over the internet. Being a small company, it does not resort to high budget advertisements to create awareness of its products among target customers. “We aim on selling through talking to people one on one”, Nikhil says. Creating awareness by working through the media has been a major catalyst in the marketing of the company’s activities. Social media too, has played a major role in advertising the company’s activities. The company’s youtube video received 2 million views in a short span of 3 days. Facebook has been equally helpful. Keeping in touch with its social responsibility the company successfully reached 10,000 kids through a facebook campaign that donates mushroom gardens to elementary school classrooms across America. Looking ahead : The company plans to execute its own brand new product, the AquaFarm i.e., self-cleaning fish tank that grows food. It aims to build a brand that lasts for generations and change the way people think about food, through fun, beautifully designed and educational products! Advice for budding entrepreneurs : Nikhil signs off with the following advice for budding entrepreneurs across the globe: Get out of your protective shield and demo and talk to customers! Share ideas, never get caught in the thought that “someone will steal this.” A passion or idea is 1% of the challenge, executing is the other 99%. Sharing passion with others like customers, partners, and friends gives feedback and thoughts that helps in identifying existed or probable opportunities. Just share and talk to as many people as possible. Get a booth at farmer’s market, and don’t leave till you talk to 200 people. You’ll leave with a much better business plan than any online research will get you! Focus : Pick one thing and pour every ounce of your heart and soul into it to do it better than anyone else on Earth. That creates success. Partnership : Find those who can do things way better than you can, partner with them, and work with them. Don’t try to do everything yourself. Find your strengths and grow with those. Our Correspondent Contact details:  Back to the Roots, Near Jack London Square, Downtown Oakland 424 2nd Street Oakland CA 94607, USA Phone – +1 510.922.9758 E – nikhil@backtotheroots.com W – www.backtotheroots.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Back to the Roots – Nikhil Arora Related – articles, consultants, downloads Welkin Overseas – Mushroom cultivation Lavanya Mushroom Shree Consultancy – exporters of fresh produce H K Global Enterprise – Vermicompost supplier You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds