Dr.Rajendra Prasad: Biography, Family, Early days in Politics, Criticisms & Awards India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Government and Politics » Dr. Rajendra Prasad   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Dr. Rajendra Prasad The first President of independent India, Dr. Rajendra Prasad was also the President of the Constituent Assembly that drafted India's Constitution. He had participated actively in India's freedom movement. He was also the only president to have been elected twice for the office. Early life Born on December 3, 1884 in the remote hamlet of Ziradei in Bihar's Siwan district, his father was a renowned scholar of Persian and Sanskrit. He moved to Kolkata for his education. A brilliant student all throughout, he earned a Masters degree in Law, going on to complete a doctorate in law. He served in different educational institutions as a teacher and also joined the High Court of Odisha and Bihar as a lawyer. Career Rajendra Prasad joined the Indian National Congress at some point in the Indian independence movement and became a chief leader from the state of Bihar. He plunged headlong into the Swadeshi movement and was influenced tremendously by Mahatma Gandhi. Dr. Rajendra Prasad was arrested in 1930 for participating in the Salt Satyagraha. In January 1934, a devastating earthquake struck Bihar. Rajendra Prasad was in jail during this time, but was soon released. Upon his release, he devoted himself to the task of raising funds and providing aid to the people. He collected a large sum of money to provide relief to the affected people. He set up relief committees during the Quetta earthquake of 1935 too. He became the President of the Indian National Congress during the Bombay session in October 1934. He became the President once again when Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose resigned in 1939. He served as a Cabinet Minister for a brief period in the first government of independent India, before serving as the President of India for a period of 12 years from 1950 to 1962. He was awarded the Bharat Ratna in 1962. He left for his heavenly abode on February 28, 1963.   Related Links   Presidents Pranab Mukherjee Giani Zail Singh B D Jatti Muhammad Hidayatullah Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Neelam Sanjiva Reddy Dr. Rajendra Prasad R. Venkataraman Dr. Shankar Dayal Sharma Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed V.V. Giri Last Updated on : February 1, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule