China Trade Shows,Trade Fairs in China,China Trade Events,Exhibitions in China JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? China Trade Shows Classifieds Country China Trade Shows Classifieds Date : 02 Sep - 04 Sep 2015 All China Leather Exhibition(ACLE)-Shanghai -  China All China Leather Exhibition is known as the premier event for international companies seeking opportunities in China's huge markets. The exhibition provides the largest variety of leather, components & accessories, manufacturing.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre ,P.R.C. China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Jun - 05 Jun 2015 IBCTF - International Building & Construction Trade Fair -  China International Building & Construction Trade Fair, A promotion campaign towards to the extensive visitors like end-users, decision-makers, importing and exporting companies, designers, engineers, technicians, etc. is to be launched before the opening.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Jun - 06 Jun 2015 KBC - Kitchen & Bath China -  China China largest Exhibition for Kitchen & Bath. Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 11 Nov - 13 Nov 2015 China Electronics Fair- Shanghai -  China China Electronics Fair (CEF) is an authoritative electronics show in China, which is the only one supported fully by China Ministry of Information Industry and Ministry of Commerce. Taking the advantages of the most comprehensive, the largest.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre Co., Ltd. (SNIEC) ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Jun - 28 Jun 2015 Beijing International Tourism Expo -  China Beijing International Tourism Expo is the Asia’s leading and most consistent tourism event. It is the only travel and tourism exhibition. The 12th International Exhibition For Business & Leisure Tourism promises to attract the highest.... Venue : China International Exhibition Centre (CIEC) China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 12 Jun 2015 The 14th China International Consumer Goods Fair -  China The 14th China International Consumer Goods Fair (CICGF) is the largest and most professional international consumer goods fair in China, which ranks only second to Canton Fair among all the exhibitions sponsored by Ministry of Commerce. Venue : Ningbo International Conference & Exhibition Center ,Zhejiang China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Oct - 16 Oct 2015 EP Shanghai -  China EP Shanghai 20015 - International Exhibition on Electric Power Equipment & Technology - is the only electric power event. It is the only Power exhibition in China endorsed as an UFI approved event. Venue : Shanghai International Convention Center (SICEC) China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jun - 12 Jun 2015 Aquatech China -  China Aquatech China will be an unmissable event with all sectors of the process, drinking and waste water industries presented under one roof. The exhibition will be carefully divided into six dedicated segments, ensuring that visitors can easily find.... Venue : Shanghai Exhibition Center (SEC) China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Oct - 16 Oct 2015 China Paper/China Forest -  China China Paper features the newest equipment, technologies and services related to all of Asia's paper industries. The last China Paper show in Shanghai in 2014 proved once again the excellent reputation and track record of the event. More than.... Venue : Intex Shanghai ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 12 Jun 2015 China International Environmental Protection Exhibition -  China China International Environmental Protection Exhibition will be focus of this prestigious event will be on Air, Energy, Water, and Waste, providing an ideal platform to promote products and services that relate to these very important elements. Venue : China International Exhibition Center ,Beijing China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Jul - 11 Jul 2015 China (Guangzhou) International Building & Decoration Fair -  China The Largest Trade Fair for Building Decoration Industry in Asia, the event will cover 23 halls with a total area of 230,000 square meters. Responding to the backdrop of globalization, the CBD 2015 will adopt a brand new logo and a visual image to.... Venue : China Import and Export Fair Pazhou Complex China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Aug - 28 Aug 2015 China International Offshore Oil & Gas Technology and Equipment Exhibition -  China China International Offshore Oil & Gas Technology and Equipment Exhibition 2015 is one of the leading show and The show will share mega data and quality resources with cippe for the purpose of growing the largest offshore oil show. Venue : Shanghai New International Expo center ,P.R.C China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Sep - 18 Sep 2015 SinoFoldingCarton -  China SinoFoldingCarton 2015 is Asia-Pacific's leading business platform for post-print manufacturing equipment and consumables from the folding carton industry. The exhibition highlights new developments and advanced technologies from across the.... Venue : GD Modern International Exhibition Center ,Dongguan China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Oct - 16 Oct 2015 2015 19th China(autumn) International Nutrition & Health Industry Expo. -  China \\\"2015 19th China(autumn) International Nutrition and Health Industry Expo\\\"\\r\\nTime: October 14th to 16th 2015\\r\\nVenue: Shanghai New International Expo Center. annali(at)sbwexpo.cn Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Center (SNIEC) ,Outside the U.S. China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Oct - 23 Oct 2015 2015 the 3th International Exhibition on Evaporation & Crystallization -  China Organizers: Evaporation and Crystallization Technology Professional Group of Technology and Equipment Office under China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Federation Evaporation Professional Group of Chemical Engineering Professional Committee.... Venue : Shanghai Convention & Exhibition Center of International Sourcing ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Nov - 06 Nov 2015 TIM Expo Shanghai 2015 - the 13th Shanghai thermal insulation materials expo. -  China Shanghai Thermal Insulation Material and Energy-saving Technology Expo (TIM Expo Shanghai) is the most authoritative and influential trading expo in Asia-Pacific area. It attracts attentions of global thermal insulation industry. From real estate.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Nov - 06 Nov 2015 EDME Expo - The 11th Shanghai External Wall Decoration Material and Bonding Technology Expo. 2015 -  China Shanghai External Wall Decoration Materials and Bonding Technology Expo (EDME Expo) is the most influential and famous expo of new external wall decoration industry, focusing on thermal insulation decoration panel for external wall, clay panel, dry.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Aug - 31 Aug 2015 FISHEX GUANGZHOU 2015 -  China China International (Guangzhou) Fishery & Seafood Expo 2015 (FISHEX GUANGZHOU 2015) is conceived and planned to facilitate the international fishery and seafood industries, as well as to provide a platform for exhibition, procurement, trade.... Venue : China Import and Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,Guangzhou China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Aug - 20 Aug 2015 The 7th Guangzhou International Solar Photovoltaic Exhibition 2015 -  China PV Guangzhou has set up a favorable platform for both domestic and overseas companies to seek further development. Held very successfully, PV Guangzhou2014 attracted over 160 exhibitors with 10,000 square meters, such as Yingli Solar, Canadian.... Venue : Guangzhou Pazhou (China Import and Export Fair) ,Guangdong China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Oct - 29 Oct 2015 2015 10th China Exhibition on Paper, Paper Chemicals and Paper Machinery -  China As one of the most specialized exhibitions, the annual China International Exhibition on Paper-making Chemicals which is co-sponsored by the China Paper Chemical Industry Association, is becoming a key event for entering china paper market. The.... Venue : Shanghai World Expo Exhibition & Convention Center ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 May - 12 May 2015 9th Wenzhou Int'l Optics Fair, China (WOF) -  China Wenzhou International Optics Fair( WOF) is the leading international fair in the eyewear sector, an exceptional event where a preview of new products is presented to visitors. It is an event with a wealth of initiatives, personalities,.... Venue : Wenzhou Int`l Convention & Exhibition Center ,zhejiang China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 May - 11 May 2015 Guangzhou Int'L Garden Machinery Fair -  China Guangzhou Int'L Garden Machinery Fair 2015 is one of the leading fair which is providing common international business opportunities for the related industries and related professionals and show will there showing quality products. Venue : China Import and Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,Guangdong China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 May - 11 May 2015 Toilet Expo 2015 -  China Toilet construction is gaining an increasing amount of government and public attention with the progress of modern civilization and social technologies. At present, there are 110,000 toilets in 28 big cities nationwide and the annual volume of.... Venue : China Import and Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,Guangzhou China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 May - 11 May 2015 The 7th Guangzhou Int'l Garden Machinery Fair (GMF 2015) -  China In GMF 2014, about 100 established companies were gathered to exhibit and showcase their latest products at the show, such as Stihl, Husqvarna AB, Greenman, Bronte, O-JENAS, Global Tools, Jiling Dongyuan Machinery Manufacture Co., Ltd.,.... Venue : China Import & Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,china China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 May - 08 May 2015 World Travel Fair 2015 -  China World Travel Fair (WTF 2015) will start with a 3-day high quality business-to-business platform to link the international tourism industry with Chinese tourism professionals and decision makers. It will be a best opportunity.... Venue : Shanghai Exhibition Center China