NRDC - transfers agriculture related technologies - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop NRDC – transfers agriculture related technologies Home NRDC – transfers agriculture related technologies Promotes new technologies to produce natural pesticides National Research Development Corporation (NRDC), an enterprise under the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India has mandate to commercialize technologies developed in various R&D organizations in the country besides implementing few of the technology development and promotional activities of the Govt. of India. Dr. H. Purushotham, CMD says, “Agriculture is one field wherein large numbers of technology transfers take place from NRDC.” Presently, major researches going on in agriculture domain are agri-biotechnology (seed etc.), agriculture (eco-friendly) chemicals, bio pesticides, bio-fertilizers, soil conditioners, nano fertilizers, vaccines, hybrids and breeds, etc. “NRDC is not directly involved in any basic research activity. However, the research conducted in the various R&D institutions and their research outcomes that are industry-centric are being promoted by NRDC,” clarifies Dr. Purushotham. He adds, “Lot of research work is being carried out in organic farming whose application will lead to organic farming.” NRDC is promoting process for extraction of bio-pesticide from cassava bio-wastes and neem seeds. Cassava bio-waste is the waste material from the cassava (tapioca) plant consists of leaves and roots. Leaves (6t/ha) and tuber rinds (5t/ha) are the biomass remaining as waste after cassava harvest. In India cassava is widely cultivated in about 13 states. Kerala (142000 ha), Tamil Nadu (65,700 ha) contribute to the major share. “Scientists at CTCRI, Thriuvanthapuram found the leaves and rinds of the plant have some natural pesticide compounds and started working on it. They developed the technology at pilot scale in its bio-pesticide laboratory to process the cassava leaves and rinds to produce bio pesticide and cattle feed,” informs Dr. Purushotham. Cassava bio-waste is processed in bio-pesticide plant. The plant consists of a processing “Digester” coupled with electrical mixer cum grinder, where the leaves and tuber rinds are crushed and grinded into slurry. Later the slurry is digested in the digester for fixed time period at predetermined temperature. It is very simple process and takes about an hour to get the bio-pesticide from cassava bio-waste. It can also be done at the farm by setting a small scale cottage plant costing about Rs. 2 lakhs. “About 8 liters of bio pesticide can be produced from one kg cassava leaves. It has been estimated that over 40,000 liters bio-pesticide can be produced from leaves collected from one hectare of cassava plantation,” he shares. The bio-pesticide can be stored in sealed bottles and sprayed like any other synthetic pesticide. When asked if cassava based bio-pesticide is effective, Dr. Purushotham says, “It has been extensively field tested in Kerala and Tamil Nadu to manage a wide spectrum of borer pests like mealy bugs and aphides in vegetables crops and papaya and the field test results are very encouraging.” Another natural bio-pesticide producing technology marketed by NRDC is using neem seed. Azadirachtin is one of the most interesting constituents of neem seed because of its influence on insect feeding behaviour and insect developments. “It has been considered to be a promising environmentally compatible insect pest control device for plant protection,” he says. Every part of neem tree contains Azadirachtin, but seed contain maximum and therefore economic stand point seed is the ideal raw material for manufacture of Azadiractin. The process/ technology to extract azadirachtin from the neem seeds kernels was developed by IARI, Pusa, New Delhi. Azadirachtin is separated out by precipitation instead of concentrating the solution by evaporation and recovery of the solvent. The steps involved in the extraction process are cleaning and decortication of neem seeds, powdering/crushing the kernel, deoiling/ defatting of kernel, isolation of azadirachtin, finally storage of final product. Dr. Purushotham says, “The process for making EC formulation of Azadirachtin has also been developed and is offered with technology package. It requires chemical processing plant involving several solvents and can’t be done at the farm level.” Approximate cost of the plant and machinery for Azadirachtin extraction is Rs. 6 crore excluding land and building for processing 3 tonne of seed per day. According to Neem Foundation, the estimated availability of neem seeds in the country is 442000 tonnes/year but Azadirachtin has not come to commercial use because it is expensive to isolate it in a pure form from the neem seed/kernel extract and it is a very complex molecule for an economical chemical synthesis. These innovative technologies developed by various Indian R&D institutions are acquired by NRDC. Dr. Purushotham shares, “We at NRDC adds value to these laboratory scale technologies as required in the form of carrying out field trails, testing, conducting market survey, developing basic engineering design packages for the process of manufacture, prepares techno-economic feasibility reports, etc.” After acquiring marketing and licensing rights from the R&D institute which have developed the technical know-how, NRDC takes the patents and market the same to potential companies, entrepreneurs, SMEs using several marketing channels. Later NRDC grants the license for using technical know-how on new processes and products to any legal entity which is involved in business activity of manufacturing products. “Farmer organizations, farmer cooperatives, NGOs, startups, etc. are also welcome to obtain license for the manufacture of the products,” he informs. It is a challenge for a farmer to decide which pesticide is good for his soil and crop as Indian soil varies from state to state, Dr. Purushotham says, “The R&D institutions involved in the research activity thoroughly assesses the new products / processes before it is released for licensing to the industry. The products / processes undergo rigorous field testing and analysis new in multi-locations covering different agro-climatic conditions, in different seasons, different regions on different crops, etc.” Based on the research results, the farmers are provided the recommendations for using the products along with a complete methodology on how and when the product has to be used along with details on precautions to be taken. He also informs, “Government has also introduced `Soil health Card’ to help the farmers. The soil health card carries crop wise recommendations of nutrients / fertilizers / pesticides, water requirement, etc. required for farmers, making it possible for farmers to improve the productivity by using appropriate inputs.” NRDC is planning to align its growth strategy with certain key opportunities offered by the Government’s flagship programs, viz. Make in India, Digital India and Swachh Bharat. “We propose to develop an “Indian Technology Data Bank” and promote innovative technologies therein for socio-economic transformation,” he concludes. Dr H Purushotham holds M Tech degree from IIT, Kharagpur and PhD in Technology Management from Osmania Univeristy. Contact details- National Research Development Corporation 20-22, Zamroodhpur Community Centre Kailash Colony Extn New Delhi – 110048 Ph: 11-29240401-08 Extn. 210, Direct: +91-11-29241212 Mob: 91-95992 29217 Email: cmdnrdc@nrdc.in Web: http://www.nrdcindia.com/english/ Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > NRDC – transfers agriculture related technologies Related – articles, consultants, downloads Babulal Sarabhai & Co – sources forest related products from tribes Yuktix Technologies – sensor devices for farming Shivrai Technologies – software to manage farms FrontalRain Technologies – agri IT company You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia