Plough - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Plough From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Plowing ) Jump to: navigation , search "Furrow", "Plow", and "Plowman" redirect here. For the Canadian soldier, see see Edward Chester Plow . For the surname, see Plowman (surname) . For other uses, see Furrow (disambiguation) and Plough (disambiguation) . Traditional ploughing: a farmer works the land with horses and plough Modern tractor ploughing in South Africa. This plough has five non-reversible mouldboards. The fifth, empty furrow on the left will be filled by the first furrow of the next pass. Ploughing with oxen . A miniature from an early-sixteenth-century manuscript of the Middle English poem God Spede þe Plough , held at the British Museum Oxen driven ploughing The plough ( UK ) or plow ( US ; both / ˈ p l aʊ / ) is a tool (or machine ) used in farming for initial cultivation of soil in preparation for sowing seed or planting to loosen or turn the soil. Ploughs are traditionally drawn by working animals such as horses or cattle, but in modern times may be drawn by tractors . A plough may be made of wood, iron, or steel frame with an attached blade or stick used to cut the earth. It has been a basic instrument for most of recorded history , although written references to the plough do not appear in English until 1100 CE at which point it is referenced frequently. The plough represents one of the major advances in agriculture . The primary purpose of ploughing is to turn over the upper layer of the soil, bringing fresh nutrients to the surface, while burying weeds and the remains of previous crops and allowing them to break down. As the plough is drawn through the soil it creates long trenches of fertile soil called furrows. In modern use, a ploughed field is typically left to dry out, and is then harrowed before planting. Plowing and cultivating a soil homogenizes and modifies the upper 12 to 25 cm of the soil to form a plow layer. In many soils, the majority of fine plant feeder roots can be found in the topsoil or plow layer. Ploughs were initially human powered , but the process became considerably more efficient once animals were pressed into service. The first animal powered ploughs were undoubtedly pulled by oxen , and later in many areas by horses (generally draught horses ) and mules , although various other animals have been used for this purpose. In industrialised countries, the first mechanical means of pulling a plough were steam -powered ( ploughing engines or steam tractors ), but these were gradually superseded by internal-combustion -powered tractors . Modern competitions take place for ploughing enthusiasts like the National Ploughing Championships in Ireland . Use of the plough has decreased in some areas, often those significantly threatened by soil damage and erosion, in favour of shallower ploughing and other less invasive conservation tillage techniques. Natural farming methods are emerging that do not involve any ploughing at all, unless an initial ploughing is necessary to break up hardpan on a new plot to be cultivated, so that the newly introduced soil life can penetrate and develop more quickly and deeply. By not ploughing, beneficial fungi and microbial life can develop that will eventually bring air into the soil, retain water and build up nutrients. A healthy soil full of active fungi and microbial life, combined with a diverse crop (making use of companion planting ), suppresses weeds and pests naturally and retains rainwater. Thus the intensive use of water-, oil- and energy hungry irrigation, fertilizers and herbicides are avoided. Cultivated land becomes more fertile and productive over time, while tilled land tends to go down in productivity over time due to erosion and the removal of nutrients with every harvest. Proponents of permaculture claim that it is the only way of farming that can be maintained when fossil fuel runs out. On the other hand, the advantage of agricultural methods that require repeated ploughing are that they allow monocropping on a large scale at remote locations, using industrial machinery rather than human labor. Contents 1 Etymology 2 Parts 3 History 3.1 Hoeing 3.2 Ard 3.3 Mouldboard plough 3.4 Loy ploughing 3.5 Heavy ploughs 3.6 Improved designs 3.7 Single-sided ploughing 3.8 Turnwrest plough 3.9 Reversible plough 3.10 Riding and multiple-furrow ploughs 3.11 Balance plough 3.12 Stump-jump plough 3.13 Modern ploughs 4 Specialist ploughs 4.1 Chisel plough 4.2 Ridging plough 4.3 Scottish hand plough 4.4 Mole plough 4.5 Paraplough 4.6 Spade plough 5 Effects of mouldboard ploughing 6 See also 7 Notes 8 Further reading 9 External links Etymology [ edit ] Ploughing. In older English, as in other Germanic languages , the plough was traditionally known by other names, e.g. Old English sulh , Old High German medela , geiza , huohilī(n) , Old Norse arðr ( Swedish årder ), and Gothic hōha , all presumably referring to the ard (scratch plough). The term plough or plow, as used today, was not common until 1700 CE. The modern word plough comes from Old Norse plógr , and therefore Germanic , but it appears relatively late (it is not attested in Gothic ), and is thought to be a loanword from one of the north Italic languages . Words with the same root appeared with related meanings: in Raetic plaumorati "wheeled heavy plough" ( Pliny , Nat. Hist. 18, 172), and in Latin plaustrum "farm cart", plōstrum, plōstellum "cart", and plōxenum, plōximum "cart box". [ 1 ] [ 2 ] The word must have originally referred to the wheeled heavy plough, which was common in Roman northwestern Europe by the a.d. 5th century. [ 3 ] Orel (2003) [ 4 ] tentatively attaches plough to a PIE stem * blōkó- , which gave Armenian peɫem "to dig" and Welsh bwlch "crack", though the word may not be of Indo-European origin. Parts [ edit ] Diagram - modern plough The diagram ( right ) shows the basic parts of the modern plough: beam hitch ( Brit : hake) vertical regulator coulter (knife coulter pictured, but disk coulter common) chisel (foreshare) share (mainshare) mouldboard Other parts not shown or labelled include the frog (or frame), runner, landside, shin, trashboard, and stilts (handles). On modern ploughs and some older ploughs, the mouldboard is separate from the share and runner, so these parts can be replaced without replacing the mouldboard. Abrasion eventually destroys all parts of a plough that come into contact with the soil. History [ edit ] Ploughing with buffalo in Hubei , China Hoeing [ edit ] Main article: Hoe-farming When agriculture was first developed, simple hand-held digging sticks and hoes were used in highly fertile areas, such as the banks of the Nile where the annual flood rejuvenates the soil, to create drills (furrows) to plant seeds in. Digging sticks, hoes, and mattocks were not invented in any one place, and hoe-cultivation must have been common everywhere agriculture was practiced. Hoe-farming is the traditional tillage method in tropical or sub-tropical regions, which are characterized by stony soils, steep slope gradients, predominant root crops, and coarse grains grown at wide distances apart. While hoe-agriculture is best suited to these regions, it is used in some fashion everywhere. Instead of hoeing, some cultures use pigs to trample the soil and grub the earth. Ard [ edit ] Main article: Ard (plough) Ancient Egyptian ard, c .1200 B.C. (Burial chamber of Sennedjem ) Some ancient hoes, like the Egyptian mr , were pointed and strong enough to clear rocky soil and make seed drills, which is why they are called hand-ards . However, the domestication of oxen in Mesopotamia and the Indus valley civilization , perhaps as early as the 6th millennium b.c. , provided mankind with the draft power necessary to develop the larger, animal-drawn true ard (or scratch plough). The earliest was the bow ard , which consists of a draft-pole (or beam ) pierced by a thinner vertical pointed stick called the head (or body ), with one end being the stilt (handle) and the other a share (cutting blade) that was dragged through the topsoil to cut a shallow furrow ideal for most cereal crops. The ard does not clear new land well, so hoes or mattocks must be used to pull up grass and undergrowth, and a hand-held, coulter -like ristle could be used to cut deeper furrows ahead of the share. Because the ard leaves a strip of undisturbed earth between the furrows, the fields are often cross-ploughed lengthwise and across, and this tends to form squarish fields ( Celtic fields ). [ 5 ] The ard is best suited to loamy or sandy soils that are naturally fertilized by annual flooding, as in the Nile Delta and Fertile Crescent , and to a lesser extent any other cereal-growing region with light or thin soil. By the late Iron Age , ards in Europe were commonly fitted with coulters. Mouldboard plough [ edit ] Water buffalo used for ploughing in Si Phan Don , Laos To grow crops regularly in less fertile areas, the soil must be turned to bring nutrients to the surface. A major advance for this type of farming was the turnplough, also known as the mouldboard plough (UK), moldboard plow (US), or frame-plough. A coulter (or skeith ) could be added to cut vertically into the ground just ahead of the share (in front of the frog ), a wedge-shaped cutting edge at the bottom front of the mouldboard with the landside of the frame supporting the undershare (below-ground component). The upper parts of the frame carry (from the front) the coupling for the motive power (horses), the coulter and the landside frame. Depending on the size of the implement, and the number of furrows it is designed to plough at one time, a forecarriage with a wheel or wheels (known as a furrow wheel and support wheel) may be added to support the frame (wheeled plough). In the case of a single-furrow plough there is only one wheel at the front and handles at the rear for the ploughman to steer and manoeuvre it. When dragged through a field the coulter cuts down into the soil and the share cuts horizontally from the previous furrow to the vertical cut. This releases a rectangular strip of sod that is then lifted by the share and carried by the mouldboard up and over, so that the strip of sod (slice of the topsoil ) that is being cut lifts and rolls over as the plough moves forward, dropping back to the ground upside down into the furrow and onto the turned soil from the previous run down the field. Each gap in the ground where the soil has been lifted and moved across (usually to the right) is called a furrow . The sod that has been lifted from it rests at about a 45 degree angle in the next-door furrow and lies up the back of the sod from the previous run. In this way, a series of ploughing runs down a field leaves a row of sods that lie partly in the furrows and partly on the ground lifted earlier. Visually, across the rows, there is the land (unploughed part) on the left, a furrow (half the width of the removed strip of soil) and the removed strip almost upside-down lying on about half of the previous strip of inverted soil, and so on across the field. Each layer of soil and the gutter it came from forms the classic furrow. The mouldboard plough greatly reduced the amount of time needed to prepare a field, and as a consequence, allowed a farmer to work a larger area of land. In addition, the resulting pattern of low (under the mouldboard) and high (beside it) ridges in the soil forms water channels, allowing the soil to drain. In areas where snow buildup is an issue, this lets farmers plant the soil earlier, as the snow runoff drains away more quickly. A reconstruction of a mouldboard plough There are five major parts of a mouldboard plough: Mouldboard Share Landside Frog Tailpiece A runner extending from behind the share to the rear of the plough controls the direction of the plough, because it is held against the bottom land-side corner of the new furrow being formed. The holding force is the weight of the sod, as it is raised and rotated, on the curved surface of the mouldboard. Because of this runner, the mouldboard plough is harder to turn around than the scratch plough, and its introduction brought about a change in the shape of fields – from mostly square fields into longer rectangular "strips" (hence the introduction of the furlong ). An advance on the basic design was the iron [ dubious – discuss ] ploughshare , a replaceable horizontal cutting surface mounted on the tip of the share. The earliest ploughs with a detachable and replaceable share date from around 1000 BC in the Ancient Near East , [ 6 ] [ dubious – discuss ] and the earliest iron ploughshares from ca. 500 BC in China . [ 7 ] [ dubious – discuss ] Early mouldboards were basically wedges that sat inside the cut formed by the coulter, turning over the soil to the side. The ploughshare spread the cut horizontally below the surface, so when the mouldboard lifted it, a wider area of soil was turned over. Mouldboards are known in Britain from the late 6th century [ 8 ] on. Loy ploughing [ edit ] Main article: Loy (spade) Loy ploughing was a form of manual ploughing in Ireland , on very small farms—or on very hilly ground, where horses could not work or where farmers could not afford them. [ 9 ] It was used up until the 1960s in poorer land. [ 10 ] This suited the moist climate of Ireland as the trenches formed by turning in the sods providing drainage. It also allowed the growing of potatoes in bogs as well as on mountain slopes where no other cultivation could take place. [ 11 ] [ 12 ] Heavy ploughs [ edit ] Main article: Carruca Chinese iron plough with curved mouldboard, 1637 In the basic mouldboard plough the depth of the cut is adjusted by lifting against the runner in the furrow, which limited the weight of the plough to what the ploughman could easily lift. This limited the construction to a small amount of wood (although metal edges were possible). These ploughs were fairly fragile, and were not suitable for breaking up the heavier soils of northern Europe. The introduction of wheels to replace the runner allowed the weight of the plough to increase, and in turn allowed the use of a much larger mouldboard faced in metal. These heavy ploughs led to greater food production and eventually a significant population increase around 600 AD. [ citation needed ] Before the Han Dynasty (202 BC – 220 AD), Chinese ploughs were made almost entirely of wood, except the iron blade of the ploughshare. By the Han period, the entire ploughshare was made of cast iron ; these are the first known heavy mouldboard iron ploughs. [ 7 ] [ 13 ] The Romans achieved the heavy wheeled mouldboard plough in the late 3rd and 4th century AD, when archaeological evidence appears, inter alia, in Roman Britain . [ 14 ] The first indisputable appearance after the Roman period is from 643, in a northern Italian document. [ 15 ] Old words connected with the heavy plough and its use appear in Slavic , suggesting possible early use in this region. [ 16 ] The general adoption of the carruca heavy plough in Europe appears to have accompanied the adoption of the three-field system in the later eighth and early ninth centuries, leading to an improvement of the agricultural productivity per unit of land in northern Europe. [ 17 ] This was accompanied by larger fields as well, known variously as carucates , ploughlands, and ploughgates. Research by the French historian Marc Bloch in medieval French agricultural history showed the existence of names for two different ploughs, "the ard ( araire ) was wheeless and had to be dragged across the fields, while the turnplough ( charrue ) was mounted on wheels". [ 18 ] Improved designs [ edit ] 'A Champion ploughman', from Australia , circa 1900 The basic plough, with coulter, ploughshare and mouldboard remained in use for a millennium. Major changes in design did not become common until the Age of Enlightenment , when there was rapid progress in design. Joseph Foljambe in Rotherham , England , in 1730 used new shapes as the basis for the Rotherham plough , which also covered the mouldboard with iron. [ 19 ] Unlike the heavy plough, the Rotherham (or Rotherham swing) plough consisted entirely of the coulter, mouldboard and handles. It was much lighter than conventional designs and became very popular in England. It may have been the first plough to be widely built in factories and the first to be commercially successful. [ 20 ] In 1789 Robert Ransome , an iron founder in Ipswich started casting ploughshares in a disused malting at St Margaret's Ditches. As a result of a mishap in his foundry, a broken mould caused molten metal to come into contact with cold metal, making the metal surface extremely hard – chilled casting – which he advertised as 'self sharpening' ploughs, and received patents for his discovery. James Small further advanced the design. Using mathematical methods he experimented with various designs until he arrived at a shape cast from a single piece of iron, an improvement on the Scots plough of James Anderson of Hermiston . [ 21 ] A single-piece cast iron plough was also developed and patented by Charles Newbold in the United States. This was again improved on by Jethro Wood , a blacksmith of Scipio, New York , who made a three-part Scots Plough that allowed a broken piece to be replaced. In 1837 John Deere introduced the first steel plough; it was so much stronger than iron designs that it could work soil in areas of the US that had previously been considered unsuitable for farming. Improvements on this followed developments in metallurgy: steel coulters and shares with softer iron mouldboards to prevent breakage, the chilled plough (an early example of surface-hardened steel), [ 22 ] and eventually the face of the mouldboard grew strong enough to dispense with the coulter. Single-sided ploughing [ edit ] Single-sided ploughing in a ploughing match The first mouldboard ploughs could only turn the soil over in one direction ( conventionally always to the right), as dictated by the shape of the mouldboard, and so the field had to be ploughed in long strips, or lands . The plough was usually worked clockwise around each land, ploughing the long sides and being dragged across the short sides without ploughing. The length of the strip was limited by the distance oxen (or later horses) could comfortably work without a rest, and their width by the distance the plough could conveniently be dragged. These distances determined the traditional size of the strips: a furlong , (or "furrow's length", 220 yards (200 m)) by a chain (22 yards (20 m)) – an area of one acre (about 0.4 hectares); this is the origin of the acre . The one-sided action gradually moved soil from the sides to the centre line of the strip. If the strip was in the same place each year, the soil built up into a ridge, creating the ridge and furrow topography still seen in some ancient fields. Turnwrest plough [ edit ] The turnwrest plough allows ploughing to be done to either side. The mouldboard is removable, turning to the right for one furrow, then being moved to the other side of the plough to turn to the left (the coulter and ploughshare are fixed). In this way adjacent furrows can be ploughed in opposite directions, allowing ploughing to proceed continuously along the field and thus avoiding the ridge and furrow topography. Reversible plough [ edit ] A four-furrow reversible Kverneland plough . The reversible plough has two mouldboard ploughs mounted back-to-back, one turning to the right, the other to the left. While one is working the land, the other is carried upside-down in the air. At the end of each row, the paired ploughs are turned over, so the other can be used. This returns along the next furrow, again working the field in a consistent direction. Riding and multiple-furrow ploughs [ edit ] Early tractor-drawn two-furrow plough. Early steel ploughs, like those for thousands of years prior, were walking ploughs , directed by the ploughman holding onto handles on either side of the plough. The steel ploughs were so much easier to draw through the soil that the constant adjustments of the blade to react to roots or clods was no longer necessary, as the plough could easily cut through them. Consequently it was not long after that the first riding ploughs appeared. On these, wheels kept the plough at an adjustable level above the ground, while the ploughman sat on a seat ; whereas, with earlier plows the plowman would have had to walk. Direction was now controlled mostly through the draught team, with levers allowing fine adjustments. This led very quickly to riding ploughs with multiple mouldboards, dramatically increasing ploughing performance. A single draught horse can normally pull a single-furrow plough in clean light soil, but in heavier soils two horses are needed, one walking on the land and one in the furrow. For ploughs with two or more furrows more than two horses are needed and, usually, one or more horses have to walk on the loose ploughed sod—and that makes hard going for them, and the horse treads the newly ploughed land down. It is usual to rest such horses every half hour for about ten minutes. Heavy volcanic loam soils, such as are found in New Zealand, require the use of four heavy draught horses to pull a double-furrow plough. Where paddocks are more square than long-rectangular it is more economical to have horses four wide in harness than two-by-two ahead, thus one horse is always on the ploughed land (the sod). The limits of strength and endurance of horses made greater than two-furrow ploughs uneconomic to use on one farm. [ citation needed ] Amish farmers tend to use a team of about seven horses or mules when spring ploughing and as Amish farmers often help each other plough, teams are sometimes changed at noon. Using this method about 10 acres (40,000 m 2 ) can be ploughed per day in light soils and about 2 acres (8,100 m 2 ) in heavy soils. [ citation needed ] Balance plough [ edit ] A German balance plough. The left-turning set of shares have just completed a pass, and the right-turning shares are about to enter the ground to return across the field. The advent of the mobile steam engine allowed steam power to be applied to ploughing from about 1850. In