 Our Board Members | NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India Jump to navigation NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India HOME CONTACT US Search Search form Search ABOUT US Overview History Vision/Mission Board Members Management Team OUR WORK Our Approach Where We Work Our Programmes Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness & Response GET INVOLVED Careers Internship Campaigns Volunteer Partnerships Power to Empower NEWS National International CARE India in Media Media Contact DONATE NOW You are here Home » our board members The Board of CARE India consists of a group of charismatic and exuberant individuals, who possess not only relevant expertise, but also a sense of social conscientiousness. CARE India's Board members are not related by blood or marriage. No remuneration, sitting fees or any other form of compensation is paid to any of the Board members. They are the guiding force behind the work of CARE India. Donate Now Our Board Members Submitted by Anonymous on Tue, 2014-04-29 18:58 Meet the dynamic group of people that makes up our Board Members. Dr. Nachiket Mor Dr. Nachiket Mor, Chair of the Board, CARE India, has a background in finance and economics, and has specific interest in financial access and healthcare. He has been on the Board of CRISIL, IKP Centre for Technologies in Public Health, the Institute for Financial Management and Research. He currently serves as a member of the RBI Board of Director’s Standing Committee on Financial Inclusion; the Research... more Vinita Bali Vinita Bali is a global business leader with extensive experience in leading large companies, both in India and overseas. She has worked with eminent multinationals like the Britannia Industries Ltd., the Coca-Cola Company and the Cadbury Schweppes PLC in a variety of management roles in the UK, Nigeria, South Africa, Chile, the USA and India. Vinita is currently pursuing her interests in the development sector.... more Ashok Alexander Ashok Alexander comes with a rich experience in the private sector and the public health area. Over a span of 24 years, he has worked in Hong Kong, the United States and India. He has served as Director and Head of the consulting firm- McKinsey and Company, India office. He joined the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, at its inception in July 2003, as the Director of the India Office, and continued there till... more Pages 1 2 3 4 next › last » CARE Initiatives CARE works with more than 200 districts, in a total of 13 states and union terriotories across India Engage educate empower Assurance of a secure life Livelihood Initiative Tsunami Power to Empower Cyclone Hudhud Horlicks Ahaar Abhiyan GiveAssure Help Shanti JK Flood crisis Join my village VIEW ALL Latest Publications Pages from booklet 1 pages from booklet hindi-7-2.pdf READ MORE Case Studies Education Health Livelihood Emergency Blog Resources © 2014 CARE India. All Rights Reserved