Nagaland Government and Politics Home » Nagaland » Nagaland Government and Politics   Nagaland नागालैंड का नक्शा Nagaland Map Kohima City Map Mokokchung City Map Districts of Nagaland Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Society and Culture Media Kohima Location Nagaland Location Physical Map Minerals Map Nagaland Pincode Nagaland STD Code Agriculture Map Capital Lat Long Geography Economy Assemblypolls Places to visit in Nagaland Wildlife Sanctuaries Nagaland Museums Japfu Peak Hotels in Nagaland Dimapur Hotels Kohima Hotels Government & Politics History Universities In Nagaland       Nagaland Government and Politics Nagaland Government The government of Nagaland was first formed in 1964, a year after the state came into existence. P Shilo Ao was the first chief minister of Nagaland and currently it is headed by T R Zeliang. The major political parties in Nagaland are the Naga National Democratic Party, Nagaland People's Front and Nagaland Democratic Party. National parties like the Indian National Congress, Bharatiya Janata Part and Janata Dal (Secular) are also present in the state. The present governor of Nagaland is Padmanabha Balakrishna Acharya. Chief Minister of Nagaland The honorable Chief Minister of Nagaland, who has been appointed as the administrative head of the state, is T R Zeliang. Government Departments The government departments of Nagaland are engaged in the work of administering and managing the different departments of the state government so that the state runs efficiently. The state government comprises of many departments that are headed by the elected ministers of Nagaland. These departments are integral part of government and politics of the state. There are numerous departments in the Nagaland government that look after the different sections of the administration of the state. These Nagaland government departments are as follows: Health and Family Welfare Tourism Forest and Environment Wasteland Department Sericulture Agriculture Horticulture Fishery Department Soil and Water Conservation Higher Education Nagaland Pollution Control Board Raj Bhavan, Kohima Nagaland Information Commission Economics and Statistics Labour and Employment Vetrinary and Animal Husbandry Information Technology Information and Public Relation Finance Public Health Engineering CEO Nagaland Rural Development Education Administrative Training Institute Legal Metrology and Consumer Protection Transport Department Relief and Rehabilitation Department of Law and Justice Planning and Coordination Personnel and Administrative Reforms Public Work Department Department of Excise Department of Parliamentary Affairs Department of Under Developed Areas The different government departments are headed by the ministers of the state and the chief minister of the state, who heads the entire state government of Nagaland. Governor The Governor of Nagaland is appointed by the President of India for a period of five years. He functions as the executive and legislative head of the state. At present Padmanabha Balakrishna Acharya is the Governor of Nagaland. Legislature The Legislature of Nagaland is controlled by the Legislative Assembly of the state and plays a monumental role in the Nagaland government and politics. The speaker presides over the proceedings of the Nagaland Legislative Assembly. The Members of legislative Assembly are the elected representatives from various constituencies of Nagaland. There are 60 Assembly constituencies in Nagaland. Following are the legislative assemblies in Nagaland: Aboi Alongtaki Aghunato Angetyongpang Arkakong Ghaspani-i Dimapur-ii Bhandari Atoizu Akuluto Chazouba Chizami Dimapur-iii Kohima town Longkhim chare Noklak Pfutsero Mongoya Meluri Northern angami-i Mon town Phomching Mokokchung town Jangpetkong Shamator chessore Zunheboto Seyochung sitimi Noksen Moka Pungro kiphire Pughoboto Satakha Impur Phek Southern angami-ii Peren Tizit Longleng Ghaspani-ii Sanis Tehok Dimapur-i Suruhoto Koridang Southern angami-i Northern angami-ii Thonoknyu Tamlu Tenning Tobu Tseminyu Tuensang sadar-ii Tapi Tuli Wokha Tyui Western angami Wakching Political Parties Some national and state political parties of Nagaland have prominent presence in the political scenario of the state. The major state parties in Nagaland form an integral part of the government and politics and include the following: Janata Dal (United) Naga Nationalist Democratic Party: Founded in 1964, the Naga Nationalist Democratic Party is one of the oldest regional parties of the state. Nagaland People's Front: Dr. Shurhozelie Liezietsu is the Chairperson of the party, which is a major ally of the Democratic Alliance of Nagaland. Nagaland Democratic Party: Founded in 1999, the NDP is a regional party in Nagaland. Roland Lotha was the founder convener of the part. It merged with the Nagaland People's Front in the year 2004. The national parties that have prominence in the Nagaland politics are: Indian National Congress Bharatiya Janata Party Janat Dal -Secular Nationalist Congress Party WBST041014 Last Updated on : October 4, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule