 Women Internship Program | Care India Jump to navigation NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India HOME CONTACT US Search Search form Search ABOUT US Overview History Vision/Mission Board Members Management Team OUR WORK Our Approach Where We Work Our Programmes Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness & Response GET INVOLVED Careers Internship Campaigns Volunteer Partnerships Power to Empower NEWS National International CARE India in Media Media Contact DONATE NOW You are here Home » women internship program The Woman Internship Programme of CARE India is a leadership development model for women, who have a keen interest in working in the development arena, and are dedicated to build a world in which women and girls from marginalized sections, especially Dalits and Adivasis, are able to live a life of dignity. These interns, through the Internship Programme, are able to develop their leadership ablities, professional skills and social conscientiousness. Donate Now Women Internship Program CARE India provides internship opportunities to fresh graduates and post-graduates who wish to pursue a career in the field of development. The goal of the internship program is to groom the interns to take up leadership positions in the development space in future while improving the gender balance in CARE. Objectives To provide female graduates and post-graduates the opportunity to apply theoretical concepts to real life situations To develop professional skills of interns in areas of their interest To develop a pool of well-trained women who can successfully compete in the future for various positions in development organisations The internship program has a clear focus on female graduates and post-graduates. Benefits for the Intern Internship provides individuals the chance to: Explore different career options in the development sector Master valuable work-related skills Develop professional relationships Obtain work experience Build a resume within a chosen field Eligibility Potential women university graduates are eligible for the internship program. Candidates should have interest and commitment to work in the development field. Ethnic and religious diversity is also considered during the selection process. Selection Process Applications are invited for internship program through advertisement. Selection process is competitive, which includes psychometric test, presentation and panel interview. Duration 6 months Program Detail After the Foundation Workshop, the interns are placed in different projects and programs to gain hands-on experience of development activities in CARE India with the support of their respective coach. Hub HR managers will be their mentors and will be guiding them over the internship period. An intern is placed in a project/program/department under a coach for 6 months and receives necessary coaching and guidance from her coach. Based on the action plan, the coach mutually designs specific timeframe for each assignment. The coach also ensures all sorts of support and facilities required for an intern. An Intern is assessed in all aspects of her work mentioned in her SOW/TOR by her coach according to the action-plan. She receives interim feedback by her coach. The final assessment is completed at the end of the program. An Intern receives a consolidated amount of Rs. 12,000 (Rs. Twelve Thousand only) per month as stipend. This includes daily local transportation to and from the office.    Internship Program Name * Email * Phone no. * Internship for * Attachment * Position applied for * - Select - ANDHRA PRADESH BIHAR – IFHI BIHAR – BHSR CHATTISGARH BHUJ GUJARAT JHARKHAND ORISSA MADHYA PRADESH TAMILNADU UTTAR PRADESH WEST BENGAL Latest Publications Pages from booklet 1 pages from booklet hindi-7-2.pdf READ MORE Case Studies Education Health Livelihood Emergency Blog Resources © 2014 CARE India. All Rights Reserved