Are neem based crop inputs cost effective? - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Are neem based crop inputs cost effective? Home Are neem based crop inputs cost effective? Neem seeds have a high content of azadirachtin and limonoids. These ingredients have potent pest control properties due to which they are used in pesticide formulations. Azadirachtin and limonoids extracted from the seeds are formulated as pesticides in various concentrations for use in agriculture. The neem oil extracted from the seeds finds use in cosmetics and skin care. The seed cake left behind after oil extraction in also an excellent manure and soil conditioner. But are these crop inputs economical for large scale farming? AgricultureInformation.com Forum Mr. Swamy, a member of AgricultureInformation.com, agrees neem is part and parcel of the farming community life. “Farmers used to grow at least 10 trees in their land earlier. But nowadays the farmers are cutting down all the trees on their land, including neem tree, since trees take away chemicals and fertilizers intended for the crops,” he says. He adds, “The benefits of neem have been known for centuries. It is very simple to use. I feel the present rates of neem products are high. Being a farmer I don’t want any middle men for using neem. I know how to grow it and how to use neem for my benefit. Therefore I will not encourage buying the freely available neem from market by paying huge amounts.” Neem Processing Another member, Mr. Bhadrinath disagrees with Mr. Swamy. He stresses on the importance of value added and processed products. He informs that due to post harvest problems, neem fruits get contaminated with stones and sand, mistaken for adulteration. He adds, “Many lost crores in neem business when inferior varieties of neem seeds are not examined.” Member Mr. Mahaacharya, defends Mr. Swamy. He says, “We do not get genuine products even by paying money. Neem seeds are not necessary for preparing the pesticides and insecticides. We are a team of more than 25000 farmers now in A.P. using desi cow dung, urine and wherever necessary neem leaves or even local leaves like lanten camella. In our agricultural practices, even the toughest diseases like gumosis disappeared within a week’s time.” He adds, “These are all the preparations done locally by the farmers themselves. Instead of selling products, educate the farmers and we can get cost effective food, free from toxins.” Procurement of Neem Seeds Mr. Sujay Ojha, CEO of Neem India, further speaks about the procurement process of the seeds, Mr. Ojha says, “While procuring neem seeds the company has to ensure that the moisture content is minimal. Since the procurement process is done during the monsoons, the moisture content becomes a critical issue. Higher moisture in neem seeds leads to internal combustion due to which charring takes place and ultimately destroys the properties of neem. Therefore, continuous drying operations have to be carried out along with providing proper storage conditions which help in not just reducing the nutrient loss but also improving the shelf life for longer use. Since neem seeds are available in monsoon period, it needs to be stored for a full one year till the next crop comes in. Hence, managing of neem seeds becomes a major task.” Benefits of Neem Products Mr. Ojha maintains that neem pesticides are very popular for controlling white flies and other sucking pests. “Neem insecticides are systemic as well as contact in action, thereby controlling many species of insects and pests whether these are of the sucking or chewing type. Likewise it is very effective against thrips, aphids, jassids, white fly, leaf minor, and the larvae of different species of Lepidoptera and other insects of other order,” he says. Regarding reports of neem based pesticides retarding growth in cole crops, Mr. Ojha says, “Throughout my working experience, I haven’t encountered any such issues in cole crops. Infact, neem based biopesticides are very well recommended against the sucking pests in the cole crops. Apart from these, the control of DBM i.e. Diamond Backed Moth, a nuisance to the cole crop becomes easy with these neem based formulations.” Further speaking about the effectiveness of neem coated urea in controlling soil borne pests, he adds, “Urea is used for supplementing the nitrogen requirement in the soil. The basic purpose of neem oil coating in urea is ensuring the continuous and optimal supply of nitrogen to the crops as required at its different stages of growth. Apart from this, the inherent pesticidal property of neem is also effected in soil. It not only controls soil borne pests but also helps in controlling various soil borne fungal diseases too.” He also maintains neem biopesticides are effective at all temperatures, clarifying, “Yes, in case of lower concentration neem formulations, where the neem oil content is more, instances of solidification at sub-zero temperatures have been observed, which after liquefying can be diluted and used as per instructions. However, the effectiveness of the biopesticide remains unaltered. Moreover, all the pesticides registered within the country do conform to various laboratory tests, thereby taking care of both low and high temperature environmental conditions.” Mr. Karan Sikri, director, Sikri Farms, is happy with the results of neem products in his farm. He says, “Need fertilizers and pesticides are natural and amazing. They are the part of integrated approach in farming. I have found brilliant results in my own farms. When we use these kinds of products, production increases with lesser efforts and the quality of the fruit becomes amazing.” Adding, “There is only one problem. In India it is rare to find such genuine and authentic items.” Horticulturist Erica Glasener uses neem oil as environmentally friendly method for controlling certain pest and disease problems. She feels it is best to use neem oil because it is a natural, bio-degradable product. Plants are coated with the oil and insect pests including aphids, whiteflies, webworms, mealybugs and caterpillars avoid eating the treated leaves; then starve to death. However, member Mr. Gunda has a different point of view. “Neem products are not just expensive, but also not very effective. The properties of need are hyped. India does not have the quality of neem products to meet the agriculture requirement,” he says. Use of Neem Products in Horticulture Member Edeel wants to learn more about the use of neem-based inputs like pesticide and manure in horticulture, especially on mango orchards in north India which are heavily depended on chemical pesticide from last 25-30 years. “Since the commercialization of mangoes, orchard friendly predators like red aunt have vanished due to the pesticide use, which had helped keep the different pest threats under check. He wants to learn about the results of using neem products on their orchards as pesticide and fixing the soil nutrients, NPK with neem manure.” He wants to know if neem based pesticides are good enough to control different pest occurring in different time and months in mango orchards like mealy bug, mango hopper, fruit fly, leaf webber, shoot borer, steam borer, caterpillar, and scale insects. “Most importantly if neem pesticide is sprayed on mango fruit when it is still on the trees from the attack of fruit fly, does the neem pesticide effect mangoes taste, aroma, ripening, and texture in anyway?” Mr. Ojha replies, “Neem based products like pesticide and manure offer good result in horticulture specially in mango orchards. All the ranges of neem based agricultural products are widely accepted in horticultural field. The State Horticulture Department promotes these products among horticultural growers. In mango plant, the neem manures are recommended throughout its growth. The spray of neem insecticides on the tree shows the excellent result against leaf hoppers and stem borers.” Adding, “These pesticides are effective round the year and against all types of pests attack in mango plant whether it be mealy bugs, fruit fly or stem borer.” Regarding any side effects on the taste, aroma, ripening and texture of the fruits, Mr. Ojha says, “There is no ill effect on any of the attributes of mangoes when sprayed with neem insecticides while hanging on the tree. Neem insecticides are organic in nature and 100% biodegradable, and hence do not have any adverse effect on the produce.” Further speaking about the use of neem products in fixing the soil nutrients, and NPK, Mr. Ojha says, “Neem manures are widely used to enrich the soil with the organic matter and its other limonoids apart from inherent NPK and other macro and micro nutrients. In orchards, neem manures and biopesticdes are recommended for both pest control and its soil conditioning attributes. For kitchen gardens, we strongly recommend the lower concentrations neem pesticides or any organic pesticides because these are quite safe for the house (as it comes under green triangle).” He adds, “If an urban dweller is having an ornamental plant in a pot then a fist full of neem manure spread around its periphery will take care of the plant for a month, and with regular replenishing, it helps in a healthy growth of the plant for a long time. This will not only fulfill the nutrient requirement of the plant but will also take care of all the soil borne pests and diseases. Normally, sucking pests are the nuisance to the household plants. For these, we recommend neem pesticide of 1500 ppm (3 -4 ml per liter of water) or 3000 ppm ( 2-3 ml per liter of water) to be sprayed on the plants. This will not only take care of all the types of sucking pest will also protect it from the insect larva from damaging the plants.” Ratio and Frequency of Use One member wanted to know in what ratio and frequency neem based crop protection inputs must be used in the farm in order to have healthy plantation. Mr. Shantanu Kumar, proprietor, SK Agri Consultant Farm replies, “Ratio depends on the percentage of effected plants in crop as well as density of insect, pest, and fungus. It varies from crop to crop and plant to plant. Normally for normal condition as preventive dose, we recommended 20 ml. If 2000 PPM in 10 lit water it can be repeated after 15 days.” Member Ashwini wants to know if the neem based insecticides can be used directly or to increase their efficacy should they be mixed with any adjuvant and sprayed. To this Mr. Shantanu says, “Neem is one of the good sources of agro input, but there are so many other powerful natural sources of organic agro inputs like pongomia, ipomea, accrus calamus, and bibidding, besides others. These are the tested plants.” Adding to Mr. Shantanu’s inputs, Mr. Ojha says, “There are various other botanical sources having potent properties suitable as agri-input. Extracts of custard apple, pongamia, garlic, chillies, and other such crops have proven their efficacy in the field. However, the non-timber forest produce from trees like pongamia, fruit trees such as custard apple, or food crops such as chillies or garlic, have to be more organized for the extraction in agri-input sector. Moreover, commercial extraction of such organic sources is yet to be explored in a feasible manner. Apart from these, the acceptability of such organic inputs is also to be assessed. However, the time has come when such natural and organic inputs are promoted aggressively, so as to bring these in mainstream practices, thereby giving the buyer and opportunity to make a choice as per discretion.” Local vs. Branded Dr. P. Santhan, Natural Remedies Private Limited, says, “Neem based inputs are cost effective if it sourced locally. Whenever a product is entered inside the branded market the price increases and it goes beyond the reach of the ordinary farmer. Farmers can use neem oil mixed with soap and spray to control fungus, bacteria, viral and insect infections. Neem oil cake can be used as source of protein and mineral supplement for the crop. Along with neem oil pongamia oil, ground nut oil cake, panchakavya can be used for the cost effective pest control.” Future of Neem Based Products in India Mr. Ojha maintains that the neem products are gradually being accepted by consumers. He is positive about its future potential. “In the coming years, the demand for neem seeds will be tremendous as its uses find applications in categories other than agriculture. The cosmetics industry, which is now catering to more number of neem products, is an example. The government is also promoting it more. The international market has already opened up for neem products. As the applications get diverse and usage of products will gain substantial increase and the demand for neem seeds will also increase,” he adds. Commenting on the future of neem based products in Inida, Mr. Ojha says, “The future for these products is very good, and these products when promoted in the right manner will give a steady growth rate. The share of these products is increasing which is now about 3-4% of the overall chemical pesticides market. Moreover, the growth rate of these products of about 10-15% is more than the growth rate of its chemical counterparts which is about 5-10%. This itself shows that the scope of these products will be increasing with time.” He adds, “However, the flow of various goods in the name of organic and botanical products without having any confirmed or certified efficacy, affect the reputation of genuine products. This normally happens when the acceptability increases and fly-by-night operators get an inkling of making a quick buck on the go. Proper regulation is the need of the hour which will help weed out such products from the market. Neem products have already found a foothold in human and veterinary segment where various uses are being addressed.” Regarding increasing competition in this segment, Mr. Ojha says, “There are number of neem-based products in the market. But the companies which can assure the quality products consistently are few. Again just putting these products in the market is not sufficient to generate sales. The neem products agri-inputs market is more of concept selling. We disseminate information to the farmers by focused awareness programs where properties and the uses of neem-based products are not just told but demonstrated on field. Also we provide other agriculture related services to the farming community. These programs are continued on regular basis irrespective of the sales generated in a region. So product quality and the technical services, both help us to make our company and the products unique among the farming community. We believe that if genuine neem products gain acceptance, the farmers and manufacturers will benefit at appropriate levels accordingly.” Awareness for Neem Products Mr. Ojha futher stresses on spreading awareness about the products, “To spread awareness about the products, we not only engage with the farming community, but also at the advisory bodies’ level for IPM programmes. We conduct numerous farmer meetings both in large scale and small scale where the various benefits of neem are demonstrated along with their compatibility to the current agricultural practices, where chemical inputs play an important role in crop/pest/nutrient management. Additional activities include focused pest management campaigns, visibility through trade fairs, agri-forums, demonstrations and trials of the products,” he adds.  Mr. Ojha informs the Agriculture Ministry is aggressively promoting organic agriculture across the country where they educate farmers regarding the application of neem biopesticides, neem fertilizers and even neem coated urea along with other bio products. The relevant Government agencies even supply these products on very subsidized rates to the small farmers under various programmes such as IPM, and NHM, besides others. Our Correspondent Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Are neem based crop inputs cost effective? Related – articles, consultants, downloads SPS Organics India – supplier of neem based organic inputs Neem India Products Nico Orgo Manure Why organic farming has not yet taken off? You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013