Akbar India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » History » Akbar   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Akbar Akbar Biography Jalaludin Mohammad Akbar or Akbar The Great was the son of Nasiruddin Humayun. He was born on 15th October 1542 in the Rajput fortress of Umarkot, Sind. When he was born Humayun was in exile He was raised by his uncle Askari and his wife in Afghanistan. In his youth he learnt to hunt, run and fight but he never learnt to read and write, but was a well informed ruler with refined taste in every field. He ascended the throne on 14th February 1556, when his father Humayun died of an accident. At that time Akbar was barely 13 years old and in his initial days he was under the able guidance of one of his father's minister Bairam Khan After ascending the throne he decided to destroy the power of Sikander Shah Suri, son of Sher Shah Suri, in Punjab , and left the city of Delhi under Tardi Beg Khan. He succeded in this and Sikander Shah withdrew from the territories, but in Delhi, sensing the opportunity, another Hindu ruler Hemu attacked Delhi and Tardi Beg Khan fled the city. Akbar met the forces of Hemu at the second battle of Panipat and defeated him. He was a very efficient ruler and tried to bring almost whole of the India under his rule. For this he adopted various strategies, at some places he used his military power while at other he used his administrative skills. He formed marital alliances with many Hindu states. After marriage he did not force his Hindu wives to convert to Islam instead encouraged them to practice their own religion. He respected all the religions of the world. According to him all the religions lead us to one God. His secular outlook resulted in the formation of a new religion called Din-e-Elahi, Faith of the Divine. He built a building called Ibadat Khana (house of worship), where he encouraged religious debate He had Nine Navaratnas or nine jewels at his court, this include: Abul Fazel, Faizi, Tansen, Birbal, Raja Todar Mal, Raja Man Singh, Abdul Rahim Khan-I-Khana, Fakir Aziao-Din and Mullah Do Piazza. The last years of his reign were not peaceful. His son Salim, later known as Emperor Jahangir, rebelled against him. He died in Agra , and was buried in Sikandra, where his magnificent mausoleum stands today. Facts and Information about Akbar Full name Abu'l-Fath Jalal ud-din Muhammad Akbar I Known as Akbar the Great Regin 11 February 1556 - 27 October 1605 Born 14 October 1542 (Umerkot, Sindh) Died 27 October 1605 (Fatehpur Sikri, Agra) Buried at Sikandra, Agra Religion Islam, Din-e-Illahi Dynasty Mughal Dynasty Coronation 14 February 1556 Predeccessor Humayun Successor Jahangir Regent Bairam Khan (1556-1561) Consort Ruqaiya Sultan Begum Wives Heer Kunwari, Hira Kunwari, Harka Bai, Jodha Bai Salima Sultan Begum House House of Timur Father Humayun Mother Hamida Banu Begum Grandfather Babur Grandmother Maham Begum Children Jahangir, Daniyal, Sultan Murad Mirza, Hassan, Hussain Married Akbar married Ruqaiya Sultan Begum, his first cousin, at Kabul in November 1551. She was his chief consort. The young emperor After Humayun's death, the 13-year-old Akbar was crowned in Kalanaur, Punjab by Bairam Khan. Until Akbar became capable to rule independetly, Bairam Khan decided on state affairs. Reclaiming Delhi On 5 November 1556, Hemu and the Sur army were defeated by Akbar's army that was being led by Bairam Khan at the Second Battle of Panipat. Dismissing Bairam Khan On the advice of his foster mother, Maham Anaga, and his relatives, Bairam Khan was dismissed by Akbar in 1560. Expansion into Central India In 1564, the Gondwana kingdom was conquered by the Mughal forces. Battle of Haldighati In 1576 the Mughals defeated Pratap Singh, the son and successor of Udai Singh, at the Battle of Haldighati. Conquering Baluchistan Baluchistan was also conquered by the Mughal Empire. The Safavids and Kandahar In 1558, Tahmasp I, the Safavid emperor, surrouded Kandahar and overthrew its Mughal governor. Taxation Akbar adopted decentraized annual assessment of taxation, but it failed in 1580. A system called the Dahsala was started instead. Akbar was perhaps the first to adpot a target-based remuneration system for his revenue officials. They were to receive only three-quarters of their salary, the rest being payable only when the revenue targets were met. Capital In 1599, Agra was made the capital of the kingdom. Coinage Coins introduced by Akbar were round and square, having dotted borders, floral motifs, and quatrefoil. They were also designed in the 'mehrab' shape. Patron of scholars Akbar patronized Muslim scholars like Tahir Muhammad Thattvi and Mir Ahmed Nasrallah Thattvi. Din-i-Ilahi Akbar propounded a syncretic religion, the Din-i Ilahi in 1582 AD. Being far ahead of its time, the idea failed. Relation with Hindus Akbar declared that there would be no death penalty for people converting to Hinduism. Akbar celebrated Diwali. Brahmans were allowed to wear strings round their wrists by way of blessing. Beef was renounced and the sale of meat was forbidden on certain days. Mention in literature Ain-i-Akbari and Akbarnama by Abul Fazal. Books by Badayuni, Shaikhzada Rashidi and Shaikh Ahmed Sirhindi. The Akbarnama is a biography of Akbar in Persian. Death He died on or about 27 October 1605. His burial chamber was made at a mausoleum in Sikandra, Agra. Films and television Jodhaa Akbar Mughal-e-Azam Akbar-Birbal (TV serial) Akbar the Great (TV serial) Jodha Akbar (TV serial) Fiction The Enchantress of Florence by Salman Rushdie (2008) Video games Civilization 4: Beyond the Sword Age of Empires III: The Asian Dynasties Blogs about Akbar The Tomb of Atgah Khan, an Allegiant Noble in Akbar’s Court : Location: Nizamuddin Basti, New Delhi Among the unsung forts of Delhi, yet another ornate structure that calls for attention is the tomb of Atgah Khan. Even though Atgah Khan had an important role to play in history, not many of us are aware about who this noble man was. To begin with, Shamsuddin Muhammad Atgah Khan was the foster-father and chief advisor of the Mughal emperor Jallaluddin Akbar. He was the husband of one of… read more... The Desolate Tomb of Khan-i-Khanan (Rahim) : Location: Mathura Road, Nizamuddin area, Delhi Most of us have been taught about the famous poet Rahim's couplets as a part of the Hindi curriculum in our school time. But how many of us actually know that this learned man, whose literary works still glorify the nation, lies buried in a desolate tomb in Delhi? Not many, perhaps. Mirza Abdul Rahim Khan-i-Khanan was a great scholar and a gem of Emperor Akbar's court. He was… read more... The Akbar-Birbal Stories We Know and Love – History as Anecdote – Part 4 : After part 1, 2 and 3, I consider how it is that the Akbar-Birbal stories have traveled across time. I do this to see if the events as they as showcased in the stories actually happened, or, are entirely fictitious? My opinion is that these stories have been coloured over time, especially if we consider the folk form, and have twisted and turned into how we know these stories today. To begin with the history… read more... The Akbar-Birbal Stories We Know and Love – History as Anecdote – Part 3 : I left part 1 and 2 talking about the pattern of the Akbar-Birbal stories that we know and love. I wondered why they seemed to show Akbar in a poor light and highlighted some among many of Akbar's activities which showed religious tolerance. I also mentioned Birbal and Akbar's closeness to his once-discovered courtier, who was Akbar's only Hindu courtier. So, is the one-upmanship displayed of Birbal over Akbar, as depicted in the stories, a… read more... The Akbar-Birbal Stories We Know and Love – History as Anecdote – Part 1 : One day Akbar Badshah commanded Birbar [=Birbal], "Bring me a Muslim turned into a Hindu." Birbal asked for the respite of one week. The king agreed. When six days had passed, on the seventh day Birbar took a donkey to the river and busied himself in bathing it. It happened that Akbar Badshah too came to the river. He asked, "Oh Birbar, what are you doing?"  He submitted, "Refuge of the World, I am bathing… read more...   Related Links   Medieval India Alivardi Khan Krishna Deva Raya Rana Sanga Kautilya Ibrahim Lodhi Jehangir Noor Jehan Iltutmish Mumtaz Mahal Harihar and Bukka Muhammad Bin Tughlaq Ghiasuddin Balban Jijabai Aurangzeb Chatrapati Shivaji Allauddin Khilji Bairam Khan Akbar Rana Pratap Babar Birbal Humayun Tanaji Prithviraj Chauhan Shah Jahan Sher Shah Suri Samudragupta Tansen Razia Sultana Qutubuddin Aibak Rajendra Chola Rajaraja Chola Raja Todar Mal Raja Man Singh Last Updated on : February 1, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule