Mahodaya Hybrid Seeds - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Mahodaya Hybrid Seeds Home Mahodaya Hybrid Seeds Specializing in production and marketing of hybrid and improved variety seeds. Located in  Jalna, Maharashtra R.D. Salegaonkar Mahodaya Hybrid Seeds Pvt. Ltd. is a seeds company specializing in production and marketing of hybrid and improved variety seeds. The company was established in 2002. It supplies seeds of cereals, fiber, legumes, oilseeds and vegetable crops. The company The company is based in Jalna, Maharashtra. It has its operations in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. “Mahodaya aims to produce seeds of high yielding, superior performing, disease tolerant, adaptable hybrids and varieties,” says Mr. R.D. Salegaonkar, manager marketing,adding, “We have hybrid seeds of sorghum, pearl millet, sunflower, maize and hybrid vegetables: Hy. chilli, okra, and gourds, beside others. We preserve the seeds in well-conditioned godowns.” The company has its largestclient base in Maharashtra. They also have clientbase in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Benefits of Hybrid Seeds When asked about the impact of hybrid variety of seeds, Mr.Salegaonkar avers, “For hybrid seed cultivation, the farmer has to purchase the seed every time from the seed companies. However, if any OP variety seed is cultivated, there is no need to purchase the seed every time. Because of hybrid seeds we are meeting the demand for food catering to the huge population of India and at this stage our county is independent particularly in jowar, bajra, maize, soyabean, paddy and vegetables except pulses and oil seeds.However now there are also limitations of yield for hybrids and considering this yield level, we may face shortages of food due to increasing populations in future. Hence for third green revolution, genetic modified crops may play important role for food security.” He says, “At this stage only genetically modifiedcotton seedsare available. The main advantage of BT cotton is increase in yield. There has been approx. 50% higher yield in BT cotton fields compared with non BT cotton fields. The usage of pesticides is also reduced for control of boll worm in cotton crop.” Adding,” Maharashtra Hybrid Company (Mahyco) obtained permission from department of biotechnology Government of India and crossed its Indian cotton breeding seed lines to introgress the Cry 1AC gene. From 1996 to 1998 several studies were conducted and they have introduced BT cotton in 2002. At present the area under BT cotton is about 121 lakh hector in India.” Mr. Salegaonkar maintains that the seeds industry comprises of more than 600 players of which 17 are from public sector and rest are from the private sector. “Mahyco, Monsanto, Nuzeeveedu, Rasi, Ankur, Krishidhan, Ajeet, Vibha, and Pioneer are the important players of the Indian seed industry. The seed industry has grown to a size of about Rs. 7000 crores. At present the supply of seeds is sufficient. However there may be shortage of particular variety which is popular among the farmers,” he says. Encouraging joint ventures between the Indian seeds industry and the companies abroad, Mr. Salegaonkar says, “Joint venture is good opportunity for the Indian seeds industry, as India is having favorable atmospheric condition for production of different crops. The international companies have technology and good source of germplasm in specific crops. So I think it is mutually beneficial.” Explaining pre-commercial hybrid seeds, Mr. Salegaonkar says, “Research & Development is an important activity in the seed company. After thousands of crosses between male and female lines one/two hybrids are developed with desirable characters. The selected hybrids are tested in IHT (Initial Hybrid Trials), AHT (Advanced Hybrid Trials) and demonstrations. During these trials, the data related to yield, maturity, reaction to pestsand diseases, grain quality / fiber properties are collected. After comparison with the checks (promising hybrids in the market), the hybrid is released for marketing after testing in different agro climatic conditions and subject to better performance.” Government Measures “At present 70% of the total field crop sales are handled by private sector. The government has to consider the important role of seed industry in food security. There is need for central government to step in to ensure that uniform procedures are practiced across the country by different state governments. The government should consider skill building in seed production under NAREGA and also consider for concessional funding for infrastructure and tax holiday for seed industry,” avers Mr. Salegaonkar. Future Plans The company plans to introduce hybrids in field crops with high yielding capacity and is pest and disease tolerant. Mr. Salegaonakr says, “We feel that there may be shortage in food grains as the area under these crops is decreasing due to lower prices. But considering the increasing population it is the need to adopt high yielding hybrids of field crops for the food security of our country.” Mr. Salegaonkar is an agriculture graduate. He has 18 years of experience in the seeds sector. “I am working in this company since establishment and looking after sales & marketing activities of the company,” he adds. Our Correspondent For more information contact : Mahodaya Hybrid Seeds Pvt. Ltd., Above Axis Bank, Head Post Office Road, Post Box No. 60, Jalna – 431 203 Maharashtra (India) Phone No: 02482 239489/ 90 Mobile: 094222 17320 Email: mahodayaseeds@gmail.com Web: www.mahodayaseeds.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Mahodaya Hybrid Seeds Related – articles, consultants, downloads Yaaganti Seeds – hybrid seeds Maharashtra Hybrid Seeds Nuziveedu Seeds – specializes in hybrid seeds Nirmal Seeds You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water