Disclaimer | Department of Agricultural Research and Education Skip to main content Department of Agricultural Research and Education Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India Search form Search Home About us From Secretary's Desk RTI Tenders Contact Us English हिन्दी What's New Agriculture Minister Addresses G-20 Agriculture Ministers Meet Crop Residues Management Unit Inaugurated at IIVR, Varanasi Annual Group Meeting of AICRP - National Seed Project (Crops) DG, ICAR Inaugurates Meat Processing Unit of ICAR-NRC on Meat, Hyderabad Union Minster for Agriculture Appriciated ICAR-NBAIR Admin Setup Telephone Directory RFD Parliament Questions Lok Sabha Rajya Sabha Publications Annual Reports Circulars Events Public Grivances DARE Organizations ICAR Central Agricultural University Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University Agrinnovate India International Cooperation Bilateral Multilateral CGIAR Important links Citizen's / Client's Charter Interact with Hon’ble PM What's New Disclaimer All efforts have been made to ensure accuracy of the content on this Website, the same should not be construed as a statement of law or used for any legal purposes. Department of Agricultural Research and Education accepts no responsibility in relation to the accuracy, completeness, usefulness or otherwise, of the contents. Users are advised to verify/check any information with the relevant department(s) and/or other source(s), and to obtain any appropriate professional advice before acting on the information provided in the Website. In no event will the Government or Department of Agricultural Research and Education be liable for any expense, loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any expense, loss or damage whatsoever arising from use, or loss of use, of data, arising out of or in connection with the use of this Website. Links to other websites that have been included on this Website are provided for public convenience only. Department of Agricultural Research and Education is not responsible for the contents or reliability of linked websites and does not necessarily endorse the view expressed within them. We cannot guarantee the availability of such linked pages at all times. Material featured on this Website may be reproduced free of charge after taking proper permission by sending a mail to us. However, the material has to be reproduced accurately and not to be used in a derogatory manner or in a misleading context. Wherever the material is being published or issued to others, the source must be prominently acknowledged. However, the permission to reproduce this material shall not extend to any material which is identified as being copyright of a third party. Authorisation to reproduce such material must be obtained from the departments/copyright holders concerned. These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Indian Laws. Any dispute arising under these terms and conditions shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of India. Home | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Linking Policy Copyright © 2012 Department of Agricultural Research And Education Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India New Delhi-110 001. INDIA Site hosted by NIC Developed and Maintained by vivekdubey [at] gmail [dot] com (Vivek Dubey) Content updation by mitaligr [at] icar [dot] org [dot] in (Mitali Ghosh Roy) , DKMA , ICAR