Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Programmes/themes >> Rainfed Farming Development Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme The rainfed agriculture plays a crucial role in India, covering 68 per cent of the total net sown area in 177 districts. Uncertainty in production due to fluctuations in rainfall and its distribution, decrease in relative productivity in rainfed lands affect the livelihoods of the poor and marginalised farmers. DHAN Foundation launched 'Rainfed Farming Development Programme (RFDP)', to make the rainfed farming viable by improving the total factor productivity through location specific interventions. The programme has the following approaches: Organising farmers into uzhavar kuzhu (farmers’ group), building nested institutions of Rainfed Watershed Association, Uzhavar Mandram and federating them into Uzhavar Mamandrams at block level. Building on the local best practices of farmers in rainfed farming, both indigenous and exogenous, by documenting, standardizing and disseminating information. Designing and implementing context-specific, multiple and interrelated interventions across sub-sectors like agriculture, livestock and horticulture through land development, organic matter build up, crop production enhancement and livestock development. Developing and offering a package of social security products such as deficit rainfall insurance, crop insurance, livestock insurance and human insurance to mitigate the risks and vulnerabilities of rainfed farmers. Creating access to savings and credit services for farmers through their groups. Build the capacity of farmers in the areas of proven rainfed farming technologies, leadership development, and change in attitude of farmers towards rainfed farming to lead to significant changes. ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved