ï»¿ AED     Gallery Links Site Map FAQ           Home Schemes Central Sector Demonstration of Agricultural Machinery and Implements Training to Farmers on operation and maintenance of Agrl. Machinery State Sector Rain water harvesting and Run off management programme Master plan - Artificial Recharge to Ground Water SWC in Tribal areas under Integrated Tribal Development Programme Pulses Villages in Rain fed Areas - NADP Scheme to Revive Agriculture In Fallow Land - NADP SWC under Hill Area Development Programme Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project Soil Conservations in the Catchment of River Valley Project - NADP SWC under Western Ghats Development Programme Agricultural Mechanization under NADP Training on operation and maintenance of farm machinery Training rural youth on agricultural machinery and implements Diesel Engine Pump set with Rain gun / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation. Solar Powered Pumping system with Micro Irrigation Solar Chilli Drier Onion Storage structures TN IAMWARM Project Centre and State Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Command Area Development and Water Management Programme Services Land Development Minor Irrigation Mandate Downloads RTI Contacts                                 Schemes State Sector   Scheme to Revive Agriculture In Fallow Land under NADP       Objectives     Reviving agriculture in fallow lands for increasing the area under agriculture. Increasing the production and productivity of the fallow lands. Improving the economic status of the fallow land farmers.     Funding Pattern     State Plan Scheme     Project Area     Villupuram District.     Details of Works     Land Leveling Contour Bunding Compartmental Bunding Ploughing with Chisel Plough     Eligibility     All the farmers in Villupuram district whose lands are categorized as fallow lands as per revenue records.     Subsidy     Works in patta lands are taken up with 50% back ended subsidy.     Officer to be approached     Assistant Executive Engineer (A.E)s in the Villupuram district Executive Engineer (A.E) in the Villupuram. Superintending Engineer (A.E) in the Villupuram. Chief Engineer(AE), Agricultural Engineering Department, 487, Anna Salai, Nandanam, Chennai-600 035. Phone - 24352686, 24352622                            