Financial Sector of India Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Indian Sectors         Export Sector Financial Sector Industry Sectors Manufacturing Companies Private Sector Public Sector Agriculture Sector Sectoral Analysis Export Sector Import Sector Retail Sector Service Sector Tourism sector Sectoral Trends IIP You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Sectors » Financial » Financial Sector of India Financial Sector of India Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  8  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 Financial Sector of India is intrinsically strong, operationally sundry and exhibits competence and flexibility besides being sensitive to India’s economic aims of developing a market oriented, industrious and viable economy. An established financial sector assists greater standards of endowments and endorses expansion in the economy with its intensity and exposure. The fiscal sector in India entails banks, financial organization, markets and services. The sector is classified as organized and conventional sector that is also recognized as unofficial finance market. Fiscal transactions in an organized industry are executed by a number of financial organizations which are commercial in nature and offer monetary services to the society. Further classification includes banking and non-banking enterprises, often recognized as activities that are client specific. The chief controller of the finance in India is the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and is regarded as the supreme organization in the fiscal structure. Other significant fiscal organizations are business banks, domestic rural banks, cooperative banks and development banks. Non-banking fiscal organizations entail credit and charter firms and other organizations like Unit Trust of India, Provident Funds, Life Insurance Corporation, Mutual funds, GIC, etc. Financial Sector of India – Eligibility for government autonomy Mentioned below are certain criterions that are required to be fulfilled for acquiring government autonomy in India: Availability of sufficient fund of up to 8% Accessibility of total non-performing wealth of below 9% Minimum net possessed funds of more than USD 2.5 million and net revenues of minimum past three years. Financial institutions that satisfy the abovementioned requirements will be authorized functional independence in almost all managerial areas. Financial Sector of India – RBI guidelines for NBFC's The Reserve Bank of India has relaxed its guidelines for the operation of non-bank finance companies (NBFCs) in India considering the various investments from the investors. It has also permitted leasing of machinery and rent-buying credit firms with endowment level rankings to avail public savings increase the maximum limit on the amount of public investments on these NBFCs that may allow and expand the closing date for observance on its norms by two years. The fiscal competitiveness of several NBFCs persists to be of importance to the administration and reserve bank of India controllers. There is a significant merging activity in this industry as NBFCs are regulated by stringent yardsticks that are obligatory to fulfill. In addition, India has entered into new agreements with WTO in the area of fiscal services in Geneva on December 1997. Financial Sector of India – Chief Characteristics Some of the major characteristics of Financial Sector of India are: The financial sector of India allows Most Favored Nation (MFN) reputation to all international banks and firms offering financial facilities. The sector has relaxed previous MFN tax exemption on banking activities. Allows 12 new financial bank division authorizations every year to international banks, that is higher as compared to the existing 8 every year. Raises the 10% limit of reinsurance by insurance firms in India. Permits 51% foreign endowment in fiscal advisory, issuing, hiring, business enterprise capital, business banking and non-banking credit firms. Find below detailed information on Financial Sector in India: Financial Sector of India Analysis of Indian Financial Sector Bond Market in India Centrum Finance Limited CIL Securities Limited Growth of Financial Sector in India Karvy Group L& T Finance Limited Major Financial Companies in India PNB Gilts Limited Stock Market in India About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED