Kerala Pilgrimage Centers Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Kerala Travel Honeymoon in Kerala Hotels in Kerala Kerala Food How to Reach Kerala Airports in Kerala Tour Operators Kerala Attractions Kerala Backwaters Beaches in Kerala Wildlife in Kerala Hill stations in Kerala Kerala Water sports Shopping in Kerala Ayurvedic Resorts Pilgrimage Places Museums in Kerala Places to Visit in Kerala Trivandrum Travel Alleppey Travel Kannur Travel Kozhikode Travel Munnar Travel Thrissur Travel Wayanad Travel Kumarakom Travel Periyar National Park Thekkady Travel Kochi Travel Kovalam Travel Idukki Travel Mallapuram Travel Palakkad Travel Pathanamthitta Travel Varkala Travel Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya About Kerala Weather in Kerala History of Kerala Culture of Kerala Kerala Festivals Nehru Trophy Boat Race Champakulam Boat Race Aranmula Snake Boat Race Gramam Village Fair Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Cities in Kerala Lat Long Map Outline Map Districts in Kerala Kerala Road Map Kerala Railway Map Home » Maps » Kerala » Travel to Kerala Kerala Pilgrimage Kerala Pilgrimage Centers Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Kerala Pilgrimage Map showing all the pilgrimage centers in Kerala. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The native Dravidians of Kerala worshipped nature gods, elements, animals, spirits and a pantheon of ancestors. Some gods like Mari Amman (goddess causing and curing the pox), Bhagavathy and Dharma Sastha (god of righteousness) were also revered with rituals and the natives feared succumbing to their outrage. Slowly with the influx of the Aryans mainstream Hindu deities such as Siva, Parvathy, Ganesha, Krishna etc. started to be worshipped as well. The Aryans introduced Kerala to the Temple Culture. These high citadels of culture and religion were built on traditional models out of stone, laterite and wood. The layouts were fairly simple but the adornment was rich. Elaborate carvings, delicately painted murals, expertly sculpted bronze and "panchaloha" (alloy of 5 metals- brass, bronze, copper, gold and silver) idols testify to the enormous patronage received by these temples. These temples became the nexus of social relations and caste hierarchy. They were the centers where performing arts flourished and the Festivals and culture of the common man fostered. The Hindus of Kerala are extremely devout and fervid. The rigid penances and sacraments are an outcomes an orthodox temple culture. In most Kerala temples, a non Hindu will not be permitted to enter the sanctum sanctorum. Even a trouser and shirt clad Hindu man or a salwar kameez clad woman will not be allowed to enter the inner sanctum. The fact that millions of devotees visit these shrines every year testifies to the remnants of the strict discipline in these inviolable centers held sacrosanct by the masses. The predominating "Gopurams", the gold plated towers, the punctiliously conducted "Trikala Pujas" are all testament to the Kerala temples being hubs of spiritual growth and major tourist attractions of the state. Guruvayoor Temple : The holy land, described in the Hindu Puranas; the Krishna Temple, visited by millions annually; the lord, believed to be worshipped by the likes of Adi Shankaracharya and Meputhoor Narayana Bhattathri; is a must visit destination, where all blessings are received, where the devotee is freed of all ailment and miseries. Sabarimala Temple : A visit to the temple's sanctum on Makara Sankaranthi, walking barefoot through the jungle, a glimpse of the shining star (Makarajyothi) through the hills and a climb atop the sacred 18 steps (Pathinettampadi) is every devout Hindu's dream. But to those who make it, it is believed, life is chaperoned by the lord Ayappa himself; their miseries, troubles and worries are not their own but the Lord's to solve and smooth out. Sivagiri Temple : The One Religion temple constructed under the guidance of Sri Narayana Guru with modern amenities and lofty ideals to inculcate a spiritual discipline free from dogma. Tiruvalla Temple : One of the largest temples constructed in Kerala, the Tiruvalla Temple is colossal in structure and in its spiritual and architectural significance. It remains faithful to the traditional dictates of the temple culture of Kerala and hence is a fine specimen of the religious development of the state. Ettumanoor Temple : This temple holds testimony to the cultural affluence of the temples of Kerala. The beautiful and intricate murals and fine architecture are major attractions to the tourists as well as connoisseurs of art. Welcome to the majestic temples, the spiritual cultural hubs which shaped the social, cultural and political history of Kerala. Last Updated on : July 23, 2013 About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule