Fight against social evils — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Social Welfare / Fight against social evils Share Views View State: Open for Edit Info Fight against social evils This section covers information about Fight against social evils, under various topics like child marriage, dowry problem etc. Child Marriage This section provides information on child marriages in India and steps taken by government and other agencies to prevent it. Anti Dowry This section gives information about dowry and also creates awareness on dowry Caste system in India This topic covers the information related to caste system in India. Female Infanticide This section covers information about the facts and causes of female infanticide. Human Trafficking This topic covers about various aspects of Human trafficking. Stop open Defecation in India The topic covers about need and actions taken to stop open defecation in India. Witchcraft & Sorcery This topic contains the Information related to Witchcraft & Sorcery Policies and Acts This topic covers the Information related to Policies and Acts against Social Evils Scheme of Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse, 2015 This topic provides information regarding the Scheme of Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse, 2015. Legal provisions in child labour trafficking This topic briefs about the provisions of law applicable at various stages of trafficking of child labourers. Navigation Women and Child Development Scheduled Caste Welfare Scheduled Tribes Welfare Backward Classes Welfare Unorganised Sector Welfare Differently- abled Welfare Community power Financial Inclusion Unorganised Sector Minority Welfare Senior citizens Welfare Rural Poverty Alleviation Urban Poverty Alleviation NGO-Voluntary Sector Disaster Management Fight against social evils Child Marriage Anti Dowry Caste system in India Female Infanticide Human Trafficking Stop open Defecation in India Witchcraft & Sorcery Policies and Acts Scheme of Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse, 2015 Legal provisions in child labour trafficking Skill development Social Security Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme Discussion Forum - Social Welfare Related Items Child Protection and the law Right to protection Rights of Children in Our Society Child Protection more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector