GIAHS - Globally Important Agricultural Heritage Systems: HOME Text only version العربية english français Español HOME GIAHS THE INITIATIVE SITES INFORMATION RESOURCES NEWS AND EVENTS PARTNERS CONTACT US Saving the rice heritage: three women setting examples Three women making a difference in their own way, contributing to sustainably manage and conserve the ancient Ifugao Rice Terraces – an agricultural and cultural heritage while helping to make... Read more... Asia-Pacific’s World Agricultural Heritage sites offer future food security solutions Today participants from more than 20 countries in the Asia-Pacific region attended an event in Bangkok on the growing importance of indigineous food systems in food security. Among those speaking at... Read more... Second Regional Workshop on GIAHS to be held in Bangkok   The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) - Regional Office in Asia and the Pacific (RAP) in collaboration with the Land and Water Division (NRL) are organizing... Read more... China’s annual workshop on GIAHS held The Center of International Cooperation Service (CICOS) of MOA hosted the 2nd China Workshop on Globally Important Agricultural Heritage Systems (GIAHS) in Fuzhou of Fujian Province on March 31st, 2015.... Read more... 1 2 3 4 User Login Username Password Follow us on Subscribe to our newsletter This field is required We are looking for unique and remarkable traditional agricultural systems that provide humanity and the environment with multiple goods and services. Please complete the  Proposal template and submit it by email .   Criteria for GIAHS selection Guidelines for proposal         Worldwide, specific agricultural systems and landscapes have been created, shaped and maintained by generations of farmers and herders based on diverse natural resources, using locally adapted management practices. Building on local knowledge and experience, these ingenious agri-cultural systems reflect the evolution of humankind, the diversity of its knowledge, and its profound relationship with nature. These systems have resulted not only in outstanding landscapes, maintenance and adaptation of globally significant agricultural biodiversity, indigenous knowledge systems and resilient ecosystems, but, above all, in the sustained provision of multiple goods and services, food and livelihood security for millions of poor and small farmers. In order to safeguard and support the world’s agri-cultural heritage systems, in 2002 FAO started an initiative for the dynamic conservation of Globally Important Agricultural Heritage systems (GIAHS) . The GIAHS Initiative promotes public understanding, awareness, national and international recognition of Agricultural Heritage systems. Looking to safeguard the social, cultural, economic and environmental goods and services these provide to family farmers, smallholders, indigenous peoples and local communities, the initiative fosters an integrated approach combining sustainable agriculture and rural development. The GIAHS initiative has project interventions in Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Chile, China, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic), Japan, Kenya, Mexico, Morocco, Peru, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Tunisia, and Turkey. In these countries, adaptive management approaches will be developed and implemented, to assist national and local stakeholders in the dynamic conservation of their agricultural heritage systems. IN DEPTH GIAHS - Video English / French / Spanish INTERVIEW Food security for millions of family farmers GAFSA OASES Human Eden CHINA: RICE-FISH CULTURE From the farmer          ANDEAN AGRICULTURE Conserving agri-culture JAPAN: NOTO'S SATOYAMA AND SATOUMI An introduction Global Environment Facility Internetauftritt des Bundesministeriums für Ernährung, Landwirtschaft und Verbraucherschutz IFAD UNU UNESCO ISESCO