Chandragupta II India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » History » Chandragupta II   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Chandragupta II The Gupta period is known as the golden age in Indian History and it reached the pinnacle of glory during the reign of Chandragupta II. A ruler of excellent administrative abilities, foresightedness and military prowess, he was also a great patron of art, culture, literature and music. He was also known as Vikramaditya and referred as one of the most admirable kings in the history. Chandragupta II inherited a large kingdom but extended his empire by winning battles and also by a policy of matrimonial alliances. He defeated the Sakas to annex Gujarat and Saurasthra and made Ujjain his second capital. To strengthen his southern territories he married his daughter Pravabati to the Vakataka king-Rudrasena II. He himself married the Naga princess Kubera Naga and developed strong relationship with the Naga clan. His empire extended from the Gujarat in the north to Malwa in the central. He had his capital in the wonderful city of Pataliputra. It his during his rule, that the cultural development of Ancient India reached it's climax. His court comprised of geniuses to the likes of Kalidasa and Susruta. Kalidasa was a famous poet whose work is still treasured and the great physician Susruta's books on surgery are considered legendary. During his reign the famous Chinese pilgrim Fa-Hien visited India and wrote a detailed account of his kingdom. Marco Polo, the Italian traveler has referred him as an ideal ruler. He was succeeded by his son Kumaragupta who was a great scholar and built the Nalanda University.   Related Links   Ancient India Chandragupta II Ashoka Bimbisara Chandragupta Maurya Narasimha Varman Harshavardhana Gargi Kanishka Bindusara   Last Updated on : February 1, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule