Welcome to DGCI&S JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics Ministry of Commerce and industry, Govt. of India Home FAQ Contact Us Home Organization Profile History Foreign Trade Statistics Ancillary Statistics Indian Trade Journal Commercial Intelligence Commercial Library Press Notes Data Summary Trade Data Priced Detail Data Price Information System Notice Publications Registration Trade Directory Feedback Contact Us RTI FAQ Sitemap Data Dissemination Policy Data Privacy Policy Dynamic Data Revision Policy Quick Estimate Commercial Library Services Recruitment Rules Events / Announcements Media Gallery Highlights Latest 24-months Export final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website Latest 24-months Import final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website DGCIS has introduced 168 new commodity groups for publication of principal commodity level foreign trade data Are you interested in doing business with the Government of India Organizations? Click Here Visit the Related sites RFD CITIZEN'S CHARTER Grievance Redressal This site has been visited 995570 times on Saturday, May, 30, 2015 PUBLIC GRIEVANCES Home Data Summary Trade Data Provisional Monthly Foreign Trade data These data are available on a monthly basis with a lag of around two months. The data for the current month and for the cumulative period beginning from April to current month of that year along with the corresponding data for the previous year are available.These data are published in Foreign Trade Statistics of India (Principal Commodities and Countries) . Final Monthly Foreign Trade Data The export and import trade data are available countrywise and economic regionwise. The detailed data on India’s foreign trade in merchandise are usually available after three months from the reference month. To have a quick glance of the latest data click the followings : Export Summary Data [PDF Format] Table 1: (India's Foreign Trade by Chapter and Sections) [ Size : 12.3 KB ] Table 2A: (India's Foreign Trade by Economic Region) [ Size : 17.8 KB ] Table 2B: (India's Foreign trade by Countries) [ Size : 16.9 KB ] Table 4: (India's Export by Principal Commodities) [ Size : 18.6 KB ] Archive Import Summary Data [PDF Format] Table 1: (India's Foreign Trade by Chapter and Sections) [ Size : 12.2 KB ] Table 2A: (India's Foreign Trade by Economic Region) [ Size : 17.6 KB ] Table 2B: (India's Foreign Trade by Country) [ Size : 16.2 KB ] Table 4: (India's Import by Principal Commodities) [ Size : 15.2 KB ] Archive These data are published in ‘Monthly Statistics of the Foreign Trade of India’ Vol.I (for Exports) and Vol.II (for Imports) in Commodity/ Country order whereas the same is presented in Country/Commodity order in the publication “Statistics of the Foreign Trade of India by Countries” Vol.I (for Exports) and Vol.II (for Imports) . The data are also sold by DGCI&S in CDs and floppies as per requirement through a Priced Information System(PIS) . Related Sites :: Contact Us :: Feedback :: Sitemap Source : Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Last Updated on 19-05-2015 Home Downloads & Plug-ins Help Accessibility Statement Accessibility Options Privacy Policy Hyperlinking Policy Copyright Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Contents of this website is published and managed by DGCI&S , Government of India. For any queries regarding this website please contact Web Master. © Copyright reserved by Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 565, Anandapur, Ward No. 108,Sector - 1 , Plot No. 22, ECADP, Kolkata - 700107