Cook's Illustrated - Recipes That Work, Kitchen Equipment Reviews, Taste Tests, How to Cook and Cooking Videos America's Test Kitchen | Cook's Illustrated | Cook's Country | America's Test Kitchen Online Cooking School | Store Current Issue Gift Guide for New Grads If you're looking for a first-rate gift to celebrate the Class of 2015, we've created a shortlist of gear that aced our kitchen tests. Read more Grilled Pork Kebabs with Barbecue Glaze Pork tenderloin has a tendency to be dry. To eliminate this, we cut the tenderloin into 1-inch cubes for kebabs, toss them in a flavorful, low-moisture glaze, and grill them for a flavorful char. Read more Best Wedding Gifts for Cooking Geeks This is the one-stop resource for assembling the dreamiest (and most worthwhile) wedding registry ever. Read more Fresh Strawberry Mousse Here’s a juicy problem: How to get a creamy mousse with bright, concentrated fruit flavor out of bland, watery supermarket strawberries. Read more Impromptu Picnic Party Pack From a cute (yet tough) portable grill to an ingenious way to tote ice cream across town, these kitchen-tested gadgets will make summer’s best parties even better. Read more Cioppino Fish and shellfish piled high in a flavorful broth make this San Francisco stew a project. Could we simplify the shopping and cooking and still maintain its indulgent appeal? Read more Mexican Food at Home: Kitchen Basics Craving the real flavors of Mexico in your own kitchen? Keep the taco party going with our list of essentials every kitchen should have for Mexican cooking success. Read more Singapore Noodles The trademark of this Hong Kong stir-fry is its bold curry flavor, but all that curry powder creates a dusty texture. Time for a little innovation. Read more Featured stories from the July/August 2015 issue Introducing Peri Peri Chicken The key to making this spicy African dish is to treat it like classic barbecued chicken—but give it kick. Read more Really Good Whole-Wheat Pancakes Forget everything you’ve heard. The more whole-wheat flour you use, the more tender (and foolproof) the pancakes will be. Just be sure your flour is fresh. Read more Ultimate Char-Grilled Steak The secret to delivering a charcoal-grilled steak with a killer crust and perfectly cooked meat from edge to edge? Keep the coals in the chimney. Read more Cherry Clafouti This baked French custard studded with fresh fruit would be a simple and satisfying dessert—if we could nail its finicky texture and prevent the cherries from turning soggy. Read more Knife Sharpeners What if you could buy a sharpener that not only repaired the new breed of ultrathin chef’s knives but also honed the wider cutting edge of more traditional blades? Read more Supermarket Balsamic, Unmasked In recent years, Italy has created a new set of guidelines for mass-produced balsamic vinegar. We wanted to know if these new laws guarantee a better-quality product. Read more New Videos From the July/August 2015 issue Online Features The New Revolutionaries: American vs. British Cheddars In the Battle of Cheddar Cheese, which side emerges victorious? How to Take Care of Your Knives So They Last Forever As everyday kitchen tools, knives require care. But what does that entail? Friends of Cook's Illustrated Be a Recipe Tester If you're interested in joining a select group of volunteers who help test our recipes before they appear in print, please click here to find out more and register. Ask the Editors of Cook's Illustrated Do you have a cooking question? Contact us here . Your question might be answered in the pages of Cook's Illustrated magazine. State AA AE AK AL AP AR AS AZ CA CO CT DC DE FM FL GA GU HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MH MI MN MO MS MT NC ND MP NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PW PA PR RI SC SD TN TX UT VI VA VT WA WI WV WY NU How we use your email address Your paid subscription will include all the benefits of Cook's Illustrated Automatic Renewal Program. Click here for details. Free Trial OR Free Gift Offer valid in U.S. only. Canadian and International Subscriptions News from the Test Kitchen America's Test Kitchen Radio America’s Test Kitchen Radio applies the no-nonsense, first-hand testing approach of our TV show to the wide world of food, dining, and cooking—with your voices thrown into the mix for good measure. Each episode features food and cookware recommendations and in-depth interviews. Listen online today. Call the show: 855-34-COOKS Upcoming Events See when Christopher Kimball, Jack Bishop, and other faces from the test kitchen are coming to a city near you . The Science of Good Cooking The Science of Good Cooking distills the past 20 years of test kitchen work into 50 basic cooking concepts with unique and fun experiments engineered to illustrate the science at work. Submit a Quick Tip Have an idea on how to do something better, faster, or smarter in the kitchen? Send your idea to quicktips@americastestkitchen.com . We award every published Quick Tip a complimentary one-year subscription. Websites America's Test Kitchen Cook's Illustrated Cook's Country Online Cooking School Bookstore The Feed Magazines Cook's Illustrated Cook's Country Digital Editions Customer Service Website FAQs Magazine FAQs Contact Us Corporate About Us Privacy Policy Non-Use Policy Job Opportunities Sponsor Our Shows Media Contact Events & Appearances © 2015 America's Test Kitchen. All rights reserved. © 2015 America's Test Kitchen. All rights reserved. In My Favorites Please Wait… Remove Favorite Add to custom collection Create New Collection Manage My Favorites Close - X Create New Collection Organize your Favorites With Collections Favorite Collections let you organize your favorite ATK content. Are you building a menu for an upcoming birthday dinner? You can keep those recipes in a collection called "John’s 50th Birthday," for example. Your collections can include more than just recipes, too. Add how-to articles, videos clips or equipment reviews into the same collection. Create your first collection below to get started. Name Your New Collection: Please Wait... Create No thanks, I’ll create a Collection later. Name Your New Collection: Please Wait... Create Close - X Warning! Are you sure you want to delete this Favorite? You are about to delete a Favorite, which means that it will also be removed from the following Collections: You can add this item back to your Favorites and your Collections at any time. Please Wait… Remove Favorite Cancel