Mangaluru (Mangalore) City Map Home » Maps » Karnataka » Mangaluru City Map   Cities in Karnataka Manipal Bangalore Hubli Mangalore Gulbarga Davangere Mysore                    more... कर्नाटक का नक्शा Karnataka Karnataka Map Districts of Karnataka Karnataka Railways Karnataka Roads Rivers of Karnataka Tehsils of Karnataka Places to visit in Karnataka Travel to Karnataka Wildlife Sanctuaries in Karnataka Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Mysore Hotels Coorg Hotels Mangalore Hotels Udupi Hotels Belgaum Hotels              more... Physical Map Where is Karnataka Forests in Karnataka Karnataka Agriculture Sex Ratio Minerals in Karnataka Latitude and Longitude Industrial Map Karnataka Air Network Karnataka Pin Code Karnataka STD Code How to Reach Karnataka Karnataka Facts Education in Karnataka Universities in Karnataka Geography and History People Culture and Festivals Karnataka Government and    Politics Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Constituencies Population of Karnataka Karnataka Handicrafts Karnataka Economy Bangalore Fort Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka       Mangaluru (Mangalore) City Map City Map of Mangaluru Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Mangaluru (Mangalore) City Map showing Major roads, Education Institutes, Hotels, Hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Karnataka   Manipal City Map Bangalore City Map Mangalore City Map Gulbarga City Map         Davangere City Map Bellary City Map Hampi City Map Bidar City Map     other cities of Karnataka  >>   Travel to Karnataka       Bengaluru Travel Map Mysore Travel Map     City Map of Mangaluru Mangalore, an important educational and industrial port city of Karnataka is situated on the west coast, at the confluence of Nethravathi and Gurupura rivers. The city is located at 12° 52 ' N latitude and 74 ° 49' E longitude, bounded in the east by the Western Ghats and bounded in the west by the Arabian sea. Mangalore is in the Dakshin Kannada district of Karnataka, about 326 kilometers from Bengaluru, the capital of the state. Mangalore city is spread out over an area of 132.45 square kilometers. The two rivers -Nethravathi and Gurupura encircle the city. Nethravathi flows in the south of the city and Gurupura flows in the north of the city. The rivers form an estuary in the south west of the city before flowing into the Arabian Sea. The new Mangalore sea port, India's ninth largest sea port is located north of the city. Mangaluru Road Network The total length of the roads network in the city is 888.9 kilometers. Three national highways pass through the city. NH 17 links Mangalore to Panvel ( in Maharashtra ), Udipi and Kannyikumari (in Kerala). N 48 links Mangalore with Bengaluru. NH 13 links Mangalore with Karkal , passes through Andhra Pradesh and ends at Solapur in Maharashtra. The main roads in Mangalore are the K S Rao Road which runs through the center of the city, and the Falnir Road, which runs in the south of the city. There are many hotels in the city located around the K S Rao Road. Fahrir Road has many company offices around it. Important Landmarks in the City The city has a domestic airport at Bajpe about 15 kilometers north from the city center. The Bejai Kavoor Road leads to the airport. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus stand is in the north of the city in Bejai. There is another bus stand near the Town Hall, which is an important landmark of the city The city has a broad gauge railway track and a meter gauge track running in the east. Two railway stations cater to the city. The first one is Mangalore Central located at Hampankatta in the center of the city and the second is Mangalore Junction located at Kankanady. Mangalore is connected to Tamil Nadu (Chennai ) through the Southern railway line and to Maharashtra through the Konkan railway line. The city has a number of developed parks such as the Kadri Park in the eastern part of the city and Kings Park in the north. The district's sole cricket stadium the Mangala Stadium is in Mangalore. In the city the important landmarks and tourist interest spots are The St Aloysius College Chapel Holy Cross Church Infant Jesus Church Sultan Battery Mangladevi temple in the south of the city Museum Roshini Nilava Kala Sadan Jyoti circle Mangalore Club in the south of the city Mangala Stadium Some of the educational institutions in the city are Jerosa Convent Rosario School Government College B G School Canara College Law College Padav School Women's Polytechnic College Kasturba Medical College (KMC) St Aloysius College Last Updated on : November 20, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule