Population of Andhra Pradesh Home » Andhra Pradesh » Population of Andhra Pradesh   Andhra Pradesh History Geography Climate आंध्र प्रदेश का नक्शा Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Hyderabad Metro Stations Map Cities Amaravati: Andhra's New Capital Hyderabad Tirupati Vishakhapatnam Vijayawada Warangal                    more.. Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Andhra Pradesh Places to visit in Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels         more... How to reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education in Andhra Pradesh Universities in Andhra Pradesh       Population of Andhra Pradesh According to the Census of India of the year 2001, the Andhra Pradesh population has witnessed a downward trend in the growth as compared to the earlier census of 1991 to 2001. The decadent trend of Andhra Pradesh population has relegated the state into the fifth position as compared to its earlier stand on the fourth place. The total Andhra Pradesh population stood at 75,727,541 on 1st March, 2001. The registered growth rate of the population in Andhra Pradesh showed a tendency of increase of 24.20% during 1981-1991. The growth rate has decreased its pace to only 13.86% in the decade 1991-2001. The Andhra Pradesh population registered a count of 75,727,541 persons in the decade 1991-2001. The sex ratio of the state remained at 978. There are 37,440,730 females as compared to the 38,286,811 males in the state. The percentage of literacy to total population has increased to 61.11% in all. The number of male literates reached to 70.85%. The state has achieved a rise in the literacy rate of women which amounted to 51.17 % in 2001. There are several ethnic groups that have settled in the state of Andhra Pradesh . The major tribes of Bodo Gadaba, Kammara, Kondh Koya and Lambadas are found in Andhra Pradesh. Some of the other important tribes include Malis, Nayaks, Thoti, Yenadis, Yerukulas and Valmiki. The Chenchus, also found in Orissa, belong to the state of Andhra Pradesh. A large number of people of Andhra Pradesh work in the agricultural sector as farmers and agricultural laborers. There are many industrial workers as well. The state has a high skilled labor force. The higher educated group prefers the occupation in the non-agricultural sector. The non-agricultural sector earns more than the agricultural sector. The Andhra Pradesh population is divided in the rural and urban areas. The urban areas account for more population in Andhra Pradesh than in the rural areas. As compared to the other state, Andhra Pradesh has achieved a decline in the growth rate of population. Last Updated on 20 June 2013 Andhra Pradesh About Climate History Geography Languages Population Districts Factsheet Distance Chart Pin code STD code             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule