Places to Visit in Port Blair and Tourist Destinations near Port Blair Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andaman and Nicobar Travel Shopping How to Reach Andaman and Nicobar Hotels Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar Long Island Cellular Jail Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park Anthropological Museum Islands Beaches in Andaman & Nicobar Andaman & Nicobar Monuments Museums in Andaman & Nicobar Picnic Sports Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Activities Honeymoon Places to See in Nicobar Port Blair Indira Point Car Nicobar Katchal Great Nicobar Island About Andaman Nicobar History Climate Home » Andaman & Nicobar Islands » State Tourism » Places to Visit in Port Blair Places to Visit in Port Blair Port Blair, the capital of Andaman and Nicobar Islands , forms the center of attraction for tourists from all over the world. It has got some fabulous and variety of tourists spots. Sightseeing in Port Blair provides the tourists a sense of fruition and complacency. Some of the popular tourists spots in and around Port Blair are: Places to See in Port Blair Mount Harriet Category : Nature It is high point on a hillock which provides a scenic view of the surrounding islands and also is a perfect place to enjoy sunrises.Among the many popular tourist places of Port Blair, Mount Harriet is the most magnificent one. The Mount Harriet of Port Blair is located on the other side of the Ross Island and is 1200 feet high. This is the highest hill of the whole South Andaman region. During the British reign, the Mount Harriet used to be the headquarters of the chief commissioner. Among the many popular tourist places of Port Blair, Mount Harrietis the most magnificent one. The Mount Harriet of Port Blair is located on the other side of the Ross Island and is 1200 feet high. This is the highest hill of the whole South Andaman region. During the British reign, the Mount Harriet used to be the headquarters of the chief commissioner. Mount Harriet in Port Blairis blessed with unparalleled natural charm and beauty of this hilly area. It is a source of major attraction for the tourists coming to the place. This place holds some spectacular attractions which observes great appreciation from the spectators. The top of the hill of the Mount Harriet provides a magnificent view of the Port Blair City, the Ross Island and the Havelock Islands. One can see endemic birds and other animals roaming around in the hill. There is also an enormous variety of flora found here. To experience the beauty of the night in the hilly land, one can stay in the guest house there. Visitors from different corners of the world visits the Mount Harriet at Port Blair at different times of the year to experience the unending beauty of the nature. Mini Zoo Category : Wild Life Port Blair has numerous tourist spots that attracts the tourists worldwide. Among the tourist places of Port Blair, the Mini Zoo is one of the most visited one. This zoo is basically a place which works for animal conservation and thus helps to preserve various wildlife. Though it is named as 'mini', it is comprised of some rare species of animals as well as birds.The Port Blair Mini Zoo has some rare collection of varied species of animals and birds. The salt water crocodile is one of the prime attractions of this zoo. One will enjoy meeting a variety of animals there. The department engaged in the maintenance of this Mini Zoo takes every care of the animals. The Port Blair Mini Zoo has some rare collection of varied species of animals and birds. The salt water crocodile is one of the prime attractions of this zoo. One will enjoy meeting a variety of animals there. The department engaged in the maintenance of this Mini Zoo takes every care of the animals. A visit to the Mini Zoo of Port Blair will reveal some unexperienced facts about the privacy of the animals residing in the zoo. The forest department has a museum which is run by the same department and is located near the zoo. This is a very unique sort of museum which displays woods that are produced in the local market. Rose wood, marble wood and dark and light colored paduak wood are exhibited in this museum. Even this museum also explains the lumbering methods to the visitors. The Mini Zoo in Port Blair not only provides entertainment to the visitors but also plays a major role in educating people about wildlife. The Mini Zoo of Port Blair is a major source of attraction not only for the tourists visiting the place but also to the local people. Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park Category : History & Culture Covering 281.5 kms the park is rich in its coral contents and marine lives. It is also a seat of various water sports.Under the Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972,Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park of Andaman and Nicobar Islands was created on 24 May, 1983. The forest department of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands placedMahatma Gandhi Marine National Park under the protection of the Chief Wildlife Warden. Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park in Andaman and Nicobar Islands lies between 11°22 - 06" and 11° 36 -34° N latitude and 92° 30.00°W and 92 40.33° E longitude. The park is located at Wnadoor, 30 kms away from the Port Blair airport. It covers an area of 281.5 sq km. It is comprised of 280 sq. km of open water body and 15 islands with green vegetations and exotic beaches. The islands are: Alexandra Chester Jolly Boys Bell Malay Grub Boat Twins Hobday Pluto Riflemen Snob Red Skin Rutland Tarmugli Andaman and Nicobar Islands Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park is famous round the world for its rich collection of coral reef, some of the coral reefs of Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park are fungia, leptoseris, tubipora, pocillopora, gorgonians, porites, acropora, and montipora.Glass-bottomed boat ride at Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park brings the entire marine life within our reach. For adventure maniacs, there are also options for deep water scuba diving, taking them to the bottom of the sea. The marine life of Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park includes coral reefs, starfish, sharks, sea anemones, turtles, colorful fishes, shells, salt-water crocodile and water snakes. The terrestrial life of Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park at Andaman and Nicobar Islands is also as varied as its marine life. If the land abounds in mammals, spotted deer, fruit bat, wild boar and the civet, the sky is shared by kingfisher, parakeet, dove, hite bellied sea eagle, whistling teal, tern, reef heron, swift, wader and local teal. Reptiles like python, king cobra, vine snake and krait shares both land and water. Chatam Saw Mill Built way back in 1836, this is the largest saw mill in entire Asia till date. Sippighat Agricultural Farm Category : Nature Andaman and Nicobar Islands, amidst the vast water stretch of Bay of Bengal, is a tourist's paradise with variety of attractions, ranging from forests to lakes, rare species of flora and fauna to indigenous handicrafts.Andaman and Nicobar Islands Sippighat Farm is yet another place, the tourists love to drop into during their tour to this exotic Union Territory of India. This 80 acres farm, maintained by the Government, produces bulk of the spices in Andaman and Nicobar Islands.The Central Agricultural Research Institute of Andaman and Nicobar Islands does researches to improve and implement the productivity of agri-horticulture. Its main research complex is at Garacharma and the main Krishi Vigyan Kendra is located at Sippighat Farm, 8 km away from the main campus. Sippighat Farm of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is only 15 kms away from the capital city of Port Blair, on the way to Wandoor. The farm covers a vast stretch of about 80 acres of cultivated land.Sippighat Farm in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is run by the Government of the place and it is a part of the Research and development program. Experts in agriculture are appointed by the Administration who make maximum use of the tropical climate of the place and grow spices like nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, pepper in Sippighat Farm. These spices are mostly exported to the Indian mainland or even to foreign markets. Sippighat Farm also grows tropical cash crops and coconut. Gandhi Park Category : Garden Situated at heart of the Port Blair, the capital of the union territory,Andaman and Nicobar Islands Gandhi Park is one of the mostly frequented tourist spots. It is a blend of natural brilliance, artificial creations and historical monuments.Gandhi Park of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is evenly equipped to draw tourists from every corners of the world and of all age groups.Andaman and Nicobar Islands Gandhi Park has a children's park created recently, where children are provided with all sorts of sporting equipments. It is well supported with an amusement park, entertainment park. The Ecosystem of Gandhi Park is balanced by the deer and bird park. Gandhi Park of Andaman and Nicobar Islands hosts a wide variety of deers - spotted deer, hog deer, barking deer, sambar to name a few. The blue sky of the bird park of Gandhi Park is made colorful by birds like long-tailed and red-breasted parakeets, grey-fronted and imperial green pigeons, vernal hanging parrot, scarlet minivet, emerald dove, drongos and white-bellied sea eagles. Andaman and Nicobar Islands Gandhi Park also has artificially but well maintained gardens, restaurants and lakes. These lakes of Gandhi Park are mainly used for water sports like sailing, snorkeling, surfing and paddle boating. These water sports lure bulk of the tourists. Consequently, the Directorate of Tourism of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Administration organizes these sports and makes sure to provide every facilities to the tourists. Safe water sports are allowed in the lakes from 8 am to 8 pm. Andaman and Nicobar Islands Gandhi Park also has immense historical significance since it proudly possess a Japanese temple and a bunker, both built during the second World War So,Andaman and Nicobar Islands Sippighat Farm has a two fold contribution to the economy of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Firstly, it produces crops for local use as well as export purpose and secondly,Sippighat Farm also contributes to the tourism industry of the place. Andaman and Nicobar Islands Gandhi Park also has immense historical significance since it proudly possess a Japanese temple and a bunker, both built during the second World War Madhuban Category : Garden Andaman and Nicobar Islands is richly gifted with numerous sightseeing spots which include parks, historical monuments, lakes or wildlife. Andaman and Nicobar Islands Madhuban is a place which, in spite of its distance, is very popular among the tourists. It is located 75 kms from Port Blair by road and 20 kms if navigated by boat. But Madhuban of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is only 5 kms from Mount Harriet, yet another scintillating tourist spot of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Madhuban is a unique place because it is jeweled with an exotic beach in the front and guarded by green hills at the back. Located in the north east direction of South Andaman Islands,Madhuban has a rich collection of birds like parakeet, swift, dove, hite bellied sea eagle, local teal, kingfisher, reef heron, wader, tern, and whistling teal. Colorful butterflies of Madhuban also stands for the variety that Nature has showered on Andaman and Nicobar Islands. But the elephants of Madhuban is something which has made the place so famous. Here, by the initiative of the Government of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, young elephants are trained to work at various farms. This reduces the manual labor and invariably increases the production rate. Madhuban in Andaman and Nicobar Islands also provides perfect background for trekking. Thousands of enthusiasts flock to Madhuban every year to trek. The pristine natural beauty of Madhuban with its variety of flora and fauna, the tropical climate of the place is just what the trekkers long for. The route from Mount Harriet to Madhuban is one of the famous route to the trekkers. Chidiya Tapu, Gandhi Park, Forest Museum, Marina Park, Samudrika Museum, Fisheries Museum are few more noted tourist spots that comprise the sightseeing in Port Blair. Tourist Destinations Near Port Blair Neil Island If you have had enough of scouring around for the tourist attractions near Port Blair and looking for some of the traveling options around the city, Neil Islands are where you can head to. Popular as the 'Vegetable Bowl of Andaman', the island is bound to fill you with unprecedented clam and serenity. You can admire the beautiful surroundings of the island while having a walk at the sandy beaches. Distance from Port Blair: 36 km Sippighat Farm The government run Sippighat Farm is where the research work is done pertaining to the development of several spices. If you want to know how the spices like cloves, pepper, and cinnamon grow and finally reach your kitchen, you can plan a visit to the place. Distance from Port Blair: 15 km Mount Harriet The highest peak in the South Andaman, this place used to be the summer headquarters of the British Chief Commissioner. One can often spot endemic birds, animals and butterflies at the place. You have to pay an entry fee of ten rupees to visit the place. Distance from Port Blair: 55 km Chidiya Tapu A popular picnic site, Chidiya Tapu has beautiful beaches and forests, ideal tourist place near Port Blair for the lovers of nature. Distance from Port Blair: 25 km Collinpur How about swimming, sun basking and some leisure time to spend at an exotic location? Head to Collinpur and you assure yourself beautiful souvenirs for a lifetime. Distance from Port Blair: 36 km. Last Updated on: 2/09/2013 Hotels in Andaman and Nicobar Portblair Hotels Havelock Hotels Travel to Andaman & Nicobar Travel to Port Blair Places to visit in Andaman-nicobar-islands Places to visit in Andaman-nicobar-islands Places to visit in Port Blair About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule