Geography of Tripura Home » Tripura » Geography of Tripura   Tripura Geography Climate Soil and Vegetation Flora Fauna त्रिपुरा का नक्शा Tripura Tripura Map Agartala City Map Districts of Tripura Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Tripura Location Lat Long Map Travel to Tripura Places to visit in Tripura Wildlife Sanctuaries Bhuvaneswari Temple Tripura Sundari Temple Agriculture Map Tripura Forests Parliamentary Constituencies- East Tripura Parliamentary Constituencies- West Tripura Economy Government Society and Culture Hotels in Tripura Attractions History STD Code PIN Code Assemblypolls Sex Ratio Universities In Tripura       Geography of Tripura The geography of Tripura reveals the physical features of the state and the laden topographical characteristics. The state is situated between the geographical coordinates of 22 degrees 56 minutes north and 24 degrees 32 minutes north latitude and 91 degrees and 92 degrees 22 minutes east longitude. It shares its borders with the country of Bangladesh and the states of Assam and Mizoram. The state of Tripura is marked by distinct geographical features. The south Tripura district has three hill ranges that rises to high altitudes. The Deotamura stretches across 85 kilometers. The two other hill ranges are the South Baramura and a part of Atharamura hill range. The state is watered by several rivers and their tributaries. The chief river of the region is the Gumti that passes through various districts of the state. The river Muhuri also originates in the hills in Tripura. The river Feni separates the country of Bangladesh from the state of Tripura. The demographic study of Tripura shows that it is populated by 3199203 people who reside in the four districts of the state. The population density of the region is 305 people per square kilometers. The state has a sex ratio that scores above the national average. The sex ratio of Tripura is 948 females per thousand males. The region falls under the subtropical and the temperate climatic zones. The region is dominated by the monsoon season. Last Updated on 03/13/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule