Hcms/buy-back/ agriland information AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Medicinal Plants - Prashant Chaturvedi Hcms/buy-back/ agriland information Results 1 to 5 of 5 Thread: Hcms/buy-back/ agriland information LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… November 13th, 2014 #1 hcms Premium Member Join Date Apr 2007 Posts 2,222 Blog Entries 12 Hcms/buy-back/ agriland information We HCMS an ISO Certified organization founded on 1996 continuously working towards its goal of social development and environment conservation by emphasising on medicinal & aromatic crop cultivation, horticulture animal husbandry & dairy. Our Company leads the flavour industry by setting high standards for customer satisfaction. Agriculture itself opens the door toward the social development. We introduce new technology among the farmers, train them for the latest technology, make them aware about the issue related to the environment issues related to the agriculture. We promote organic agriculture to improve the quality of the food and the conserve the bio-diversity. Besides the traditional food crop we give emphasis on the medicinal and aromatic crop cultivation, animal husbandry and dairy. We do regular research and introduce new medicinal and aromatic crops. As per market demand we avail the latest technology to the farmers. So that they can get the equal share from the development and they can also contribute their best toward the development. We develop the spirit of entrepreneurs among them instead of a farmer. To make then an entrepreneur we provide all support like providing good quality planting material, water management technique, subsidy & financial assistance, bio control method of Insect pest, post harvest technology, storage and logistics support and the most important one the Buyback Support. Multitudes of benefits are associated with the organic cultivation. Besides being one of the traditional methods of farming, this type of cultivation is also considered to be better than the general cultivation. Many facts are associated with this conclusion, one being the organic fertilizers are carbon based compounds that increase the productivity of plants. The organic cultivation have various benefits over general cultivation. SERVICES OF THE ORGANIZATION • Development of Agriland information • Information related to medicinal/horticulture farming and herbal industrial units • Soil/water testing in our research institutes • Prepare project reports and provide technical information of the report • Supply high quality seeds / seedlings and also provide information about raw materials to the industrial units • Practical training for medicinal and horticulture plantation through our professionally skilled agriculture experts • Time to time Crop testing through our agriculture experts • Information about bank loans and other financial assistances • Facility of agriculture insurance (possible crops only) • Buy back agreements of the crops • Laboratory test reports certifying their quality Hahnemann Charitable Mission Society Mob 8107379410 9351451120 ISO 9001:2000 Certified Address:J-890,Phase3,Sitapura Industrial Area,Jaipur-302022 info@hcms.org.in Web: HCMS Prashant Chaturvedi J-890, Phase3,Sitapura Industrial Area, Jaipur, RAJASTHAN.Mobile:8107379410/9351451120 info.hcms@gmail.com Web: www.hcms.org.in Reply With Quote November 14th, 2014 #2 nisarg organic Join Date Oct 2014 Posts 7 Dear Sir, Let me know if you have any requirement for http://www.agricultureinformation.co...nsultancy.html Reply With Quote November 18th, 2014 #3 sandeepdwivedi Join Date Nov 2014 Posts 25 Blog Entries 1 Opportunity In Agriculture Dear Team, We have farming land in Hamirpur distt. (U.P.) and presently doing conventional farming. Please help us in upgrading it with modern technology. How can we start organic farming? In our area we have a problem of market for selling the output of such high tech agriculture, please guide us how to get technological support and market availability. Regards, Sandeep Dwivedi Mob: 08826009393 Originally Posted by hcms We HCMS an ISO Certified organization founded on 1996 continuously working towards its goal of social development and environment conservation by emphasising on medicinal & aromatic crop cultivation, horticulture animal husbandry & dairy. Our Company leads the flavour industry by setting high standards for customer satisfaction. Agriculture itself opens the door toward the social development. We introduce new technology among the farmers, train them for the latest technology, make them aware about the issue related to the environment issues related to the agriculture. We promote organic agriculture to improve the quality of the food and the conserve the bio-diversity. Besides the traditional food crop we give emphasis on the medicinal and aromatic crop cultivation, animal husbandry and dairy. We do regular research and introduce new medicinal and aromatic crops. As per market demand we avail the latest technology to the farmers. So that they can get the equal share from the development and they can also contribute their best toward the development. We develop the spirit of entrepreneurs among them instead of a farmer. To make then an entrepreneur we provide all support like providing good quality planting material, water management technique, subsidy & financial assistance, bio control method of Insect pest, post harvest technology, storage and logistics support and the most important one the Buyback Support. Multitudes of benefits are associated with the organic cultivation. Besides being one of the traditional methods of farming, this type of cultivation is also considered to be better than the general cultivation. Many facts are associated with this conclusion, one being the organic fertilizers are carbon based compounds that increase the productivity of plants. The organic cultivation have various benefits over general cultivation. SERVICES OF THE ORGANIZATION • Development of Agriland information • Information related to medicinal/horticulture farming and herbal industrial units • Soil/water testing in our research institutes • Prepare project reports and provide technical information of the report • Supply high quality seeds / seedlings and also provide information about raw materials to the industrial units • Practical training for medicinal and horticulture plantation through our professionally skilled agriculture experts • Time to time Crop testing through our agriculture experts • Information about bank loans and other financial assistances • Facility of agriculture insurance (possible crops only) • Buy back agreements of the crops • Laboratory test reports certifying their quality Hahnemann Charitable Mission Society Mob 8107379410 9351451120 ISO 9001:2000 Certified Address:J-890,Phase3,Sitapura Industrial Area,Jaipur-302022 info@hcms.org.in Web: HCMS Reply With Quote November 20th, 2014 #4 hcms Premium Member Join Date Apr 2007 Posts 2,222 Blog Entries 12 Dear Sandeep Dwivedi, Greetings !! We promote organic agriculture to improve the quality of the food and the conserve the bio-diversity. Besides the traditional food crop we give emphasis on the medicinal and aromatic crop cultivation, animal husbandry and dairy. You can also call on below number for further assistance. Originally Posted by sandeepdwivedi Dear Team, We have farming land in Hamirpur distt. (U.P.) and presently doing conventional farming. Please help us in upgrading it with modern technology. How can we start organic farming? In our area we have a problem of market for selling the output of such high tech agriculture, please guide us how to get technological support and market availability. Regards, Sandeep Dwivedi Mob: 08826009393 Prashant Chaturvedi J-890, Phase3,Sitapura Industrial Area, Jaipur, RAJASTHAN.Mobile:8107379410/9351451120 info.hcms@gmail.com Web: www.hcms.org.in Reply With Quote March 18th, 2015 #5 dpsorganicagro Join Date Mar 2015 Posts 7 Hello Sandeep, This is D P SINGH from Aligarh. I am M Sc Agriculture with 12 years experience in ( Seed Production, Research and organing Farming) Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread aloevera and cultivation , aloevera buy back , stevia , stevia approval , stevia baby plants View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 09:40 PM .