Chola Dynasty, Map of Chola Dynasty Home » History » Chola Dynasty   Indian Dynasties Chola Dynasty Chalukya Dynasty Pallava Dynasty Chera Dynasty Pandyan Dynasty                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Chola Dynasty Map of Chola Dynasty Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing major cities and current country boundaries during the Chola period.Chola dynasty was a Tamil dynasty, one of the longest ruling dynasties in Southern India. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. About the Chola Dynasty Also known as the 'Cola' dynasty, Chola dynasty is a famous South Indian dynasty which ruled for the longest period of time. This dynasty originated in the fertile land of the Kaveri River Uraiyur, now Tiruchchirapalli was the ancient capital of the Chola Dynasty. The Cholas have left behind marvelous architectural pieces and culture. It certainly had left behind a long lasting legacy. It is due to them that we see some great temples and buildings in Tamil Nadu. Also they contributed immensely to the Tamil Literature. Origin of the Chola Dynasty Since the Chola kings and emperors followed and bore two titles namely, Parakesharivarman and Rajakesharivarman, their chronology is a bit difficult to trace. King Karikaran who is famous in the South Indian history is believed to be the common ancestor of the Deccan and the Andhra families from where the Cholas were derived. Reign of the Cholas The Cholas ruled for a long period from about the later half of the 9th century to the beginning of the 13th century. The land of Cholas and Pandyas got united between 926 and 942 by the Pallava king, Vijayala and the Destroyer of Madurai, Parantaka I. The Chola king RajaRaja I, who ruled from 985-1014, occupied the territory of Gangavadi, which is presently known as the Karnataka state and under his rule; the Chola Dynasty became an economic, military and cultural power in the Southern Asia. Even the Chera territory and the northern Sri Lanka were occupied by him in 996. He also built the famous Brihadishvara Temple at the present day Thanjavur (then Tanjore). By the end of his rule, in 1014 he also conquered the Lakshadweep and the Maldives islands. Rajaraja's son proved to be an incredible ruler like his father and went ahead his father in achievements. His son was Rajendra Chola Deva I, who completely conquered Sri Lanka. In 1023, Rajendra Chola penetrated the north and got the Ganges water to their new capital Gangaikondacolapuram. Also he conquered some other portions of Malay Peninsula and Malay Archipelago. Later he was taken over by his son Rajadhiraja who was in fight with the Pandyas, Cheras and the Western Chalukyas and in 1046 defeated the western Chalukyas. In 1054 he took over the Chalukyan Empire but later when the Chola ruler Virarajendra attempted to join hands with the Chalukya he was killed and his death led Vikramaditya Chalukya to weaken the Cholas. Fall of the Cholas The Chalukya and Chola Empire were succeeded by Kulottunga I whose main aim was to unite the east and who very wisely abandoned the Deccan. In about 1166 conflicts and confusions regarding the Pandyan throne embroiled the Cholas, Pandyas and Sri Lanka, which had by then attained freedom. It was in 1216 that the Hoysala kingdom took over the Chola lands and area and the initial former ruler withdrew back from the rule. Even the northern forces were seen intervening. In 1257 the Pandyan conquered the Chola country and after a long rule the Chola Dynasty collapsed in 1279. Last Updated on : January 21, 2014               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule