Quick Facts on Karnataka Home »» Karnataka »» Quick Facts   Karnataka कर्नाटक का नक्शा Karnataka Map Cities in Karnataka Bangalore Manipal Hubli Mangalore Gulbarga Davangere Mysore                    more... Districts of Karnataka Karnataka Railways Karnataka Roads Rivers of Karnataka Tehsils of Karnataka Travel to Karnataka Bangalore Travel Coorg Travel Mysore Travel Mangalore Travel Hampi Travel Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Coorg Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Mysore Wildlife Sanctuaries in Karnataka Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Hotels in Karnataka Hotels in Bangalore Hotels in Mysore Hotels in Coorg Hotels in Mangalore Hotels in Udup Hotels in Belgaum              more... Physical Map Where is Karnataka Forests in Karnataka Karnataka Agriculture Sex Ratio Minerals in Karnataka Latitude and Longitude Industrial Map Karnataka Air Network Karnataka Pin Code Karnataka STD Code How to Reach Karnataka Karnataka Facts Education in Karnataka Universities in Karnataka Geography and History People Culture and Festivals Karnataka Government and    Politics Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Constituencies Population of Karnataka Karnataka Handicrafts Karnataka Economy Bangalore Fort Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka       Quick Facts Quick Facts on Karnataka provides collective strata of information which in turn showcases the various cultural, social, economical and general dimensions of the state. Adorned with sacred temples, golden beaches, hi-tech sectors and heritage mansions, Karnataka stands with elan on the Indian tourism contour. Located on the south of India, Karnataka lies between 11.5° to 18.5 ° Northern latitude and 74° o 78.5 ° Eastern longitude. Being found on the meeting summit of Western Ghats and Eastern Ghats, the state possesses a varied nature of topography which comprises of slanting plateaus, steep hills, plains of the coastal area and mountains. Spanning over a total area of 191791 sq km, the state of Karnataka is covered by dense forest parts that have an expanse of 38724 sq km. Teak and Rosewood are the important forest product of the place. The vast agricultural area of the place has significant contribution towards the economic development of Karnataka. Coffee plantation engages a major portion of Karnataka's population. Cashewnut, cotton, chillies, cardamom, tobacco and sugarcane are the other prime agricultural produce of the state. As one of the advanced states of India, Karnataka boasts of an organized infrastructure of roads, railways and airways. Convenient transportation facilities play a key role in enhancing the tourism dynamics of the place. Those who opt for air travel can avail the respective service in Bangalore. The airport of this city offers air connections to all the major cities of India. The road network of the place is linked with all other states of India. The prime railhead of Karnataka is in Bangalore from where all the cities of South India can be reached. Karnataka possesses a widespread network of districts. There are a total of 27 districts in the state of Karnataka. The major cities of Karnataka include Bangalore, Badami, Belur, Bidar, Coorg, Gulbarga, Hampi, Hassan, Mysore, Hospet and Bijapur. Representing a vibrant gamut of natural and artificial features, Quick Facts on Karnataka offers a tailor-made solution to the various queries of people living in different parts of the world. Last Updated on 27 June 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule