Vijendar Singh - (Sam) - Pardada Pardadi Educational Society (PPES) | ngogateway.com Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Latest : Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Posted 1 year ago MARS FOUNDATION Posted 1 year ago St.Theresa’s Educational Society Posted 1 year ago Ray Welfare Society Posted 1 year ago Narain Sewa Sansthan Posted 1 year ago WOMEN ORGANISATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRUST Posted 1 year ago Sewa Bhav Foundation Posted 1 year ago Panrui Swajan Welfare Society Posted 4 years ago Sampark Samaj Kalyan Sansthan Posted 4 years ago The Catholic Health Association of India Posted 4 years ago Home   >   Personalities   >   Vijendar Singh – (Sam) – Pardada Pardadi Educational Society (PPES) Vijendar Singh – (Sam) – Pardada Pardadi Educational Society (PPES) By admin on November 14, 2009 Name Mr. Vijender (Sam) Singh Contact www.education4change.org Organization Pardada Pardadi Educational Society (PPES) One-liner Mr. Singh, an NRI, returned to India after 30 years and started a school for girls based on an ingenious model. Result: empowered and self-sustaining girls. Interviewer Manik Vinnakota Background: Mr. Vijender (Sam) Singh - PPES Mr. Singh was born and brought up in the town of Anupshahar in Bulandshahr district. His dad was a lawyer. He completed his schooling from Aligarh Muslim University and did his engineering in Punjab. After engineering he joined the textile industry. However, he aspired to study further and moved to Massachusetts, USA to gain a Masters in Textile engineering in 1965. Post that, he has been with Du Pont right up to his retirement in 1999. First-Steps: Post his retirement, Mr. Singh moved to his birthplace, Anupshahar, to serve his country by working towards rural welfare. He lamented that the state of a majority of the rural folk was reduced to focus on their next meal, with some leading lives no better than that of a beggar. Even though the IITs/IIMs had done India proud globally, unfortunately the education system has not helped the rural areas much. The age-old feudal society based on caste only aggravated the problems. Even more heartening was the state of females and the girl child. Far from being empowered, they were not even counted by parents as children. So he decided to improve the quality of life for rural women. In 2000, he started an all girls school providing free education in Anupshahar based on a unique and ingenious idea. Idea: Mr. Vijender (Sam) Singh - PPES At school half day is spent in regular education and the other half in vocational training. Mr. Singh has incentivized educating the girl child by two methods. First, for each day a girl attends school, PPES deposits ten rupees into her bank account. Upon graduation, the student can access this money on the day of her marriage (after the age of 18) or her 21st birthday – whichever comes first. This builds a corpus of around 30,000 Rupees. Second, the students are trained in vocational skills. These enable them to led self-sustainable lives. Post schooling, PPES encourages the girls to work and save for at least 3 years. BY the time they get married, the girls would have almost Rs 1 lakh in savings and a steady income of 3,000/month. This would empower them and live a life of dignity. Future Focus: The school has seen great success and growth. From 45 students when he started in 2000, currently 1000 girls are on roll. 3 batches have graduated and are leading happy lives. But Mr. Singh is humbled by the opportunities available to serve. He compares his work to a drop in the ocean and says he has just begun. In his tehsil there are around 50,000 families below-poverty-line (earning less than rupees 20 per day). He would like to expand his school facility from serving 1000 to around 50,000 students and in turn their families. Challenges: The journey so far has not been without road-blocks for Mr. Singh. Firstly, people did not trust him with his intentions. Indians have long been victims of being misled and deceived by the government and authorities. As a result a deep distrust towards anything optimistic had been lodged in the villagers. They questioned his model of targeting only the girl child. Also, they were skeptical of his promise of job-guarantee for the girls after school. In spite of Indians running global corporations and he himself having led an MNC, the rural folk were not exposed the operational capabilities of fellow Indians. So they doubted whether he could build and run a sustainable school. His solution to these challenges was to respect their doubt and continuously educate them about his intentions. His perseverance helped him start small with 45 students. But once the school was up and running, people trusted his noble intentions. However, not all parents were impressed by the school. The father of some girls took advantage of the freebies like free clothes, books, bicycle, etc. and he would sell these the very next day the girl enrolled. Mr. Singh accepted these as side-effects of his initial learning process and has become wiser along the way. Message: Mr. Vijender (Sam) Singh - PPES To all the readers, Mr. Singh reminds to not underestimate the power of a girl child. He testifies that provided proper coaching and a good environment, girls can do wonders. He requests others to build similar schools. He says if he can do it in such a short period of time facing a challenging environment, anyone should be able to do it in other parts of the country. Passion is all that is required. He would like to see an India where every girl is socially and financially independent. Also, in order to improve the state of rural India, create livelihood opportunities in and around the villages and towns. Mass transit to urban areas for employment will not help alleviate poverty. About “Pardada Pardadi”: Since 2000, Pardada Pardadi Educational Society (PPES) has been improving the lives of girls in rural India. Its mission is to uplift and empower girls from the poorest section of society by providing free education and vocational training – creating a new generation of self-reliant and educated girls who will break the cycle of poverty in the region. PPES is based in the village of Anupshahar, in the Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh, India. This area is one of India’s poorest. It is infamous for being crime-ridden. Moreover, it is one of the least-educated and least-literate sections of India. PPES plans to educate and provide job training to at least one daughter of each of the 50,000 poor families of Anupshahar, leading to self-sufficiency in a modern world. Thus PPES hopes to improve the quality of life for rural women and hence rural India. Related Posts: TOUCH Incord Foundation WOMEN AND GIRL CHILD DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION(WEGCDA) Incord Foundation Sarvangin Vikas Samiti Aligarh Muslim University Beggar Caste Du Pont Education System Educational Society Feudal Society First Steps Free Education Girl Child Girls School Ingenious Idea Interviewer Massachusetts Usa Model Result Mr Singh Rural Women Textile Engineering Textile Industry Vocational Training About admin Related Posts Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Social Action and Rural Awareness (SARA)Trust Social Action and Rural Awareness (SARA)Trust St.Theresa’s Educational Society St.Theresa’s Educational Society 6 Comments vijay malik November 16, 2009 at 10:40 am Hi Sam………….Nice to know that the initiative taken almost ten years ago and nurtured all the way with love, faith and your own resources is now helping the needy and source of joy and happiness for you and the families of many. Vijay Judy Findlay November 17, 2009 at 10:05 am Hi Sam! Congratulations. I am thrilled to see this recognition of you and the work you are doing to champion education for girls. I am sorry to have missed you this summer, but I was working in Pakistan while you were in the US. I will write soon–had hoped to visit PPES in January—but, not sure now about travel. Haven’t forgotten about the interns! Best to all, Judy sandeep November 26, 2010 at 4:26 pm sir/madam.. mai ek collage open karna chata hu.jis kai liya muzay fund ki jaraurat hi kya aap muzay batta sakti hi ki mai kaha apply karo ki funds muzay mil sakta hi. thanks my name …sandeep rathore rasi…raja ka bag gali no-6b mainpuri pin…205001 my contact no-09319965771..09639120337 sir aap agra aap ham ko $100000 .SAND KARTAY HAI TO MAI AAP KO $1000.PAR YEAR AAP KO SAND KARO GA .AAP AGRA AANA CHAAY TO AAP MARAY PASS AA SAKATAY HI.MAI EK COLLAGE OPEN KARNA CAHATA HU IS LIYA muzay money ki jaraurat hi .please help me lalit purohit July 26, 2011 at 1:35 pm respected sam singh great job. i am very impressed with you’s idea of 10 rupees. per day. i think govt has been follow this idea to her school for girls’s more enrollment. if u visit rajastahan plz see sam sand dunes & call me for a meal with u. Dr. Surjya Kumar Debnath January 26, 2012 at 11:55 am Dear Sir, I HAVE INBORN QUALITIES IN EARLY CANCER DETECTION BY PATHOLOGICAL STUDY. IF WE CAN WORK TOGETHER THEN GLOBAL CANCER CONTROL WILL BE MORE EFFECTIVE WITH >98% SURVIVAL. As it is evident from the study conducted among underserved population of Eastern India and NER Region it is clear that India as a whole is a cancer loaded area and pausing for Global burden in controlling cancer. But underserved areas areas are even worse in India with no facilities for cancer detection, prevention, screening and treatment modules etc. No schemes for cancer education programmes and many lacunae. I hope the enclosed paper will provide base line ideas about what to do next. With Kind Regards, Sincerely Yours 01.14.2012 Dr. Surjya Kumar Debnath, MBBS;MD, Oncopathologist & Director, Assam Cancer Society, Mobile: 0091-9435478305&9435690822, Email: drskdebnath@rediffmail.com & drskdebnath123@gmail.com . Assam Cancer Society& Rural Based Preventive Oncology Research Centre, (Cancer Awareness Campaign)NGO National Highway-37, P. O. Bokakhat-785 612. Assam. India. Registered under Assam Societies Registration Act. 1860; Registration No. 4780. Telephone : 091-3776-268377/268790, Fax No. 091-3776-268100. Email: drskdebnath123@gmail.com & drskdebnath@rediffmail.com Please visit Portal Website: http://www.karmayog.org/ngo/ACS . Harinder Singh Sethi March 21, 2012 at 7:29 pm Sam heard first time about this trust from a common friend than went to see details from net agood wonderful real contribution to society hopefully people like you will take India on a success road map. You must be logged in to post a comment Login Latest News pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile: A.... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym) –... Posted 8 months ago 0 Society for Peoples Integrated Development General information: Full Name of organization Society for People’s Integrated... Posted 8 months ago 0 Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Address: At – Bhalunka Po- Ramdaspur (Godisahi) Dist – Cuttack... Posted 8 months ago 0 Shri Durga Mahila Mandal (SDMM) Village & P.O. Ghanauli, District Roopnagar (Punjab) Shri Durga Mahila... Posted 8 months ago 0 Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) 1A, D. L. Khan Road,... Posted 8 months ago 0 Feedback Funding Agencies A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W Search Latest Popular Comments pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile:... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2.... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym)... Posted 8 months ago 0 Funding Agencies in India A M M Foundation “Tiam House” No 28, Rajaji... Posted 5 years ago 213 List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs American Jewish World Service Ananda Foundation Asia Foundation Baxter... Posted 6 years ago 116 Funding Agencies – C CAAC OF PIKE COUNTY 941 Market Street Piketon OH... Posted 6 years ago 91 Blog about human anatomy says: Awesome post.... Paul Ponniah says: Dear Sir, II, for Jeevan Sagar Trust, are w... Paul Ponniah says: Fine work for the Cause.... Recently Added pragati welfare society gariasathi Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Society for Peoples Integrated Development Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Copyright © 2007 - 14 | All Rights Reserved: advertisement advertisement