Farm Pocket Notebook - Small Farms / Alternative Enterprises - Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Extension Main Page About Us Extension Offices EDIS Publications Conference Info IFAS Farm Pocket Notebook Records and In-Field Reference Circular 841, revised 2008 This Farm Pocket Notebook contains record forms and information.  The purpose of the notebook is to provide ready reference information and a production recordkeeping format where the information is most often needed, and most accurately recalled – in the field.   It is designed to travel with you in a shirt pocket.  The best way to make use of it, then, is to keep it with you and record crop and livestock information as it develops. This revision expands the scope of the original notebook, making it more suitable for farms throughout Florida. It increases the focus on implementation and recordkeeping of Best Management Practices (BMPs), especially Integrated Pest Management (IPM) practices.  It is intended for use by smaller- to medium-sized farms producing row crops, vegetables and livestock. Click here for a Printable version of the entire contents of the Notebook (pdf).  Open the file in Adobe Reader, print page or page range; allowing scaling to fit page size. Click on pdf at the left of these pages of the Pocket Notebook to print pdf Field Records pdf Forage and Field Crop Planting Guides; Rainfall Normals for Selected Florida Locations pdf Vegetable Planning Guide; Rainfall Record pdf Weights, Measures, Conversions & Equivalents pdf Amortization Tables & Formulas, Machinery Management & Cost Calculations pdf Sprayer Calibration pdf IPM Pest Scouting &Treatment Thresholds; IFAS Diagnostic Services pdf Farm Laws; Nutrients & Alternative Pest Control for Organic Crop Production pdf Livestock Information pdf Herd Inventory; Vaccination & Herd Calving Records; Grazing & Lease/Rental Records pdf Pesticide License Renewal CEU Record; WPS Worker & Handler Training Records Notebook Contributors: Larry Halsey, editor, Jefferson County Extension Director (retired) Jim DeValerio, Bradford County Extension Agent Jed Dillard, Jefferson County Extension Agent Steve Gaul, Nassau County Extension Agent Dr. Richard Sprenkel, NFREC-Quincy, IPM Specialist (retired) Dr. Danielle Treadwell, Horticulture Sciences, Organic Specialist Planning & Management Food Safety Livestock & Forages Crops IPM Forest Products, Environmental & Recreational Uses Freshwater Aquaculture & Farm Ponds Organic Production Other Enterprises State & Federal Agencies Agricultural Weather Copyright 2006 | University of Florida | Site Feedback | EOI