growth statistics details figures Home Login About Us Subscribe Contact Us X OR Login Your Account Through IP Login Through Username & Password Username : Password :   Forgot Password? My Account Sorry! This IP 122.160.71.14 is not registered with us for the website www.indiastat.com. Close An Associate Website of Indiastat.com Data Search IndiaAgristat : An Overview Subscription Must See Downloads Subscription IndiaAgristat .com is accessible only to its registered subscribers on half yearly and annual subscription basis for the available subscription plans. The payment for the subscription can either be made using any of the available online modes of payment or through offline payment options. On receipt of payment, the subscription account is configured and its access details is communicated to you within one working day or earlier. Step-1 Select Location: Access of the site is location specific where the subscription fee is charged as per the country selected for the access. For access from "India & SAARC Nations" , subscription fee is charged in Indian Rupee and for other countries, it is charged in US Dollar. Select your preferred location for the access of the subscription. In India & other SAARC Nations Rest of the world Step-2 Select Subscription Plan : Select the plan you are interested in subscribing depending upon your requirement. Individual (For Individuals, Researchers & Scholars only) Plan Name Access Through Number of Users Validity / Limits* (whichever comes first) Fee (Rs.) Amount (Fee + S.Tax) Time Period Tables View-Print Tables Downloads Step-3 Make Payment Generate Performa Invoice Help Institution (For Universities, Institutions, Colleges, Govt. Offices & NGO s ) Plan Name Access Through Number of Users Validity / Limits* (whichever comes first) Fee (Rs.) Amount (Fee + S.Tax) Time Period Tables View-Print Tables Downloads Step-3 Make Payment Generate Performa Invoice Help Corporate (For Companies & Consultants) Plan Name Access Through Number of Users Validity / Limits* (whichever comes first) Fee (Rs.) Amount (Fee + S.Tax) Time Period Tables View-Print Tables Downloads Step-3 Make Payment Generate Performa Invoice Help IP Access: Through Static IP address; for single physical location.    UNPW: User Name & Password    S.Tax: Service Tax@ 12.36% Step-2 Select Subscription Plan : Select the plan you are interested in subscribing depending upon your requirement. Individual (For Individuals, Researchers & Scholars only) Plan Name Access by Users Validity / Limits* (whichever comes first) Fee (US$) Amount (Fee + S.Tax US$) Time Period Tables View-Print Tables Downloads Step-3 Make Payment Generate Performa Invoice Help Institution (For Universities, Institutions, Colleges, Govt. Offices & NGO s ) Plan Name Access by Users Validity / Limits* (whichever comes first) Fee (US$) Amount (Fee + S.Tax US$) Time Period Tables View-Print Tables Downloads Step-3 Make Payment Generate Performa Invoice Help Corporate (For Companies & Consultants) Plan Name Access by Users Validity / Limits* (whichever comes first) Fee (US$) Amount (Fee + S.Tax US$) Time Period Tables View-Print Tables Downloads Step-3 Make Payment Generate Performa Invoice Help IP Access: Through Static IP address; for single physical location.    UNPW: User Name & Password    S.Tax: Service Tax@ 12.36% Other Details IMPORTANT POINTS Indiastat.com is an initiative of Datanet India, providing secondary level socio-economics statistical information about India, its states, regions and sector through its 56 cluster websites, since the year 2000. Being mother site to all its 56 associate websites, Indiastat.com contains their information as well. However, access to these associate websites is provided just for an ease of navigation. The subscription of associate websites can also be subscribed separately. To know more about associate website of Indiastat.com ,click here The statistical information on the site(s) is available on “As Is” basis only. The statistical information on the site is an exhaustive compilation of data which can be accessed in three or four clicks and downloaded in MS-Excel / MS-word / HTML formats, as per the subscribed plan. Access to the site is restricted, which can be accessed by registered subscribers only. The site can be subscribed for the available subscription plans, for a minimum period of 6 months. Payment for the subscription can be made using available online or offline payment options. On receipt of payment, access to the site will be provided within one working day or earlier. Access to the site under Individual, Institution Regular and Corporate Regular plan is provided through a username and password (UN-PW); whereas, for rest of the plans, access is provided through IP configuration wherein static IP(s) of any one particular physical location/ campus shall be configured for your access. Access is provided for the subscribed number of users only i.e. at one point of time only the subscribed number of users will able to access either Indiastat.com or any of its 56 associate sites. Access to more than the subscribed will be denied. By default, at one point of time, only one user can access the site(s). However, user may opt for additional user by paying an extra payment. Subscription plan contains features like number of Data Table Views and Downloaded. A data table downloaded shall is also counted as a table viewed. The subscription will remain active till the date your table view-print/ table download limit or time period is consumed/ finishes first, w.e.f. date of account activation. Subscriber can view the details of their usage on the site itself after logging in at My Account on the home page. To know more about our services or to have customized subscription plans, please do write to us. OUR OTHER WEB SITES 56 Associate websites of Indiastat : Though Indiastat.com gives you an automatic access to its 56 associate websites; but, depending upon your requirement, you may subscribe any of the 56 associate websites of Indiastat.com individually also. The cluster of Indiastat.com associate sites has following websites: a) State-specific websites: If your requirement is any state specific then, we have 31 state specific websites, which provide statistical information for 31 states of India. To see the list of state-specific websites, click here. b) Sector-specific websites: If your requirement is any sector specific then, we have 19 state specific websites, which provide statistical information for 19 socio economic sectors of India. To see the list of state-specific websites, click here. c) Regional websites : In case, you are specifically looking for regional level comparative information of India e.g. Eastern Region, Western Region, Central Region, Northern Region, Southern Region & HindiBelt, then you may opt to subscribe any of our available regional sites. To see the list of these regional sites, please click here. District level websites: Through its cluster of 660 district level websites, Districtsofindia.com provides secondary level socio-economic statistical information of 640 districts out of 660 districts of India. The annual subscription of Districtsofindia.com can be subscribed either for all the available districts of India, or for all the districts of any particular state(s) or for any number of particular district(s) as well. To see the list of these district level websites, please click here . A facility of having a free trial of Districtsofindia.com is also available wherein on providing the requited information, a free trial of 7 days is provided for any one district of India. The selection of district for free trial is made on random basis. Election Website: With an objective to render services to the political research fraternity about the electioneering process of India, www.Electionsinindia.com is launched which provides parliament constituency-wise election data, since independence, for all the 543 parliament and 4120 state assembly constituencies in India. Access to the site is free for all. The site also provides customise analysis report of a particular constituency across the country. Please submit your query with the following details:-  Are you a member : Yes No  Name :    Location :    Phone no :    Email-Id :    Message:  (Upto 2000 Character)   Enter the code shown:   Associate Websites (56) Sector-specific Websites (19) IndiaAgristat IndiaChildrenstat IndiaCrimestat IndiaDemographics IndiaEconomystat IndiaEducationstat IndiaEnergystat IndiaEnvironstat IndiaHealthstat IndiaHousingstat IndiaIndustrystat IndiaInfrastat IndiaLabourstat IndiaRuralstat IndiaSCSTstat IndiaTourismstat IndiaUrbanstat IndiaWelfarestat IndiaWomenstat State-specific Websites (31) AndhraPradeshstat ArunachalPradeshstat Assamstat Biharstat Chandigarhstat Chhattisgarhstat Delhistat