Indian Railways - Maps and Information Home » Indian Railways   Indian Railway Time Table Indian Railway Station Code Indian Railway Map Indian Railway Zonal Map Central Railway East Central Railway East Coast Railway Eastern Railway North Central Railway Northern Eastern Railway Northern Western Railway Northeast Frontier Railway Northern Railway South Central Railway South East Railway South Eastern Railway South Western Railway Southern Railway West Central Railway Western Railway   Trains Route Map Rajdhani Route Jan Shatabdi Route Shatabdi Route Sampark Kranti Route Palace On Wheels Route Fairy Queen Express Route Royal Orient Express Route Deccan Odyssey Route Route Map for Shri Shakti Exp   Railway Maps of States & UT Andhra Pradesh Railway Assam Railway Bihar Railway Chandigarh Railway Chhattisgarh Railway Delhi Railway Goa Railway Gujarat Railway Haryana Railway Himachal Railway Jammu & Kashmir Railway Jharkhand Railway Karnataka Railway Kerala Railway Madhya Pradesh Railway Maharashtra Railway Manipur Railway Meghalaya Railway Mizoram Railway Nagaland Railway Odisha Railway Puducherry Railway Punjab Railway Rajasthan Railway Tamil Nadu Railway Tripura Railway Uttarakhand Railway Uttar Pradesh Railway West Bengal Railway  Metro Map Delhi Metro Map Mumbai Metro Map Kolkata Metro Map Chennai Metro Map Hyderabad Metro Map Bangalore Metro Map Jaipur Metro Map Gurgaon Metro Map Delhi Monorail Route Map Pune Metro Map  My India Railway Budget 2015 Highlights Expectations from Railway Budget 2015       Railways The Indian Railways is operated and owned by the Government of India, Ministry of Railways. It is considered as one of the world's largest railway networks containing 115000 km of track over a route of 65000 km with 7500 railway stations. More than 20 million passengers travel daily in Indian Railways and around 2.8 million tons of freight is transported daily. The Indian Railways had a modest beginning in 1853, when the first train steamed off from Mumbai to Thane. In 1951, it was nationalized as a single unit, becoming one of the largest railway networks in the world. Indian Railways has over 59713 Passenger Coaches, 229381 Freight Wagons and 9213 Locomotives. It runs around 10000 trains daily and has its own locomotive and coach production facilities. Indian Railways operate on long distances between cities as well as suburban rail systems on a multi-gauge network. It uses four gauges, the 1,676 mm broad gauge, the 1,435 mm standard gauge, the 1,000 mm metre gauge and the two narrow gauges: 762 mm and 610 mm. Railways in India covers 29 states, 3 union territories and also supplies limited international services to Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal. The Indian Railways is divided into 16 zones, which are further divided into a total of 68 divisions. Each zone is administered by a General Manager (GM) and the divisions are under the control of Divisional Railway Managers (DRM). The Indian Railways is the world's fourth largest commercial employer with over 1.4 million employees. The Locomotives or Engines in India comprise of electric and diesel ones. Steam engines aren't used any longer, except in heritage trains. Engines are classified by their track gauge, power, model number and the work they are suitable for. Freight trains earn about 70% of the railway revenue. There are several passenger train services and are mostly classified by their average speed. A faster train has fewer stops than a slower one. Some of the faster trains are: Duronto Express, Rajdhani Express, Shatabdi Express, Garib Rath, Jan Shatabdi, Sampark Kranti Express, etc. There are several classes of travel with or without Air Conditioning in the Indian Railways. They are as follows: 1A - First class AC, 2A - AC-Two tier, FC - First class, 3A - AC three tier, 3E - AC three tier (Economy), CC - AC chair car, EC - Executive class chair car, SL - Sleeper class, 2S - Seater class and UR - Unreserved. Indian Railways has two UNESCO World Heritage Sites; the Chatrapati Shivaji Terminus and the Mountain Railways of India. The Mountain Railways of India consists of three separate railway lines. The first one is the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway in West Bengal . The second one is the Nilgiri Mountain Railway in Tamil Nadu and the third one is the Kalka-Shimla Railway in Himachal Pradesh . Railway Maps of States & Union Territories of India Indian Railways Andhra Pradesh Assam Bihar Chandigarh Chhattisgarh Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal J&K Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Nagaland Orissa Punjab Rajasthan Tamil Nadu Telangana Uttaranchal Uttar Pradesh West Bengal General Railway Maps of India Special Trains in India Konkan Railway Rajdhani Route Map Jan Shatabdi Route Map Shatabdi Route Map Duronto Express Map Sampark Kranti Route Map Route Map of Palace On Wheels Route Map of Fairy Queen Express Route Map of Royal Orient Express Route Map of Deccan Odyssey Railway Maps of Metro Cities of India Mumbai Kolkata Delhi   Related Links   India Railway Budget 2009-10 Expectations from Railway Budget 2015             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule