System of Rice Intensification - Conferences and Workshops SRI International Network and Resources Center   Home About Us Projects SRI News Events Latest Additions Contact Us About SRI Methodology FAQs Origin of SRI Other Crops Countries and Regions Asia | Africa | Americas Information Resources SRI Websites / Groups Research Practical Information Other Publications Photo Gallery Videos Presentations Marketing Past Conferences Spanish documents Home > Conferences and Workshops PAST CONFERENCES AND WORKSHOPS Note: For upcoming events and recent (2011/2012) event descriptions, see events page For additional local and regional workshops, see country pages International Conferences and Meetings with SRI Content First International SRI Conference , Sanya, China (2002) International Symposium on Sustaining Food Security and Managing Natural Resources in SE Asia , Chiang Mai, Thailand (2002) Fourth International Crop Science Congress , Brisbane, Australia (2004) World Rice Research Conference , Tsukuba, Japan (2004) International Dialogue on Rice and Water , Los Baños, Philippines (2006) Second International Rice Congress , New Delhi, India (2006) CGIAR Challenge Program Forum on Water and Food Forum , Vientiane, Laos (2006) 5th World Life Sciences (BioVision) Forum , Lyon, France (2007) Farmer Participatory Research and Development 20 Years On , Brighton, UK (2007) Southeast Asia Regional Knowledge Exchange on SRI Producing More with Less Water , Bangkok, Thailand (2009) International Conference on Promising Practices for the Development of Sustainable Paddy Fields , Bogor, Indonesia (2009) BioVisionAlexandria 2010: New LIfe Science, Future Prospects , April 11-15, 2010 Workshop on the System of Rice Intensification - Exchanging Experience in China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Internationally , Hangzhou, China (2010) 3rd International Rice Congress , Hanoi, Vietnam (2010) International Symposium on “System Intensification towards Food and Environmental Security” (2011) First Workshop on the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) in Latin America , Costa Rica, 2011 First Workshop on the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) in West Africa, Burkina Faso, 2012 Workshop on Building Alliances for the System of Rice Intensification and Agro-Ecology , Bangkok, Thailand (2014) 4th International Rice Congress , Bangkok, Thailand (2014) Workshop on Equipment for th System of Rice Intensification , Pathumthani, Thailand (2014) (2014) and Regional Workshops on the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Bangladesh -     Dhaka, 2003 , 2006 , 2008 , 2010 Japan -     2008-2013 Sri Lanka -     2003 , 2008, 2013 Cambodia -     2003 , 2005 , 2006 , 2008 , 2009 Kenya -    AICAD, Nairobi 2010 Thailand -    Chiang Mai, 2003 ; 2005 China -    Hangzhou, 2003 , 2010 Malaysia -    Putrajaya, 2011 ; Lumut, 2013 Vietnam -    Hanoi, 2010 India -     2006, 2007 , 2008 Nepal -    ICIMOD, Kathmandu, 2005 Latin America -    Costa Rica, 2011 Indonesia -    June 2008 , Oct. 2008 Philippines -    Quezon City, 2004 , 2009 West Africa -    Burkina Faso, 2012     First International SRI Conference, Sanya, China (2002) (see complete proceedings , which include country reports, research reports, plenary papers, and working group summaries) In 2002, April 1-4, an international conference on the System of Rice Intensification was hosted by the China National Hybrid Rice Research and Development Center in Sanya, China, where the Center has its winter season rice breeding program.The Center's director, Prof. Yuan Longping, is the originator of hybrid rice. The conference was organized by CIIFAD and co-sponsored by Association Tefy Saina, the China National Hybrid Rice Research and Development Center, and the China National Rice Research Institute at Hangzhou. A grant from the Rockefeller Foundation made it possible to have participation from Africa and Latin America as well as Asia. There were over 50 participants from China and 46 participants from outside China. Reports presented from 15 countries were on SRI experience through April 2002.Data were summarized in a PowerPoint prepared by Erick Fernandes . World Rice Research Conference, Tsukuba, Japan (2004) (see presentations ) As part of the International Year of Rice Observance, a World Rice Research Conference was convened in Tokyo and then Tsukuba, Japan, November 4, 2004. It was sponsored by FAO and IRRI and organized by the Japanese Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Conference organizers agreed to include a special workshop on SRI as part of the WRRC program when none of the 15 abstracts submitted to panel chairmen for papers on SRI to be presented o the panels already planned were accepted. This workshop was well-attended and included presentations from CIIFAD, FAO, Bangladesh, China, India (Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu), Indonesia, and the Philippines. (The presentation planned from Cuba was not given because the Cuban participant, director of that country's national rice research institute, did not arrive in Tsukuaba as expected.) The papers prepared for the workshop were not included in the conference proceedings, but they are available on the SRI website , along with the PowerPoint presentations made. 4th International Crop Science Congress (2004) (see complete proceedings in Fischer, T. et al. New directions for a diverse planet, Brisbane, Australia, 26 September - 1 Oct. 2004 www.cropscience.org.au ) The following papers relate to SRI: - The System of Rice Intensification (SRI) for super-high yields of rice in the Sichuan Basin by Jiaguo Zheng et al., Crop Research Institute, Sichuan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Chengdu, Sichuan, China. - Can yields of lowland rice resumes the increases that they showed in the 1980s? by Horie Takeshi et al, Graduate School of Agriculture, Kyoto University, Japan - Comparison of productivity of System of Rice Intensification and conventional rice farming systems in the dry-zone region of Sri Lanka by Sarath P. Nissanka and T. Bandara, University of Peradeniya, Sri Lanka. International Dialogue on Rice and Water: Exploring Options for Food Security and Sustainable Environments, Los Baños, Philippines (2006) An international seminar was convened at the initiative of the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) through its Program on Water, Food and Environment, a joint undertaking with the International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) in Hyderabad, India. The event was co-sponsored and hosted by the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) at Los Baños in the Philippines, March 7-8, 2006. SRI was featured as one of the options for achieving higher rice yields with less requirements for water and more favorable impacts on the environment. An overview paper by Norman Uphoff , CIIFAD, and a case study from Eastern Indonesia by Shuichi Sato, Nippon Koei, were presented. Dr. Sura Subbiah, acting director of the Directorate of Rice Research in Hyderabad, India, summarized the results of DRR's evaluations of SRI in a number of states in that country. The Dialogue program's initial findings on SRI are reported in its newsletter . CGIAR Challenge Program on Water and Food Forum (2006) An international forum was held in Vientiane, November 12-16, on land and water management practices that contribute to sustainable food production with reduced water use. SRI initiatives were represented by Abha Mishra and Prabhat Kumar from the Asian Institute of Technology in Bangkok and by Rajendra Uprety from Nepal. A team of SRI farmers from northeastern Thailand attended to present their experience with increasing food production while lowering their water requirements. (see Uphoff's review of the event). Second International Rice Congress, New Delhi (2006) The Second International Rice Congress was held in New Delhi, India, October 6-13, 2006. There were at least 15 posters on SRI evaluation and explanation, most contributed by Indian researchers ( Sridevi and Chellamuthu , 242 kb; Ramasamy et al , 898 kb and Singh, Edwin and Veeramani 1.93 mb) but posters came also from Bhutan ( Karma Lhendup ; 3.12 mb), Nepal ( Rajendra Uprety ; 139 kb) and Thailand (Abha Mishra ; 759 kb). Norman Uphoff was invited to give a presentation on SRI with regard to water-productivity ; and in his invited paper on resource-conserving technologies, Mushtaq Gill from Pakistan gave some prominence to SRI. A get-together of congress participants involved with SRI was organized and hosted by Bhuban Barah, senior economist in the National Centre for Agricultural Economic and Economic Policy (NCAP). A report on the Congress focusing on its SRI aspects , was prepared by Norman Uphoff. 5th World Life Sciences Forum (BioVision) (2007) This event, held in Lyon, France, on March 11-14, 2007, provided an international platform for dialogue, debates and proposals concerning major issues in life sciences. Norman Uphoff was invited to participate in the Forum, where he discussed SRI in the session on "Integrated Approaches to Eliminate Hunger." For more information on SRI exchanges during the event, see Uphoff's trip report . Farmer Participatory Research and Development 20 Years On (2007) The Future Agricultures Consortium based at the Institute of Development Studies (IDS) at the University of Sussex in the U.K. hosted an international workshop on ‘ farmer participatory research and development 20 years on ,’ Dec. 12-14, 2007 ( see papers and presentations ). Papers specifically on SRI experience include Encounters, dialogues and learning alliances among farmers, scientists and others with the System of Rice Intensification in India by Shambu Prasad and two papers by Norman Uphoff: The System of Rice Intensification as a system of agricultural innovation and Farmer innovations improving the SRI Workshop on the System of Rice Intensification - Exchanging Experience in China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Internationally (2010) Given an indication of interest in considering whether the concepts and methods of the System of Rice Intensification (SRI), with appropriate modifications for climate, soil and other constraints, could contribute to improving rice productivity in the DPRK, a three‐day international workshop was held in Hangzhou, February 28‐March 2. This was organized and hosted by the China National Rice Research Institute (CNRRI), with support from The Asia Foundation. Impetus for this get‐together came in part from some initial positive results that were seen from SRI evaluations done during the 2009 season. [ more... ] First Workshop on the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) in Latin America (2011) The objectives of the workshop were to i) Bring to together for the first time SRI practitioners and researchers from Latin American Countries and the Caribbean, ii) Assess the achievements and opportunities of the System of Rice Intensification in Latin America and the Caribbean; iii) Brainstorm potentials and constraints for improving rice production practices in the region; and iv) Develop a plan for the next steps in advancing SRI in Latin America. Twenty-seven participants from Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Nicaragua, Mexico, Panama, Trinidad and Tobago, and the USA met to assess achievements of SRI in the region to date. (See reports , presentations and agenda ) Organized by: SRI-Rice (Cornell International Institute for Food, Agriculture and Development) and EARTH University with funding from Jim Carrey's Better U Foundation Date: October 30 - November 1, 2011 Venue: EARTH University campus, Costa Rica The SRI International Network and Resources Center (SRI-Rice) is supported by Ohrstrom Foundation, The Bridging Peace Fund, Marguerite and Norman Uphoff, and Jim Carrey's Better U Foundation   Contact Us   | SRI-Rice is associated with International Programs - CALS at Cornell University   | ©2014