KISSAN-Kerala   Sitemap | Contact Us | Feedback         Search | About KISSAN | Kerala @ Glance | What's New | Events | FAQs | The Team | Institutions | Home OTHERS Rubber Board National Horticultural Board Directorate of Areca nut & Spices Development Tea Board Coconut Development Board Spices Board Directorate of Cashew nut & Cocoa Development National Seeds Corporation Save Grain Campaign Land Development Corporation MILMA Land Use Board Poultry Development Corporation The Kerala Livestock Development Board Ltd NABARD KERAFED Small Farmers Agri Business Consortium Kerala Agro Industries Corporation Ltd KAMCO VFPCK Serifed Raidco Coir Board Agricultural and Processed Foods Export Development Authority Marine Products Export Development Authority Cashew Export Promotion Council Rubber Board The Rubber Board is a statutory body constituted by the Government of India, under the Rubber Act 1947, for the overall development of the rubber industry in the country Functions of Rubber Board The statutory functions of the Rubber Board are: 1. To promote by such measures as it thinks for the development of the rubber industry. 2. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the measures referred to therein may provide for: a) undertaking, assisting or encouraging scientific, technological and economic research; b) training students in improved methods of planting, cultivation, manuring and spraying; c) supply of technical advice to rubber growers; d) improving the marketing of rubber; e) collection of statistics from owners of estates, dealers and manufacturers; f) securing better working conditions and provisions for improvement of amenities and incentives for workers; g) carrying out any other duties which may be vested in the Board as per rules made under this Act. 3. It shall also be the duty of the Board: a) to advise the Central Government on all matters relating to the development of the rubber industry, including the import and export of rubber; b) to advise the Central Government with regard to participation in any international conference or scheme relating to rubber; c) to submit to the Central Government and such other authorities as may be prescribed half yearly reports on its activities and the working of Act, and d) to prepare and furnish such other reports relating to the rubber industry as may be required by the Central Government from time to time. More... Top. .. National Horticultural Board National Horticulture Board was set up by the Government of India in 1984 as an autonomous society under the Societies Registration Act 1860 with its Headquarters at Gurgaon, Haryana with the mandate to promote integrated development of horticulture, to help in coordinating, stimulating and sustaining the production and post-harvest management of fruits and vegetables and other horticultural crops. NHB has the following mandates: a) To develop high quality horticultural farms in identified belts and make such areas vibrant with horticultural activity which in turn will act as hub for developing commercial horticulture b) To develop post-harvest management infrastructure c) To Strengthen Market Information System and horticulture database d) To Assist R&D programmes to develop products suited for specific varieties with improved methods and horticulture technology e) To Provide training and education to farmers and processing industry personnel for improving agronomic practices and new technologies and f) To Promote consumption of fruits/vegetables in fresh, processed form etc. NHB has network of 33 regional offices located through the entire length and breadth of the country to promote horticulture in the country. The initiatives of the Board have helped in developing infrastructure for horticultural development. More... Top... Directorate of Arecanut & Spices Development (DASD) The Government of India established the Directorate of Cocoa, Arecanut & Spices Development at Calicut, Kerala with effect from 01.04.1966 as one of the subordinate office of the Ministry of Agriculture (Department of Agriculture & Cooperation). The Directorate has the mandate to formulate appropriate development schemes on spices, medicinal & aromatic plants and arecanut at the national level. These schemes are implemented through State Governments, Agricultural Universities, ICAR Institutes as well as through Regional Research Laboratories under CSIR and monitored by the Directorate. This Directorate also collect, compile and publish data on area, production, price trends, export and import of arecanut and spices in addition to keeping in liaison with research and development agencies at the State and Central levels. Through the efforts of Directorate there has been unprecedented increase in production and quality of these products Top... Tea Board Tea Board India, under the Ministry of Commerce, helps to implement the Government's regulations and policies. Acting as a facilitator for the development of the tea industry in India, the Board promotes tea research and exports of tea worldwide, collects and disseminates statistical data as well as encourages labour welfare programmes among a host of other activities all aimed at ensuring the health and vibrancy of the world's largest producer of tea.Tea Board India is headed by the Chairman, appointed by the Government of India. It was established in 1953 by an Act of Parliament, and headquartered at Calcutta. More... Top... Coconut Development Board The Coconut Development Board, established in 1981 has a mandate for integrated development of coconut industry in the country through promoting production, processing, marketing and product diversification of coconut. The functions of the Board are: adopting measures for the development of coconut industry, recommending measures for improving marketing of coconut and its products, imparting technical advice to those engaged in coconut cultivation and industry, provide financial and other assistance for expansion of area improving productivity and product diversification, compile statistics on coconut, undertake publicity and publication activities etc. Encouraging adoption of modern technologies for processing of coconut and its product, recommending measures for regulating imports and exports for coconut and its products, fixing grades, specifications and standards for coconut and its products also falls under its ambit. The Board has its Headquarters at Kochi, Kerala, with three regional offices at Bangalore, Patna and Chennai and six state centres at Hyderabad, Calcutta, Guwahati, Agartala, Bhubaneswar and Port Blair. In addition, Nine Demonstration cum Seed Production Farms has also been established in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa, Assam, Bihar, Tripura and Madhya Pradesh. The Board has been implementing various development programmes for the last 19 years. Efforts of the Board have been rewarding in terms of increased production and productivity and also for diversification of products. The Board is publishing journal in 5 languages and has established information system. More... Top... Spices Board The Spices Board India (Ministry of Commerce, Government of India) is the apex body for the export promotion of Indian Spices. Established in 1987, the Board is the catalyst of these dramatic transitions. The Board has been with the Indian Spice industry every step of the way. The Board plays a far-reaching and influential role as a developmental, regulatory and promotional agency for Indian Spices Top... Directorate of Cashew nut & Cocoa Development The Directorate of Cashew nut Development came into being with effect from 01.04.1966 at Cochin as subordinate office of the Union Ministry of Agriculture with primary objective of development of cashew nut in the country. Development of cocoa was transferred to this Directorate during 1998. The Directorate of Cashew nut and Cocoa Development is responsible for formulation and coordination of schemes programmes for development of cashewnut & cocoa in the country. The Directorate maintains close liaison with the State Governments and other State level agencies in the course of development. The Directorate conducts comprehensive studies on various aspects of cashew nut & cocoa development including production, prices, marketing and other related problems. It has been instrumental in dissemination of technical information and research findings of practical value through publications. Institute of Directorate has helped in adoption of improved technology for production and availability of assured quality planting material. The Directorate also publishes its journal regularly. Top... National Seeds Corporation NSC was the first public sector organization, established in 1963, and remained virtually the only agency for seed production for around 13 years. Its role extended to several developmental programmes including training, quality control and extension activities in seeds. Working since 1963, under the control of the Ministry of Agriculture of Government of India. It undertakes production, processing and marketing of agricultural seeds. It's product range include cereals, pulses, oilseed, fodder, fiber and vegetable crops. NSC pioneered the development of Indian Seed Industry on scientific lines with its involvement in the formulation of seed certification standards. Its seeds are evaluated for quality standards by independent seed certification agencies besides internal quality checks and laboratory tests in its own ISTA accredited Seed Testing Laboratory. Indian seed industry constitutes of this national level organization and seeds corporation in different states of India. Corporation has equity participation in the state seeds corporations to enable uniformity of approach in meeting the national aspirations. To meet its business obligations and also to maintain gradient to ensure flow of technological advancements, the corporation maintains a motivated team of educated and experienced staff. Corporation runs regular training courses to refresh the knowledge of seedsmen from India as well as Abroad. It also maintains a Consultancy wing to render services in all the facets of seed development. NSC rendered such services to the state seeds corporations and agricultural universities in the establishment of seed processing plants, stores and seed testing laboratories. With its Head Office at Delhi, 11 Regional Offices in the state capitals and over 80 area offices located throughout the country, NSC is well placed to take advantage of the best agro climatic conditions for seed production programme to meet any kind of supply needs. More... Top... Save grain Campaign Save Grain Campaign under the direct supervision and control of Department of Public Distribution, Ministry Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution is prorogating the knowledge of scientific storage of food grains amongst farmers including farm women through its 17 field offices situated in different parts of the country viz. Ahmedabad, Banglore, Bhubaneshwar, Bhopal Calcutta, Chennai Chandigarh Ghaziabad, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Lucknow, Patna, Pune, Raipur ,Thiruvanantapuram, & Varanasi. The main objectives of the SGC are to educate, motivate and persuade the farmers and others to adopt measures at farm level to minimise the food grain losses through training, demonstration & publicity. Functions The functions of the Campaign are as under: To impart training to the farmers, traders and extension officials at the block level on the practical aspects of storage and preservation of food grains. To popularise scientific techniques of storage amongst farmers etc., through demonstrations and wide publicity and to develop selected villages to serve as model villages. To arrange facilities for farmers for purchase of improve types of storage structures; and To maintain liaison with State Governments and to arrange steady supply of storage structures and pesticides to the users. The ultimate aim of the above programme is to help in the reduction of avoidable losses to foodgrains in storage, as to make available more foodgrains for human consumption. Top... Land Development Corporation The Kerala Land Development Corporation Limited (KLDC) was incorporated by the Government of Kerala during 1972, with a view to promote, undertake and execute land development and allied schemes in Kerala, for the integral development of Agriculture and vested with certain powers, as per the special powers act 5 of 1974; as amended by Act 15 of 1977. Since incorporation, Kerala Land Development Corporation Limited is acting as an agency for the effective implementation of various projects to alleviate the problems of poor farmers and paddy cultivators, especially in the low lying and water logged areas of the state like Kole Lands, Kari land, Kuttanadu stretches in Thrissur, Alappuzha and Kottayam Districts. Its authorized capital is Rs. 10 crores and paid up capital is Rs. 705.40 lakhs fully paid (Rs.671.40 lakhs by the Government of Kerala and Rs. 34.00 lakhs by the Central Governments). Its main aims and objectives are to promote, undertake and execute schemes in Kerala for land development, flood control, dewatering, irrigation, construction of godowns and other schemes and infrastructural work for development of agriculture and allied activities. Top... MILMA Kerala Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (KCMMF), popularly called milma was established in April, 1980 with its Head Office at Thiruvananthapuram for the successful implementation of the Operation Flood ( a dairy programme launched in 1970 under the aegis of National Dairy Development Board(NDDB). The name milma represents:- 2,100 primary milk co-operative societies 5.24 lakhs (0.524 million) farmer members Three Regional Co-operative Milk Producers' Union Ten Dairies capable of handling 9.90 lakhs liters of milk per day Fourteen Milk Chilling Centres Two Cattle Feed Plants with cumulative capacity of 500MT per day One Milk Powder Plant of 10MT per day capacity A well-established Training Centre 4,000 retail outlets Over 18,000 people working either directly or indirectly for the functioning of milma The Objectives To channelise marketable surplus milk from the rural areas to urban deficit areas to maximize the returns to the producer and provide quality milk and milk products to the consumers. To carryout activities for promoting Production, Procurement, Processing and Marketing of milk and milk products for economic development of the farming community. To build up a viable dairy industry in the State. To provide constant market and stable price to the dairy farmers for their produce. Top... Land Use Board Started functioning from 1975 based on the recommendation of National commission on Agriculture. The Board collects information related to land use, conducts survey and prepares projects for better land use. Kerala State Remote Sensing & Environment Centre is an autonomous body of the Kerala State Land Use Board for carrying out research studies and training programs in areas of application Remote Sensing and GIs for natural resource development. The department is having State of Art GIs and Remote Sensing facilities. Top... Poultry Development Corporation Kerala State Poultry Development Corporation Ltd. is a fully Government owned company of the State of Kerala, established in the year 1989, with the cardinal objective of promotion and development of poultry sector in the state. Following are the major objectives of the Corporation, focused to establish a self-sufficient state on production and supply of eggs and meat of all types of avian species. · Providing adequate inputs such as commercial layer and broiler chicks, feed, equipments, medicines, vaccines etc to the farmers at reasonable prices. · Organising poultry farmers and provide them with infrastructure facilities for marketing of their products such as egg, meat etc · Providing extensive technical support to the farmers. · Augmenting internal production of egg and meat so as to stabilize their price in the state. · Providing employment opportunities for the unemployed and underemployed youths by encouraging them to take up poultry farming as an enterprising proposition. · Promoting consumption of poultry meat and egg so as to improve health of the subjects of Kerala. · Promoting poultry based industries in the State of Kerala. Top... The Kerala Livestock Development Board Ltd The Kerala Livestock Development Board Ltd. a fully Government owned company, was formed in 1976 1. The main objectives of the Board are: to provide inputs required for cattle breeding in line with the breeding policy of the state to provide inputs required for fodder production at farmer's places to reduce the cost of milk production. to conduct applied research in the field of livestock breeding and fodder production. To offer training courses in animal husbandry and fodder production. development of Malabari goats through the supply of selected breeding stock and popularisation of Boer goats through supply of semen and breeding stock. production and supply of good quality piglets for breeding and fattening. To fulfill these objectives, the Board established breeding farms, training centres, etc. The breeding programme was first launched in the cattle breeding centre at Mattupatti under the aegis of the Indo Swiss Project Kerala. The results and achievements, after proper evaluation, were put to wider application throughout Kerala in a phased programme with a view to enhance the milk production . Frozen semen technology was introduced by the Board for the time in India in 1965 and was perfected for large scale application under topical conditions. The Board was the first agency in India to start a sire evaluation programme for crossbred bulls under field conditions as early as 1977. A computerised data processing system to monitor the programme was established in 1983. Fodder developments programme was given due importance in economic milk production from the very beginning. The Board could identify a number of fodder varieties suitable for the different agroclimatic conditions and propagate it. The production of seeds of the selected varieties of tropical grasses and legumes is taken up in a large scale by the Board with the participation of farmers. Realising the need for training and retraining of the various categories of personnel engaged in the operation of a cattle breeding programme, the Board organised short duration ''learning by doing'' training courses from 1975 onwards. Now the two training centres at Mattupatti and Dhoni are fully booked year round. The activities of the Board are backed up by Research and Development (R and D) programme. This includes applied research in animal management, animal breeding, frozen semen technology, reproductive management selection of suitable fodder species, seed production technology, management of information system, etc Complementary to the existing AI and breeding programme of crossbred cattle of Kerala, the work of Multiple Ovulation of Embryo Transfer (MOET) has been initiated by the Board during 1990. MOET technology is continued in the Board farms with the intention of producing superior bull calves as well as supplying embryos for field embryo transfer programme by the Animal Husbandry Department. More... Top... NABARD NABARD is an apex institution, accredited with all matters concerning policy, planning and operations in the field of credit for agriculture and other economic activities in rural areas in India NABARD is established as a development Bank, in terms of the Preamble of the Act, "for providing and regulating Credit and other facilities for the promotion and development of agriculture, small scale industries, cottage and village industries, handicrafts and other rural crafts and other allied economic activities in rural areas with a view to promoting integrated rural development and securing prosperity of rural areas and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto." NABARD took over the functions of the erstwhile Agricultural Credit Department (ACD) and Rural Planning and Credit Cell (RPCC) of RBI and Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC). Its subscribed and paid-up Capital was Rs.100 crore which was enhanced to Rs. 500 crore, contributed by the Government Of India and RBI in equal proportions. It is now enhanced to Rs. 2000 crore. NABARD: (i) Serves as an apex refinancing agency for the institutions providing investment and production credit for promoting the various developmental activities in rural areas; (ii) Takes measures towards institution building for improving absorptive capacity of the credit delivery system, including monitoring, formulation of rehabilitation schemes, restructuring of credit institutions, training of personnel. (iii) Co-ordinates the rural financing activities of all institutions engaged in developmental work at