Capital of Nagaland Home » Nagaland » Nagaland Capital   Nagaland नागालैंड का नक्शा Nagaland Map Kohima City Map Mokokchung City Map Districts of Nagaland Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Society and Culture Media Kohima Location Nagaland Location Physical Map Minerals Map Nagaland Pincode Nagaland STD Code Agriculture Map Capital Lat Long Geography Economy Assemblypolls Places to visit in Nagaland Wildlife Sanctuaries Nagaland Museums Japfu Peak Hotels in Nagaland Dimapur Hotels Kohima Hotels Government & Politics History Universities In Nagaland       Capital of Nagaland The capital of Nagaland , Kohima is located in the north-eastern part of the Indian subcontinent. The name 'Kohima' has been derived from the name of a plant called 'Kew Hi', which thrives in the mountainous region. Kohima is a fascinating place, endowed with a lot of natural beauty. The Nagaland capital can be easily accessed by all the major means of transportation. The nearest airport is located at Dimapur at a distance of 74 kms. The closest rail head is also situated at Dimapur. If one wants to travel to Kohima by road, then one has to access the National Highway 39. From Dimapur one can easily reach this city via this national highway. Kohima city is located at a height of about 1,495 m above the mean sea level. The ideal time to visit Kohima city is during the months of September and April. The local means of transport for traveling around the capital of Nagaland are minibuses, auto rickshaws and cycle rickshaws. One can also avail jeeps for traveling around the Kohima city. The major places of interest in the city of Kohima are the Polar cemetery, the Dzukou valley, the Japfu peak, Dzulakive, Zoological Park, Khonoma and Pekan, village of Kohima, Government Sales Emporium and War Cemetery. There are quite a few private hotels as well as a tourist lodge in Kohima city. The Main Bazaar and the place close to the Secretariat building house a number of good restaurants, which serve Chinese, Naga and Tibetan delicacies. Last Updated on 01/21/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule