green@work Magazine - Sustainable Issues, Environmental Responsibility and Corporate America   Premier Corporate Sustainability Publication   Advertise | Latest Posts | Current News | About Magazine | Contact | Twitter NEWS AND INFORMATION Between Blue and Yellow Newslines Corporate Acts Read On Green Gateways GREEN@WORK MAGAZINE Back Issues On Our Covers Feature Stories Headlines Special Section Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is an idea that corporations have to consider the interests of customers, employees, shareholders, communities, and ecological considerations in all Read More >> Socially responsible investing (SRI) describes an investment strategy which combines the intentions to maximize both financial return and social good. Read More >> Featured archived article from 2003 Banana Split Aside from producing two of the world's favorite foods—ice cream and bananas, which just happen to work well together—Ben & Jerry's and Chiquita are seemingly poles apart in every way. How is it then that these two ended up as co-winners of an award for sustainability reporting? By Penny S. Bonda and Katie Sosnowchik Cover Story from 2000 What's in a Name? Everything if you're William Clay Ford, Jr. The 42-year-old chairman of the automaker that bears his family name has been an outspoken and energetic advocate of environmental initiatives—a role he says originates with the company's founder. And one he’s anxious to continue in an effort to change the way the company and, ultimately, the automotive industry acts in the 21st century. Featured archived article from 2005 Inside Out: Sustainability communication begins in the workplace. Sustainability reporting has gone mainstream. But in their haste to affirm a commitment to environmental and social responsibility, some corporations may be neglecting their homework. A case in point is Ford Motor Company's rocky road toward credible corporate sustainability. by Joseph Fiksel, Robert A. Axelrod and Susan Russell Cover Story from 2007 Recruiting with Sustainable Design Some universities are beginning to choose sustainable education over rankings Colleges and universities are honing sustainable design into a tool for recruiting top students, faculty, and administrators. by Kyle Taft, AIA, Leed AP, MHTN Architects, Salt Lake City, UT Between Blue and Yellow Ecological Design Newslines Actions and initiatives worth noting Building: Success & Sustainability HDR began has a small office in the Midwest providing civil engineering services to the surrounding areas. by Katie Sosnowchik Building: A Holistic Approach for LEED A commited team stays on track with high performance goals for the whole building's benefit. by Bryna Dunn and George Nasis Green Building Top 25 Inspired to celebrate outstanding achievement in Green Building, we are privileged to present Green at Work's Green Building Top 25. Read On: The Essential Guide to Greening Your Business New guide helps savvy companies go green. CSR: On the Road to Going Green Employers are updating their benefits programs to encourage employee activities that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. by Larry Filler Energy: Electric Utility gets powerWISE Electric utility companies are beginning to face the reality of depleting natural resources and are looking for more efficient and environmentally friendly alternatives to traditional energy sources. by Lisa Laitinen Facilities Management: Green Tools for Facility Managers Huge savings exist in owning and operating high performance green buildings.. by Andrea Sanchez SRI: Green Angels Venture and private equity capitalists help sprout a new generation of environmentally friendly companies. by Anne Moore Odell Agenda Happenings on the environmental front Tweets by @greenatwork RSS widget RSS widget Home | Magazine | Latest Posts | Current News | Media Kit | Contact Corporate Social Responsibility | Socially Responsible Investing © 2000-2014 green@work magazine. All rights reserved. GreenatWork.com