Another video of our recent solar water pumping solution @ Madanapalle AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale Another video of our recent solar water pumping solution @ Madanapalle Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Another video of our recent solar water pumping solution @ Madanapalle LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… February 22nd, 2014 #1 saravanakumargcses Join Date Jun 2013 Posts 89 Blog Entries 1 Another video of our recent solar water pumping solution @ Madanapalle Dear All, Here is the link to the video of our another recent solar water pumping system installation; Project Capacity: 6Hp & 5Hp Type of pump: 6Hp 3phase V6 Borewell Submersible Pump & 5Hp 3phase Openwell Submersible Pump Total Area in acres: 10 acres Type of Application: Pumping from borewell to farm pond & from farm pond to drip lines Location: Madanapalle, Chitoor Dist Bore Depth: 360ft Head: Vertical 325ft Delivery: 2" Peak Discharge: 210LPM Avg Start Time: 7.30AM Avg Stop Time: 5.30PM Openwell Submersible pump: Head @ 32m Openwell submersible pump peak discharge: 420LPM Type of Panels: 6000Watts Monocrystalline Application Class A Panels Pump Controller: 3phase VFD with MPPT & Harmonic Filter Mounting: Fixed This project is developed after understanding the water requirement of the customer, who wanted to drip irrigate 10 acres of land. The water from borewell is pumped to the farm pond using a 6hp pump erected @ 98m head. And the 5hp pump in the pond pumps water @ 32m head to the drip lines.This site is also supplied with a 500w inverter,battery & solar system to supplement farmhouse loads. This project video was taken during the erection when the site was still in WIP stage, and now everything is live. I shall surely upload a new video as soon as we get a chance to visit the site again. A special note of thanks to the customer, who showed full faith in our ability to undertake and complete the project, which was challenging and technically demanding and for all the freedom and independence given to us through out the project starting from designing till execution. Hope you enjoy seeing the video. Saravana Kumar CEO Greencurrent Solar Energy Systems Last edited by saravanakumargcses; February 22nd, 2014 at 04:58 PM . Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread drip , greencurrent , soalr , solar water pump View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 06:28 PM .