Agartala City Map Home » Maps » Tripura » Agartala Map   Tripura त्रिपुरा का नक्शा Tripura Map Districts of Tripura South Tripura Dhalai West Tripura North Tripura Agartala City Map Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Tripura Location Lat Long Map Travel to Tripura Places to visit in Tripura Wildlife Sanctuaries Bhuvaneswari Temple Tripura Sundari Temple Agriculture Map Tripura Forests Parliamentary Constituencies- East Tripura Parliamentary Constituencies- West Tripura Economy Government Geography Society and Culture Hotels in Tripura Attractions History STD Code PIN Code Assemblypolls Sex Ratio Universities In Tripura       Agartala City Map City Map of Agartala Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the Major and other Roads, Hotels, etc in the City of Agartala, Tripura. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Agartala Agartala, the capital city of Tripura , is the second most populated city in north east India. Located at 23° 30' 0" N, 91° 30' 0" E besides the Haroa River, Agartala is a city which is a home for many people, some of which come from many other states of the country. The city has some beautiful places, building and historical places. An Agartala map would be the best tool to help you explore the city. About Agartala Agartala is a municipal city, and the municipality started working from 1872 and it was then when the real development of the city started. The city is construcetde with proper planning, and from the year 1940, new roads and buildings were made to complete the foundation of Agartala. Some important city buildings include Secretariat, Tripura Legislative Assembly, Police Headquarters etc. Religious Buidlings As you can see in the map, Agartala has plenty of religious and cultural places. Though Hinduism is the main religion of the place, other religions like Islam, Buddhism and Christianity are also have their place. This is why the city has a lot of temples, churches, mosques and monastery, some of which are over 150 to 200 years old. Some of the famous religious institutions include Buddha Mandir, Mother Theresa Ashram, Ramkrishan Ashram Vidyamandir among many others. The city has a Universal Prayer Hall, where people can come and pray. Eduational Insitutions Agartala being a well developed city and capital of the state, it is home to several educational institutions and this can be easily seen in the map given here. Some of the educational instituitions in the city include B.Ed. College, Hindi H.Sec School, Ram Nagar School, Bijoy Kumar School, MTB Girls School, Vani Vidypeeth, Government Women's College, Govt. Law College among others. Transportations Among the many things that make Agartala a great attraction for tourists, the transportation facility is one of the main ones for sure. The city has its own airport and direct flights from many other cities of India land for the Agartala Airport. The city also has a very prominent and busy railway station, which connects it with all the major cities of the country. The intercity transportation of Agartala is very well organized too. All the places in the city are easily connected by a well laid network of roads such as VIP road, Pragati Road, Akhuara Road and others. In addition, the city is also connected by national highways such as NH 44. There are buses and other transportations that run in the city all day long. Agartala is economically strong enough to maintain these facilities for the tourists. Some important localities in the city include Hrishi Colony, Abhoy Nagar, Ram Nagar, Manipuri Basti, Banamalipur and Shib Nagar. If you are planning to visit this city for a vacation then you surely need a map of Agartala. The city is large, with a lot of places and roads. If you don't want to be lost in there, and want to plan your tour properly then following the right map of Agartala is very important. The online maps are surely going to help you with it if you know where to look for it. Last Updated on : March 28, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule