Jharkhand Government Home » Jharkhand » Government   Jharkhand झारखंड का नक्शा Jharkhand Map Capital of Jharkhand Jharkhand Cities Jamshedpur Ranchi Bokaro Dhanbad Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Reach by Train About Jharkhand Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Travel to Jharkhand Places to visit in Jharkhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Daasam Falls Sun Temple Population Sex Ratio Map Fact sheet education Universities In Jharkhand Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Lok Sabha Constituencies Business and Economy Ministers and MPs Government Agricultural Map Geography and History Mineral Map District Map in Hindi Hotels in Jharkhand Bokaro Hotels Deoghar Hotels Dhanbad Hotels Jamshedpur Hotels Kumardhubi Hotels Ranchi Hotels Language Jharkhand by Road Ranchi Airport Map Information Media People,Culture and Festivals Pin code STD code       Jharkhand Government Jharkhand government is formed of the legislative council comprised of members elected from the 81 assembly constituencies of the state. The executive council of the government in Jharkhand is responsible for looking after the various departments that are committed towards the governance of the state in its various aspects. The head of the government of Jharkhand is the Chief Minister and currently the Chief Minister of the state is Hemand Soren. Dr. Syed Ahmed is the Governor of Jharkhand at present. Formation of the Jharkhand Government The center of the Jharkhand government is the 81 member strong legislative council of the state. It is presided over by the speaker of the house. The executive council in Jharkhand government is formed of 11 cabinet ministers. Together they share the responsibilities for about 50 key departments of the state's organisation. Political Profile of Jharkhand Government The assembly elections were held once in five years in Jharkhand. There is a mammoth electoral process in the state that see as many as nine national parties, four state parties and about forty regional and registered parties competing for the laurels. Therefore, there is no doubt that there were vigorous shifts and consolidations of alliances in the state. The legislative council itself is an eclectic mix of parties. The government at Jharkhand is committed towards the betterment of the state's holistic profile. WBST190914 Last Updated on : September 19, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule