Nagaland Society and Culture Home » Nagaland » Society and Culture » Society and Culture   Society and Culture People Ethnicity Languages Religion Food Nagaland Dance Nagaland Music Arts and Crafts Nagaland Festivals Marriage Textile नागालैंड का नक्शा Nagaland Nagaland Map Kohima City Map Mokokchung City Map Districts of Nagaland Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Media Kohima Location Nagaland Location Physical Map Minerals Map Nagaland Pincode Nagaland STD Code Agriculture Map Capital Lat Long Geography Economy Assemblypolls Travel to Nagaland Places to visit in Nagaland Wildlife Sanctuaries Nagaland Museums Japfu Peak Hotels in Nagaland Dimapur Hotels Kohima Hotels Government & Politics Attractions History Universities In Nagaland       Nagaland Society and Culture Nagaland Society and Culture comprises of the tribal and sub-tribal communities, their living patterns, festivals and beliefs. The people of Nagaland are divided into several tribes. These tribes have again many sub-sections. Commonly known as Naga people, the local inhabitants of Nagaland are said to belong to the Indo-Mongoloid clan. Most of the tribal groups of Nagaland earn their livelihood from agriculture. The ethnicity in Nagaland is a medley of many tribes and sub-tribes that have been living in the state, since time immemorial. Christianity is the widely followed religion of the various Naga ethnic groups of Nagaland. Besides, the communities other than Nagas living in the state are followers of Hinduism and Islam. The social structure of each and every Naga tribe is different from the other. The rituals, festivals and beliefs of each of the Naga tribes differentiate it from another tribe or sub-tribe. The cultural heritage of Nagas is quite rich. Living in the state harmoniously from many ancient decades, the ethnic communities of Nagaland have developed a vibrant platform of cultural dynamism. The tribes dwelling in the rural pockets of Nagaland preserve their own age-old customs and rituals. Known for their friendly demeanor and hard-working nature, the people of Nagaland have a significant contribution towards the socio-cultural development of the state. Today, Nagaland houses many a socio-ethnic communities within its geographical premises all of which have their own distinct array of cultural and social identity. Last Updated on : 22/06/2013 Nagaland Society and Culture People of Nagaland Ethnicity in Nagaland Languages in Nagaland Religion in Nagaland Food of Nagaland Nagaland Dance Nagaland Music Arts and Crafts of Nagaland Nagaland Festivals Marriage in Nagaland Textile of Nagaland             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule