Inspection Notes for Dry Powder Briquette Press Machine AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale Inspection Notes for Dry Powder Briquette Press Machine Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Inspection Notes for Dry Powder Briquette Press Machine LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 1 Day Ago #1 carambole Join Date May 2015 Posts 10 Inspection Notes for Dry Powder Briquette Press Machine Brirquette press machine can produce briquettes with many special shapes like square, ball, oval, goose egg, round, column line, strip, bread, pillow type and other shapes. The briquetting machine is widely used in refractory material, power plants, metallurgical, chemical, energy, transportation, heating, animal husbandry, industry, agriculture, barbecue and other industries. The excellent dry powder briquette machine can bear high pressure and high strength work. It is mainly used to make balls and realize agglomeration from ferrous and non-ferrous metal powder. The powder materials directly enters the smelting furnace with increasing additional value. The finished briquettes produced by this briquetting press machine are available in various shapes, including oval, egg-like, pillow-like, and square shape, etc. and specifically shaped briquette can be customized if required. This briquette press machine can take full advantages of industrial wastes as well as saving large amount of energy consumption and economic cost. Inspection Notes for Dry Powder Briquette Press Machine: 1. Because of huge investment cost of the project,you first should circumvent the device security risks. 2. inspection equipment, if the general manager is an outsider, it must be with the mechanical engineer to do the general staff. 3. Asked the spindle diameter, see bearing, origin, the pressure roller materials, forging, casting, to the material the report card, to prevent flicker. 4. Inspection equipment, we must first determine their own hours of production, inspection of the production model of the briquette machine manufacturer accordingly. 5. Inspection equipment is the most important one to observe the accuracy of its processing equipment, and processing capacity, obsolete processing equipment will only do coarse pieces. 6. Investigated whether hydraulic, dry powder briquette machine don't have hydraulic as a powerful thrust, it simply can not make high-density pellets. Hydraulic power of the active pressure, all other is passive pressure. Welcome to contact or visit Fote Machinery: info@sinfotm.com . Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread briquette press machine View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 09:42 PM .