Liberation of Goa, Goa Liberation Day Home » Maps » Goa » Geography And History » Liberation of Goa   Goa Weather History Culture गोवा का नक्शा Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Cities Panaji Calangute Vasco da Gama Margao Mapusa Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Liberation of Goa The Liberation of Goa was quite a momentous occasion in the already chequered Goan history. December 19th is celebrated as Goa Liberation Day. The liberation of Goa led to its release from the Portuguese dominion by the Indian Navy. It is seen as a momentous day, as it terminated an age old rule that was eventually exploitative and dissatisfying. After the British Left India, Goa remained the only part of India under foreign control. The Portuguese, not willing to give up so soon, held on to its last but bountiful colony, Goa, despite repeated requests from India. The struggle for Goa's liberty was two fold - from within Goa and from the outside Goa - which was conducted by the Indian Government. In late 1961, several failed negotiations later, the Indian government deployed armed forces. However, there were some problems as it was suspected that the Portuguese possessed supersonic interceptors. The unavailability of the strength of their air-force posed a big fear as well. As a result of this the Indian Air Force was requested to provide reinforced support to the ground force. Finally on the orders of Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, the military invaded Goa on December 17, 1961. On December 17, 1961 some 30,000 Indian ground troops, with the Indian air force and navy, overpowered the 3,000 member ill-prepared and Portuguese army. There was some more military action after that. The other Portuguese colonies of Daman and Diu were also recovered. The total amassing of the Portuguese colonies formed the "Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu". The entire military operation -"Operation Vijay" was conducted almost without any bloodshed. At last, Portuguese Governor General Vassalo da Silva gave in on 18 December. Three days later, after the operations began, on December 19th 1961, Goa finally became a part of India. So December 19th is celebrated as Goa Liberation Day. Last Updated on : 20 th March 2013 About Goa Weather History Area Pincode STD code Facts Liberation of Goa Languages Culture Dance Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival Goa Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Tehsil Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map Goa Travel Map Wildlife Map Beaches Map Forest Map Shopping Centres             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule