Travel to Bihar - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Bihar Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Bihar Places to Visit in Bihar Nalanda Archaeological Museum Ashokan Pillar Buddha Stupa State Secretariat Building Begu Hajjam Mosque Padri Ki Haveli Prestshila Hills Temples in Bihar Mahabodhi Temple Durga Temple Parasnath Temple Vishnupad Temple Tourist Destinations in Bihar Travel to Nalanda Travel to Bodhgaya Travel to Vaishali Travel to Rajgir Travel to Patna Bihar Hotels Hotels in Gaya Hotels in Bodhgaya Hotels in Patna Hotels in Katihar Hotels in Purnia About Bihar Geography History Home » Maps » Bihar Map » Travel to Bihar Travel to Bihar Travel Map of Bihar Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Bihar Tourism Bihar travel and tourism features a large number of tourist destinations spread in various parts of the state. It is located in northern India along the eastern Gangetic Plains. Bihar has a significant place in the cultural history of India for being the birthplace of Buddhism and Jainism. Tourists can encounter some of the finest Mughal and Hindu architectural expertise in this place. Bihar was the cradle of a thriving ancient civilization, an epicenter where some of the major religions of India like Buddhism and Jainism originated and Hinduism gained momentum. The state draws its name from 'vihara', meaning Buddhist monastery since the place in the past was a major learning centre of Buddhism. The antiquity of Bihar dates back to some 6the century BC. This is where Bhagwan Mahavira was born in Vaishali and Lord Buddha attained 'enlightenment' under the Bodhi Tree at Bodhgaya . Since then the land has seen the rise and fall of dynasties like - the Guptas, the Palas and the subsequent Muslim rule. The sacred river of the Ganges flows through the state splitting it into two parts. This has rendered the land fertile and plentiful. Bihar is also rich in minerals underground contributing significantly to the national wealth creation. Bihar is better known as a pilgrimage destination. A number of Buddhist destinations result in a trail of pilgrimages who travel to Bihar in lure of the old ruins and ancient religious scripts. A lot of people travel to Bihar because of the holy sites of the Jains and the Hindus. Location Eastern part of India Nepal at the north West Bengal in the east Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh in the west by Orissa in the south Latitude 21°58' to 27°31' North Longitude 82°19' to 88°17' Eastt Area 94,164 Sq km Climate Cold in the winter Hot in the summer Max Temperature 40-45 0 C Min Temperature 5-10 0 C Average Annual Rainfall 1,205 mm Capital Patna Population 82,878,796 Languages Hindi, Angika, Bhojpuri, Magahi, Maithili Religion Hinduism, Islam, Others Best Time to Visit October to March Clothing Summer - Light Cottons Winter - Heavy Woolens Best time to visit The ideal time for traveling in Bihar is between October and March when the weather remains salubrious. How to Reach Bihar Conveniently located in the eastern part of India, Bihar is a land-locked state, which has facilitated the communication to Bihar from any part of India. Bihar is well connected to the rest of India with a network of air, road and rail. How to Reach Bihar is here to help you find ways to reach the city of Bihar. By Air Bihar has an airport in its capital city Patna, which is connected by air with Delhi, Mumbai, Lucknow, Kolkata. Katmandu, the capital of Nepal also has regular flight connection to Patna. Major airlines of India, namely: Indian Airlines, Spice Jet, Jet Airways, IndoGo Airlines and other carriers operate regular flights to and from Patna. By Rail A large number of major and minor places within the state are networked by train services of Indian Railways. Even the state is serviced by important super fast trains like Rajdhani Express and Shatabdi Express. By Road An extensive network of National Highways Numbers: 2, 23, 28, 30, 31 and 33 and state highways, running through the state, connect it with important cities all over India. Internal road network within the state connects Patna to Vaishali (55 km), Nalanda (90 km), Bodh Gaya (110 km) and other tourist destinations. Bihar State Tourist development Corporation (BSTDC) takes care of the commuting requirements of the tourists traveling to and from the state of Bihar. Shopping in Bihar Shopping in Bihar also can turn out a delightful experience for a discerning shopper if you know what to buy and where. Handicrafts of Bihar Madhubani School of painting is rich tradition in Bihar, is extremely famous handicraft of Bihar. Bihari women generally carry over this school of folk painting from generation to generation. It illustrates mythological themes, incorporating images of local deities as well as Hindu gods and goddesses. Popular shopping items of Bihar While shopping in Bihar, you will get get of the following in wide varieties. Stone and bead-jewellery Hand-painted wall hangings Miniatures in paper and leaves Applique work on fabric Stone pottery Bamboo and cane work Wooden stools Leather goods "Tilcoot" - a kind of sweet Places to See in Bihar Prestshila Hills Ahirauli Hasanpura Champaran Ramchura Maner Sharif Rajgir Valmiki Nagar Pawapuri Tar Ramayan Last Updated on : 06/09/2013 Hotels in Bihar Bhagalpur Hotels Bodhgaya Hotels Bhagalpur Hotels Bodhgaya Hotels Gaya Hotels Forbesganj Hotels Katihar Hotels Patna Hotels Purnia Hotels Rajgir Hotels Travel to Bihar Travel to Bodhgaya Travel to Vaishali Travel to Nalanda Travel to Patna Travel to Rajgir Places to visit in Bihar Places to visit in Bihar Places to visit in Bodhgaya Places to visit in Nalanda Places to visit in Patna Places to visit in Rajgir Places to visit in Vaishali Flights to Bihar Flights to Patna About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule