Hatheesing Jain Temple Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Ahmedabad Travel Tourist Map How to Reach Shopping Hotels in Ahmedabad Travel Agents Weekend Trips from Ahmedabad Places to Visit in Ahmedabad Gardens in Ahmedabad Law Garden Bal Vatika Victoria Garden Lakes in Ahmedabad Chandola Lake Kankaria Lake Ahmedabad Wildlife Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary The Kamla Nehru Zoological Garden The Runn of Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary Religious Places in Ahmedabad Bhadrakali Temple Hatheesing Jain Temple Sidi Sayed Jhali Rani Sipri's Mosque Ahmed Shah's Mosque Swaminarayan Temple Akshardham Temple Amusement Parks Ahmedabad Metro Map Route Maps Hyderabad to Ahmedabad Mumbai to Ahmedabad Jaipur to Ahmedabad Goa to Ahmedabad Ahmedabad Map Road Map Railway Map District Map Tehsil Map Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Ahmedabad » Places of Interest » Religious Places » Hatheesing Jain Temple Hatheesing Jain Temple The Hatheesing Jain Temple came into existence in the year of 1850. It was the inspiration of an extremely wealthy business person engaged in retail trade named Sheth Hatheesing. This shrine is devoted to the worship of the 15th 'Jain Tirthankar' or Jain apostle renowned as Dharamnath. This holy abode have been constructed from the lavish use of white marble and is ornamented with rich and intricately designed carvings which make the Hatheesing Jain Temple one of the most sought after temples in Ahmedabad. If you ever pay a visit to the city of Ahmedabad, do not miss witnessing the Hatheesing Jain Temple which is a true work of art. Special features of the Hatheesing Jain Temple of Ahmedabad :- It is a double-storied building. A baronial array of cloisters that house an incredible number of shrines, 52 to be precise, each adorned with an image of a 'Tirthankara', with one that had the marble replica of the 15th Tirthankara, Dharamnath. There is a detailed arrangement of distinct porches which further augment the beauty of the temple on its three sides in the Hatheesing Jain Temple of Ahmedabad. The porch that is in the front is exquisitely ornamented by a 'dome' shaped structure. The chief engineer whose tireless efforts lead to the establishment of this extraordinary temple named Hatheesing Jain Temple was Premchand Salat. It took a hefty sum of about 10 lakhs to give shape to this monument. How to get there? Situated at a distance of 119 kilometers from Ahmedabad. Luxury coaches as well as state buses provide easy means of transport using the road. Railway station closest to this temple is Mehsana. Ahmedabad is the closest airport. About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule