Home | Akcros Chemicals Akcros Chemicals Menu Register Home About Us The Company Our history Innovation HSE Aspects Quality assurance FAQ Akcros as a Toller Products Newsroom Latest News Events Contact Us Global Market Leader in Specialty Additives A world-renowned company with global reach, and a reputation for technical excellence, high quality and first class customer service.  Our employees are driven by the values of entrepreneurial spirit, personal integrity and social responsibility Additives for Polymers, Coatings, Adhesives and Sealants Whether it’s biocides, stabilisers, epoxies or bonding agents, Akcros has a proven track record of innovating and delivering high quality sustainable solutions to customers in highly regulated markets. Features New IT Biocides Registrations Posted at: 20 Apr 2015 Akcros has achieved further progress in attaining registrations for its products in the highly regulated biocides markets. It can now confirm that all the actions needed to register the DCOIT and OIT-based products under the Intercide trade name are complete on a global basis, including the Canadian market and Benelux region - meeting all requirements for regional (EPA/BPR) and national legislations. Additionally, it is in the process of extending some of these registrations to cover new inert carriers for the US and Canadian market which will be available to customers later in 2015. Read More Akcros at Plastindia 2015 Posted at: 9 Feb 2015 Managing Director Gita Bendale and her team welcomed customers and partners from India and Akcros' global network.  Akcros Technical Director Jim Pickett joined from the UK to promote Akcros' new India venture.      Read More Latest Products Akcrostab™ T-5319 For the most demanding and complex foam extrusions, Akcrostab ™ T-5319 gives outstanding surface characteristics, foam density, processability and weatherability. Read More Lankromark™ Phosphite for PU Phenol free phosphites from Akcros now includes Lankromark ™ LE670, a tris-dipropylene glycol phosphite made with our innovative phenol free technology.  This can be used as an anti-oxidant any number of flexible polyurethane products.  Read More Latest News Distributor Training at Chinaplas 2015 27 May 2015 Akcros continues to expand in Asia, the photo is of the Distributor Training Group who were trained in all aspects of our updated range, by David Sanders and Brian Johnson on the 19th of May, just  prior to Chinaplas 2015.   Read More Verdanol™ technology update 4 May 2015 Akcros continues to develop the novel bio-based UV technology acquired in 2014 from Verdex.  It has started to commercialise development products for the coatings market, with applications ranging from metal & wood coatings to UV top coats for flooring.  In addition there are some niche applications that we are working on with specific customers. Read More Akcrostab™ Powder Capacity Increased 9 Mar 2015 Akcros Chemicals Inc. announce the completion of the expansion of their powdered mixed metal stabiliser capacity at the New Brunswick, NJ plant for low VOC applications.   Read More Useful Links Conditions Of Use Disclaimer Site Map Copyright © 2015. Akcros Chemicals Scroll for More