SEO Services Mumbai India, USA, Canada, UK | Online Marketing Company Mumbai   Home     Contact Us     Sitemap +91-22-4122 6029    info@compusofttechnology.com home why us? services clients careers reach us Blog Website Design Website Designing Content Management System Ecommerce Web Marketing Search Engine Optimization Social Media Optimization graphic Design Brochure Designing Press Ad Designing Logo Designing Business Card Design Letterhead Designing Corporate Identity Envelope Designing Poster Designing CD Cover Designing Mailer Designing Multimedia Flash Presentation Flash Banner Stall Design Hosting Domain Name Registration Web Marketing » Search Engine Optimization     Search Engine Optimization   What is Search Engine Marketing Search Engine Marketing (SEM) involves a combination of free website submissions and paid search engine listings, to ensure your website reaches customers searching your products or services. What is SEO Search Engine Optimisation (SEO) is the art and science of increasing your website’s visibility to search engines for those important keywords and phrases that are relevant to your business. Search Engine Optimisation typically includes keyword research and development, competitive analysis and industry benchmarking, backend coding optimisation, website submissions to search engines and reporting results. SEO Services Compusoft Technologies offers quality SEO services that give you search engine ranking in Google, Yahoo etc. Nowadays SEO is very important in order to get proper competition for top placement in search engines. Keyword ranking and traffic makes full use of your sites or pages potential to grow your business. We carry out an on page and off page SEO for getting your site in wide range on the internet. We offer SEO Services like: 1. Keyword Research 2. Placing the right keywords in the web pages 3. Creating Meta tags 4. Websites content optimization 5. Development of keyword rich content 6. Google Analysis 7. Keyword Ranking Report Our 8 steps for Search Engine Optimization (SEO) procedure: 1. SEO Consultation: We have a discussion with the company to understand the type of their business and its online processes. We then analyze their needs, identify the type of visitor to be targeted, identify the keywords, and finally include the keywords in such a way that you get results that you have expected. 2. Website Analysis: We analyze the website contents, titles, headings, subheadings and other tags. We will carry out a research for the related keywords and finalize some keywords for ranking. 3. Analysis of competitor’s website: We carry out the analysis of your competitor’s website, so as to ensure that our SEO process gets the maximum success for your site. 4. Optimizing Website: After analyzing your site, we optimize the site with the finalized keywords. In the process of optimization we add meta tags, alt tags, and title tags and we also optimize the content. We also create an xml sitemap of your website. 5. Search Engine Submission: We manually submit your site to various search engines like Google, Yahoo, Ask, MSN and others. 6. Other SEO tools: We submit your site in various tools like the Google webmaster tool. 7. Getting Backlinks: We work towards getting backlinks for your site by doing off page work like directory submission, link exchange and other SEO techniques. 8. Keyword Ranking Report: We give you a keyword ranking report when your website appears in the search engine for the selected keywords. Generally, results begin to appear in 60-180 days. Contact us or Email us for more details.                         Services       Need Help?                       - Website Designing - Content Management System - Ecommerce - Flash Presentation - Flash Banner - Stall Design - Ad Design - Logo Design - Corporate Identity - Business Card Design - Brochure Design - Letterhead Design - Envelope Design - Poster Design - CD Cover Design - Mailer Design - SEO - SMO - Hosting - Domain Name Registration - Why Us - Clients - Careers - Privacy Policy - Legal Disclaimer - FAQ's - Resources - Testimonials - Articles - Sitemap - RSS Feed - XML Sitemap Follow Us on     "TRADEMARK & LOGOS APPEARING ON THIS SITE ARE THE PROPERTY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OWNERS" Site Best Viewed in 1024 x 768 Resolution, and Internet Explorer 5.0 & ABOVE Copyright @ 2012 Compusoft Technologies