Nutrient Management :: Integrated Nutrient Management | Home | Seasons & Varieties | Tillage | Nutrient Management | Irrigation Management | Weed Management | Crop Protection | Cost of Cultivation | Nutrient Management :: Integrated Nutrient Management INTEGRATED NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT Integrated Nutrient Management refers to the maintenance of soil fertility and of plant nutrient supply at an optimum level for sustaining the desired productivity through optimization of the benefits from all possible sources of organic, inorganic and biological components in an integrated manner.         + Inorganic Fertilizers   Organic Manures +   +       + Green manures   Biofertilizers Concepts Regulated nutrient supply for optimum crop growth and higher productivity. Improvement and maintenance of soil fertility. Zero adverse impact on agro – ecosystem quality by balanced fertilization of organic manures, inorganic fertilizers and bio- inoculant Determinants Nutrient requirement of cropping system as a whole. Soil fertility status and special management needs to overcome soil problems, if any Local availability of nutrients resources (organic, inorganic and biological sources) Economic conditions of farmers and profitability of proposed INM option. Social acceptability. Ecological considerations. Impact on the environment Advantages Enhances the availability of applied as well as native soil nutrients Synchronizes the nutrient demand of the crop with nutrient supply from native and applied sources. Provides balanced nutrition to crops and minimizes the antagonistic effects resulting from hidden deficiencies and nutrient imbalance. Improves and sustains the physical, chemical and biological functioning of soil. Minimizes the deterioration of soil, water and ecosystem by promoting carbon sequestration, reducing nutrient losses to ground and surface water bodies and to atmosphere Components: Soil Source: Mobilizing unavailable nutrients and to use appropriate crop varieties, cultural practices and cropping system. Mineral Fertilizer : Super granules, coated urea, direct use of locally available rock PO4 in acid soils, Single Super Phosphate (SSP), MOP and micronutrient fertilizers. Organic Sources : By products of farming and allied industries. FYM, droppings, crop waste, residues, sewage, sludge, industrial waste. Biological Sources : Microbial inoculants substitute 15 - 40 Kg N/ha   | Home | Seasons & Varieties | Tillage | Nutrient Management | Irrigation Management | Weed Management | Crop Protection | Cost of Cultivation | © All Rights Reserved. TNAU-2014.