Nalla Keerai- Helps farmers in organic farming - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Nalla Keerai- Helps farmers in organic farming Home Nalla Keerai- Helps farmers in organic farming Grows and helps farmers grow 40 varieties of green organically in half acre of land. Also sells farmers’ produce directly to consumers Saravanan Santhanam Nalla Keerai is a Chennai based company set up by two childhood friends who were moved by the extreme poverty that farmers across Tamil Nadu lived in. To extend a helping hand to the community, the duo, Mr. Saravanan Santhanam and Mr. Jagan stepped into farming, while undertaking research and development for farmers, alongside. Nalla Keerai aims exclusively to help farmers cultivate organic greens to not just improve their economic conditions but also promote healthy lifestyles. Through an intensive research that was carried out for a year, the duo found out that about 1.5 crore rupees is spent on three main segments namely fertilizers, alcohol and medicines, every year by a village comprising of 230 families. In 2010, Mr. Jagan decided to encourage farmers to take up organic farming. Traveling across Tamil Nadu, he picked up various nuances of organic farming by actually living with farmers. Later he helped farmers earn better who were not able to get profits through conventional farming. Many farmers were hesitant to switch to organic farming fearing high prices and instability of income on which their families depended. “We realized that this concern of the farmers could be solved if short term crops are grown. And this was the beginning for setting up Nalla Keerai – Organic Business 50 Cent Model for Farmers”, shares Mr. Jagan. After three years of hard work trying out different models, finally the break-through came with 50 cent model. Mr. Saravanan explains, “in only half acre of farmland we grow 40 varieties of greens. These are harvested within 16 to 35 days. In this way farmer will be able to earn some revenue every month”. Farmers initially can make only half acre of farm organic and then slowly the rest of the area can also be turned into organic farm. This model is practical and surely will not lead to any drastic fall in the earnings of farmer. The duo undertook vast research to convince farmers about the profitability of this model by actually implementing it themselves. Currently 35 farmers are associated with them. Both being from non-agriculture background took guidance and help from Mr. Nammalvar, the organic legend and barnard from Auroville, Pondicherry. He solves all technical issues like controlling the pests and farming inputs etc. Nalla Keerai is funded by the duo and their friends. “If you focus on half acres, anyone can start growing green with just Rs. 15000. Jagan R In the pathway between beds of plants, one can cultivate plants like ponangani that live in water, thus making the most of available space. 200 bundles of crops can be cut every day,” shares Mr. Sarvanan. Nalla Keerai is currently farming in a cycle, where 10 farmers cultivate the farm in a week, and the next 10 in the other week. “For farmers who cultivate half of their land, if they don’t want to go on a monthly basis, they can sell their crops from second month. They can sell 150 bundles, and after six months they can sell 500 bundles per day. Thus if they sell 500 bundles and at least get a profit of Rs. 2, they can make Rs. 1000/day, and in 20 days they can make Rs. 20,000,” Mr Saravanan further adds. 40 varieties of greens have been divided in three segments: • Consumer greens like spinach, fenugreek and coriander etc • Medicinal greens that can be used for treatment of diabetes, jaundice and dermatological issues • High end greens used in hotels and restaurants like basil and peppermint All cultivated greens are taken to the market directly by Nalla Keerai to reach the consumers directly to avoid middlemen exploitation. Farmers are asked to estimate their production cost and fix a price where they can expect 20 to 30% returns. Customers also get in touch directly with the farm, sending them their requirements through SMS and emails. Pre-orders are collected, and harvest is made accordingly. Volunteers sell these greens in parks and apartments where consumers can collect their orders. The farm is open to consumers who wish to understand the authenticity of the organic aspects of the greens supplied to them. They believe such visits will also motivate the farmers to serve the customers they know in a better way. Mr. Sarvanan believes that the farmers should have the right to fix the prices of their products as seen in Karnataka. The farm sells its greens at nominal prices to reach out to different social classes. Despite having just 10 farmers, 20 laborers, and 5 marketing professional, the farm has come a long way in helping farmers get good investments on their returns and also serve consumers. Most of the marketing professionals like delivery, quality and production managers, work on a voluntary basis. The farm successfully sells its produce to 20 places in Chennai. They are looking to provide more varieties to their customers by cultivating vegetables in the future. Nalla Keerai hopes to keep their process simple and involve more farmers in their initiatives to help them benefit from organic farming. Mr. Jagan is a B.com graduate who worked for different companies as a manager. He quit his well-paying job to start a school. He was involved in intensive social work till he devoted all his time to Nalla Keerai 3 years ago. Mr. Sarvanan is a B.Sc graduate who worked for the IT field in US for over 15 years. His job helped the duo fund their social activities. He returned to India to devote himself to Nalla Keerai and take the initiative a step ahead. The satisfaction of seeing their brainchild makes a difference financially and socially, keeps them motivated. Our Correspondent Contact details: Nalla Keerai Sadhana Kudil,Venkatasa Puram, Venkatasa Nagar,Pakkam,Chennai – 602024 Mobile: +91 99626 11767 Email: farm2consumer@gmail.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Nalla Keerai- Helps farmers in organic farming Related – articles, consultants, downloads Adhithya Organic – urban organic farming Food Processing helps farmers to earn better! Indian Organic Farmers Producer Company Why organic farming has not yet taken off? You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water