Seek the Way to Deal with Blocking of Wood Pellet Machine AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale Seek the Way to Deal with Blocking of Wood Pellet Machine Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Seek the Way to Deal with Blocking of Wood Pellet Machine LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 1 Day Ago #1 carambole Join Date May 2015 Posts 10 Seek the Way to Deal with Blocking of Wood Pellet Machine Wood pellet machines can be equipped with a hammer mill to break the raw material down to a uniform size (generally 3-6 mm). The hammer mill can freely process straws and grasses, but woody materials must be in a chipped form, or with a diameter less than 1 inch. It is often happened that the wood pellet mill ( Wood Pellet Machine,Wood Pellet Mill Manufacturer,Wood Pellet Press-- Fote Machinery ) is blocked when making pellets. This not only impacts the productive of wood pellets but also has bad influence on the machine itself. While how this problem comes? The answer is that the design of machine is probably the problem but it mostly due to the improper use of wood pellet mill. Let’s explain it in details and seek out the answer how to handle with the blocking. 1. The broken or aging hammer, the closed mesh hole can also cause the block in grinder. So the machine should be checked regularly. 2. The feeding material contains too much water. Though there is not very strict limitation about the moisture content of the materials, too wet materials will block the grinder. So the moisture content of the materials should not higher than 14%. 3. The discharge pipe is blocked. The feeding speed is too fast or the discharge pipe not matches with the conveying equipment can both cause the block in discharge pipe. When the problem is found out, the air vents should be cleaned at once and the improper conveying equipment should be changed. 4. The feeding rate is too fast. When feeding too fast, the load of the machine will increase, then the block is occurred which will finally cause the overload of electric motor. Under this circumstances, the feeding hopper door should be turned down or turned off. Otherwise you can change the feeding way through increasing the feeder or choose manual feeder or automatic feeder according your needs. Welcome to contact or visit Fote Machinery: info@sinoftm.com . Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread wood pellet machine View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 04:33 PM .