analysis - CBRG, Oxford University Analysis tools You are here: CBRG home » analysis tools   CBRG Home CBRG Accounts (molbiol) Analysis tools  - ANALOG  - BLAST  - EMBOSS  - GBrowse  - Proteomics (Mascot)  - Unix analysis software Training courses Tutorials Unix help Examples Papers Collaborative data Presentations Oxford-only section FAQ: CBRG + UNIX FAQ: Bioinformatics Links       SITE MAP Bioinformatics analysis tools An account with the Computational Biology Research Group, allows you to log on to our server to use the bioinformatics tools that we provide. We provide a wide variety of tools, some of which are web-based and some which may be accessed via Unix. Web analysis tools: Unless stated, you will need your molbiol username and password to use these tools:   B asic S equence A lignment S earch T ool.   - Run BLAST - search the sequence databases held by CBRG   - BLAST introduction - program descriptions and options   - BLAST-searchable databases   E uropean M olecular B iology O pen S oftware S uite.   - EMBOSS Explorer - bioinformatics tools   - Compare EMBOSS and GCG tools   - Bioinformatics FAQ - which EMBOSS tool to use?   GBrowse - Genome browser   - GBrowse databases   - Launch: CBRG HUMAN_HG18 GBrowse database   Central Proteomics Facility - Proteomics research tools Mascot - mass spectrometry searches   - Peptide mass fingerprint search    |    MS/MS ion search   MIG - The Multi-Image Genome (MIG) viewer. Primarily aimed at high-throughput sequencing experiments where a “signal” is detected at multiple locations across the genome (such as ChIP-Seq and RNA-Seq), MIG allows the user to filter, sort and visualise these regions of interest in their local genome context.   Mir-CRISPR The miR-CRISPR tool is an integrated algorithm designed to facilitate CRISPR / Cas9 genome engineering of putative microRNA response elements (MREs).   The following applications have been delevoped by CBRG staff in collaboration with members of the Medical Sciences Division. WMD - Weapon of Mutant Detection CRISPRscreen - CRISPR design tool UNIX applications: A wide range of bioinformatics analysis software is available via an account with CBRG. If you are unfamiliar with your CBRG Unix account, please see the guides to logging on to molbiol for PC users and mac users . To read brief information about a particular package as well as notes (if any) on its local installation, type about followed by the name of the bioinformatics package, e.g. about readseq . Typing about alone will list all packages on the server (with a couple of exceptions). To read help on a particular program, in many cases, type the program name with option --help or -help . For example, blastall --help will display the arguments that may be used with blastall. A CBRG convention is that all programs in a bioinformatics package are installed in /package/Programname/Version/bin. For example, all BLAST 2.2.9 programs may be found in "/package/blast/2.2.9/bin". To run a program, simply type the program name with its required options or arguments. A full list of the available programs can be found here If a package has more than one version installed, the system sets up a default version. If, for some reason, you want to use a non-default version, then the command usepkg may be used. To use EMBOSS 2.8.0 rather than (the default) 2.9.0, type usepkg emboss 2.8.0 . Typing usepkg alone will show you how to use this command. Search CBRG web site: CBRG support This file last modified Monday February 02, 2015 © Computational Biology Research Group, 2004-10