Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Lab Facilities Lab Facilities LABORATORIES & FACILITIES AT IICPT: The IICPT is located in a panoramic 15 acre land located at a distance of 2 km from the new Thanjavur bus terminus, 8km from Thanjavur Railway Station and 50 km from Trichirappalli Airport and 300 km from Chennai.  IICPT has created in its main campus at Thanjavur world class research laboratories for conducting research in different areas of food processing technologies.   IICPT and its scientists are experts in their own fields of research.  They are very good in creating new laboratories for themselves or working as consultants for creating labs for other individuals or organizations.  The institute has world class teaching and research facilities.  The current facilities in the institute include the following: World class teaching laboratories  Unit operations Lab Engineering Properties Lab Heat Transfer Lab Refrigeration and Air-conditioning Lab Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulics Lab Strength of Materials Lab Crop Process Engineering Lab Spices Process Engineering Lab Theory of Machines and Engineering Mechanics Lab Food Engineering Lab Manufacturing Practices Lab Electrical Engineering Lab Electronics and Instrumentation Lab Food Packaging Lab Food Chemistry and Safety Lab Dairy and Meat Sciences Lab Basic Sciences Lab Computer Lab Communications Lab 2. Stare of Art R&D Laboratories Food Science and Product Development Laboratory Food Microbiology Laboratory NABL Food Analysis Laboratory Food Packaging and storage laboratory ISO certified Food Processing Business cum Training Incubation Centre Image processing laboratory Soft x-ray laboratory Acoustics Resonance laboratory Modern Bakery Unit Food Engineering Workshop    3. Bulk Storage Facilities    4. Knowledge centre and Computing facilities FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT LABORATORY This laboratory focuses on the development of novel and functional foods from India specific food grains, pulses, oilseeds, and fruits and vegetables.  The food crop quality and its ingredient suitability for designing new food products suitable for target population of children, young adults, adults with lifestyle disorders and aged and ailing people are being studied by our scientists.  Modern equipments including different types of extruders, texture analyzers, phase transition analyzer, rapid visco analyzer, milling machines and all accessories necessary for food product development are parts of this facility.   FOOD ENGINEERING LABORATORY The ideas generated by other departments are given a shape in the food engineering laboratory. This laboratory consists of modern fabrication facilities with all manufacturing machines and tools. The food engineering division work, either independently or jointly with other divisions, help in creating new machines and processes for food processing industries.  This laboratory provides direct linkage with the farm produce and the postharvest activities  Some of the gadgets, technologies or accessories developed includes Fruit and Vegetable Washer, Grader, Destoner, Mobile Processing Unit, Multi Purpose Yard Drying Equipment, continuous rice puffing unit, thermal dis-infestation of paddy, low friction huller, improved parboiling unit, rice degermer, husk fired stove, small scale pulse de-husker, improved parboiling unit and pedal operated winnower.  These technologies are popular among the farmers and entrepreneurs. FOOD MICROBIOLOGY LABORATORY Microbes play major roles in our foods, some plays a good role and some a bad role.  Bad microbes must be controlled to save the food from spoilage and good microbes must be provided with conducing growing conditions.  Current Research Focuses include production of pigments from microbial origin, preparation and preservation of millet based Porridges for longer shelf life, beverage preservation, utilization of tapioca effluent for spirulina production, standardization of ethnic fermented food and beverages by rationalization of indigenous knowledge, probiotic food formulation using non dairy substrates and tannase enzyme production from agro wastes. FOOD QUALITY TESTING LABORATORY Our NABL accredited ISO/IEC 17025 Food Analysis Laboratory is equipped with modern equipments to carryout physico-chemical analysis of food, water and any organic samples.  This laboratory has hi-tech analytical instruments like GCMS, ICPMS, LCMS, NMR, HPLC, HPTLC Amino acid analyzer, Iron chromatography for analyzing biochemical parameters, pesticides residual and nutrition etc. in samples related to food products.  Ready reference books such as BIS, CODEX, PFA, AOAC and AACC for food analysis are available.  The laboratory is constantly upgraded to meet international standards.    No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com