Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Written by Administrator on 20 May 2014 . Posted in Gallery Twitter Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Hon’ble Union Minister, Food Processing Industries Federation of Industry and Commerce of North Eastern Region (FINER) conducted an interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Hon’ble Union Minister, Food Processing Industries, at Guwahati on 11 th  Nov, 2014, which was followed by High Tea. The programme started at 2.30 pm with the welcoming of the Dignitaries by the Ms. Indrani Chaudhury, Dy. Director General FINER, followed by the felicitation of the Dignitaries. Mr. R.S Joshi, Chairman, FINER addressed the august gathering and lauded Hon’ble Minister’s effort to make the Department more approachable for the Industries of the North East. Hon’ble Minister welcomed inputs and suggestions made by the members present and assured that the department will always try its level best to address all issues and concerns of the public. She also apprised of the implementation of new scheme for the upliftment of Food Processing Industries in the Country and the schemes specially for the NE Region.  Other Dignitaries present in the interactive session was Shri J.P Meena, IAS, Additional Secretary, Food Processing Industries, Govt of India, Shri R.T Jindal, IAS, Additional Chief Secretary, Industries & Commerce, Govt of Assam, Smt N.A Hazarika, IAS, Commissioner & Secretary, Govt of Assam and host of Senior Officials from the State Government and Captains from Industry and Commerce of the N E Region. An Interactive session was also conducted between the distinguished guest and members of Industry and commerce which turned out to be successful in the overall session. A memorandum on the Food Processing Industries was also given to the Hon’ble Minister for necessary action. Please find below the memorandum submitted. POINTS FOR FOOD PROCESSING INDUSTRY IN THE NORTH EAST 1)       Food parks & Cold chain facilities :   In order to have food parks developed in the North East with common facilities for food processing units including power, cold storage, steam and other amenities can be available .  There is an urgent need to have Cold storage facility with refrigerated vans at farm gate level & availability of Reefer Containers at Inland Container Depot (ICD), Amingaon, Guwahati.  Infrastructure should commensurate with demand & growth. In the North East there are a lot of environment problems & due to topography &  environment reason, continuous 50 acre land is a very tall order. To promote industrialization of land scarce states of the entire north east, following modifications of Mega Food Park Schemes needs consideration: -           Minimum land required may be reduced to 10 acres -           Investment in CPC & other related infrastructure may be limited to Rs 30 Cr min. -           Investment in PPC/Industrial units may be in the range of 70 Cr min. -           Grant may limit to Rs 21 Cr for such park & may be called as Nucleus Food Park. Such changes will invite more number of investments at various locations in the NE Region & thereby result widespread decentralized investment. 2)       NABL Accredited Laboratories :  At least two NABL accredited laboratories needs to be established in the NE Region. These two Laboratories could be established one in the Central University at Tezpur where Food Process Engineering Department is in existence & the other may be in any of the ICAR laboratories of NE Region.  3)       Exemption of Service Taxes in cold storage for processed food products : 4)       Exemption of Excise Duty & Custom Duty :   Excise duty & custom duty on equipments, plant and machinery, packing materials meant for food processing industries needs exempted for the entire NE Region.  5)       Preferences to North East Produces & Products in Defence, Railways & Tourism Ministry related supplies :  Preference should be given for the food products produced in NE region by the Defence, Railways & Tourism Ministry’s bulk purchase 6)       FSSAI related issues & problems : Processing units who apply for FSSAI Licenses should be given on priority basis  within a timeline  including rate reduction on individual products. Moreover, in most of the proprietary & traditional products separate approval from FSSAI are needed for each product, which may be dropped. 7)       PAN India program for development of Food Processing & inviting Investors in the North East : National level seminar, workshop including field visits / discussion & deliberations among the south east Asian countries for bringing up investments in the North East in terms of collaboration, joint ventures etc can be considered directly under the support of the MoFPI, Govt of India. Madam, if the aforesaid requests for restoration & possible changes are acceded to and also the new concepts are introduced in NER, there is absolutely no doubt that the region will progress by leaps & bounds and mark its place at par with the other more advanced states. Madam, all this is not possible without a sympathetic & proactive consideration, and we earnestly request you to kindly intervene appropriately through your esteemed ministry. FINER which is the apex and the most vibrant industry body of the North East has the well being of the people of North East in mind and would continue to extend its support to the efforts of the Governments for their  endeavors  for the welfare of the region. Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Comments Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS No comments found Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Home About Finer What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com