Hari Agro Products - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Hari Agro Products Home Hari Agro Products Agro based manufacturing and distribution company based in Krishnagiri, Tamil Nadu.  “When I brought my first consignment to Chennai, it was an instant success. That motivated me to further to expand my business venture,” says Mr. Hariprasath Udayakumar, founder Hariprasath Udayakumar Hari Agro Products is an agro based manufacturing and distribution company based in Krishnagiri, Tamil Nadu. The range of products supplied by the company include mango fruits, mango pulp (alphonso, thothapuri, raspuri and other varieties), coconut oil (all types), tamarind, mixed fruit jam and panchagavya (organic plant growth promoter). “In 2009 when I was working in a leading IT firm, I developed an interest in farming and agro based business. It was a time when the artificially ripened mangoes were dominating the markets. I decided to sell naturally ripened mango fruits, as a hobby. When I brought my first consignment to Chennai, it was an instant success. That motivated me to further to expand my business venture,” says Mr. Hariprasath Udayakumar, founder. [hidepost] Mango Pulp : In 1989, Mr. Hariprasath’s father set up a mango pulp manufacturing unit in Paiyur, Krishnagiri district. “Initially we were focusing on only supplying our mangoes to the outer pulp buyers. By 2007 we had two more mango pulp manufacturing units with modern technology running in our group of institutions. In order to explore the pulp industry, after 17 years, my dad and I decided to manufacture our own mango pulp and market them in domestic and international markets. To play it safe we manufacture mango pulp only on orders. We had challenges like container scarcity, crop failure, and competition from cheap and low quality pulps,” avers Mr. Hariprasath. Challenges in Organic Farming Mr. Hariprasath points out the challenges faced by the company in organic farming: · Lack of organic crop education and awareness · Lack of effective organic pest repellents and its cost · Healthy organic seeds are expensive and tough to get · Sudden climatic changes leads to crop failures · Presence of spurious organic products in market make the customers lose their interest in organic products Speaking about the cost of organic certification, Mr. Hariprasath says, “The cost of organic certification is very high for small scale organic farmers. I gave up the idea of certifying my farm. My customers visit my farm occasionally and they are aware of our farming procedures. Hence I market my products only as naturally grown. Even officials and students from few agricultural universities have recently visited our farm for a live demo on mango cultivation. They have also taken our mango saplings from one of our very old trees. Our rice and greens are booked before the harvest. “ He adds, “Organic certification is necessary to retain the faith of the customer. If one is focusing on the larger scale of business, getting certified will definitely help. There are few authentic certifiers. It would be safe if the farmers make use of them.” Farm Maintenance & Farm Consulting  : The company is focusing on farm maintenance and farm consulting programs too, which comprises plant treatment, manure application, pre- and post-harvest activities and marketing the harvest for the farm owner. “We run farm maintenance programs for busy people. We market the harvest of the farm maintenance programs and give the returns back to the farm owners. We assess the soil fertility and the trees capability and cultivate the farm accordingly. We reduce the burden of the farm owners by indulging our staff in the farm maintenance activity,” says Mr. Hariprasath. Their target customers are industries owning farm lands, busy farm owners and farmers with less interest in certain crops. “Our clients are in Chennai, Palani and Hosur. We are studying on market demand of by-products of agricultural commodities such as tamarind, coconut and rice. In future we will launch the manufacturing units of these products one at a time,” he adds. Marketing : The company markets through advertising in the online media and also through its own website. “I handle a business based hobby system. For instance I practice the hobby of promoting and guiding organic terrace gardeners. This in-turn helps me meet people from different profiles practicing the same hobby. By doing this my colleagues in this hobby are aware of my products and its advantages,” says Mr.Hariprasath. He adds, “Customers approach us for further business developments. The success of the terrace garden itself is a real time demo of the effects of our panchagavya and other organic manures. This is a big mode of promotion for me. Agricutureinformation.com has played a vital role in my product promotion. It is a strong mode of publicity for fresh business people.” Future Plans : Mr. Hariprasath is pursuing global MBA. After the completion of his MBA, he plans to gain experience by working in a global agriculture company. After 5 years he plans to join back his own company and launch new ventures based on farming. Mr. Hariprasath is BE in electronics and communications. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr.Hariprasath U. Hari Agro Products  Sappanipatti Village,Karagur – PO, Krishnagiri – TK & Dt. – 635 111. India. Mobile: +91-9952028155 / 9965352599. E-mail:    hariprasathu@yahoo.co.in Web : http://www.hariagroproducts.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Hari Agro Products Related – articles, consultants, downloads Gokhale Agro Products Mango Farms Srinithi Agro Farm Bharath Agro Sales Corporation – Organic farming inputs You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water