Arunachal Pradesh The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Arunachal Pradesh Written by Administrator on 04 May 2014 . Posted in About North East Twitter INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES Arunachal Pradesh is area-wise the largest state in North-East India. It shares international boundaries with Bhutan, Tibet, China and Myanmar, and the national boundaries with Assam and Nagaland. The State largely consists of submontane and mountainous ranges, sloping down to the plains of Assam which divides the State into five river valleys. The State is situated in the Eastern Himalayan province which is the richest bio-geographical province of the Himalayan zone. It is known for its rich forest resources and mineral deposits. It is a land of deep river valleys and beautiful plateaus. Due to rich biodiversity of flora and fauna, Arunachal Pradesh has a vast market potential for the cultivation of orchids and a variety of medicinal plants. Besides, the industries of the state are based on locally available raw materials and forest produces. Arunachal Pradesh, inspite of its hilly terrain, provides enough business opportunities for the investors from all over the world. It is well endowed with abundant forest cover, minerals and hydel power resources which can be utilized for setting up industrial units in the state. Major mineral deposits in the State are limestone, dolomite, quartzite, graphite, coal, marble, oil, natural gas, kyanite, mica, iron and copper. The economy of Arunachal Pradesh is primarily agrarian, wherein many agricultural and horticultural crops are grown. Its traditional handlooms and handicrafts are also in demand worldwide. A wide variety of crafts such as weaving, painting, pottery, basketry and woodcarving are found among the people of Arunachal Pradesh. Most of the industries in the State are based on forest products such as timber, veneer and plywood. Besides, the state's beautiful landscape and rich cultural heritage makes it an attractive tourist destination. Accordingly, the Government of Arunachal Pradesh has been making several efforts to attract investment into the various sectors of the State. The investors can set up industrial units by optimally utilizing the numerous resources as well as the incentives and schemes available in the state. The advantageous features of the State can be summed up as – Supportive and reliable administrative set up Investor friendly environment Low land-man ratio Rich varieties of flora, fauna and various horticultural produce Presence of several medicinal herbs Skilled and efficient labor force Highest per capita income amongst all North-Eastern States Sound infrastructural network AGRICULTURE AND HORTICULTURE Agriculture is the basis of the economy of Arunachal Pradesh. It is mainly depended on 'shifting' or 'jhum' cultivation. The principal crops are rice, maize, millet, wheat, pulses and encouragement is being given to the cultivation of cash crops like potatoes and sugarcane. Nearly 75% of the state's total workforce is engaged in agriculture and allied activities. Horticulture is the backbone of the rural economy in Arunachal Pradesh. It has a vast potential, owing to good agro-climatic conditions and topography, for the cultivation of various tropical, sub-tropical and temperate fruits like apples, oranges and pineapples, vegetables, spices, mushrooms, aromatic and medicinal plants. Most of the land of the state is covered with dense and rich forest. The agro and horticulture based industries of Arunachal Pradesh are being developed on the following product lines – Fruit based alcoholic beverages Ginger processing/dehydration Apple cultivation and processing Processing of citrus fruits Tapioca production unit for production of sago and starch Cold storages Multipurpose fruit and vegetables processing; etc. CANE AND BAMBOO The cane and bamboo industry of Arunachal Pradesh is of very high standard. It holds utmost importance in meeting most of the domestic requirements of the people of the state. Different sizes and shapes of hats, various kinds of baskets, cane vessels, a wide variety of cane belts, elaborately woven brassier of cane and fiber, bamboo mugs with carvings, a variety of ornaments are some of the special products of this industry. Out of these, the top most attraction is the baskets of the state, which are beautiful not only because of the fine texture but also because of the unusual shapes. CARPET MAKING 'Carpet Making' is one of the most important and special occupation of this state. The carpets of Arunachal Pradesh have been acclaimed to be of national and international repute on the basis of the quality of carpet weaved in the state. Carpets are woven in varied colors, designs and shapes. The other main products of the industry are wall hangings, cushion pads, telephone pads and floor coverings. With the increase in demand, carpets have become a major item of trade as well as a major occupation for the women population of the state. TOURISM Arunachal Pradesh is emerging as a major tourist destination in the North-Eastern region. It is endowed with rich and large bio-diversity of flora and fauna. With its lush green forests, diverse wildlife, deep river valleys and beautiful plateaus, it is considered to be 'nature's treasure trove' and a home to wide varieties of orchids. The state has tremendous scope for development of various types of tourism activities like cultural tourism, adventure tourism, historical tourism, wildlife tourism, nature based tourism and eco-tourism. The Government of Arunachal Pradesh is undertaking several developmental schemes in order to explore more places of tourist interests as well as provide infrastructural facilities like construction of tourist lodges and huts, wayside amenities, development of lakes, and provisions for adventure sports at various places of the state in near future. Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Comments Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS No comments found Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Twitter Feeds Tweets by @fineroffice Home About Finer What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com