Andhra Pradesh Performing Arts Home » Andhra Pradesh » People culture & Festivals » Andhra Pradesh Performing Arts   People and Culture Festivals Art and Craft Performing Arts                    more.. आंध्र प्रदेश का नक्शा About Andhra Pradesh History Geography Climate Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Cities Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Andhra Pradesh Places to visit in Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels         more... How to reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Cities Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Andhra Pradesh       Andhra Pradesh Performing Arts Andhra Pradesh is an Indian state where the different art forms are given quite importance. Andhra Pradesh Performing Arts has enriched the cultural heritage of the state. The forms of art in which the artist's makes use of their own body, face and presence, is known as performing arts. It is different from plastic art in which materials like clay, metal or paint is use to express the art.Performing arts relax the soul and mind of a person. There are various types of performing arts such as acrobatics, comedy, dance, magic, music, opera, film, juggling, brass bands, theatre, and circus arts. A wide range of performing arts like dance, music and drama had been popularized by the state of Andhra Pradesh. The famous classical dance Kuchipudi has originated in Andhra Pradesh and has been made familiar to the world. Andhra Pradesh plays a significant role in Carnatic Music. The great Carnatic Music maestros like Thyagaraja, Shyama Shastri and Mathswami Dixitar are all from Andra Pradesh. The renowned composers like Mangalapalli Bala Murali Krishna and Bhadrachala Ramadasu have also captivated the world with their unparralled compositions. Dance also occupies an important place in the Andhra Pradesh performing arts. As a performing art dance is the most fascinating. Few dance forms which occupy an eminent place are Bhamakalpam Bonalu, Burrakatha Butta Bommalu, Dappu Dhimsa, Kolattam Kuchipudi, Lambadi Tappeta Gullu, Veeranatyam etc. Last Updated on 20 June 2013 People, Culture and Festivals of Andhra Pradesh Art and Craft Fairs Festivals Performing Arts Andhra Pradesh About Climate History Geography Languages Population Districts Factsheet Distance Chart Pin code STD code             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule