 XFN: Tools Home Intro Join Background FAQ Tools And... Helping Thanks Feedback XFN Tools Creating Blogging WordPress Matt Mullenweg An open-source Weblogging package that offers XFN annotation of its internally-stored list of links. WordPress home Autoxfn Buzz Anderson A module for Bloxsom that adds XFN annotations to links in an entry. Autoxfn Moveable Type template D. Keith Robinson Allows MT authors to build a list of links that carry XFN annotation. XFN Friendly Link List With Movable Type blo.gs Jim Winstead, Jr. Allows you to add information regarding your relationship to the people behind the blogs in your favorites list. blo.gs Communities Metafilter Arthur Jennings Metafilter users can now add XFN information to their links to other MeFi users. Metafilter Journalspace The "friends" area of this service allows the addition of XFN information to the links. Journalspace Editing Exefen Matt Mullenweg A Web-based interface that allows quick XFN annotation of all the links on a page. You can save the result and paste it back into your HTML source. Exefen 1.0 Nvu Daniel Glazman Integrates XFN editing into its hyperlink editing dialogs. Nvu Wizards XFN Creator Matt Mullenweg 1.1 update by Tantek Çelik A Web-based interface for quickly creating a link with the proper XFN values. Available in the following languages: English French (translation by Serge K. Keller) Italian (translation by Serge K. Keller and Cécile Matthey ) Spanish-Argentina (translation by Manuel Razzari ) Dutch (translation by Jeroen Budts — see related post: XFN 1.1 en XFN Creator ) Czech (translation by Josef Petrák ) Japanese (translation by Kazuhito Kidachi ) Browsing Searching RubHub Phil McCuskey A search engine for the XFN space, showing the social network of XFN-annotated sites. Includes top-10 lists for "largest social network" and "most inspiring". Rubhub.com Viewing RubHubIt Jonas Luster A favelet that looks up the currently-viewed site on Rubhub . RubHubIt (drag to Favorites toolbar to install) XFN Dumper Ben A favelet that will open a new window listing all the XFN-annotated links in the current page and the XFN values they carry. XFN Dumper v0.21 (drag to Favorites toolbar to install) XFN [ GMPG ] Copyright © 2003–2015 GMPG. Some rights reserved .