Map of Delhi Home Delhi Tourism Cultures & Festivals Hotels Shopping Restaurants Follow us Red Fort- Delhi Click to View Large Map of Delhi Map of Delhi New Delhi, the 3rd largest city and the capital of India is a synthesis of the modern and the antique. Situated along the Gangetic Plain, the city portrays a picture of rich culture, diversity, architecture and history. It is considered as the travel hub of North India. Civic Administration in Delhi Delhi, the National Capital Territory mainly comprises of 9 districts. Every district has got 3 sub-districts & is headed by a Deputy Commissioner. Delhi also includes 59 census towns, 27 tehsils, 165 villages apart from the following municipal corporations which actually form the metropolitan area of Delhi: Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB) New Delhi Municipal Committee (NDMC) Delhi has taken into its purview four satellite cities namely Faridabad, Gurgaon, Ghaziabad and Noida. New Delhi, the capital of India comes within the purview of NDMC. Delhi claims to own the most galactic Metropolitan Police Force present in world. Accessibility Delhi is very well linked by road, rail and air which make it easily accessible to overseas traveler. Inter-connected roads and highways and 3 Inter State Bus Terminuses at Anand Vihar, Sarai Kale Khan and Kashmere Gate connects the city to all other major cities in India. Delhi has three main railway stations situated at Old Delhi, New Delhi and Nizamuddin. Apart from some luxurious trains like Fairy Queen, Palace-on-Wheels and Orient Express which can be availed from New Delhi Cantonment railway station, New Delhi is proud to have Rajdhani Express, one of the most prestigious trains connecting New Delhi to all other state capitals in India. The city has very good air services. Almost every international airline flies to and from its two major airports: Indira Gandhi International Airport and Palam Domestic Airport. The later connects Delhi domestically to all major cities. Historical Monuments Hotels Place of worship Restaurant Click Here to Download PDF Fact file of Delhi Area 1,483 sq km Altitude 293 m above sea level Geographical Location 28.38° N latitude 77.13° E longitude Population 1, 38, 50,507 Population Density 9340 per sq km Literacy Rate 81.67% Sex Ratio 821 per 1000 males Per Capita Income (1998-99) RS.38864 Average Rainfall 617 mm annually Temperature 45 degree (max), 5 degree (min) Climate Summers are hot with the temperature rising up to 45 oC and the winters are also quite cold with temperature dropping as low as 5 oC. Language English, Hindi, Punjabi and Urdu Religion Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Christian Important Festivals Id-Ul-Fitar, Ramzan, Makar Sakranti, Republic Day, Maha Shivratri, Ram Navmi, Diwali, Dussehra, Guru Nanak Jayanti, Christmas day, Baisakhi, Holi, Durga Puja. Major Tourist Attractions India Gate, Red fort, Qutab Minar, Humayun's Tomb, Jama Masjid, Birla Mandir, Rashtrapati Bhavan, Parliament House, Chandni Chawk. Best Time to Visit October to March Home   |   Delhi Tourism   |   Cultures & Festivals   |   Hotels   |   Shopping   |   Restaurants   |   Delhi Map   |   Sitemap   |   XML Sitemap Follow us Compare Infobase Limited (ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) Copyright mapsofindia.com All right reserved solutions@mapsofindia.com