Direct Trade vs. Fair Trade | Three Corner Coffee Roaster Home Who We Are About the Coffee Partners Our Store Find Our Coffee Latest Events January 2012... Three Corner Coffee Roaster conducts a search for coffee in Cambodia’s eastern province of Mondulkiri. While visiting the indigenous farmers of the Panong tribe and the other Khmer farmers, we find that startlingly few coffee plantations are still up and running, most have been left to the jungle or have been cut down… Testimonials Yes, it (Kampuchea Double-Roast) is pretty good in a plunger. I want to try it in a machine too.  –November 14, 2011 at 10:21am Leigh Campbell (via Facebook) Gallery Green Bean Quality Control The next step in the green bean processing is what primarily ensures that the coffee produced by Three Corner Coffee Roaster is at or above the quality levels of the best international brands. Our staff painstakingly search by hand through every kilo of green beans to ensure that only the best beans get sent to the roaster. No over-ripened, bug-eaten, over-dried, or un-husked beans, no trash such as stick stones, and nothing else that might negatively affect the taste of our coffee. U.S. Distributor In the United States: we have established a relationship with a non-profit organization called SoDE, that has the goal of creating sustainability and changing economic situations in order to be part of the solution to ending human-trafficking. Post-Roasting Process The necessary freshness of the coffee really depends on the person drinking the coffee, some like it roasted that day, some like it at least less than a week old, and others don’t mind drinking it just as long as it isn’t expired yet (sometimes up to two years). Our research and testing has shown that the freezing process adds longevity to our coffee’s fresh-roasted flavor. Connoisseurs have done taste testings to determine if the flavor deteriorates when freezing immediately after roasting, but when compared with fresh-roasted coffee, statics even showed that they preferred the coffee frozen for one month to the fresh-roasted coffee. Hot-Air Roaster The third step in our production process is the roasting. We choose to roast single-origin beans only, meaning that only beans from a single location are roasted at a time. We maximize the flavor potential of each bean in order to provide the best possible flavor for each style of roast or blend. To gain an incredible consistency and quality of roast we choose to use a fluidized-bed (hot-air) roaster. Our roaster, based upon the Sivetz model, was designed, tested, and built in Cambodia Quality in Storage Our quality control begins with how we store the green coffee beans before they are roasted. The coffee cherries are harvested during the months of October and November,then dried over the following few weeks to within 12% moisture, and de-husked. Keeping the moisture content of the green coffee beans at 12% will allow them to remain fresh, with full flavor and aroma, during the year and up until a possible two years. Cambodian Coffee History The Annamite Mountains that extend through both Vietnam and Laos also make up the Cambodian northeastern “highlands” of Ratanakiri and Mondulkiri Provinces. The predominant red soil of these provinces is excellent for a multitude of crops including rubber, most tropical fruits, black pepper, cassava, cashews, and of course coffee. Coffee farmers in these highlands are Business Ethics For us at Three Corner Coffee Roaster, we choose to roast and produce a socially and culturally sensitive coffee product of high quality and hygienic standards. We believe our product will give a good reputation to products produced in Cambodia and by the Cambodian people, but this isn’t where it should end. We want to see more products produced by Cambodia and services offered by Cambodians that attain to and even go beyond our social, cultural, and quality standards; as much as we can we try to support and encourage such ethical and honest businesses as our own in hopes that this will pave the way for a new generation of business in Cambodia. Our Cambodian Coffee Three Corner Coffee Roaster currently sources its Cambodian Robusta coffee from plantations in Ratanakiri and Mondulkiri Provinces. Our major supply source is a single plantation between Ratanakiri’s provincial capitol of Banlung and the Cambodian-Vietnamese border, but our desire is to start sourcing beans from the indigenous tribes and the small Khmer plantations as they are able to start taking care of their coffee trees again. Primary Partner In Cambodia’s capital city of Phnom Penh: we partner with the White Lotus Project to provide a safe and supportive working environment for the women that are being, or have been, helped by the counseling, nurturing, and training done through this project. Mission Statement At Three Corner Coffee Roaster we are committed to: encouraging the industrial development of the Cambodian coffee industry, helping of underprivileged Khmer men and women, and producing high quality Khmer products for responsible consumers. Final Quality Control Check Since we at Three Corner Coffee Roaster desire to have the best coffee available from the Southeast Asia region, we use three-ply bags, with a one-way degassing valve that helps to release CO2, helping to safeguard the coffee on its journey from our roastery to your cup. Each final product is double checked by the women of the White Lotus Project for packaging mistakes or other defects, and each package is sealed with an assurance that this is truly a high quality Khmer product. How Three Corner Coffee Roaster Sources its Green Coffee Beans: The method through which Three Corner Coffee Roaster chooses to source its green Cambodian coffee beans is based upon the Direct Trade Method. We go ourselves directly to the farmers to obtain the green coffee beans and give them the proper value based on the green bean’s quality. We base the value of the good quality beans according to the current Class 1 Robusta value listed on the New York Stock Exchange. We choose to not only be socially responsible from an international standpoint, but also to be culturally sensitive from a domestic one. Through the Direct Trade method we hope to encourage the indigenous farming communities to use high quality, environmentally friendly growing and processing techniques so as to establish their coffee plantations in a healthy and sustainable manner. We also hope to encourage growth and industrialization through the current culture of the coffee farming communities so that their success might allow them autonomy in the maintaining and continued development of their own cultural heritage. (Below is a good article written on Direct Trade vs. Fair Trade)   Fair Trade versus Direct Trade: The Sociological Breakdown Posted by Nicki Lisa Cole on 10/10/2011 to Nicki Lisa Cole   While conducting research with consumers of environmentally and socially responsible coffee between 2008 and 2009, I found that though most I spoke with were committed to this product, hardly any understood the distinctions between the different sourcing models available. Given the number of options available in coffeehouses and grocers, this is not much of a surprise. The curious consumer will find Fair Trade , Organic , Rain Forest Alliance , Bird Friendly , UTZ Certified , and of course, variations on Direct Trade up for grabs. Inundated with information, labels and their claims blur together into an indistinguishable impression of goodness. Yet, somehow, Fair Trade seems to rise above the rest. Many consumers I spoke with used the term to refer to the concept of ethical sourcing in general. Many also assumed that “fair trade” was the only promise that they could trust, and that those not so labeled were inherently bad. In this post of the Direct Trade Coffee Club blog , we’ll take a look at what Fair Trade certification really offers, how Direct Trade differs, and consider the room for improvement in each.   The Fair Trade Essentials Coffee purchased exclusively from democratic cooperatives of individual small producers Minimum price per pound of $1.69 paid to the cooperative Access to credit provided or facilitated by the roaster Price premium guarantees community development Prohibit child labor, forced labor, and workplace discrimination Require growing practices that promote environmental sustainability Certification provides transparency of relations between buyers and cooperatives   From a sociological perspective, what’s greatest about this model is that it is community structured. Because Fair Trade works strictly with cooperatives of producers that range in size from 200 to 8,000 individual producers, its aim and scope are community-wide. Globally, this model included over 5 million producers during 2009. Importantly, democratic governing of cooperatives encourages producers to share knowledge, and to work together to solve problems and improve their communities. The then ten cent social premium that roasters pay per pound of coffee purchased helps them achieve their goals. In 2009, these premiums totaled $11 million devoted to community development projects. Environmentally speaking, the model requires producers to meet certain minimum standards of sustainability, including a prohibition on the use of GMOs and toxic agrochemicals, and conservation of soil, water, and surrounding forests. The global reach of the model means that these standards are being applied in coffee growing regions around the world. On paper, pretty impressive. Now let’s consider how Direct Trade compares.   The Direct Trade Essentials  Coffee purchased from a range of farm structures and sizes Typical price paid per pound between $3-5 (never less than $1.80) Work with producers to improve quality and increase value Direct, ongoing, sustained contact between buyer and producers Guarantee economic sustainability of farms Guarantee social sustainability of producers Encourage environmental sustainability & community development Completely transparent   To the sociologist , the benefits of Direct Trade are quite different than those of Fair Trade. The high price paid per pound is, hands down, the foremost benefit to producers. While the model does not guarantee a minimum price, because buyers evaluate it based on quality, on average they pay well above the Fair Trade minimum. Importantly, Direct Trade buyers pay each individual producer, whereas the Fair Trade price is paid to the cooperative. Because Direct Trade buyers are interested in purchasing the highest quality coffee available, they work with producers to improve their crops, and teach them how coffee is roasted and served in the U.S. so that they understand how the product is used. As quality improves, producers are paid more per pound. The direct communication and interaction between producers and buyers that lends the model its name cultivates long-term relationships based on mutual respect and trust. This, in turn, affords producers economic and family stability. Another benefit of the direct relationship is that buyers and producers negotiate terms and expectations together, as opposed to having them imposed by an outside organization. This means that the trading relationship is tailored to the unique context of each producer and their farm. Because the model is flexible, a variety of farm sizes and structures can be included. While not certified by an independent party, Direct Trade roasters guarantee complete transparency, and are happy to reveal all to anyone who asks.   So, which is better? Comparing the two models actually illuminates flaws in each. The most significant downside to Fair Trade is that there is actually no transparency around what individual producers are paid. With this model, buyers pay cooperatives. Cooperatives of course incur some overhead costs, so in the end, producers earn a price that is lower than the Fair Trade minimum. Actual earnings of individual producers are not reported. While the model does channel a ten cent social premium per pound into community development, research conducted by sociologist Daniel Jaffee in Mexico found that the difference between Fair Trade and conventional growing communities is marginal.   An absence of emphasis on quality is another drawback of the Fair Trade model. Because it uses a flat price, producers are not incentivized to improve coffee quality. In my research in the coffee industry, I found that this discourages many specialty roasters from purchasing Fair Trade coffee. The structure of the trading relationship also poses a problem to some importers. Because cooperatives are run democratically, leadership changes every year or two. This makes it difficult for buyers to cultivate a long-term, trusting relationship with cooperatives because new players are introduced almost annually. Importantly, research conducted with producer s has found that they too have critiques of the model. While the Fair Trade model was initially organized by producers in Mexico as a form of resistance to neoliberal trade models imposed by the north, the inclusion of large coffee companies and the growth in imports and distribution over the last decade has lead to increased bureaucratization and corporate leverage. Many producers feel that their perspectives have been lost. They are constantly fighting to have more representation at the decision-making level so that the model works for them, but they find themselves continually excluded. Because of this, some producers feel that the model is imposed on them by northern business interests, and does not reflect their goals for themselves and their communities.   Because the Direct Trade model is based on direct communication and mutual agreement between producers and buyers, producers have much more say in the terms of the trading agreement. But, this model is not without its own flaws. The main drawback, from a sociological perspective, is that the model targets individual producers, not producing communities. While individual producers are paid much higher than average prices for their coffee, they are encouraged to channel their profits into farm infrastructure and sustainability. Of course, from a business perspective, this makes sense. But it bears noting that the model does not require producers to invest in their communities. Overall, it is a very small group of producers around the world who participate in Direct Trade, and so, the impact of the model is quite limited. Similarly, while environmental sustainability is encouraged by buyers, quality and price are the only guarantees. It is also worth noting, from a sociological perspective, that producers are included at the discretion of buyers. Buyers are thus the gate-keepers of this model, which leaves a significant amount of power in their hands, as opposed to those of producers.   In a perfect world, a blend of these two models would thrive. Direct Trade empowers producers by helping them improve the quality of their product so that they can earn more money on the global market, while Fair Trade empowers producers by strengthening community bonds and emphasizing collective improvement. To implement Direct Trade on a community-wide scale would fold many more producers into the model, raise the quality of a greater amount of coffee, and empower producers in important ways. What a good, and delicious, world it would be.   Nicki Lisa Cole is a freelance writer and consultant who holds a Ph.D. in sociology from the University of California, Santa Barbara. Learn more at www.nickilisacole.com and her Facebook page 21st Century Nomad .   Direct Trade vs. Fair Trade The method through which Three Corner Coffee Roaster chooses to source its green Cambodian coffee beans is based upon the Direct Trade Method. Read More Cambodian Missions Support Program We at Three Corner Coffee Roaster and SoDE Clothing, Coffee, & Crafts desire to help financially support your favorite missions in Cambodia… Read More © 2012 Three Corner Coffee , All right reserved. Developed by Palm Leaf Group