Maharashtra Map Home » Maps » Maharashtra Map   Maharashtra History and Geography Climate of Maharashtra Maharashtra Map महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Cities in Maharashtra Mumbai Pune Nashik Aurangabad Solapur Shirdi                        more.. Economy of Maharashtra Industrial Map Maharashtra Government Maharashtra Assembly Polls Maharashtra Lok Sabha Elections Maharashtra Assembly Election Results Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Education Universities in Maharashtra Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Maharashtra Map महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Map of Maharashtra Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing major roads, railways, rivers, national highways, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Maharashtra Location Map Maharashtra Districts Map Maharashtra Cities Map Maharashtra Tehsil Map         Maharashtra Road Network Map Maharashtra Physical Maharashtra Railway Map Maharashtra Travel Map Maharashtra , situated in the western part of India, is the third largest state of India. It is bordered by the states of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh , Chhattisgarh , Telangana, Karnataka, Goa and the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Divided into thirty five districts, it has cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Solapur, Nagpur, Thane, Jalgaon and Amravati which have a distinct place on the map of the world. All the districts of Maharashtra are grouped into six divisions: Aurangabad Division, Amravati Division, Konkan Division, Nagpur Division, Nashik Division and Pune Division. The state which is home to one of the largest film industries of the world i.e. Bollywood, also boasts of being the largest contributor to India's national industrial output. With places such as Lonavala, Khandala, Matheran, Panchgani, Mahabaleshwar and UNESCO World Heritage Sites of Ajanta and Ellora, Elephanta Caves and Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, it is one of the most sought after tourist destinations in India. Maharashtra State Information Capital Mumbai Date of formation 1. May. 1960 Governor Chennamaneni Vidyasagar Rao Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis Tourist attractions Gateway of India, Murud-Janjira Fort, Elephanta Island, Aurangabad Caves Festivals Makar Sankranti, Ganesh Chaturthi Major dance and music forms Vasudev Dance, Lavni Dance, Dhangari Gaja Arts and crafts People of the Warli tribe create ritualistic paintings on cowdung-plastered walls; Paithani saris; Mashru and Himroo fabrics Languages Marathi Size 307,713 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 112,374,333 Rivers Godavari, Penganga, Bhima, Varna, Parvara, Mula Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Pench NP, Tadoba NP, Nagzira National Park, Nawegoan NP, Devlagaon NP, Gugamal NP. State animal Giant squirrel State bird Green imperial pigeon State flower Jarul State tree Mango Major crops Paddy, wheat, sugarcane, oranges Factoids Gharapuri, just outside Mumbai, has seven beautiful rock-cut caves carved between the 6th and 7th centuries AD. Kolis were among the first residents of the archipelago or arc of seven islands that later became Mumbai. No. of District 36 Last Updated on : October 31, 2014 Maharashtra Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Rail Map Road Map Tehsil Map River Map Maharashtra Thematic Maps Forest Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Sex Ratio Map Handicrafts Map Industrial Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map About Maharashtra History Geography Weather Topography Festivals Facts Rivers and Lakes Soil and vegetation District Fact Sheet Travel to Maharashtra Travel to Ajanta Travel to Aurangabad Travel to Ellora Travel to Khandala Travel to Lonavala Travel to Haji Ali Travel to Mumbai Travel to Nagpur Travel to Nashik Travel to Panchgani Travel to Pune Travel to Shirdi Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Ajanta Places to visit in Aurangabad Places to visit in Khandala Places to visit in Lonavala Chowpatty Beach Juhu Beach Marine Drive Places to visit in Mahabaleshwar Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Mumbai Gateway of India Elephant Caves Shaniwar Wada Parvati Hill Places to visit in Nagpur Places to visit in Nashik Places to visit in Pune Places to visit in Shirdi Ajanta Ellora Caves Mahabaleshwar Temple Essel World