Sudhanva Patankar - Milk processing plant inside the export container - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Sudhanva Patankar – Milk processing plant inside the export container Home Sudhanva Patankar – Milk processing plant inside the export container Milk processing plant inside the export container! Engineer from Mumbai University designs Nano Milk Processing Dairy Plant inside the 40ft x 8ft x 9.5ft high cube export container. It is a real plant where practically fresh raw milk gets processed and duly packed in 1/2 liter pouches in just 3-4 hours from milking the cows. The plant is brain child of Mr. Sudhanva Patankar. Mr. Sudhanva Patankar after completing his engineering worked in Mumbai for 9 years and later 9 years in Nairobi, Kenya. He returned to Mumbai in 1987 and started Supa Sales and Services, an export company. Till 2013 he shipped almost 585 shipments to various developing countries. He sent more than 50% shipments using 40ft containers in 26 years. Milk processing unit inside the container, he explains, “About a couple of years ago I thought of making use of 40 ft export container for developing useful unit for rural India that can enhance their livelihood. It set me thinking and I wrote to big Indian dairies to provide me documents as how dairy processing unit operates. I was lucky handful of them responded back and provided adequate material to make a start. It was then followed by internet search, interactions with universities experts in dairy technology. Slowly and gradually things fell into place and I could figure out design of nano milk processing dairy plant inside the 40ft x 8ft x 9.5ft high cube export container.” Design was ready but execution of the same was even more difficult! Developing the dairy processing unit certainly includes installing the machines but in an export container, first it called for lot of changes in design of container itself with respect to dairy requirements. Mr. Patankar shares, “Milk is bound to spill and also after milk processing the plant needs a thorough wash to maintain hygiene hence the export container needed apt flooring. So we changed the usual flooring into a food grade, hygienic and washable stone flooring. Next the ceiling of the container required to be such that it withstands the hot temperature therefore we insulated the ceiling from top for heat resistance. Similarly we worked on containers sides too in order to accommodate more space.” The plant is manufactured at Satara, about 100 km ahead of Pune. Mr. Patankar has taken the design patent for his invention. “I took professional help for preparing documents as per the patent law,” he informs. As the milk processing plant is inside the container it does not needs any installation, it is ready for operations immediately. All it needs is simple platform of 60′ (l) x 12′ (w) x 4′ (h) size, power and water connections. “Container is placed on the platform with the help of a crane and process can be started immediately,” he shares. When asked as why platform is needed he elaborates, “To maintain the hygiene and cleanliness inside the plant. If it is on the ground, when it rains mud will come inside, people can walk with their dirty shoes, some insects can enter inside the plant etc. Hence platform solves all these issues. Further, I suggest making some storage space below the platform that can be used for storing the inventories like rolls of milk packets, record registers and belonging of labors etc.” Milk processing capacity of the plant is 1000 liter/hour. The plant is meant to be installed in the milk rich rural areas which produce minimum 3000 – 6000 liter of raw milk per day. The estimated time for processing hot fresh raw milk into the double filtered, pasteurized, homogenized, fresh milk duly packed in 1/2 liter pouches in just 3-4 hours from milking the cows. Plant is having all the machines as required for milk processing unit. Explaining the working Mr. Patankar says, “To begin with, milk is poured into milk collection bowl using tipper bar. From milk collection bowl it is then pumped into dump tank passing through perforation sheet filter. Milk is filtered well before it flows into pasteurization plant having four chambers of plate heat exchanger. There is holding tube in the pasteurization plant designed for continuous holding of milk for 20 seconds at the pasteurization temperature.” After pasteurization, milk moves to next stage of homogenization. “Homogenizer is an oval shape tank with a rotator fitted inside to ensure the proper rotational movement of milk which ensure fine homogenization of milk. After homogenizing process the milk is sent to storage tank but passing through the online filter to ensure the minute filtration of the non milk practical. Then filtered milk moves to storage tank and finally to vertical pouch packing machine with the help of milk pump,” he adds. Pouch making packs milk into 500 ml pouch packs as per the requirement. It can make 2400 pouches/hour that is 1200 liter/hour. The pouches are stored in freezing cabinet, 1000 litre volumetric capacity cabinet to maintain the inner temp at +0⁰ C dully insulated, painted with top opening. It is a complete independent refrigeration unit to store the milk pouches. Plant also has a collection bowl which is used for storing the milk, direct tanker filling used in case if the customer wants to fill his tanker or cans directly with the totally processed milk instead of packed in pouches. “We have installed Safe Klinz MS system, unique C.I.P. system which induces specific electromagnetic frequencies into the milk line which prevents scaling,” says Mr. Patankar. Condensing unit, glycol chilling plant, hot water generator and control panel are also installed in the plant. Sharing the benefits he says, “Nano milk processing unit in export container is helpful in eliminating the carbon emission due to long distance transportation of milk after milking from cow, reduces the time lag between milking the cattle & processed milk available to consumer and lessens the cost of conversion from raw to processed milk.” The plant is ready for sale. The first unit goes on rental basis near Pune city. Mr. Sudhanva Patankar says, “I was confident of my innovation so I took a big risk of investing in the project from my own pocket. The plant goes operational and mostly will be instrumental for the makeover of milk processing industry.” Contact details- Supa Sales and Services Pvt Ltd Operations Office C2/72, Textile Society, Twin Towers Lane, Bombay Dyeing Compound, Veer Savarkar Marg, Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400025, Maharashtra Phone: +919322272589 Email: sudhanva.patankar@supaimpex.com Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Sudhanva Patankar – Milk processing plant inside the export container Related – articles, consultants, downloads Fourseasonz – dairy farm Himalaya Naturals – herbal solutions processing unit Satya Sai Dairy Farm Punjab Dairy Farm You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water