Uttarakhand Newspapers Home » Uttarakhand » Newspapers   Uttarakhand उत्तराखंड का नक्शा Uttarakhand Map Cities in Uttarakhand Dehradun Haridwar Nainital Mussoorie Almora                    more... Travel to Uttarakhand Nainital Tourism Mussoorie Tourism Haridwar Tourism Dehradun Tourism Rishikesh Tourism Places to visit in Uttarakhand Jim Corbett National Park Wildlife Sanctuaries Districts of Uttarakhand Road Map Railway Map River Map Tehsil Map Physical Map Uttarakhand Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Uttarakhand Forests Industrial Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History Geography Information Newspapers Hotels in Uttaranchal Nainital Hotels Srinagar Hotels Mussoorie Hotels Haridwar Hotels Dehradun Hotels Rishikesh Hotels                    more... Society Important Numbers Education Universities in Uttarakhand Government Uttarakhand Images Haridwar Location Map Mussoorie Tourist Map Tourist Map of Rishikesh Uttaranchal Hills Map District Map in Hindi Pin Code International Yoga Festival in Rishikesh       Uttarakhand Newspapers Every state advocates a number of newspaper houses and Uttarakhand is no exception to it. Uttarakhand boasts of 31 daily publications. Many papers come from the cities of Uttarakhand but some of them are also published from the hilly sub urban areas. The more one state or country grows in literacy rate the more the people of that place feel the urge to read newspapers. Uttarakhand newspapers can be called to be the mirror of Uttarakhand. The application of news are expected to be unbiased as this is the major weapon in reflecting and transforming the society. The major houses of newspapers in Uttarakhand are mainly located in Haridwar, Tehri, Pauri Garhwal, Nainital, Udhamsinghnagar and Dehradun. Most of the Uttarakhand newspapersgives stress on local news to draw the attention of the locals. But the quality of the papers and the news as well are not up to the mark for most of the papers. The houses of newspapers at Uttarakhand are not economically conscious that could be guessed from the less number of ads in their newspapers though the pink paper Doon Classified stands as an exception. Among the Uttarakhand newspapers The Hawk comes out both in English and Hindi from Dehradun and Haridwar which enjoys huge popularity from both its native places. Valley Mail is another paper in Hindi with an English name which contains four pages. The Himachal Times is one of the prominent newspapers of Uttarakhand. It is a newspaper which has achieved a remarkable recognition in its style of news presentation. To name some other newspapers of Uttarakhand are: Kavita Express Apne Log Khabar Laye hai Daily Shikhar Sandesh Uttarakhand Ki Ore Seemant Varta Garhwal Post etc. Last Updated on 4 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule