Karnataka Department of Agriculture   Home Photo Gallery Contact Us Login ಕನ್ನಡ ಆವೃತಿ Commissionerate About Dept. Statistics Related Links Important statistics Seasonwise Rainfall Detail Agriculture Market price STATE AGRICULTURE PROFILE Agriculture Landholding District Wise Contingency Crop Plan Karnataka Policy Guidlines 2014-15 Citizen's Charter 2014-15 RFD 2013-14 RFD 2013-14 Kharif+Rabi Targets RFD 2013-14 Annual Targets Integrated Agribusiness Development Policy 2011 Agriculture policy 2006 Flagship programme Krushi Bhagya Bhoochetana Organic Farming NMSA RKVY NMFP NFSM ATMA RTI Committee View/Upload Tender/Publish Govt Order/ Circulars Agri. Inputs Meeting/Inspection Proceedings Publications Krushi Bhagya/Micro Irrigation/Farm Mechanisation Login K-Kisan Event Commendation Award Under Oilseeds Category 2013-14 Welcome to raitamitra... The Department of Agriculture has been created mainly to provide Agricultural Extension services to farmers and to transfer the latest technical knowledge to the farming community, introduction of high yielding varieties, laying demonstrations, imparting training to farmers to improve skills & knowledge to boost up the agricultural Production and productivity. ***** ರೈತರ ಸಹಾಯವಾಣಿ ಕೇಂದ್ರ ದೂರವಾಣಿ ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ: 1800 425 3553 ***** Raita Samparka Kendra The Department of Agriculture established Raitha Samparka Kendras at hobli level with the objective of providing updated crop production related knowhow, arrangement of critical agricultural inputs, primary soil and seed testing facilities and arranging interface with public and private sector technologies. NO.of hits : 701933 Organic Farming Keeping the importance of organic farming, to increase use of organic manure utilization for crop production, there is an urgent need to produce and supply organic manure to the farming community.It is planned to extend the organic village site programme to hobli level. These Kendras are established with the objectives: • To provide technical information on crop selection, crop production related know-how, market information etc., to farmers. • To provide primary seed and soil testing facilities locally. • To facilitate on site provision of critical inputs like seeds, bio-fertilizers and plant protection chemicals. The objective of the scheme is to increase the agriculture production and productivity by adoption of Farm Mechanisation. The scheme is being implemented with five different components namely supply of Hi-tech Agriculture implements, and supply of newly designed agricultural implements.                                                                                      Designed and Developed by NIC