CII - Sectoral About Us Economy Membership CII Services International Development Initiatives News Room Centres of Excellence Regions myCII.in About Us History CII Leadership President President Designate Vice President Director General Past Presidents CII Secretariat Initiatives Perspective Roles Strategies Economy Banking Corporate Governance Economic Affairs & Taxation Exports & Imports Financial Services Insurance MNC Mutual Funds Public Sector Enterprises Trade CII Research Membership About Membership Membership Profile Membership Advantages Membership Resource Centre How to become a member? Membership Helpline Contact Membership Desk CII Services Sectoral Portfolio Food & Agricultural Agriculture Climate Change Food Processing Water Manufacturing Aerospace Auto Components Automobiles Capital Goods Chemicals Climate Change Competitiveness Defence Design Drugs & Pharmaceuticals Exports & Imports Gems and Jewellery ICTE Manufacturing Leather and Leather Products Manufacturing Micro, Medium & Small Scale Industry Oil and Gas Public Sector Enterprises Research & Development Safety and Security Steel & Non-Ferrous Metals Services Aerospace Affirmative Action Banking Biotechnology Business Process Outsourcing Climate Change Competitiveness Corporate Governance Design External Relations Family Business Healthcare Information & Communication Technology IT enabled Services & e-Commerce Knowledge Management Life Sciences Media & Entertainment Public Policy Publishing Technology Telecom & Broadband Infrastructure Bio Fuels Civil Aviation Climate Change Energy Housing Hydrocarbons Infrastructure Oil and Gas Petrochemicals Petroleum Power Real Estate Renewable Energy Surface Transport Urban Development Policy Advocacy Business Development Global Outreach Competitive Solutions Commitment to Society Strategic Partnerships Membership Privileges Publications Events International Development Initiatives Affirmative Action Climate Change CSR & Community Development Disaster Management Education Environment Industry - NGO Partnerships Public Health Rural Development Skills Development Social Development Special Abilities Sports Women Empowerment NewsRoom Centres of Excellence CII Institute of Logistics CII Institute of Quality CII - ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development CII - AVANTHA Centre for Competitiveness for SMEs CII - Naoroji Godrej Centre of Excellence CII - Sohrabji Godrej Green Business Centre CII - Suresh Neotia Centre of Excellence for Leadership CII - Triveni Water Institute CII - FACE Regions East Andaman Bihar Chhattisgarh Jharkhand Orissa West Bengal North Chandigarh Delhi Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu & Kashmir Punjab Rajasthan Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhand South Andhra Pradesh Karnataka Kerala Puducherry Tamil Nadu Telangana West Dadra - Nagar Haveli Daman and Diu Goa Gujarat Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura myCII.in CII Leadership Chandrajit Banerjee Director General Chandrajit Banerjee is the Director General of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Mr Banerjee has been with the CII for over 27 years and has been the Director General, CII since May 2008. Mr Banerjee is a Post-Graduate (MS) in Economics with specialisation on Economics of Planning and Econometrics from the University of Calcutta. Earlier, he did his Graduation from St. Xavier's College (Calcutta) in Economics (Hons). As Director General, he is responsible for overall operations of CII. Prior to his appointment as Director General, he held several senior positions in CII. Mr Banerjee has been responsible for important areas of work including the Sectoral Verticals - Manufacturing, Services, Agriculture and Life Sciences Sectors and the SMEs. He has led key policy work of CII in the areas of Economic Policy, Financial Services and Corporate Governance (he was also the First Executive Director of the National Foundation of Corporate Governance -NFCG, an organization set up by the Ministry of Company Affairs, Government of India). He continues to be in the Board of Trustees and Governing Council of NFCG as a Member. Earlier Mr Banerjee has served as Head of CII’s regional operations in the Northern, Southern and Western Regions. Over the years Mr. Banerjee has worked out of the CII-Headquarters in New Delhi for several years and has also been based at Kolkata, Chennai, Mumbai, Chandigarh and Ahmedabad. He was also in Bangalore to initiate the Centre of Excellence of the Indian Machine Tool Manufacturers’ Association (IMTMA), which is a state-of-the-art centre for training, conventions and trade fairs. Mr Banerjee is in various advisory committees of the Government of India. He is the Co-chairman of the Governing Council, Overseas Indian Facilitation Centre (OIFC), a not for profit public private initiative of Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs (MOIA) and CII, established in 2007. He is a Member of the World Economic Forum’ s Global Agenda Council on India. Mr Banerjee is a Member of the Chief Minister’s Advisory Council, Madhya Pradesh and also a Member of the Board of Governors of Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ranchi. Mr Banerjee has been honored with the China-India Friendship Award by the Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao for his contributions towards the development of bilateral ties between India and China. Mr Banerjee is also the Secretariat for several bilateral CEOs Forums. These include Forums with Australia, France, Russia, Canada, Malaysia, Indonesia, Myanmar, Japan, Pakistan, South Africa among others. With 64 offices, including 9 Centres of Excellence, in India, and 7 overseas offices in Australia, China, Egypt, France, Singapore, UK, and USA, as well as institutional partnerships with 300 counterpart organizations in 106 countries, CII serves as a reference point for Indian industry and the international business community. Photo Gallery Launch of Skill Council for Green Jobs 29 May, 2015 Launch of Skill Council for Green Jobs 29 May, 2015 Press Meet with President CII 20 May, 2015 Food Conclave 2015 12 May, 2015 CII Roundtable Session 12 May, 2015 CII-IQ 14th Anniversary Lecture 08 May, 2015 CII-IQ 14th Anniversary Lecture 08 May, 2015 India-Japan Energy Forum 2015 29 Apr, 2015 India-Japan Energy Forum 2015 29 Apr, 2015 India-Japan Energy Forum 2015 29 Apr, 2015 View All Tweets by @CB_CII From the Desk of Director General Reforms now in take-off mode May 26, 2015 A strong show amid varied challenges May 22, 2015 A long road ahead for GST May 16, 2015 A closer partnership May 14, 2015 “Millions of Rural Migrants will Benefit” – A ... Apr 26, 2015 Read All Follow Mr. Banerjee