Travel to Kerala - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Kerala Travel Honeymoon in Kerala Hotels in Kerala Kerala Food How to Reach Kerala Airports in Kerala Tour Operators Kerala Attractions Kerala Backwaters Beaches in Kerala Wildlife in Kerala Hill stations in Kerala Kerala Water sports Shopping in Kerala Ayurvedic Resorts Pilgrimage Places Museums in Kerala Places to Visit in Kerala Trivandrum Travel Alleppey Travel Kannur Travel Kozhikode Travel Munnar Travel Thrissur Travel Wayanad Travel Kumarakom Travel Periyar National Park Thekkady Travel Kochi Travel Kovalam Travel Idukki Travel Mallapuram Travel Palakkad Travel Pathanamthitta Travel Varkala Travel Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya About Kerala Weather in Kerala History of Kerala Culture of Kerala Kerala Festivals Nehru Trophy Boat Race Champakulam Boat Race Aranmula Snake Boat Race Gramam Village Fair Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Cities in Kerala Lat Long Map Outline Map Districts in Kerala Kerala Road Map Kerala Railway Map Home » Maps » Kerala » Travel to Kerala Travel to Kerala Kerala Travel Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Kerala Travel map showing important tourist places of Kerala. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Kerala Tourism Kerala, popularly known as 'God's Own Country', is sandwiched between the Western Ghats and the Arabian Sea. Today, the state is among the top 10 tourist hotspots in the world by virtue of its natural splendour. The beautiful land of Kerala exudes a benign charm. The mighty Western Ghat hills in the West roll down to the golden sun-bathed coasts along the Arabian Sea via undulating verdant woods. A travel to Kerala would take you to its undulating backwaters gliding through the canals and estuaries. Count on some amazing spectacle as you skim past paddy fields, coir villages, rustic homes and coconut groves. The golden beaches in an eternal affair with the Arabian Sea would sweep you off your feet; the misty hills in green velvet and the alluring fragrance of the tea and coffee plantation would beckon you to a worldly sojourn as you travel to Kerala. Do not forget to pay a visit to some of the state's national parks and wildlife sanctuaries. You may catch up some rare wild lives in the natural surroundings. Demographic Location Southernmost tip of India Arabian sea at the west Tamilnadu in the east and south Indian ocean at the south Karnataka in the north Latitude Between 8°18' and 12°48' North Longitude 74°52' and 77°22' East Area 38, 863 sq km Climate Summer - Hot and humid Winter - Pleasant Max Temperature 33°C Min Temperature 22°C Average Annual Rainfall 311 cm Capital Trivandrum (Thiruvananthapuram) Population 3,18,38,619 Languages Malayalam, English Religion Hinduism, Christianity, Islam Best Time to Visit October to March Clothing Light cotton throughout the year How to Reach Kerala How to reach Kerala is a commonly asked question. A modern and progressive state with a cosmopolitan look, Kerala is accessible quite easily. Well connected by all major systems of transport, the place is now one of the most sought-after travel destinations in the world. Cochin is the main sea-port opening out into the Arabian Sea. Travelling to Kerala is a wholesome experience, educative and enriching, rejuvenating and fulfilling. An important tourist destination among Indians and foreigners, Kerala is very well connected by: By Air There are three airports in the state, located at Thiruvnanthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode, two of which are International Airports. The Karipur Airport, Kozhikode plays host to domestic airlines, while the Thiruvnanthapuram International Airport and the Cochin Airport, Nedumbassery operate both domestic and international flights. By Road A very strong commutation network makes Kerala easily accessible from all parts of the country. Kerala is directly connected by road to both Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. National Highway no. 47, 17, 49, and an extensive system of metalled roads connect Kerala to the rest of the country. Buses, tourist taxis, and autos are the main modes of road transport here. By Train There are 200 railway stations in Kerala, connecting places both within and outside Kerala. One can avail of super-fast, and express trains to reach one's chosen destination. The train services link the state to all the important cities of India including the four metropolitan cities namely, New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, and Chennai. Shopping In Kerala The God's Own Country cradles some of the best shopping haunts in India. Shopping in Kerala is also an attraction, if you are planning your vacations here. Indigenous handicrafts prove to be the major crowd pullers. The backpackers crave to stack their rucksacks with collector's items that have the unique insignia of the backwaters. Culture, tradition, mythology and fusion of aesthetics have left an indelible imprint that characterises the wonderful handicrafts of the land of sun and coconuts. Lovely coconut shell craft, the metal inlaid wood craft, coir products, horn carved products, wood carved products, bamboo mat paintings, metal ware, kathakali masks are some of the coveted hand crafted products that send the cash registers ringing. A trip to their places of production must also be a part of your itinerary. A mind boggling array, a riot of colors, brilliant aesthetics, exquisite embellishments and the handicrafts of Kerala are indeed the true representatives of this vivacious land. Besides the marvellous handicrafts, aromatic spices and vibrant textiles are also things to shop for when you go on a holiday to Kerala. Maps of India lists some of the most sought-after items that any traveller would love to carry back home, as a relic of beautiful memories garnered in God's Own Country. To know more click on what to shop. Kerala is the shopping heaven of South India. Several arcades and emporiums have cropped up in several nook and corner of the various districts which are a storehouse of the rich reservoir of handicrafts, spices and textiles. You can also drop in at various exhibitions from where you can pick up some wonderful artifacts to jazz up the decor of your house. Your task has been rendered easy by Maps of India. Click on where to shop for further details. Hotels of Kerala Kerala is home to all kinds of hotels, resorts and also Ayurvedic spas. Abounding in natural beauty Kerala is known as God's Own Country. It is thronged by tourists both domestic and foreign throughout the year and to carry out the accommodation needs of all the tourists, Kerala has many hotels and resorts. From Budget to mid-range to top-end hotels Kerala has it all. The hotels and resorts in Kerala are equipped with the latest amenities of which cater to all tastes and pockets. Read More ... Places to Visit in Kerala Kerala Water Sports Hill Stations in Kerala Beaches in Kerala Kerala Wildlife Sanctuaries Museums in Kerala Amusement Park Forts & Palaces Monuments Picnic spots Waterfalls Bird Sanctuaries Mosques Churches Temples in Kerala Dams Rivers & Lakes in Kerala Last Updated on : January 10, 2015 Hotels in Kerala Alleppey Hotels Angamaly Hotels Changanacherry Hotels Guruvayur Hotels Idukki Hotels Kannur Hotels Kasaragod Hotels Kochi Hotels Kollam Hotels Kottayam Hotels Kozhikode Hotels Kumarakom Hotels Malappuram Hotels Munnar Hotels Nilambur Hotels Palakkad Hotels Palghat Hotels Punalur Hotels Sultan Battery Hotels Thalassery Hotels Thekkady Hotels Thiruvananthapuram Hotels Thrissur Hotels Trivandrum Hotels Varkala Hotels Wayanad Hotels Travel to Kerala Travel to Alleppey Travel to Kumarakom Travel to Kannur Travel to Kozhikode Travel to Mallapuram Travel to Palakkad Travel to Pathanamthitta Travel to Thekkady Travel to Wayanad Travel to Kochi Travel to Kovalam Travel to Munnar Travel to Trivandrum Travel to Varkala Travel to Thrissur Places to Visit in Kerala Places to visit in Alleppey Places to visit in Kochi Places to visit in Kovalam Places to visit in Kozhikode Places to visit in Kumarakoram Places to visit in Munnar Places to visit in Thekkady Places to visit in Thrissur Places to visit in Trivandrum Places to visit in Varkala Flights to Kerala Flights to Kochi Flights to Kozhikode Flights to Trivandrum Travel Agents Aluva Ernakulam Kochi Kodaikanal Kottayam Munnar Thiruvananthapuram About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule