Tamil Nadu Forest Department About Us | Contact Us | FAQ | Links | Sitemap | Home  Welcome to Tamil Nadu Forest    Department   Back to Home   Frequently Asked Questions     SANDALWOOD PURCHASE, TRANSPORTATION, EXTRACTION, POSSESSION, etc.   PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION IN CASE OF ANY DEATH OR INJURY DUE TO ATTACK BY WILD ANIMALS WILDLIFE POSSESSION, HUNTING, TRADE, etc. What should arms licence holder do if he lives in the vicinity of national park or sanctuary? What should I do to transport timber from one place to another? Is there any regular manufacturing and sale of Bio Fertilizer and from where I can get? What are all economically important medicinal plant species? What are economically important fast growing tree species?   How sandalwood can be purchased? TOP Sandalwood occurs extensively mostly in the Eastern Ghats ranging from Vellore district   in the North east of Tamil Nadu to the Nilgiris in the west in the dry deciduous forests of the region.   In Tamilnadu only dead and drying sandal trees are extracted and brought to depots for rough cleaning and final cleaning.   The final cleaned sandalwood is sold in public auction in three sandalwood depots at Tirupathur, Salem and Sathyamangalam at regular intervals. To purchase sandalwood through auction sales, firm or individual must register their name with the respective District Forest Officers, participate in the sale and offer highest bid. Sandalwood can also be purchased through retail sale of Forest Department.   The retail sale of sandalwood shall be ordered by the following officers to meet the bonafide local demands. (G.O. Ms. No. 1228, Forests and Fisheries dept., dated 6.10.1983) a) District Forest Officer Upto 5 kilograms to private individuals. b) Conservator of Forests i) Upto 10 kilograms to private individuals. ii) Upto 100 kilograms to temples. c) Chief Conservator of Forests i) Upto 50 kilograms to private individuals. ii) Upto 500 kilograms to temples. The sale rates are fixed by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and communicated to all officers once in a year. Based on the rate the sandalwood is sold in retail sale.  In G.O.Ms.No.429, Environment and Forests Department, dated 24.10.1997, District Forest Officers have been permitted to sell upto 10 M. Tonnes of sandalwood to temples under the control of HR & CE, enterprises under the control of Tamilnadu Khadi and Village Industries Board, Government enterprises and organisations like IMPCOPS manufacturing medicines under the control of Co-operation Department. Government in their G.O.Ms.No.37, Environment and Forest Department, dated 10.2.1999 have authorized the Forest Department to sell upto 10 M.Tonnes of sandalwood to small users through retail sale.   How sandalwood IS TRANSPORTED FROM ONE PLACE TO ANOTHER? TOP   According to Tamil Nadu Sandalwood Transit Rules 1967, no person shall import sandalwood into or export sandalwood from or move sandalwood within any place in the State unless such sandalwood is accompanied either by a permit referred to in Rule 4 or by a way permit referred to in rule 6 and unless such sandalwood   bears the mark of the Government of Origin, as provided in rule 7 of the property mark in respect of such sandalwood which has been duly registered in accordance with rule 7. The Forest Department issues the permits mentioned above in Form I, Form II and Form III after collection of necessary fees.   how sandalwood can be extracted from private lands and patta lands? whether property mark registration will be required for this? TOP   For extraction of Sandalwood trees from private lands (ie. assigned lands) and   registration of a property mark application shall be made to the District Forest Officer concerned furnishing all particulars in Form IV as specified in Tamil Nadu Sandalwood Transit Rules, 1967.   The District Forest Officer or his authorized officer shall inspect the trees and with the consent of the owner of the land affix the departmental hammer mark on each tree and issue written permission for the extraction of the trees and grant a certificate of registration of property mark in Form V for the transport of the trees by the owner to a central place for final cleaning.   The pattadars will be permitted to dispose off the wood or to transport it to any other place from the Central place wherein it has been stored after obtaining specific orders of the Government. In order to simplify the procedure and to encourage the private owners to grow more sandalwood trees in their patta lands the Government have framed " The Tamil Nadu Sandalwood Trees on patta lands Rules, 2008 " effective 27 th November 2008.   As per these rules sandalwood trees grown on any patta land will be property of pattadar.   However the   owner of sandalwood trees has to sell his trees to Government only.   For this purpose he shall apply to District Forest Officer in Form-I appended to these Rules with list of trees and necessary documents. The District Forest Officer after due inspections and verification shall grant permission to sell those trees to Government.   Forest Ranger Officer concerned will extract those trees and transport them to Final Cleaning Depot.   Extraction and recording of measurement of trees will be done in the presence of the owner.   After final cleaning is over the District Forest Officer will arrive at the total quantity of final cleaned wood and sapwood obtained from those extracted trees and calculate their value (sale price) based upon the average sale price of previous sale.   Twenty percent of this sale price shall be deducted towards extraction, transport, final cleaning and administrative charges and balance 80% will be paid to the owner. In case the owner of the sandalwood trees is aggrieved by the fixation of sale price by the District Forest Officer he may prefer an Appeal to Conservator of Forests   concerned within 30 days from the date of receipt of orders of District Forest Officer in this regard.   The Conservator of Forests shall give the appellant an opportunity of being heard and pass orders on the appeal which shall be final.   WHETHER THERE IS ANY REGULATION ON POSSESSION OF SANDALWOOD BY PUBLIC? TOP The possession of sandalwood in Tamil Nadu is regulated under Tamil Nadu Sandalwood Possession Rules, 1970.   As per Rule 3(1) of these rules no person shall possess or stock sandalwood in excess of five kilograms without a licence issued by District Forest Officer.   If any person intends to possess or store sandalwood in excess of 5 kilograms he shall apply to the District Forest Officer in Form I and obtain a licence after paying the fees prescribed in sub rule (7) of rule 4. WHETHER GOVERNMENT HAVE PRESCRIBED NORMS FOR PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION IN CASE OF DEATH OR INJURY CAUSED TO HUMAN BEINGS DUE TO ATTACK BY WILD ANIMALS?  WHETHER COMPENSATION IS PAYABLE IN CASE OF DAMAGE CAUSED TO CROPS, HOUSES, LIVESTOCK, VEHICLES, etc. by wildlife? top (1) Government have approved norms for payment of compensation to the victims for loss of human life, permanent incapacitation, major injury, crop damage and various other damages caused by wildlife vide G.O. Ms. No.98, Environment and Forest (FR5)   Department, dated 17.8.2011 as detailed below: (a) To the legal heirs of the deceased. Rs.3,00,000/- (Rupees Three lakh only). (b) Permanent incapacitation. (To the incapacitated person) Rs.3,00,000/- (Rupees Three lakh only) (In respect of (a) and (b) above, an immediate relief of Rs.25,000/- would be granted and the remaining amount would be paid after completing all the required formalities.) (2) Relief for the losses to the houses, crops, other than human death / injury caused by the attack of wild animals:- (a) Damages to the crops  Rs.25,000/- (Rupees Twenty five thousand only) per acre or as per actual whichever is less. Coconut Tree - Rs.500/- per tree. (b) Damages to the tiled / RCC house / Thatched house. Fully damaged house: Pucca house - Rs.35,000/- per house;  Kucha house - Rs.10,000/- per house Severely damaged house: Pucca house - Rs.5,000/- per house;  Kucha house - Rs.2,500/- per house Partially damaged house: Rs.1,500/- per house (c) Damage to Vehicle, loss of cattle or livestock Milch Cattle - Rs.10,000/-, Bullock - Rs.10,000/-, Goat - Rs.2,000/-, Sheep - Rs.1,500/-, Pig - Rs.1,000/- Poultry - Rs.100/- per bird or actual value whichever is less (d) Cloth / Household articles / Other household Actual loss or Rs.2,000/- whichever is less. (e) Damage to shop Rs.4,000/- (f) Damage to irrigation or drinking water wells, electronic motor Rs.2,000/- (g) Vehicle compensation Rs.2,000/-   For more details see Government Order No. 205 Can anyone possess wildlife? WHETHER HUNTING OF WILD ANIMALS IS PERMISSIBLE? WHETHER TRADE IN WILD ANIMALS AND THEIR DERIVATIVES IS PERMISSIBLE UNDER THE ACT? TOP   The matters related to Wild animals are dealt under the provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.   This is a Central Act, which provides protection to the wild animals, birds and plants and for matters connected therewith or ancillary or incidental there to.    As per this act, hunting of wild animals has been completely banned except in certain cases and special purposes.   Every wild animal is Government property unless any one through proper possession licences has obtained it.   Trade of   wild animals or their derivatives has also been banned under the provisions of this Act.   Hence no member of the public can own a wild animal or indulge in trade of such animals or their derivatives. Any members of the public who comes into possession of any wild animal or its derivatives is required to surrender such wild animal or derivatives to the wildlife authorities immediately since possession of such animal or article shall be in violation of the provisions of this act.   What should arms licence holder do if he lives in the vicinity of national park or sanctuary? TOP   All members of public living within 10 kms. of the boundary of Sanctuary or National Park have to register their names with the wildlife authorities in case they are holding any arm licence.   No new licence under arms act is to be granted within 10 kms. of any Sanctuary or National Park without prior concurrence of State Chief Wildlife Warden. What should I do to transport timber from one place to another? TOP   As per provisions of Tamil Nadu Timber Transit Rules, 1968 no person shall move timber into or from or within the State by land, water or air unless such timber is accompanied by a permit prescribed therefor under Rule 4.   However no permit is necessary in following cases: (i)          when timber is moved within the limits of a municipality or a corporation under an invoice given by timber merchants. (ii)         All sawn timber where the smallest dimension is less than 5 cm in thickness and does not exceed 12 decimeters in length (iii)        timber removed under the concession granted. (iv)        small wood for fuel and bamboos in head loads or smaller quantities (v)         firewood purchased from depots or markets for domestic consumption if transported within municipal limits.       In the case of timber from Government lands, the permit shall be in Form-I and shall be in print. Form-I permits will be issued by the District Forest Officer concerned or any officer authorized by him.   In the case of timber from private lands, markets or depots in the district and in the case of subsequent movement of timber the permit shall be in Form II and shall be in print.   A Form-II permit shall on application be issued by the Ranger having jurisdiction on payment of prescribed fee.   A way permit in Form III is granted in exchange for each permit in Form I or Form II at the first checking station on the route by which the timber passes.   These permits shall be either in English or Tamil language.   The permit shall be valid only for the time specified in the permit by the issuing authority.   The following species of timber have been exempted from the purview of Tamil Nadu Timber Transit Rules and hence no permit is required to transport them. Botanical name Tamil name Trade name Prosopis juliflora Seemaikaruvel or Velikaruvai The Mesquite Casuarina equisetifolia Savukku Casuarina Leucaena leucocephala Savundal Subabul Borassus flabellifer Panai Palmyrah Erythrina indica Kalyana murungai Dadops Acacia planifrons Nattu Odai Umbrella thorn Acacia leucophloea Velvelan White Bark Acacia          Panicled Acacia Ailanthus excellsa Perumaram, Pinari, Pimaram Maharukh Albizzia lebbeck Vagai Maharukh, East Indian Walnut, Siris Anacardium accedentale Munthiri Cashew Anthocephalus cadamba