Kredent Academy -commodity trading - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Kredent Academy -commodity trading Home Kredent Academy -commodity trading Offers one month training program for commodity trading Vivek Bajaj The academy offers several trading, non-trading, knowledge, preparatory, and institutional & corporate courses. Mr. Vivek Bajaj, director is the chief mentor of the academy. Mr. Bajaj is an ACA; ACS; M.Com; and MBA (IIM – Indore). He has over 6 years of work experience. The trading courses offered are: Certificate in Research & Trading; Certified Professional Trader; Certified Professional Arbitrager; Certified Currency Trader; Certified Commodities Trader; Comprehensive Algorithmic Trader with Quant Insti; and Advanced Option Trader.  The non-trading coursed offered are: Certified Market Professional; Fundamental Research Analysis; and Certified Accounting & Financial Management. Certified Commodities Trader Course Kredent Academy introduced the professional course ‘Certified Commodities Trader’ in 2009. “The course was introduced in response to the students’ demand for a commodities specific course which provided a holistic view of the commodity market in India. The goal was to teach students and market participants’ commodity specific analysis and trading strategies so they could understand and make a profit from the expanding commodity market,” says Mr. Bajaj. The course is not affiliated to any university but the academy has an MOU with National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Limited (NCDEX) for NICR’s certification. Curriculum Speaking about the curriculum, Mr. Bajaj says, “The main focus of the curriculum was to provide a right blend of theoretical and applied knowledge pertaining to commodity trading. Modularized structure was framed to cover fundamental parameters like demand and supply, seasonality and global factors; economic events such as data releases and state policies; and technical for commodity price analysis and trading strategies.” The educational background of the participants ranges from management graduates to matriculates having no or little market knowledge to years of market experience. There are no specific criteria for getting into the course other than pre-requisite knowledge of basic derivatives and technical. “If the incumbent does not have a basic knowledge of derivatives and technical, they are trained in the same before taking up the commodity course,” he adds. Regarding personality traits, he says, “One needs to be market savvy, disciplined, reflexive, patient, and willing to analyze the wide spreading cause and effect relationship between the world and commodities pricing.” He suggests the course to students, arbitrageurs, traders, investors, individuals and all those who want to gain an insight into the functioning of commodity market and are keen to pursue a rewarding career in commodity trading. Mr. Bajaj maintains the response toward the course has been good. “The response has been incredible with over twenty five satisfied batches with another two in pipeline,” he says. Course Duration The course comprises 3 modules. All three modules of the course are completed in one month with another optional month for internship. The modular structure coupled with rigorous training schedule renders a rich theoretical as well as practical knowledge to the students. Discussions on money management and mock trading sessions form an integral part of the training program. Benefits Besides the theoretical aspects, the course focuses on building the mental strength and trading acumen of the students, maintains Mr. Bajaj. “Live market set up, interactions with market experts cum faculty, mock trading sessions and internship nurtures the students well enough to standout and deliver under real time market conditions,” he says. As an extension of the program, the students go through one month of full time internship providing them real time market exposure. Their trades and margins are continuously monitored on an individual basis and daily day end discussion on trade sheets are organized with market experts cum faculty. Placement Assistance The academy also offers placement assistance. Mr. Bajaj says, “We encourage self-entrepreneurship and support our students to establish themselves as commodity traders and arbitrageurs. Our own proprietary desk, Kredent Commodities, act as a catalyst in this transformation. For job-seekers, career opportunities like commodity dealers, strategists, and relationship managers, besides others are pursued with a host of market participants through our placement assistance program.” Commenting on the scope of commodity trading in Indian market in future, Mr. Bajaj says, “Since inception, Indian Commodity Market has evolved with exponential surge in volumes.  However, commodity trading has been mostly limited to large institutions, trading houses and selected individuals. Continuous innovation, education and research are required to spread awareness and explore the untapped potential of Indian Commodity Market.” Future Plans In future, the academy plans to extend the course into a six months diploma. “Also, discussions are in pipeline with various B schools and institutions to offer it as a separate specialization course,” informs Mr. Bajaj. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr.Vivek Bajaj,  Kredent Group Corporate Office : “Kredent Tower, J1/14, Sector V,  Block – EP-GP, Salt Late City, Kolkata – 700 091 Tel : +913323572520/1/2 Fax: 913323572519 Email : vivek@kredent.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Kredent Academy -commodity trading Related – articles, consultants, downloads No related posts. You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water