Meeting with NEMP's Forum The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Meeting with NEMP's Forum Meeting with NEMP's Forum Written by Administrator on 27 May 2014 . Posted in Gallery Twitter FINER’s Interactive Session with North East MP Forum at New Delhi Federation of Industry & Commerce of North Eastern Region (FINER) and North East MP Forum had a very successful Interactive Meeting of their “ JOINT SUPPORT GROUP”  at New Delhi, on 12 th  Aug,2014. Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, FINER, welcomed the august gathering and made a detailed presentation on the crucial issues pertaining to the North East Region, which needed to be addressed in right earnest. A brief on FINER and its role for the development of the North Eastern Region was presented at the meet by Ms. Indrani Chaudhury, Deputy Director General, FINER Shri P A Sangma, MP & Chairman, NE MP Forum addressed the gathering and appreciated  FINER and assured full support from the NE MPs Forum  for the good cause of Industrial and Economic Development of North East Region. Shri Sangma also desired that DoNER Ministry need to do much more than what it has been doing all these years. General (Retd) V. K Singh, Hon’ble Minister DoNER and Shri Kiran Rijiju, Hon’ble Minister of State for Home Affairs were the  Guest of Honor  for the Interactive meet. Both the Hon’ble Ministers appreciated the issues and suggestions put forward by FINER and assured their full support through their respective Ministries, for the sustainable development of the North Eastern Region. Both the Ministers mentioned that Region would see lot of development activities in the near future. Good numbers of MPs also expressed their views and congratulated FINER for providing such invaluable inputs which they would like to raise in the Parliament. The meeting was attended by almost all the Hon’ble MPs of the North East Region and Senior members of FINER and Captains of Industries & Commerce of the Region. The interactive session between the Hon’ble MPs and the representative of  Industries & Commerce of the Region  turned out to be very successful as exchange of free and frank views which took place could help the law makers to evolve appropriate development strategy for the Region. JOINT SUPPORT GROUP , a unique initiative by NE MP Forum and FINER which was formed few years back has proved to be a unique platform for exchanging of views and highlighting the crucial issues pertaining to the Region which could be taken up by our Hon’ble MPs at appropriate level. The Interactive meet ended with a Vote of Thanks by Shri Amit Kr Jain, Vice-Chairman, FINER Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Comments Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS No comments found Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Home About Finer What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com