construction of shed for goat farming AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Goat Farming - Mohsin Shaikh construction of shed for goat farming Results 1 to 2 of 2 Thread: construction of shed for goat farming LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… February 6th, 2015 #1 srinivassiddhu Join Date Feb 2015 Posts 1 construction of shed for goat farming Hello sir, I would. Like. To start a stall feeding goat farming with osmanabadi goats What is the land required for construction of shed for 100+4 goats (stall feeding)? And what is construction cost? How much land required for fodder cultivation? Please clarify my doubts sir. thank you..sir Reply With Quote February 12th, 2015 #2 smy82482 Join Date Mar 2012 Posts 2,324 Estimated cost of shed depends on type of shed whether it is elevated or ground base.Starting a goat farm with 50-100 goats is an commercial level,so in this type it is always better to built a elevated type of shed in which goats are being rested at night and are well protected from rain in rainy season,from cold in winter season and have to provide sufficient air(oxygen) in summer.In elevated type of shed,mortality(death ratio in goats and kids) will be very low as compare to ground level sheds that are built on concrete or tiles flooring. For 100 goats and their kids which are being sold at their slaughtering age, 2000 sqft,area of elevated form of shed is required to rest these goats at night and at ground level minimum of 10000 sqft for their movement outside the shed which is fenced from all four sides. For fodder cultivation 4-5 acre of land is required for 100 goats and their kids,to feed them for 365 days.Land must be fertile and with plenty of water supply,so the fodder will grow in shortest duration and can be available through out the year on cycle basis.Also land requirement depends on type of fodder that you cultivate on farm to feed the goats. For costing of shed you can email at contact@goatfarm.co.in Costing of shed cant be posted here as,there is hike in shed costing every year.If costing is posted here,the post remains here for many years,and if a reader reads it after 5-10 year,he assumes that it is the present costing of shed,as many readers wont read the date of posting.So to avoid misunderstanding of readers(farmers who want to start a new goat farm) in future,costing is not published on forums. Regards, DR.Shaikh www.goatfarm.co.in Osmanabadi Goat Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread osmanabadi goats , shed View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 07:55 PM .