General Help FAQs - ExportersIndia.com JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome My Account My Profile My Inbox My Products Sign Out Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Buy Post your Buy Requirement Search Products / Suppliers Sell Search Buy Offers Create Your Free Website Display your Products Free Manage Trade Alert Advertise Help Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Exporters India Products / Services Products / Services Companies Buy Offers Search Post Buy Requirement Home Products / Services Companies Buy Leads Trade Shows HOT REGIONS India China UK USA S. Korea Australia Singapore UAE Japan Malaysia View More Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Search ExportersIndia.com from any webpage Add our search to your browser now! No need to download or install More convenient ExportersIndia.com Help - General Home Help ExportersIndia.com Help - General ExportersIndia - Site Tour? content coming soon... Does ExportersIndia.com allow multiple accounts for a company? Yes, ExportersIndia.com allows multiple accounts for a company, with proper verification by our Risk Assessment Team. How to unsubscribe from ExportersIndia Mailing list? Please follow the link at the bottom of our email, to unsubscribe. How to delete my membership from ExportersIndia? For deleting your ExportersIndia.com Membership, please contact our Service Team for the same. If there is any specific reason for deleting your Membership, we are there to help you. How to submit feedback about a ExportersIndia Steps to follow: Click on the feedback link given at extreme right at the bottom On clicking the feedback link a form will appear on the page Fill the required fields After filling the required fields, you can submit your feedback clicking on the submit option Banned Content and Products/ Services info at ExportersIndia ExportersIndia.com keeps a thorough check on the features, products, services, and the contents that are uploaded. They should be with adherence to the ExportersIndia.com terms and regulations. We, ExportersIndia.com ensure that the contents posted on our website are appropriate for all kind of audiences across the globe. Terms that fall under banned content are mentioned below: Illegal Drugs and Narcotics Sex products Alcohol Pork related products Pornography Products advertised using provocative photos Any such product that is not appropriate for viewing or use by under-age individuals We request our members to please abstain from posting banned content, so that our website content is submissive to all universal laws. What is the difference between Business Listing and Trade Leads? Business listing: Business listings are your ranking at Exportersindia.com through which you generate more and more enquiries for your business. Business listing assists the buyers and sellers to check out the business directories of various manufacturers, suppliers, exporters, importers and traders. Your business listing will convey the nature of your business to the visitor. It also provides your contact information that provides easy access to your business. Trade leads:: Trade leads are the trade offers posted by the buyers/sellers at Exportersindia.com that helps in getting instant responses. Buy leads The buyers post their requirements under the buy leads section of Exportersindia.com for generating inquiry from sellers. You mention your specifications regarding the product you wish to purchase. At the end, you mention your contact details, so that the seller can contact you directly. Sell leads The sellers make an offer under the sell leads section at Exportersindia.com for the interested buyers regarding the products they want to sell. This will help sellers in easily selling their products and generating high quality leads. At the end, you mention your contact details, so that the buyer can contact you directly. What is the ranking of ExportersIndia in Search Engines? We rank 5/10 by Google Page Rank: Over 15 Million visitors per month. Over 50 Million page views per month. Over 10 Million buyers visit per month. Over 130,000 new members per month. Difference between Trade Alerts and Newsletter? Trade alert is a customized e-mail that is delivered to the registered member of ExportersIndia.com. It contains trade offers such as detail of product, supplier, buyer information, etc. to your email inbox. Whereas Newsletter is like a small peace of news or information distributed electronically (in this case) that contains generally one main topic that is of interest to its subscribers. The purpose of both trade alerts and newsletters is to give access of the latest trade opportunities to the registered members of ExportersIndia.com. How to get more accurate search results? For the more accurate search results apply these simple tips: Search single products at one time. Avoid specialized or too much specific keyword (such as "44" Red Carpet"). Avoid using words like "buyers" or "seller" with the keyword. Don't use a country or region's name in your search. Use Advanced Search options on the top of every page Advertising & Premium Membership Why Advertise with ExportersIndia.com? Advertising Features and Benefits more faqs >> Buying FAQs What are Buying Leads? Where do I start if I want to buy? more faqs >> Buying Methods Search Products / Offers / Companies Browse by Category ( Products / Offers / Companies ) Post Buying Leads Fraud & security How can I protect my business from fraud? How to Protect Yourself from Phishing Website? more faqs >> General FAQs ExportersIndia - Site Tour Does ExportersIndia.com allow multiple accounts for a company? more faqs >> My Account & Sign In Member Login / Sign In Help Forgot Password / E-Mail Id Help more faqs >> Other Tips & Guide How to Get more Buyers Importance of Sell Offers more faqs >> Registration & Membership Why should I register with ExportersIndia.com? How to register? more faqs >> Selling FAQs Where do I start if I want to Sell? How do I contact Buyers? more faqs >> Selling Methods Search Buy Offers / Buyers Browse by Category ( Importers ) Post your Business Listings / Products Create your own Catalog /Website » Advertising & Premium Membership » Buying FAQs » Fraud & security » General FAQs » My Account & Sign In » Other Tips & Guide » Registration & Membership » Selling FAQs General Links Home Contact Us Sitemap Help About Us Feedback Terms of Use Testimonials Advertise with Us Disclaimer Resources Email this Page Bookmark Page Make EI Home Page Trade Tool Kit Buy Offers Post Buy Requirement Post Products - FREE Services Directory Business Services Real Estate Tours & Travels Employment Services Matrimonials Services Business Directory Manufacturers Exporters Suppliers Service Providers Web Design By WeblinkIndia.NET - ISO 9001:2008 Certified © Copyright 2015. All Rights Reserved. ExportersIndia.com