Centrally Sponsored Scheme on Development of Marine Fisheries, Infrastructure and Post harvest Operations Skip to main contents | Accessibility Options | Screen Reader Access मुख्य सामग्री पर जाएं | अभिगम्यता के विकल्प Home About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Guidelines Dairy Development Fishery Fodder Large Ruminants(Bovine) Livestock Extension Livestock Insurance Livestock Health Piggery Development Poultry Small Ruminants Threatened Breeds Trade Bovine Breeding Trade Conferences Statistics Animal Husbandry Statistics Livestock Census Fisheries Poultry Reports Forms Grievances Public Grievances Contact Us Sunabeda Suratgarh Andeshnagar Breeds Chiplima breeds Dhamrod breeds Hessarghatta breeds Sunabeda breeds CHRS-centre names Suratgarh Breeds Tenders English हिन्दी में Welcome to Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries पशुपालन, डेयरी और मत्स्य पालन विभाग में आपका स्वागत है Search : खोजें : Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Home / Division / Fisheries / Centrally Sponsored Scheme on Development of Marine Fisheries, Infrastructure and Post harvest Operations Centrally Sponsored Scheme on Development of Marine Fisheries, Infrastructure and Post harvest Operations Name of the Scheme Development of Marine Fisheries, Infrastructure and Post Harvest Operations Type Centrally Sponsored Scheme Year of commencement 2002-03. The scheme was restructured by amalgamating various ongoing schemes of 9 th Plan deleting those schemes which lost their relevance and introducing new components that are felt necessary for overall development of the sector. Objectives The main objectives of the scheme are: (i) To reduce the drudgery of labour and improve productivity besides ensuring safety at sea, (ii) To support the mounting operational costs of mechanized fishing vessels of less than 20 metre length, (iii) To equip mechanized fishing vessels of less than 20 meter length with necessary safety equipment, (iv) To support the fishermen to increase fish landings from waters beyond territorial limits by introducing intermediate class of fishing vessels of about 18 meter length, (v) To develop management tools for monitoring, control and surveillance of fishing vessels in Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), (vi) To promote LPG as an alternative fuel for Out Board Motors(OBM) to encourage environment friendly fishing, (vii) Introduce scientific and participatory management systems to manage marine fisheries through development of appropriate tools and techniques in harmony with International Guidelines. (viii) To develop additional fishing harbours/fish landing centres, expand the existing fishing harbours/fish landing centres to relieve congestion and to accommodate increased requirements, (ix) Upgrade the existing fishing harbours/fish landing centres to improve hygienic conditions, (x) To develop Post Harvest infrastructure facilities with a view to augment fish production, ensuring food safety, generate more self employment opportunities for fisherwomen in fish processing & marketing, increase per capita fish consumption, improving socio-economic conditions of fishers and empowering women, (xi) To increase efficiency of existing fishing harbours/fish landing centres and eliminate navigational hazards being faced by fishing vessels. Salient features a) The scheme is intended to supplement the efforts of the State Governments & Union Territories for development of fishery sector, creation of infrastructure facilities for safe landing and berthing of fishing vessels lying along country’s coastline. b) Creation of infrastructure facilities for processing and preservation of fish quality thereby reducing post harvest losses. c) To reduce the burden of the fishermen by subsidizing the input cost on HSD. d) To increase safety of fishermen at sea among others. The scheme is largely intended to improve socio-economic conditions of primarily the marine fisher folk. Structure of the scheme The scheme has the following components and sub components. 1. Development of Marine Fisheries (a) Motorisation of Traditional Craft (b) Safety of Fishermen at Sea (c) Fishermen Development Rebate on HSD Oil (d) Introduction of Intermediate Craft of Improved Design including proto-type study of new intermediate vessel design. (e) Establishment and operation of Vessel Monitoring System (f) Promoting fuel efficient and environment friendly fishing practices (g) Management of Marine Fisheries 2. Development of Infrastructure and Post Harvest Operations (i) Establishment of Fishing Harbours and Fish Landing Centres (ii) Strengthening of Post Harvest Infrastructure (iii) Assistance for maintenance dredging of fishing harbours and fish landing centres. 3. Taking up innovative activities. Funding pattern Component (as above) Central funding pattern 1(a) 50% of the unit cost with ceiling of 30,000/OBM/IBM 1(b) 75% of the unit cost of the safety kit 1(c) 50% of sales tax relief granted by State/UT with ceiling of 3.00/litre 1(d) 10% cost of vessel with ceiling of 6 lakh/vessel. 100% for prototype testing by CIFNET. 1(e) 100% 1(f) 30% of LPG kit with ceiling of `10,000/kit 1(g) 100% 2(i) 75% to coastal States, Port Trusts and others for new minor FHs and FLCs including expansion and modernization of the existing ones, 100% for major FH to States,UTs, Port Trusts and others, 50% to private entrepreneurs for new FHs on BOT basis. 2(ii) (a)100% for Govt. undertakings, Corporations etc. (b) 75% to NGOs, Cooperatives in NE region, Fisher SHGs, SHGs of SC/STs, Fisher Cooperatives, SHGs of women. (c) 50% for NGOs, Cooperatives, SHGs other than (b) above, private companies of SC/STs and fishermen (d) 25% to Private companies/organizations other than (c) above. (e) 50% to Municipal Corporations and Marketing Boards for development of central fish markets. 2(iii) (a) 50% to Coastal States, Port Trusts and 100% to UTs for maintenance dredging at existing FHs and FLCs (b) 100% for maintenance of dredger covering insurance, dry docking, repair and upgradation of of the Dredger TSD Sindhuraj (owned by DAHD&F) 3 100% Eligibility Beneficiaries are required to submit viable proposals in accordance with provisions of the scheme and the procedure intimated through annual administrative approval.. Target Group/ Beneficiaries Fishermen and fishery entrepreneurs Area of operation Scheme is implemented in all coastal States and Union Territories. However, the component of Strengthening of Post Harvest Infrastructure is extended to inland States also. Implementing agency State Governments /UTs, State Fisheries Federations/Corporations, PRIs, CIFNET, Central Fishery Institutes, NGOs, Fishermen organisations/Societies, Port Trust, Private entrepreneurs, SHGs of Women and SC/ STs, Municipal Corporations, State Marketing Boards and Local bodies etc.. Procedure for applying Beneficiaries are required to submit viable proposals through proper channel and the procedure indicated through annual administrative approval of the scheme. BE outlay and spending year-wise 2005-06 to 2010-11 (in crores) Year 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 BE 57.50 45.00 32.00 45.00 60.00 62.80 Actual Expn 60.85 48.47 41.49 49.56 62.11   Help | Terms of Use | Site Map | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer | Hyperlinking Policy | Privacy Policy | Archives | Contact Us This website belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ©  2014 All rights reserved. Designed,Developed & Hosted by NIC