Digital Green Change Password Sign Out Skip to content Green Digital About Us and our approach Discover great videos Connect with our community Tools to catalyze change Work with us Sign in COCO - Data Management Framework COCO represents the foundation of Digital Green’s technology stack. It captures data related to the key processes of the Digital Green approach – video production, dissemination and adoption of practices – having the unique ability to accept data while offline for areas with intermittent internet connectivity. Built as a robust standalone application in the Internet browser, COCO requires no additional software installation or maintenance. Since affordable smart-phones and tablet devices are becoming increasingly common, the latest version of COCO has been developed such that it is fully functional on all modern browsers compliant with the HTML5 standard on any device - phone, tablet, laptop and desktop. Try COCO today! Click here and enter following credentials: username : guestuser password : digitalgreen Features of COCO Work online or offline Sync when online Use any device Search and sort Download data Free and open-source Analytics Dashboard Built on the COCO database, our Analytics suite of dashboards provides near real-time information on field operations, performance targets, and other metrics relevant to the organization. The system is freely available and accessible online. Visit our Analytics dashboards here . Farmerbook Farmerbook is an open-access platform which displays detailed timeline-based activities of each farmer we work with along with the villages plotted on Google Map. The application highlights the integrated nature of the practices that individual farmers adopt on their fields as well as stimulates healthy competition among partners, village facilitators, and community members through the sharing of performance data and community feedback. Use of Farmerbook also supports transparency and accountability in existing extension systems and enables the development of non-monetary incentive structures among stakeholders participating in them through mechanisms like leaderboards. Visit Farmerbook at farmerbook.digitalgreen.org . Wonder Village: Game To see how our core work in the field can connect with external audiences who could learn and engage in issues related to rural development, we have created a social game, Wonder Village, which is hosted on Facebook. Through the game, players set up a simulated village economy and have opportunities to relate with actual farmers in the field. Players are placed in a resource-constrained setting and pursue quests like setting up small farms of paddy and maize and supplying raw materials to farmers' markets. The game follows a "freemium" model, which allows users to play for free and allows users to purchase virtual currency to advance more quickly. With over 80 million users playing games on Facebook every month for an average of 15 minutes a day, Wonder Village has the potential to be an effective awareness-building and fundraising tool for the development sector. Play WonderVillage at apps.facebook.com/wondervillage/ . Follow Us Facebook 6,366 Likes Twitter 1,800 Followers You Tube 3,948 Videos Linked In 377 Followers Google Plus 112 Followers Blog Press Events Careers Donate Contact Us Site Map Coco (cc) 2013 Digital Green