Turkey Farming in India AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Consultancy Services Turkey Farming in India Results 1 to 7 of 7 Thread: Turkey Farming in India LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… December 27th, 2011 #1 nirmal farmer Join Date May 2011 Posts 5 Turkey Farming in India I want to set up Turkey Farm. Turkey farmers please inform aspects of this business. What are the requisits? How much expense for raising turkey to full size. What precautions to be taken? How is the demand? what is the selling Price per kg? Please share your experience. thanks - Nirmal Farmer Reply With Quote December 27th, 2011 #2 SWAMY1807 Join Date Nov 2011 Posts 586 Dear Member, First the following questions are un answerable. If you may get answers for these, then think of the rest. How is the demand? Little demand is from Christian community only. & said community presence is minimal comparing to other. what is the selling Price per kg? Talk in the towns was during Christmas good demand would come for small grown turkey birds. But only one bird was sold with little difficulty in Taluk Hq in South Karnataka which 100km to Bangalore. Turkey bird is very selective in taking food, it will not take every food as other birds like chicken & emu. Regards, SWAMY. Reply With Quote March 29th, 2012 #3 rajeev48 Join Date Feb 2012 Posts 33 turkey farming This is quite wrong.turkey farming is very profitable business. Currently there is scarcity of TURKEY in India. as imports have been banned.Last december it was soild at 380 per kg for live bird.Packed meat is selling at 650 per kg.So people were not able to buy TURKEY in this season due to non availability of birds. Its a hardy bird & is not affected by bird flu & other common diseases. Reply With Quote September 1st, 2012 #4 nileswar Join Date Sep 2012 Posts 7 turkey farming hallow mr rajiv, i am quite encouraged by your feedback on turkey farming. can you please give me details as to how to set up a turkey farming? i shall be thankful for your kind response. nilleswar Reply With Quote September 2nd, 2012 #5 rahulmi Join Date Sep 2012 Posts 5 Having worked in Hotel, i would say, turkey is very much in demad in restaurant industry. And with increase in the dining out habits and popularization of western cuisine, demand will only increase.. Reply With Quote 6 Days Ago #6 suvela Join Date May 2015 Posts 3 Originally Posted by rajeev48 This is quite wrong.turkey farming is very profitable business. Currently there is scarcity of TURKEY in India. as imports have been banned.Last december it was soild at 380 per kg for live bird.Packed meat is selling at 650 per kg.So people were not able to buy TURKEY in this season due to non availability of birds. Its a hardy bird & is not affected by bird flu & other common diseases. Hello.. Mr.rajeev. I got one largest turkey farm..i hope you got good market for it..can I have your contect no to for more informatoin... 08238776391..is my mob.no. Or you can msg me an sunil24josai@gmail.com Thank you Sunil josai Reply With Quote 6 Days Ago #7 suvela Join Date May 2015 Posts 3 Hi.. commercial wild turkey is for sale. for more detail call 08238776391 Or msg to sunil24josai@gmail.com Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 11:23 PM .