Abdul Gaffar Khan India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » History » Abdul Gaffar Khan   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Abdul Gaffar Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan Biography Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan is one of the tallest freedom fighter, not only in sheer physical height but also in his contributions and sacrifices. He dedicated his life for the betterment of his fellow country men and hugely inspired the Pathans of the north-west frontier to follow the Gandhian values of non-violence and non-possession. No wonder he was described as the 'Frontier Gandhi'. Abdul Gaffar Khan was born in 1890 to Khan Behram Khan of Utmanzai village, Peshwar. Despite being illiterate both of his parents were broad minded and wanted their children to get proper education. Abdul was sent to a Missionary school in Peshwar after his primary education. Abdul was selected in the British Indian Army but soon left the army after observing the ill-treatments and insults the Indians faced there. The Pathans at that time were mostly uneducated and unorganized. Moreover the British wanted them to keep them backward in order to control them easily. Abdul realized the need of the hour and opened schools for children and women. For this Abdul was jailed and brutally treated. Despite the British injustices and the threats, the schools started flourishing. After his release he published a national newspaper- 'Pakhtun' which became very popular. At this juncture, the progressive king- Amanullah came forward in his support. The British and the local Mullahs conspired to destroy these developments. In 1928, Abdul came to India and met Gandhiji and Nehruji. Impressed and inspired by the nationalistic fervour, Abdul established an organization to bring social reforms. It was called Khudai Khidmatgars and every member of the organization vowed to practice non-violence, brotherhood and serve humanity in the name of God. The British tried every possible way to destroy the movement. They attacked, they destroyed, they killed, they tortured but couldn't make the Pathans to break their vows. Khan was put to the prison again and inhumanly tortured. He did not get any support from the Muslim League but the Congress promised help, if the Pathans join the Indian Freedom Struggle. The Congress sent reports allover India, Engalnd and even in America about the sorry state of the Pathans. At last, after a long period of imprisonment, Khan was released in 1945. He passed away in 1998 and thousands of people walked in his funeral procession to pay homage to their hero. Facts and Information about Abdul Gaffar Khan Other Names Fakhr-e Afghan, Bacha Khan, Pacha Khan or Badshah Khan Born 1890 in Utmanzai, Hashtnagar, Punjab Province, British India (now in Pakistan) Died 20 January, 1988 in Peshawar, Pakistan Resting Place Jalalabad, Nangarhar, Afghanistan Father Bahram Khan Wife Meharqanda Kinankhel, Nambata Kinankhel Sons Abdul Wali Khan, Abdul Ghani Khan, Sardaro, Mehar Taja, Abdul Ali Khan Brother Dr. Khan Sahib Religion Islam Political movement Khudai Khidmatgar Organization Pakistan Socialist Party, Indian National Congress, National Awami Party About He was a spiritual as well as political leader. He opposed the British Raj in India. He is known as "Frontier Gandhi" because of his close relations with Gandhi. Join freedom movement He became a part of Haji Sahib's freedom movement in 1911. Marriage He married Meharqanda in 1912 and in 1913 their son Abdul Ghani Khan was born. Remarriage After Meharqanda he married Nambata, his first wife's cousin. Mehar Taj, their daughter, was born on 25 May 1921 and on 20 August 1922 their son Abdul Ali Khan was born. Khudai Khidmatgar He founded the political organisation Khudai Khidmatgar ("Servants of God") to oppose the British rule. The movement was also known as Surkh Posh ("Red Shirts").   In 1931 he declind the offer to accept the presidency of the party saying, "I am a simple soldier and Khudai Khidmatgar, and I only want to serve." In 1939 he left the Congress party. After the revision of the War Policy he rejoined the INC.   Related Links   Indian freedom movement Sukhdev Chittaranjan Das Shivaram Rajguru Dadabhai Naoroji Surendranath Bannerjee Jatindra Mohan Sengupta Laxmi Sehgal Jawaharlal Nehru Abdul Gafar Khan Khudiram Bose Rash Behari Bose Lala Lajpat Rai Rani Lakshmi Bai Madan Mohan Malviya Ram Singh Kuka Mahatma Gandhi Lala Hardayal Mangal Pandey Begum Hazrat Mahal Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Bipin Chandra Pal Motilal Nehru Sri Alluri Seetarama Raju Nellie Sengupta Veer Savarkar Pandit Balakrishna Sharma Subhash Chandra Bose Puspa Lata Das Bhim Sen Sachar Ram Manohar Lohia Acharya Kripalani Ram Prasad Bismil Aruna Asaf Ali Sagarmal Gopa Ashfaqulla Khan Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Bal Gangadhar Tilak Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chandra Shekhar Azad Last Updated on : August 8, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule