Madhya Pradesh Education Home » Madhya Pradesh » Education   Madhya Pradesh मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Indore Bhopal Jabalpur Gwalior Ujjain Sagar Neemuch Morena                    more... Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Madhya Pradesh Education Madhya Pradesh education system is very well developed. The over all school level education at Madhya Pradesh is classified into three groups - primary, middle and high school education. Madhya Pradesh has schools for polytechnics, industrial arts and crafts, music, etc. Moreover, there are 12 state universities. This is why over one-third of the population of Madhya Pradesh is educated. The schools located at Ujjain and Sagar are the oldest and finest in western region of India because of the quality of education. Last year the Madhya Pradesh education system had introduced various workshops and training sessions to influence those dropouts from schools and colleges to take up study once more. The Madhya Pradesh education department has also accepted the challenge of building a strong infrastructure to facilitate easy and smart learning amongst its students through the use of various modern technologies. With more and more students diverting towards Information Technology(IT) related programmes, colleges have been set up for IT related studies and IT has also been introduced into the school syllabus. The 12 state universities have been successful in contributing quality education in Madhya Pradesh. These universities are working towards developing more and more new curriculum for students to help them use their talent in the right medium. In the recent times, Madhya Pradesh education system is diverting towards and laying more stress in developing Mass Media studies, Bio-technology, IT related courses, Multimedia programmes, etc. Recently, the state government had put up a ban on the sex provided under adolescent education program because of the growing protests against the graphic and pictorial representations in the course materials. For further details on Madhya Pradesh Education, click on the following links : Schools in Madhya Pradesh Colleges in Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh University Last Updated on : 15 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule