Evaluation Documents | Asian Development Bank Jump to navigation Jump to content Asian Development Bank 中文 Careers Contacts e-Alerts Follow ADB E-mail Alerts RSS Twitter Youtube Facebook Flickr Scribd LinkedIn Toggle search Toggle navigation About ADB Organization Overview Key Facts Members Board of Governors Board of Directors President Management Departments and Offices Knowledge Management Policies and Strategies Partners Annual Meetings History FAQs Financing Operations Public Sector (Sovereign) Financing Private Sector (Nonsovereign) Financing Funds and Resources Asian Development Fund ASEAN Infrastructure Fund Investor Information [日本語] Opportunities Careers Business Opportunities Consulting Services ADB-Japan Scholarship Program Transparency Access to Information Accountability Mechanism ADB and Civil Society Anticorruption and Integrity Development Effectiveness and Results Safeguards Independent Evaluation News & Events News News Releases News Briefs Speeches Op-Eds and Opinion Articles Events Calendar of Events Multimedia Videos Photo Essays Infographics Photos ADB Experts Social Media Hub Media Contacts Subscriber Services Asian Development Blog Data & Research Data & Research Overview Economic Research Publications Statistics and Databases Featured Economic Research Initiatives Infographics Chief Economist Contacts Publications Publications Overview Browse by Type Books Reports Papers and Briefs Serials Conference Proceedings Guides Policies, Strategies, Plans Official Records Brochures and Flyers See Also Country Planning Documents Project Documents Evaluation Documents Countries Countries with Operations Afghanistan Armenia Azerbaijan Bangladesh Bhutan Cambodia China, People's Republic of [中文] Cook Islands Fiji Georgia India Indonesia [Bahasa Indonesia] Kazakhstan Kiribati   Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Malaysia Maldives Marshall Islands Micronesia, Federated States of Mongolia Myanmar Nauru Nepal Pakistan Palau Papua New Guinea Philippines   Samoa Solomon Islands Sri Lanka Tajikistan Thailand Timor-Leste Tonga Turkmenistan Tuvalu Uzbekistan Vanuatu Viet Nam Country Planning Documents Subregional Programs Brunei Darussalam-Indonesia-Malaysia-Philippines East ASEAN Growth Area (BIMP-EAGA) Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation (CAREC) Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) Indonesia-Malaysia-Thailand Growth Triangle (IMT-GT) South Asia Subregional Economic Cooperation (SASEC) Other Offices European Representative Office Japanese Representative Office [日本語] North American Representative Office Pacific Liaison and Coordination Office Pacific Subregional Office Projects Projects Overview Show Proposed Projects Show Approved Projects Project Documents Project Cycle Operations Project Results and Case Studies Using ADB Project Data Archive Advanced Search Focus Areas Agriculture and Food Security Education Energy Environment and Climate Change Finance Sector Development Gender and Development Governance and Public Management Health Information and Communications Technology Regional Cooperation and Integration Social Development and Poverty Transport Urban Development Water Toggle navigation Evaluation Documents Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Print Bookmark Browse and download evaluation documents. Advanced Search Latest Documents May 2015 Inspiring ADB's Future The Asia and Pacific region continues to grow economically, but also faces daunting challenges. Economic growth remains essential for poverty reduction in a region that is home to more than half of the world’s poor. Furthermore, there needs to be attention to growing inequalities, the reality of runaway climate change and weaknesses in governance—all three in turn threaten to block growth itself. Taken together, there needs to be greater emphasis on generating more productivity and impact, not just more investment and outputs. May 2015 Indonesia: Participatory Irrigation Sector Project ONGOING EVALUATION. This evaluation approach paper presents the proposed evaluation design for the Participatory Irrigation Sector Project (PISP). It contains background information of the country and project, evaluation objectives, methodology, process and timeframe.   May 2015 People’s Republic of China: Joint Project Performance Evaluation Report for the Sanjiang Plain Wetlands Protection Project ONGOING EVALUATION. This approach paper sets out the scope and approach of this evaluation, the requisite data sources, and the tentative resource and schedule requirements. The evaluation will be undertaken as a joint evaluation exercise with the Ministry of Finance of the People's Republic of China. May 2015 Indonesia: Country Partnership Strategy Final Review Validation This report validates the findings of the Indonesia country partnership strategy (CPS) final review. It assesses the quality of the self-evaluation and identifies lessons and recommendations to inform the new CPS. April 2015 People's Republic of China: Gansu Heihe Rural Hydropower Development Investment Program—Erlongshan Hydropower Project ONGOING EVALUATION. This approach paper presents the country, sector context, and specific issues that will be addressed in evaluating the People's Republic of China’s (PRC) Gansu Heihe Rural Hydropower Development Investment Program—Erlongshan Hydropower Project (Loan 2296), the first tranche ($22 million) of the investment program located in remote rural areas of Zhangye City (Zangye) of Gansu, a poor western province. This ADB project was approved in December 2006 and closed in April 2010.  April 2015 Response to Nepal's Earthquake: Ten Lessons from Evaluations On April 25, Nepal was hit by the worst catastrophe in almost a century. A 7.9-magnitude earthquake, followed by a series of major aftershocks, reduced parts of the Kathmandu Valley to rubble. More than 5,000 people are known to have died in this catastrophe, and that number could rise significantly as the news about the devastation in the rural areas has just to come in.  April 2015 2014 Annual Portfolio Performance Report The annual portfolio performance report (APPR) is a Management report that details the state of the sovereign and nonsovereign portfolios of the Asian Development Bank (ADB).  April 2015 2015 Annual Evaluation Review This report examines ADB’s operational performance in 2014 and follow-up to evaluation recommendations. This report focuses on urban water supply and sanitation operations in a series of sustainability analysis. March 2015 Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS): Regional Communicable Diseases Control Project ONGOING EVALUATION. This project performance evaluation report aims to assess the performance of the first phase of Asian Development Bank’s (ADB) program of grants provided to Ministries of Health in Cambodia, Lao People’s Democratic Republic and Viet Nam. March 2015 Philippines: Acquisition and Rehabilitation of the Masinloc Coal-Fired Thermal Power Plant During the 1980s and early 1990s, the Philippines’ power sector suffered major electricity supply shortages. In response to the shortages, the National Power Corporation (i) invested substantially in costly fast-track diesel and oil-fired power plants, (ii) implemented new public sector generation projects including Masinloc, and (iii) completed 27 contracts for construction of independent power plants. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 … Next Independent Evaluation Main Overview Work Program Director General Evaluation Documents Evaluation Documents by Type Ongoing Evaluations Methods and Guidelines Capacity Development Collaborations and Networks News Op-eds / Opinion Articles Videos Photo Essays Events Contacts You are here Independent Evaluation Evaluation Documents Page Top © 2015 Asian Development Bank. Sitemap Terms of Use E-mail Alerts RSS Twitter Youtube Facebook Flickr Scribd LinkedIn Asian Development Bank Headquarters: 6 ADB Avenue, Mandaluyong City 1550, Metro Manila, Philippines + 63 2 632 4444 + 63 2 636 2444 ADB Contacts Access to Information Fraud and Corruption Reporting Hotline (+ 63 2 632 5004) E-mail the Office of Anticorruption and Integrity Resources For Bond Investors Businesses and Consultants Civil Society Job Seekers Journalists Private Sector Project Investors Other ADB Sites ADB Compliance Review Panel ADB Institute (ADBI) Asia Pathways (ADBI Blog) Asia Regional Integration Center Asian Bonds Online Asian Development Blog Open Access Repository Alerts and Mobile Apps Subscriber Services Subscribe to ADB's Newsletter, e-Alerts, RSS feeds and mobile apps. ADB encourages websites and blogs to link to its web pages. Articles may be republished without alteration with the attribution statement “This article was first published by the Asian Development Bank (www.adb.org)" and a clickable link back to adb.org.