College Resources | National Academy Foundation mynaf login | community | e-news sign up | donate | contact | search ACADEMY SUPPORT HUB | QUALITY CENTER | WORK-BASED LEARNING CENTER About NAF NAF Academies For Teachers & Administrators For Students & Alumni For Business Partners Donate/Get Involved News & Events Experts Curricula Course Overviews The DelPrince Family Our History / Board / Staff / Strategic Relationships / Work at NAF / Contact NAF Statistics & Research / Our Themes / Regions / Why Choose NAF? / Starting an Academy / Year of Planning / Find a Local Academy NAF Curriculum / Professional Development / Resources / Assessments & Certification / Quality Center / Work-Based Learning Center Alumni Week 2014 / Student & Alumni Stories / College Resources / Scholarships Resources / Work-Based Learning Center / NAFTrack Donate Now / Volunteer Opportunities / Corporate and Foundation Supporters / Benefit / Other Ways to Give / Contact Us NAF In The News / Publications & E-News / Press Releases / Press Kit / Videos College Resources Your NAF education can help you get into college, and even help you get ahead.  We’re working with several universities that will give you credits for your NAF coursework.  Below are the schools we have on board.  For a full copy of the requirements, contact our curriculum department.   Georgia Institute of Technology – Atlanta, Georgia Johnson & Wales University – Locations in Rhode Island, Florida, Colorado, & North Carolina Bryant & Stratton College – Locations in New York, Ohio, Virginia, & Wisconsin DeVry University – Various locations Lee University – Cleveland, Tennessee Niagara University – Lewiston, New York Peirce College – Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Orange County Community College-Middletown, New York Erie Community College – Buffalo, New York Sullivan County Community College – Loch Sheldrake, New York Keiser University -- Fort Lauderdale, Florida                       Georgia Institute of Technology – AOE and AOIT students in good academic standing are eligible for advanced placement credits should score requirements for specific courses be met.               Johnson & Wales University —AOHT and AOF students can earn up to 13.5 quarter credits for their NAF courses. AOHT courses include Principles of Hospitality, Customer Service, and Hospitality Marketing AOF courses include Financial Services & Financial Planning, Business Economics & Business in a Global Economy, Principles of Finance, and Entrepreneurship                           Bryant & Stratton College  – NAF students can earn up to 9 credits upon enrollment and successful completion of one semester. Criteria include: Successful completion of academy and 80% average or higher in academy courses. A letter of recommendation from your academy director or site coordinator. Meet Bryant & Stratton College admission requirements. Enroll in an Associate of Occupational Studies program approved by the college.   Contact your local academy director if you wish to apply.                               DeVry University  – NAF students can earn credits for their coursework. AOIT students can earn up to 18 credits for the following classes: Computer Networking, Computer Systems, Database Design, Introduction to Programming, Principles of Information Technology, and Web Design. AOF students can earn 4 credits for their Managerial Accounting course. AOHT students can earn 4 credits for their Customer Service course.                   Lee University — AOF students can earn up to 6 credits for the Advance Finance & Business Economics and Ethics in Business & Business in a Global Economy if you: Achieve 80% or higher average in academy courses and have earned a NAF certificate. Meet Lee University admission requirements. Enroll in Lee University within 15 months of graduating your academy.                     Niagara University — AOF and AOHT students can earn up to 6 credits if you: Graduate from your academy with at least a B average. Meet Niagara University admission requirements.  Enroll in Niagara University within 15 months of graduating your academy.                     Peirce College  –  NAF students with high academic achievement will be granted automatic acceptance and will qualify for a $1,500 per year scholarship if you: Have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher.                                             Orange County Community College  – Students who successfully graduate from the Academy of Finance at Middletown High School in New York may receive up to 6 credits if you: Score 85 or higher in the internship program Enroll in one of three programs: -- A.A.S. Degree in Business – Marketing Management and Sales Get a C or better in “Principles of Marketing” to received three credits for “Introduction to Business” -- A.A.S. Degree in Business – Business Management Get a C or better in “Principles of Marketing” to received three credits for “Introduction to Business” -- A.S. Degree in Business Administration Have  a letter of recommendation from your academy director or site coordinator                       Erie Community College  – AOF students can earn up to 9 credits towards the Business Administration program for the following courses: Principles of Finance, Principles of Accounting, Financial Services, Business Economics, and Business in a Global Economy.   Candidates must have graduated and completed the AOF course(s) with a grade of 85% or better.  NAF courses must be completed within 3 years of enrollment at Erie Community College.                                   Sullivan County Community College - AOHT students can earn up to 9 credits toward the Business Administration – Tourism A.A.S. degree program if the following criteria are met: Candidates must have graduated from the AOHT program and received a NAF certificate. Received a grade of B or better in Principles of Hospitality & Tourism. Received a grade of B or better in the Internship program. Received a grade of B or better in any two NAF courses including Geography for Tourism, Hospitality Marketing, Customer Service, Sustainable Tourism, and Sports, Entertainment, and Event Planning. Have a letter of recommendation from your academy director or site coordinator Have a letter of recommendation from your internship supervisor                           Keiser University  --  AOIT   students may earn up to 9 college credits when they receive their NAF certificate. Criteria include: The NAF graduate must be accepted and enrolled in one of Keiser University’s IT degree programs NAF must provide a transcript certifying completion of the NAF Certificate, as well as resumes for each of the instructors associated with the courses the student is seeking articulation.  Contact your local academy director if you wish to apply. ShareThis For Students & Alumni Alumni Week 2014 Student & Alumni Stories College Resources Scholarships Copyright © 2012 National Academy Foundation. All Rights Reserved. Contact Us Site map Privacy Donate