Child labour - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Child labour From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Child labor ) Jump to: navigation , search A succession of laws on child labour, the so-called Factory Acts , were passed in Britain in the 19th century. Children younger than nine were not allowed to work, those aged 9–16 could work 16 hours per day per Cotton Mills Act . In 1856, the law permitted child labour past age 9, for 60 hours per week, night or day. In 1901, the permissible child labour age was raised to 12. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Early 20th century witnessed many home-based enterprises involving child labour. An example is shown above from New York, USA (1912). Part of a series on Organized labour The labour movement Timeline New Unionism Proletariat Social Movement Unionism Socialism Syndicalism Anarcho-syndicalism Labour rights Child labour Eight-hour day Collective bargaining Occupational safety and health Trade unions Trade unions by country Trade union federations International comparisons ITUC IWA WFTU Strike action Chronological list of strikes General strike Secondary action Sitdown strike Work-to-rule Labour parties Australian British Irish New Zealand Norwegian more Academic disciplines Industrial relations Labour economics Labour history Labour law v t e Child labour refers to the employment of children in any work that deprives children of their childhood, interferes with their ability to attend regular school, and that is mentally, physically, socially or morally dangerous and harmful. [ 3 ] This practice is considered exploitative by many international organisations . Legislations across the world prohibit child labour. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] These laws do not consider all work by children as child labour; exceptions include work by child artists, supervised training, certain categories of work such as those by Amish children, some forms of child work common among indigenous American children, and others. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] Child labour was employed to varying extents through most of history. Before 1940, numerous children aged 5–14 worked in Europe, the United States and various colonies of European powers. These children worked in agriculture, home-based assembly operations, factories, mining and in services such as newsies . Some worked night shifts lasting 12 hours. With the rise of household income, availability of schools and passage of child labour laws, the incidence rates of child labour fell. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] [ 11 ] In developing countries, with high poverty and poor schooling opportunities, child labour is still prevalent. In 2010, sub-saharan Africa had the highest incidence rates of child labour, with several African nations witnessing over 50 percent of children aged 5–14 working. [ 12 ] Worldwide agriculture is the largest employer of child labour. [ 13 ] Vast majority of child labour is found in rural settings and informal urban economy; children are predominantly employed by their parents, rather than factories. [ 14 ] Poverty and lack of schools are considered as the primary cause of child labour. [ 15 ] The incidence of child labour in the world decreased from 25% to 10% between 1960 and 2003, according to the World Bank . [ 16 ] Nevertheless, the total number of child labourers remains high, with UNICEF and ILO acknowledging an estimated 168 million children aged 5–17 worldwide, were involved in child labour in 2013. [ 17 ] Contents 1 History 1.1 Industrial Revolution 1.2 Victorian era 1.3 Early 1900s 1.3.1 Household enterprises 1.4 Colonial empires 1.5 Soviet Union and Russia 1.6 Other European countries 1.6.1 Switzerland 1.7 21st century 2 Causes of child labour 2.1 Primary causes 2.2 Cultural causes 2.3 Macroeconomic causes 3 Child labour laws and initiatives 3.1 Exceptions granted 3.2 More laws vs. more freedom 4 Child labour incidents 4.1 Cocoa production 4.2 Mining in Africa 4.3 Meatpacking 4.4 GAP 4.5 H&M and Zara 4.6 Silk weaving 4.7 Primark 5 Eliminating child labour 5.1 Action against Child Labour in India 5.2 Action against Child Labour in Africa 6 Statistics 6.1 Number of children involved in ILO categories of work, by age and gender in 2002 7 See also 8 Notes 9 References 10 Further reading 10.1 History 11 External links History Child labourers, Macon, Georgia , 1909 Industrial Revolution During the Industrial Revolution , children as young as four were employed in production factories with dangerous, and often fatal, working conditions. [ 18 ] Based on this understanding of the use of children as labourers, it is now considered by wealthy countries to be a human rights violation, and is outlawed, while some poorer countries may allow or tolerate child labour. Child labour can also be defined as the full-time employment of children who are under a minimum legal age. Victorian era Children going to a 12-hour night shift in the United States (1908). The Victorian era became notorious for employing young children in factories and mines and as chimney sweeps . [ 19 ] Child labour played an important role in the Industrial Revolution from its outset, often brought about by economic hardship. Charles Dickens , for example worked at the age of 12 in a blacking factory, with his family in debtor's prison . The children of the poor were expected to help towards the family budget, often working long hours in dangerous jobs for low pay, [ 20 ] earning 10–20% of an adult male's wage. In England and Scotland in 1788, two-thirds of the workers in 143 water-powered cotton mills were described as children. [ 21 ] In 19th-century Great Britain, one-third of poor families were without a breadwinner, as a result of death or abandonment, obliging many children to work from a young age. Karl Marx was an outspoken opponent of child labor, [ 22 ] saying British industries, "could but live by sucking blood, and children’s blood too," and that U.S. capital was financed by the "capitalized blood of children" [ 23 ] [ 24 ] Children working in home-based assembly operations in United States (1923). Two girls protesting child labour (by calling it child slavery) in the 1909 New York City Labor Day parade. In coal mines , children would crawl through tunnels too narrow and low for adults. [ 25 ] Children also worked as errand boys, crossing sweepers , shoe blacks, or selling matches, flowers and other cheap goods. [ 20 ] Some children undertook work as apprentices to respectable trades, such as building or as domestic servants (there were over 120,000 domestic servants in London in the mid-18th century). Working hours were long: builders worked 64 hours a week in summer and 52 in winter, while domestic servants worked 80 hour weeks. Early 1900s Arthur Rothstein , Child Labor, Cranberry Bog , 1939. Brooklyn Museum In the early 1900s, thousands of boys were employed in glass making industries. Glass making was a dangerous and tough job especially without the current technologies. The process of making glass includes intense heat to melt glass (3133 °F). When the boys are at work, they are exposed to this heat. This could cause eye trouble, lung ailments, heat exhaustion, cut, and burns. Since workers were paid by the piece, they had to work productively for hours without a break. Since furnaces had to be constantly burning, there were night shifts from 5:00 pm to 3:00 am Many factory owners preferred boys under 16 years of age. [ 26 ] Children as young as three were put to work. A high number of children also worked as prostitutes . [ 27 ] Many children (and adults) worked 16-hour days. As early as 1802 and 1819 Factory Acts were passed to regulate the working hours of workhouse children in factories and cotton mills to 12 hours per day. These acts were largely ineffective and after radical agitation, by for example the "Short Time Committees" in 1831, a Royal Commission recommended in 1833 that children aged 11–18 should work a maximum of 12 hours per day, children aged 9–11 a maximum of eight hours, and children under the age of nine were no longer permitted to work. This act however only applied to the textile industry, and further agitation led to another act in 1847 limiting both adults and children to 10-hour working days. An estimated 1.7 million children under the age of fifteen were employed in American industry by 1900. [ 28 ] In 1910, over 2 million children in the same age group were employed in the United States. [ 29 ] This included children who rolled cigarettes, [ 30 ] engaged in factory work, worked as bobbin doffers in textile mills, worked in coal mines and were employed in canneries. [ 31 ] Lewis Hine 's photographs of child labourers in the 1910s powerfully evoked the plight of working children in the American south. Hines took these photographs between 1908 and 1917 as staff photographer for the National Child Labor Committee . Household enterprises Factories and mines were not the only place where child labour was prevalent in the early 20th century. Home-based manufacturing across the United States and Europe employed children as well. [ 10 ] Governments and reformers argued that labour in factories must be regulated and the state had an obligation to provide welfare for poor. Legislation that followed had the effect of moving work out of factories into urban homes. Families and women in particular preferred it because it allowed them to generate income while taking care of household duties. Home-based manufacturing operations were active year round. Families willingly deployed their children in these income generating home enterprises. [ 32 ] In many cases, men worked from home. In France, over 58 percent of garment workers operated out of their homes; in Germany, the number of full-time home operations nearly doubled between 1882 to 1907; and in the United States, millions of families operated out of home seven days a week, year round to produce garments, shoes, artificial flowers, feathers, match boxes, toys, umbrellas and other products. Children aged 5–14 worked alongside the parents. Home-based operations and child labour in Australia, Britain, Austria and other parts of the world was common. Rural areas similarly saw families deploying their children in agriculture. In 1946, Frieda Miller - then Director of United States Department of Labour - told the International Labour Organisation that these home-based operations offered, "low wages, long hours, child labour, unhealthy and insanitary working conditions." [ 10 ] [ 33 ] [ 34 ] [ 35 ] Percentage children working in England and Wales [ 36 ] Census Year  % Boys aged 10–14 as child labour 1881 22.9 1891 26.0 1901 21.9 1911 18.3 Note : These are averages; child labour in Lancashire was 80% Source : Census of England and Wales Colonial empires Systematic use of child labour was common place in the colonies of European powers between 1650 to 1950. In Africa, colonial administrators encouraged traditional kin-ordered modes of production, that is hiring a household for work not just the adults. Millions of children worked in colonial agricultural plantations, mines and domestic service industries. [ 37 ] [ 38 ] Sophisticated schemes were promulgated where children in these colonies between the ages of 5–14 were hired as an apprentice without pay in exchange for learning a craft. A system of Pauper Apprenticeship came into practice in the 19th century where the colonial master neither needed the native parents' nor child's approval to assign a child to labour, away from parents, at a distant farm owned by a different colonial master. [ 39 ] Other schemes included 'earn-and-learn' programs where children would work and thereby learn. Britain for example passed a law, the so-called Masters and Servants Act of 1899, followed by Tax and Pass Law, to encourage child labour in colonies particularly in Africa. These laws offered the native people the legal ownership to some of the native land in exchange for making labour of wife and children available to colonial government's needs such as in farms and as picannins . Beyond laws, new taxes were imposed on colonies. One of these taxes was the Head Tax in the British and French colonial empires. The tax was imposed on everyone older than 8 years, in some colonies. To pay these taxes and cover living expenses, children in colonial households had to work. [ 40 ] [ 41 ] [ 42 ] In southeast Asian colonies, such as Hong Kong, child labour such as the Mui Tsai (妹仔), was rationalised as a cultural tradition and ignored by British authorities. [ 43 ] [ 44 ] The Dutch East India Company officials rationalised their child labour abuses with, "it is a way to save these children from a worse fate." Christian mission schools in regions stretching from Zambia to Nigeria too required work from children, and in exchange provided religious education, not secular education . [ 37 ] Elsewhere, the Canadian Dominion Statutes in form of so-called Breaches of Contract Act, stipulated jail terms for uncooperative child workers. [ 45 ] Proposals to regulate child labour began as early as 1786. [ 46 ] Soviet Union and Russia Although formally banned since 1922, child labour was widespread in the Soviet Union , mostly in the form of mandatory, unpaid work by schoolchildren on Saturdays and holidays. The students were used as a cheap, unqualified workforce on kolhoz (collective farms) as well as in industry and forestry. The practice was formally called "work education". [ 47 ] From the 1950s on, the students were also used for unpaid work at schools, where they cleaned and performed repairs. [ 48 ] This practice has continued in the Russian Federation, where up to 21 days of the summer holidays is sometimes set aside for school works. By law, this is only allowed as part of specialized occupational training and with the students' and parents' permission, but those provisions are widely ignored. [ 49 ] In 2012 there was an accident near city of Nalchik where a car killed several pupils cleaning up a highway shoulder during their "holiday work" as well as their teacher who was supervising them. [ 50 ] Out of former Soviet Union republics Uzbekistan continued and expanded the program of child labour on industrial scale to increase profits on the main source of Islam Karimov 's income, cotton harvesting. In September, when school normally starts, the classes are suspended and children are sent to cotton fields for work, where they are assigned daily quotas of 20 to 60 kg of raw cotton they have to collect. This process is repeated in spring, when collected cotton needs to be hoed and weeded. In 2006 it is estimated that 2.7 million of children were forced to work this way. [ 51 ] Other European countries Switzerland As in many other countries, child labour in Switzerland affected among the so-called Kaminfegerkinder ("chimney sweep children") and chidren working p.e. in spinning mills, factories and in agriculture in 19th-century Switzerland, [ 52 ] but also to the 1960s so-called Verdingkinder (literally: "contract children" or "indentured child laborers") were children who were taken from their parents, often due to poverty or moral reasons – usually mothers being unmarried, very poor citizens, of Gypsy – Yeniche origin, so-called Kinder der Landstrasse , [ 53 ] etc. – and sent to live with new families, often poor farmers who needed cheap labour. [ 54 ] There were even Verdingkinder auctions where children were handed over to the farmer asking the least amount of money from the authorities, thus securing cheap labour for his farm and relieving the authority from the financial burden of looking after the children. In the 1930s 20% of all agricultural labourers in the Canton of Bern were children below the age of 15. Swiss municipality guardianship authorities acted so, commonly tolerated by federal authorities, to the 1960s, not all of them of course, but usually communities affected of low taxes in some Swiss cantons [ 55 ] Swiss historian Marco Leuenberger investigated, that in 1930 there were some 35,000 indentured children, and between 1920 and 1970 more than 100,000 are believed to have been placed with families or homes. 10,000 Verdingkinder are still alive. [ 55 ] [ 56 ] Therefore, the so-called Wiedergutmachungsinitiative was started in April 2014. In April 2014 the collection of targeted at least authenticated 100,000 signatures of Swiss citizens has started, and still have to be collected to October 2015. 21st century Incidence rates for child labour worldwide in 10-14 age group, in 2003, per World Bank data. [ 57 ] The data is incomplete, as many countries do not collect or report child labour data (colored gray). The color code is as follows: yellow (<10% of children working), green (10–20%), orange (20–30%), red (30–40%) and black (>40%). Some nations such as Guinea-Bissau , Mali and Ethiopia have more than half of all children aged 5–14 at work to make ends meet. [ 58 ] An eight-year-old boy making his livelihood by showing a playful monkey in a running train in India in 2011. See also: Children's rights Child labour is still common in many parts of the world. Estimates for child labour vary. It ranges between 250 to 304 million, if children aged 5–17 involved in any economic activity are counted. If light occasional work is excluded, ILO estimates there were 153 million child labourers aged 5–14 worldwide in 2008. This is about 20 million less than ILO estimate for child labourers in 2004. Some 60 percent of the child labour was involved in agricultural activities such as farming, dairy, fisheries and forestry. Another 25 percent of child labourers were in service activities such as retail, hawking goods, restaurants, load and transfer of goods, storage, picking and recycling trash, polishing shoes, domestic help, and other services. The remaining 15 percent laboured in assembly and manufacturing in informal economy, home-based enterprises, factories, mines, packaging salt, operating machinery, and such operations. [ 59 ] [ 60 ] [ 61 ] Two out of three child workers work alongside their parents, in unpaid family work situations. Some children work as guides for tourists, sometimes combined with bringing in business for shops and restaurants. Child labour predominantly occurs in the rural areas (70%) and informal urban sector (26%). Contrary to popular beliefs, most child labourers are employed by their parents rather than in manufacturing or formal economy. Children who work for pay or in-kind compensation are usually found in rural settings, than urban centers. Less than 3 percent of child labour aged 5–14 across the world work outside their household, or away from their parents. [ 14 ] Child labour accounts for 22% of the workforce in Asia, 32% in Africa, 17% in Latin America, 1% in US, Canada, Europe and other wealthy nations. [ 62 ] The proportion of child labourers varies greatly among countries and even regions inside those countries. Africa has the highest percentage of children aged 5–17 employed as child labour, and a total of over 65 million. Asia, with its larger population, has the largest number of children employed as child labour at about 114 million. Latin America and Caribbean region has lower overall population density, but at 14 million child labourers has high incidence rates too. [ 63 ] A boy repairing a tire in Gambia . Accurate present day child labour information is difficult to obtain because of disagreements between data sources as to what constitutes child labour. In some countries, government policy contributes to this difficulty. For example, the overall extent of child labour in China is unclear due to the government categorizing child labour data as “highly secret”. [ 64 ] China has enacted regulations to prevent child labour; still, the practice of child labour is reported to be a persistent problem within China, generally in agriculture and low-skill service sectors as well as small workshops and manufacturing enterprises. [ 65 ] [ 66 ] In 2014, the U.S. Department of Labor issued a List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor where China was attributed 12 goods the majority of which were produced by both underage children and indentured laborers. [ 67 ] The report listed electronics, garments, toys and coal among other goods. Maplecroft Child Labour Index 2012 survey [ 68 ] reports 76 countries pose extreme child labour complicity risks for companies operating worldwide. The ten highest risk countries in 2012, ranked in decreasing order, were: Myanmar, North Korea, Somalia, Sudan, DR Congo, Zimbabwe, Afghanistan, Burundi, Pakistan and Ethiopia. Of the major growth economies, Maplecroft ranked Philippines 25th riskiest, India 27th, China 36th, Viet Nam 37th, Indonesia 46th, and Brazil 54th - all of them rated to involve extreme risks of child labour uncertainties, to corporations seeking to invest in developing world and import products from emerging markets. Causes of child labour Primary causes International Labour Organisation (ILO) suggests poverty is the greatest single cause behind child labour. [ 15 ] For impoverished households, income from a child's work is usually crucial for his or her own survival or for that of the household. Income from working children, even if small, may be between 25 to 40% of the household income. Other scholars such as Harsch on African child labour, and Edmonds and Pavcnik on global child labour have reached the same conclusion. [ 14 ] [ 69 ] [ 70 ] Lack of meaningful alternatives, such as affordable schools and quality education, according to ILO, [ 15 ] is another major factor driving children to harmful labour. Children work because they have nothing better to do. Many communities, particularly rural areas where between 60–70% of child labour is prevalent, do not possess adequate school facilities. Even when schools are sometimes available, they are too far away, difficult to reach, unaffordable or the quality of education is so poor that parents wonder if going to school is really worth it. [ 14 ] [ 71 ] Young girl working on a loom in Aït Benhaddou , Morocco in May 2008. Cultural causes In European history when child labour was common, as well as in contemporary child labour of modern world, certain cultural beliefs have rationalised child labour and thereby encouraged it. Some view that work is good for the character-building and skill development of children. In many cultures, particular where informal economy and small household businesses thrive, the cultu