Nepal one month after the earthquake | End Poverty in South Asia English Español Français عربي Русский 中文 EN Español Français العربية Русский 中文 Home About Data Research Learning News Projects & Operations Publications Countries Topics Home About Data Research Learning News Projects & Operations Publications Countries Topics End Poverty in South Asia Bloggers Tags Contact Choose Blog All Blogs Africa Can... All About Finance América Latina & Caribe Arab Voices and Views: Middle East and North Africa Development Impact Development in a Changing Climate Development Marketplace East Asia & Pacific on the rise Education for Global Development EduTech End Poverty in South Asia Energy Eurasian Perspectives Future Development Governance for Development Growth and Crisis Information and Communications for Development Investing in Health Jobs & Development Latin America Let's Talk Development Nasikiliza Open Data Opinions People Move People, Spaces, Deliberation Political Risk and Emerging Markets Private Sector Development Blog Prospects for Development Public Private Partnerships Sustainable Cities The Trade Post Transport for Development Voces Voices Water Youthink in English Youthink en français Youthink en español Nepal one month after the earthquake Submitted by Johannes Zutt On Sun, 05/24/2015 Tweet Widget Google Plus One Linkedin Share Button 1 Comment Kathmandu after the first earthquake It has been a month since a 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit central Nepal on April 25. What happened next?    Having experienced a real threat of death, many survivors manifested avoidance (“I don’t want to talk about it!”), hyper-vigilance (“What’s that noise? Is the ground moving?”), intrusive thoughts (“What if the next big one may come while I’m asleep …?”) -- classic stress reactions.   Many Bank staff have had many sleepless nights as the aftershocks continued, more than 250 to date above a magnitude of 4, thirty above 5, four above 6, and—just when we first thought that life was becoming normal again—a 7.3 on May 12.   That one came like the first one, in the middle of the day, but it felt like an unwelcome nighttime guest, full of foreboding.  People ran into the streets screaming, or silly giddy on realizing that they had survived another one—but even more terrified at what would come next.  More people died; more buildings collapsed.  People who had moved back into their houses moved out again.  At the World Bank country office, colleagues are constantly asking one another how they are, where they are sleeping, how they and their children are coping.   Beneath us, we now know, the Indian plain is moving inexorably northward, sliding under the Tibetan plateau at a rate of 10 to 18 mm per year. Subterranean rock is compressing as it happens, building up more energy that will need to be released in some future earthquake. When? 100 minutes from now? Or 100 years? No one knows. The uncertainty is dreadful.   The 1833 earthquake was well behaved. It knocked, twice:  two smaller earthquakes, some hours apart, got everyone out of the house at night, before the big one came. Can’t all of them be so civilized?   Well, no. No one knows when geological time will spring a surprise on human time. But we do know that earthquakes will keep surprising us in the Himalayas, as the great tectonic plates below us continue to collide.   “One day”, says Roger Bilham, a seismologist based at the University of Colorado—“one day hundreds of millions of years from now, India will have disappeared under the Tibetan plateau, and billions of people will be crowded on the Terai, some enjoying beachfront properties.”   The Indian plain sliding under the Tibetan plateau at a rate of 10 to 18 mm per year  Meanwhile, in human time, the world beyond Nepal has moved on. The international media have shifted their attention from the Nepal earthquake to a possible Grexit, Eurovision, the boat people on the Andaman Sea, the latest exploits of the Islamic State, ….   The international search and rescue teams have left Nepal, though relief efforts continue. Supplies are brought by the government, by the UN and various donors, and by armies of private volunteers. The effort is penetrating deeper and deeper into the mountains, to villages and hamlets that have not previously been reached. Trucks carry emergency supplies to the end of a perilous mountain road; motorcycles bring them some miles further on dirt trails; and then people come from the remotest places to pick them up—in huge packs—and carry them on their backs as they hike as many as ten hours more to reach their homes.    Some people are also beginning to work on reconstruction.  As the relief workers leave, the reconstruction experts arrive.  This was a disaster.  People need help to rebuild and resume their normal lives.  And small groups of international workers, who had been through similar disasters in the past, were eager to provide whatever help they could. [End part 1]   Tags: 2015 Nepal Earthquake Disasters Europe and Central Asia South Asia India Nepal Comments Seems that science and Submitted by Deepak Rijal on Wed, 05/27/2015 - 21:44 Seems that science and discovery are quite advanced on physics and biology but poor in geology. Scientists and the politics were keen to invest discovering solar system and even went to plan for settlement in another planet that is unlivable. On the contrary science & discovery seems weaker in understanding the earth and earth system where all living being exist. Science therefore must redirect on more discovery of the earth system. reply Add new comment Your name E-mail The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly. Homepage Comment * More information about text formats Plain text Allowed HTML tags: <br> <p> Lines and paragraphs break automatically. By submitting this form, you accept the Mollom privacy policy . Subscribe by email E-mail: * Enter your email below to receive email notifications when new content is posted Subscribe via RSS   RSS Featured Bloggers Saurabh Dani Senior Disaster Risk Management Specialist Sangeeta Kumari Sangeeta Kumari Alan David Lee Young Professional Ahamad Tanvirul Alam Chowdhury Ahamad Tanvirul Alam Chowdhury Sanjay Kathuria Lead Economist World Bank Websites : South Asia Afghanistan Bangladesh Bhutan India Maldives Nepal Pakistan Sri Lanka Connect on Facebook:  South Asia Bangladesh India Nepal Sri Lanka Twitter : South Asia   Over 2,000 development indicators at your fingertips. Flickr Recent comments Dear concerned authorities, 2015/05/28 We look forward to your 2015/05/28 Seems that science and 2015/05/27 “Our response to the 2015/05/27 Nice story. Good that you had 2015/05/27 more Most Popular