Packaging Trade Shows,Paper Expo,Paper Products Exhibition,Packaging & Paper Trade Fair JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Packaging & Paper Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Packaging & PaperTrade Shows Date : 17 Jun - 20 Jun 2015 ProPak Asia-Thailand -  Thailand The 23 rd International Processing, Filling and Packaging Technology Event for AsiaAsia's definitive event for international manufacturers and suppliers of machinery, technology and materials in the sectors of packaging, filling, processing,.... Venue : Bangkok International Trade & Exhibition Centre (BITEC) ,Bangkok Thailand Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 May - 06 May 2017 METPACK 2017 -  Germany International Trade Fair for Metal Packaging. The METPACK exhibition is also a forum for scientists and businessmen to share their vision for the future of the metal packaging industry. Venue : Messe Essen ,North Rhine Westphalia Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Sep - 12 Sep 2015 International Foodtec India -  India International Foodtec India is primarily organized for the food processing technology & packaging of food and beverages. International FoodTec India exhibition will swathe all aspects of marketing starting from manufacturing and processing to.... Venue : Pragati Maidan ,Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 30 Jul - 02 Aug 2015 Food Technology Show -  India The Show Brings Together The Worldwide Manufacturers And Providers Of Machinery, Materials And Services For Food, Pharma And Packaging Industry From India And Neighboring Countries. Venue : Pragati Maidan ,New Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 30 Jul - 02 Aug 2015 India Corrugated Show 2015 -  India India Corrugated Show will bring together the worldwide manufacturers and providers of machinery, materials and services for corrugated industry in India and the packaging buyers from India and neighboring countries. Venue : Pragati Maidan ,Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Sep - 11 Sep 2015 Print & Sign -  Romania Is a trade event for the Printing and Packaging industry, as well as for the Sign Making industry. Print & Sign is the key domestic printing industry event, reflecting the entire spectrum of the trade. Where a visitor-targeted multimedia.... Venue : Romexpo Exhibition Centre ,Bucharest Romania Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 11 Jun 2015 Eastpack 2015 -  United States East Pack is an opportunity to present your products and solutions live and in person to a dedicated buying audience. A premier exhibition of packaging and processing machinery, materials and associated technology in USA. Venue : Jacob K. Javits Convention Center ,New York United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Jun - 19 Jun 2015 Expo Pack Mexico -  Mexico EXPO PACK México offers exclusive access to the packaging and processing industry in Mexico and Latin America and is recognized internationally as the most comprehensive packaging and processing machinery and materials tradeshow in Latin America. Venue : Centro Banamex ,Número Mexico Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Jun - 19 Jun 2015 Procesa -  Mexico The professional packaging and processing attending collaborate in a variety of industries, which include food, beverage, pharmaceutical, personal care, graphic arts, chemistry, electronics, textiles and automotive. Venue : Centro Banamex ,Mexico DF Mexico Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Oct - 16 Oct 2015 China Paper/China Forest -  China China Paper features the newest equipment, technologies and services related to all of Asia's paper industries. The last China Paper show in Shanghai in 2014 proved once again the excellent reputation and track record of the event. More than.... Venue : Intex Shanghai ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 11 Nov - 14 Nov 2015 Interfood and Drink 2015 -  Bulgaria Interfood and Drink 2015 is is one of the leading events in the food processing industry. bulgarian and foreign producers, distributors and traders from the branch present new products, modern technologies and machines.the priority development of.... Venue : Inter Expo Center ,Sofia Bulgaria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Sep - 18 Sep 2015 SinoFoldingCarton -  China SinoFoldingCarton 2015 is Asia-Pacific's leading business platform for post-print manufacturing equipment and consumables from the folding carton industry. The exhibition highlights new developments and advanced technologies from across the.... Venue : GD Modern International Exhibition Center ,Dongguan China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Nov - 06 Nov 2015 TIM Expo Shanghai 2015 - the 13th Shanghai thermal insulation materials expo. -  China Shanghai Thermal Insulation Material and Energy-saving Technology Expo (TIM Expo Shanghai) is the most authoritative and influential trading expo in Asia-Pacific area. It attracts attentions of global thermal insulation industry. From real estate.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Oct - 29 Oct 2015 2015 10th China Exhibition on Paper, Paper Chemicals and Paper Machinery -  China As one of the most specialized exhibitions, the annual China International Exhibition on Paper-making Chemicals which is co-sponsored by the China Paper Chemical Industry Association, is becoming a key event for entering china paper market. The.... Venue : Shanghai World Expo Exhibition & Convention Center ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jun - 12 Jun 2015 Paper Vietnam 2015 -  Viet Nam Paper Vietnam 2015 is a paperchemtech, Paper Machinery and Paper Product exhibition. Venue : Saigon Exhibition and Convention Center ,Hồ Chí Minh Viet Nam Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 May - 28 May 2015 Propak Malaysia -  Malaysia Propak Malaysia is the premier exhibition of packaging and processing machinery, materials and associated technology in the Malaysian region. Propak Malaysia is your opportunity to present your products and solutions live and in person to a.... Venue : Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre (KLCC) ,Kuala Lumpur Malaysia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 19 May - 23 May 2015 Ipack Ima -  Italy IPACK-IMA is an all inclusive event that enhances some special areas such as the processing, bottling and packaging technology for the beverage industry; grain based food technology; materials and solutions for the packaging industry and.... Venue : FIERA MILANO SPA ,Milano Italy Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 May - 23 May 2015 Packaging, Depot Moldova -  Moldova, Republic of IEC "Moldexpo" invites you to take part in the 20th International Specialized Exhibition "Packaging. Depot ", carried out from 20 to 23 May 2015. For the production and marketing of packaging products is very important. It is.... Venue : I.E.C. Moldexpo ,Chisinau Moldova, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 May - 16 May 2015 PLAST-PRINT-PACK-PAPER East Africa 2015 -  Tanzania, United Republic of International Trade Show on Plastics & Polymers - Printing & Packaging Equipment & Machinery - Papers & Converters Venue : Diamond Jubilee Hall ,Dar-es-salaam Tanzania, United Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Apr - 30 Apr 2015 Asian Paper -  Indonesia Asian Paper is Asia’s leading business event in the pulp, paper and board industry that offers key professionals in the paper business an unrivalled platform to source for machinery, equipment, services and supplies, and seek new.... Venue : Jakarta International Expo (JIExpo) ,Jakarta Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Apr - 24 Apr 2015 Hispack -  Spain Hispack once again set the trends in the packaging industry, showcasing the most efficient, creative and sustainable machinery, materials and services for the packaging and POS industry, attuned to new consumer needs. Venue : Fira de Barcelona Spain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Apr - 17 Apr 2015 SinoCorrugated 2015 -  China SinoCorrugated is the world’s leading tradeshow for the global corrugated manufacturing industry. The event features the latest, most innovative corrugated equipment and consumables on the market. A sourcing platform for manufacturers of.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Center ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 11 Apr - 13 Apr 2015 Kenya Trade Show -  Kenya Kenya Trade Show 2015 is one of the international exhibition which is attracts visitors from all over east & central africa while exhibitors participate from over 20 countries. visitors from the neighboring countries.a vast range of products.... Venue : Kenyatta International Conference Centre ,Nairobi Kenya Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Apr - 03 Apr 2015 World Of Stationery -  Ukraine The 15-th Trade Fair of Stationery Goods and Office Accessories (in cooperation with the Ukrainian Association of Stationery Goods Suppliers) Venue : Exhibition Centre 'Acco International' ,Kiev Ukraine Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Mar - 25 Mar 2015 Pro2Pac 2015 -  United Kingdom Pro2Pac is the UK's only biennial processing and packaging exhibition dedicated entirely to the food & drink industry. Pro2Pac London is the new London event for food and drink manufacturers and suppliers to discover the latest innovations.... Venue : ExCeL ,XL United Kingdom Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship <