Wildlife Sanctuaries in India Home » Maps » Wildlife Sanctuaries   National Parks in India Bird Sanctuaries Tiger Reserves Wildlife Sanctuaries in India Arunanchal Pradesh Goa Himachal Pradesh Karnataka Maharashtra Orissa Sikkim Uttaranchal West bengal Andaman and Nicobar Assam Gujarat Jammu & Kashmir Kerala Manipur Punjab Tamilnadu Uttar Pradesh Andhra Pradseh Bihar Chattisgarh Haryana Jharkhand Madhya Pradesh Mizoram Rajasthan Wildlife Meghalaya Wildlife Nagaland Wildlife Tripura       Wildlife Sanctuaries in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Map of India Click here for Customized Maps View Larger Map Print Email Save   * Map showing the Wildlife sanctuaries in India. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. India's wildlife is rich and diverse. Almost 4 % of India's land is under forests. The popular animals found in India are Apes, Asiatic Lions, Monkeys, Snakes, Crocodiles, Buffaloes, Elephants, Spotted Deer, Sambar Deer, Hog Deer, Barking Deer, Swamp Deer, One-Horned Rhinoceros, Sloth Bears, Blue Bull (Neelgai), Indian Gazelle (Chinkara), Goats and Tigers. Elephants provide maximum excitement while exploring India. India is also famous for its incredible tigers and has the largest number of bird species. There are at least 500 wildlife sanctuaries in India, which attract travelers and tourists from all parts of the world. Some of the major wildlife sanctuaries are Corbett National Park, Gir Wildlife Sanctury, Kaziranga National Park in Sikkim , Periyar Wildlife Sanctuary, Neyyar Sanctuary, Blackbuck National Park, Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary and so on. There are some hotels, resorts or guesthouses to cater to the lodging needs of tourists. One can see these sanctuaries accompanied by a guide, which will be provided by the local travel agents. India is home to several fabulous wildlife sanctuaries and national parks, which makes this country a nature lover's paradise. The wildlife sanctuaries in India are home to around two thousand different species of birds, 3500 species of mammals, nearly 30000 different kinds of insects and more than 15000 varieties of plants. Travelers from all across the globe come to India to take a look at its rich wildlife and natural vegetation. There are as many as 80 national parks and over 441 wildlife sanctuaries in India, covering nearly 4.5% of the total geographical area of the country. Scattered all across the country, these sanctuaries and parks attracts the tourists with their beautiful landscapes, amazing rock formation and diverse range of flora and fauna. Most of these sanctuaries were originally private hunting grounds of the former Indian aristocratic families. Paying a visit to India's wildlife sanctuaries is something that one should not rule out when on a holiday to this country. These sanctuaries and forest reserves are home to several endangered species of animals and birds like the Asiatic Elephant, the Royal Bengal tiger, the Snow Leopard and the Siberian Crane. Many of the forest reserves and wildlife sanctuaries of India are famous for some particular specie of animals. For instance, the Kaziranga in Assam is known for the Indian Rhinoceros, while Periyar in Kerala is famous for its elephants. While embarking on a wildlife tour, travelers can pay a visit to the national parks in India. The Jim Corbett National Park, which is located in the Himalayan foothills, is the first of its kind. The Dudhwa National Park is another park made famous by its huge swamp deer population. Tiger reserves are the best places to catch a glimpse of this big cat. The Kanha National Park in Madhya Pradesh is one of the largest tiger reserves of India. The wildlife sanctuaries of India also include the bird sanctuaries, like the one at Bharatpur in Rajasthan . The different species of birds that one can find over here is truly fascinating. The Great Indian bustard, Himalayan monal pheasant, lammergiers, choughs, white-bellied sea eagle, white breasted swiftlet, fruit pigeons and griffon vultures are just some of the bird species that you can get to see here. A trip to the wildlife sanctuaries in India brings you close to nature. You can enjoy the quiet and peaceful atmosphere of these parks while walking down the trails or past the tall trees. A large number of wildlife safari tours are available which one can avail of in order to check out these wildlife sanctuaries. So, for a holiday filled with excitement make sure you check out the wildlife sanctuaries in India. You are sure to have an experience that is worth cherishing. Wildlife in North India Naturally blessed this part of India is home to the vast Himalayas and the great Gangetic Plains. Due to its favorable climatic conditions and topographical diversity North India supports a rich mix of flora and fauna. North India provides shelter to some of the finest and the rarest wildlife and wildlife sanctuaries. Some of the species unique to this part of the country are; bluesheep, Himalayan marmots, snow partridges, snow leopards, goats like ibex, Himalayan wolfs, makhor, etc. The list of most frequented wildlife sanctuaries in North India include; Corbett National Park, Ranthambore National Par and Bharatpur National Park. Wildlife in East India If you really want to see animals in their natural habitat then a trip to the wildlife sanctuaries in East India is a must for you. Unique and diverse the wildlife of East India attracts millions of tourist from different parts of the globe. Home to some of the finest endangered species like Hispid Hare, Pigmy Hog, the One-horned Rhinoceros and the Wild Buffalos the wildlife in this part of the country is very different from the rest of India. The two most important wildlife sanctuaries in East India are the Sundarbans and the Kaziranga Wildlife Sanctuary. Wildlife in South India South India is popular all across the globe for its extraordinary, unusual and varied flora and fauna. Characterized with lush greeneries South India houses a fascinating wildlife that consists of about 500 species of mammals, 1225 varieties of Birds and1600 types of reptiles. Some of the famous wildlife sanctuaries in the southern part of India include; The Periyar Wildlife Sanctuary, Bandipur Wildlife Sanctuary and the Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary. The wildlife common to South India are; Bison, Malabar Trogon, Antelopes etc. Wildlife in West India Ideal for the wildlife enthusiasts the western part of India supports a prominent part of India's wildlife. Supporting the growth of a distinct flora and fauna this part of India resides more than 40 mammals species and about 450 birds species. Blessed in terms of topography and climate West India is home to some of the most popular wildlife sanctuaries in India. There are about 300 Asiatic Lions in the Sasangir Wildlife Sanctuary which is situated in Gujarat. The other important wildlife sancturies in West India include; Dhangadhra Sanctuary the Velavadar National Park Marine National Park and Sanctuary and many more. Wildlife sanctuaries in India India is home to 88 national parks and about 450 wildlife sanctuaries. The many wildlife sanctuaries in India are blessed with a rich, diversified and unique flora and fauna. The National Parks in India showcase a variety of enchanting landscapes, uncommon birds, all kinds of shrubs, bushes, grasslands and trees and most importantly some of the finest and rarest endangered species. Be it the popular Asiatic Lion, the Royal Bengal Tiger the Flying Fox or the Nilgai you are sure to catch a glimpse of the most unique animals which are otherwise only heard off. A major attraction for tourists from all corners of the globe the wildlife sanctuaries in India are apt places for the ornithologists, wildlife photographers, researchers and simply the animal and plant lovers. In order to experience the exotic flora and fauna of the numerous wildlife sanctuaries in India you have to visit any of the few mentioned below. Jim Corbett National Park: Said to be India's most beautiful wildlife sanctuary the Jim Corbett National Park was established in 1936. Nestled in the foothills of the Himalayas in Uttarakhand this National Park is spread over an area of 1318.54 sq. km. Home to a rich ecosystem the Jim Corbett National Park consists rolling grasslands interspersed with rivers and valleys. An ideal place for bird watchers and nature lovers this national park in North India is the residing place of the endangered Bengal Tiger. Consisting of a diversified flora and fauna this sanctuary in India is home to about 500 different species of plants, 600 species of birds and a number of animals which includes , gharial, elephant, chital, sambar, wild boar , King Cobra, Indian Pangolin nilgai, muntjac, , common musk shrew, and the flying fox. Periyar Wildlife Sanctuary: Situated in the mighty Western Ghats the Periyar Wildlife Sanctuary is said to be heaven for the nature lovers. Set amidst the picturesque surroundings and vast tracts of lush greeneries of Kerala this wildlife sanctuary in South India is the adobe of some of the rarest endangered species in the country. Beautiful as it is this wildlife sanctuary offers enthralling views of nature and includes a host of wildlife attractions like Barking Deer, Dole or Indian Wild Dog, Deer, Mouse and very rarely, a Tiger. There are also a number of birds that inhabit the Periyar Wildlife Sanctuary which include Darters, Kingfishers, Cormorants and the Malabar Hornbill. Gir National Park: Spread over an area of 1412 sq km the Gir National Park lies in the Gujarat Peninsular region of India. Known to be the last habitat of the world renowned Asiatic Lion, this wildlife sanctuary in western India is every nature lovers dream. Consisting of a seamless blend of valleys, rivers, dense deciduous forests and swampy grasslands this national park is considered as one of the top wildlife habitats in the country. Mostly known for its Asiatic Lions this wildlife sanctuary is also famous for species like; Grey Musk Shrew, Flying Foe, Hare, Hedgehog, Small Indian Civet, Indian Pangolin, Ratel, Porcupine, Fox and Jackal. The peafowl is the most important bird found here. Sariska Wildlife Sanctuary: Counted as one of the most frequented wildlife sanctuaries in India the Sariska Wildlife Sanctuary is located in the Alwar district of Rajasthan. Extending over 800 sq km of vast green milieu and encompassing certain important historical monuments within the vicinity of the park this wildlife sanctuary is definitely eye candy to the nature and wildlife enthusiast. The biosphere of this wildlife sanctuary includes rocky landscapes, dry deciduous forests, and hilly cliffs. Sasrika is said to be ethereal for bird watchers with some of the rarest feathered species like Grey Partridge, white breasted Kingfisher, golden backed woodpecker and the Sand Grouse. Some of the wildlife that reside in this wildlife sanctuary are; Four-horned antelope, hyena rhesus macaque, leopard, languor and the jungle cat. Sunderbans National Park: Synonymous with wildlife and wildlife sanctuaries in India the Sunderbans National Park is the undisputed gem in the crown of the eastern part of India. It is situated in the world's largest Delta this wildlife sanctuary in India spreads over an area of 4264 square km of impenetrable mangrove forests. Bestowed with the title of a UNESCO World Heritage Site the Sunderbans in Eastern India is known to be the largest tiger reserve in the country. Idyllic for bird gazers and nature lovers the Sunderbans is home to species a multitude of species apart from the Royal Bengal Tiger like; Jungle Cat, Flying Fox, Chital, Wild boar and Pangolin. Ranthambore National Park: When talking about National Parks and wildlife sanctuaries in India the Ranthambore National Park needs a definite mention. Ranked as one of the largest and most reputed national park in North India this wildlife sanctuary is situated in Rajasthan. Said to be the once famous hunting ground of the Maharajas of Jaipur this National Park is sprawled over 1,334 sq km of terrain. Offering a gamut of flora and fauna this national park is home to species such as the sambar, hyena, sloth bear, leopard, nilgai, dhole and lots more.     Wildlife Sanctuaries Bird Sanctuaries Wildlife Tripura National Parks Wildlife Meghalaya Zoos in India Tiger Reserves Wildlife Nagaland Botanical Gardens   National Park and Sanctuaries   Arunanchal Pradesh Goa Himachal Pradesh Karnataka Maharashtra Orissa Sikkim Uttaranchal West bengal Andaman and Nicobar Assam Gujarat Jammu & Kashmir Kerala Manipur Punjab Tamilnadu Uttar Pradesh Andhra Pradseh Bihar Chattisgarh Haryana Jharkhand Madhya Pradesh Mizoram Rajasthan Last Updated on : November 7, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule