 An ode to avocados, plus some healthy avocado recipes | Blog | Best Health Search this site: Ad Tag leaderboard Advertisement Primary links Home Best Looks Beauty Hair Nails Skin Style Best You Ask your pharmacist Cold and Flu Diabetes Fitness Health Heart Health Home Remedies Mental Health Oral Health Prevention Relationships Sleep Wellness Workout Routines Best Eats Cooking Diet Digestion Healthy Eating Nutrition Recipes Smoothies Swap & Drop Contests Blog Subscribe Give a Gift Product Testers Home > Blog > An ode to avocados, plus some healthy avocado recipes An ode to avocados, plus some healthy avocado recipes Select rating Give it 1/5 Give it 2/5 Give it 3/5 Give it 4/5 Give it 5/5 Average: 4.5 ( 2 votes) I love avocados. I love them on sandwiches, I love them in salads (green or grain), I love them as soup toppers, I love them in sushi. Sliced avocado seems to make just about anything better, and guacamole... well. That just goes without saying. And while I don't typically use avocados in dessert or sweet-themed recipes, the salad pictured at left, Avocado and Mango with Yogurt, Honey and Lime , is definitely tempting me. The trouble with avocados, though, is timing. If you've ever wanted last-minute fresh avocado, you know what I mean. They're a lot less desirable when everyone who visited the grocery store that week has already squeezed them to test for ripeness. So what I try to do is pick up a green avocado or two just about every time I'm buying groceries, so there's always a steady stream of ripening avocados in my kitchen. I think one of my favourite avocado recipes, which isn't really one at all as I modified it to add the avocado, is a quinoa corn salad from the Rebar Cookbook . I don't have it on hand, but I believe the ingredients include cooked quinoa, corn kernels, chopped bell peppers, chives and green onion and a dressing of lime and lemon juice—plus I mix in a chopped avocado. It's a great summer side dish. Here are a few more of our best healthy avocado recipes for you to try: • Avocado and Chicken Club Sandwich • Avocado and Shrimp Cups • Broiled Salmon with Avocado-Mango Salsa • Smoked Trout and Pasta Salad • Avocado Carpaccio with Wild Blueberry Cottage Cheese Mix How do you like to serve avocados? Image courtesy California Avocado Commission Don't miss a single Best Health Blog post—subscribe today via RSS or email ! Posted by Kat Tancock on Thursday, July 24th, 2008 - 1:56pm [View] Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. Ad Tag bigbox Advertisement Don't miss a day of Best Health Sign up for our FREE newsletters! With Our Partners Johnson Inc. is proud to present the Best Health Nurse Excellence Awards. Click here to submit your nomination! Canadian dairy farmers work hard to produce milk of the highest quality. Click here to learn more about 100% Canadian milk! Contests So Good Contest Guess the mystery ingredients for your chance to win one of twelve weekly prizes and the grand prize trip courtesy of Club Med! Answer and you could win! Enter to win one of three (3) Prize Packs! WIN THE BEST! Enter for your chance to be 1 of 4 lucky readers to WIN an amazing prize! Best Health on Facebook Best Health on Twitter Tweets by @besthealthmag Healthy Recipe Search Select by type 20-Minute Main Dishes Beans/Rice/Grains Bread & Muffins Desserts & Drinks Eggs & Cheese Fish & Seafood Meats Pasta Poultry Sandwiches Snacks and Appetizers Soups & Salads Vegetables Vegetarian Browse all recipes nbsp; Advertise : Contact us Best Health Magazine © 2015 Reader's Digest Magazines (Canada) Ltd. Script StackAdapt footermenu About Us Customer Care Privacy Subscribe Français Reader's Digest Canada Recipes RSS Show Full Site