Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andhra Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Mosques & Shrines in Andhra Pradesh Parks in Andhra Pradesh Caves in Andhra Pradesh Churches in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Temples in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Museums in Andhra Pradesh Cities to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Travel to Srisailam Travel to Tirupati Travel to Visakhapatnam Travel to Vijayawada Travel to Hyderabad Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Srikakulam Hotels in Kurnool Hotels in Tirupati Hotels in Vijayawada Hotels in Nellore About Andhra Pradesh History Climate Home » Andhra Pradesh » Tourism &raquo Buddhist Centers Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh The early half of this century saw the discovery of art objects that brought to light many Buddhist sites in Andhra Pradesh . Random excavations resulted in mass collection of sculptures, inscribed blocks, coins, relic caskets and the like. In recent years due to planned excavations at Nagarjunakonda, Amaravati-Dharanikota, Saliohundam, Dhulikatta, Kotilingala, Cudinallam, Chandavaram and Peddavegi, we are able to assess the constituents of the early historical cultures of this geographical area. In Buddhism, places that are associated with Lord Gautam Buddha during his lifetime are considered extremely auspicious. They are the hottest destination when any Buddhist thinks of pilgrimage in India. A whole lot of Buddhist sites await to enthrall you on your visit to Andhra Pradesh which has an intrinsic charm that will bind you almost immediately. A number of Buddhist temples and monasteries are spread over the whole of the state are held in great reverence by Buddhist community. Some of these temples and monasteries have gained international fame while others are important as local tourist attractions. These centers might include small towns and cities where Buddhism has flourished. The stupas, statues and caves are sure to instill in you a spirituality that is so unique to Buddhism. The sites reveal an abundance of information and understanding about Buddhism of a bygone era. Undoubtedly, the Andhra< art style (Amaravati School of Art) finds creative expression in the Buddhist symbols that are used to depict Buddhist art and architecture in Andhra Pradesh. Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh Adurru(Dubaraju Gudi) The mound of Adurru is popularly known as the Dubaraju Gudi by the local people. Adurru is a renowned center of Buddhist interest in Andhra Pradesh and is a must visit site if you are out on a tour of Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh. It situates itself on the west bank of the Vainetaya branch of Godavari River and is around 9.5 km from the Bay of Bengal. The small village of Adurru is quiet close to Nagaram which belongs to the east Razole Taluk of East Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh. People from far off places come to Adurru for a glimpse of a bygone era. In 1953, the Archaeological Survey of India conducted excavations that brought to light, remains of stupas, chaityas and viharas. Amidst these, the focus is certainly on the Mahastupa built like a giant wheel is 17 feet in diameter with a raised platform. All the Buddhist remnants that have been dug out from here spread across an area of approximately 2.04 acres. The excavations also discovered artifacts like jars, troughs, dishes and bowls and of kaolin. Chandavaram Buddhist site Chandavaram is located on the right bank of Gundla Kamma River in the Pakasam district of Andhra Pradesh. The magnificent double-terraced stupa constructed on an elevated platform is of major attraction here. Twenty four exquisitely adorned Buddhist slabs have been discovered from the archaeological site of Chandavaram including some that are inscribed, dating back as long as 2nd BC to 2nd AD. The Chandavaram Buddhist site is perched on a hillock known as Singarayakonda. Excavations have also unearthed viharas (a domicile for Buddhist monks), votive stupas, coins dating back to the Satavahana period, inscriptions in Brahmi, pottery in red and black, and other early cultural relics that are historically enlightening. The ruins of a monastic complex which includes a Maha Chaitya with a dome 1.6 meters high and a drum 60 cms wide, a three-winged vihara and two other monasteries inspire awe in among the tourists. The establishment has an abundance of remnants of Stupas, Chaityagrihas and Vihara complexes. The Chandavaram stupa is the first of its kind in Andhra Pradesh and stands next to Sanchi Stupa, in its grace and importance. Dhulikatta Dhulikatta is located in on the right bank of Hussainimiya Vagu in Peddapalli Taluk of Karimnagar District, Andhra Pradesh. A major Buddhist site with Buddhist stupas of the Satavahana period, Dhulikatta is one of the 30 walled cities that found mention in Megasthanes' travel account, the Indica. A Buddhist stupa on a mound and the Vihara dating as old as 2nd century BC has been unearthed here. The stupa have been found with ayaka platforms, embellished drum with sculptured veneer slabs and limestone slabs. The 3 day Satavahana festival in the month of January every year attracts tourists and mass gatherings from far off places. Associated with the structures, the other relics that were excavated in Dhulikatta were gateways built of light bricks, Chatra, Buddhapada, Charmachakra Stupa, Mahastupas, residential houses, wells, bangle pieces, ivory combs, gold objects, punch-marked coins, beads, Roman and Satavahana coins and seals. Research states that forty-seven slabs were used to decorate the dome of the Stupa here. Nagarjuna Konda Nagarjuna Sagar, formerly known as Vijaypuri, lies in the Nalgonda district of Andhra Pradesh and is one of the most visited destinations in the state. The site, dating back to 3 rd century AD, was a major centre for Buddhist learning and went on to become the capital of Ikshvaku kingdom. The first excavations were made in 1926 when a number of Buddhist monuments were discovered. But the major excavation followed for seven years continuously in the 1950s during the construction of the Nandikonda Project. The remains from the submergence due to construction of the dam across the River Krishna are now preserved in the Nagarjuna Konda Buddhist Site in open air as well as in an extensive museum. The Buddhist saint Acharya Nagarjana lends his name to Nagarjuna Sagar. The excavations have brought to focus the Mahachaitya, the most sacred of the Stupas that is believed to preserve the sacred relics of Lord Buddha. Excavations have discovered the remnants of a University, Vihara, Monasteries and an "Aswamedha" sacrificial altar, as well as prehistoric tools. The serene monolithic statue of the Buddha is one of the major attractions in Nagarjuna Konda. Last Updated on 29 March 2013 Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Adoni Hotels Eluru Hotels Hyderabad Hotels Kakinada Hotels Kurnool Hotels Nellore Hotels Ongole Hotels Puttaparthy Hotels Puttaparti Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Srikakulam Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Vizianagaram Hotels Andhra Pradesh Tourism Beaches Buddhist Centres Caves Churches Hill Stations Hotels Monuments Mosques Museums Parks Shopping Temples Andhra Pradesh Handicrafts Wildlife Sanctuaries Travel Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Handicrafts Map Tourist Places in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Tirupati Vijayawada Vishakhapatnam Warangal Puttaparthi Rajahmundry How to Reach Andhra Pradesh Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table People, Culture and Festivals of Andhra Pradesh Art and Craft Fairs Festivals Performing Arts About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule