Amritsar International Airport Map Home » Amritsar » About » International Airport   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Amritsar International Airport Map Map of Amritsar International Airport Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the location of Airport in Amristar, Punajb. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. Amritsar International Airport is known by the name of Raja Sansi International Airport. Airport at Amritsar is situated between 30 42' 17'' North Latitude and 74 48' 11" East Longitude and at an elevation of 752 ft. The airport encompasses an area of 1250 acres. The distance of the Airport from the following important places are as follows: Pathankot 53 NM Gaggal 80 NM Chandigarh 120 NM Adampur 52 NM Ludhiana 78 NM Halwara 71 NM The Raja Sansi International Airport at Amritsar offers a wide array of facilities to its passengers like Duty Free Shopping, International Money Exchange, STD/ISD/PCO. Apart from these there are bookstalls where you will get Newspapers, Novels, Magazines and Periodicals of most of the publishing houses. There is a general store where you can shop for all kinds of articles like chocolates, cosmetics, stationary goods etc. The Snack Bar Counter at the airport serves tasty snacks and beverages. The airport is also equipped with X-Ray Baggage Facility for the safety of the passengers and the airport. 79-crores were invested by the Government of India to upgrade the facilities of the airport at par with other international airports. From the city centre of Amritsar city, Amritsar International Airport is situated about 11km away. Several airlines operate flights from this airport namely Turkmenistan Airlines, British Airways, Jet Airways, Air India, Uzbekistan Airlines, Indian Airline, Alliance Air and many more. These airlines connect Amritsar to some of the major cities of India and the world. Some of the overseas destination that are connected through flights are London, Toronto, Singapore and Birmingham. Last Updated on : 13 October 2011 Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Tehsil Map Railway Map About Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Travel to Amritsar Places to Visit Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule