Assam Information Home » Assam » Assam Information   Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Silchar Jorhat Haflong Nagoan Guwahati Tezpur Dispur Sibsagar                          more... असम का नक्शा Districts of Assam Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map National Parks of Assam Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Economy & Development Society Travel to Assam Places to Visit in Assam Wildlife Sanctuaries Kamakhya Temple National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Education in Assam Universities in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info       Assam Information Assam is one of the most enriched states of India. It bears the imprints of the past civilizations and stands tall on the location contours of the country. The dense forests of Assam make for a flourishing industry of wood. The tea estates of Assam are the biggest revenue generator and engage a major portion of the Assamese population. Location of Assam Assam is located on the north-eastern front of India. It is located south of the eastern Himalayas and comprises of the Brahmaputra River and the Barak River valleys. The state boasts of a fertile agricultural land and there are quaint hills in Assam that adorn the state with their majesty. Assam has a total area of 78,550 sq km. Capital Dispur is the capital of Assam and is a part of the Kamrupan District. Being a tiny place, it is an economically sufficient place of Assam and also the seat of Government of Assam. The state is divided into 27 Districts. Population The population of Assam represents a unique combination of various ethnic sects that inhabit the rich land from a very long time. The total number of people living in Assam is about 31,169,272 according to the 2011 census. The population growth in Assam is recorded at 16.93%. Language The official language of the state is Assamese which is used by almost all sections of people in Assam. However, there are some other languages too, which have found a prominent place in the land of Assam like that of Bengali, Bodo, Karbi English and Hindi. Cities The cities of Assam represent the varied and vibrant culture of the state. Equipped with all the necessary infrastructural facilities and natural scenic beauty, the cities of Assam attract several visitors who are enthralled and enchanted with the state's bewitching beauty. Most of the cities of Assam bear resemblance to the rich cultural and traditional legacy of the bygone golden era. Endowed with the bounty of nature, the cities of Assam have turned out to favorite destinations for tourists. The major and largest cities of Assam are Guwahati, Silchar, Dibrugarh and Nagaon. Last Updated on 01/29/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule