Travel to Dispur - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Home » Assam » Assam Tourism » Travel to Dispur   Travel to Assam Getting There Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure in Assam Holy Places in Assam Monuments & Museums Places to Visit in Assam     more... Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Districts of Assam Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Assam Places to Visit in Assam Wildlife Sanctuaries National Parks in Assam Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Sex Ratio Map National Parks of Assam Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Assam Economy Society Education in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info Hotels in Assam       Travel to Dispur Dispur Tourism Located in the north eastern region of India, Dispur became the capital of assam in 1973. It is located close to the outskirts of Guwahati about 10 Km from it. Though it is well known as the capital of assam, Dispur is also known for its tea auctions market. It is easily accessible from Guwahati. as is the case of assam Dispur too is on the earthquake belt. About Dispur Dispur is a well planned city with many important government buildings in it. It has a cultural centre called Shankardeva Kalashetra built in 1990. It is a city that is well known for its oil and tea resources. Despite being a small place Dispur attracts a number of tourists every year because of the following reasons. The beautiful scenic beauty The tea plantations The presence of a number of Hindu temples in the region The tribal people and their distinctive culture The Kaziranga national Park famous for its single horned rhinoceros How to Reach Dispur By Air The nearest airport is Guwahati International Airport which is at a distance of 18 km from the city. Regular flights are scheduled from here to all the major destinations of India. Taxis and bus services from the airport serve to take passengers top Dispur regularly. By Train Guwahati serves in Assam as not only as the major railways station but also as the headquarters of the North east frontier railways. There is an extensive connectivity between Guwahati with the rest of the country through different kinds of trains like mails, express and super fast trains. Dispur is easily accessible from the railway station through the regular service of auto rickshaws and taxis. By Road There are national highways that connect Dispur with other cities of India. Apart from the State transport buses of Assam government there are private owned bus services also that travel to major destinations of the north eastern region. Tourist Places in Dispur In spite of Dispur being a small place it has several such places that are popular tourist attractions. Primary among them are: Sankardeva Kalashetra Basistha Ashram Assam State Museum Botanical Garden Zoo Sualkuchi - a silk weaving place Last Updated on : 30/09/2013 Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Travel to Assam Travel to Assam Travel to Guwahati Places to visit in Assam Places to visit in Assam Places to visit in Guwahati             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule