KISSAN - Kerala   Sitemap | Contact Us | Feedback         Search | About KISSAN | Kerala @ Glance | What's New | Events | FAQs | The Team | Institutions | Home   KISSAN Portal DISCLAIMER The information on this kissan kerala portal of Department of Agriculture (www.kissankerala.net) is presented in good faith and for general information only. The information is believed to be correct as of the date presented. The information may be changed periodically without notice. IIITM-K or Department of Agriculture does not make any representation or warranty as to the completeness or accuracy of any of the information, documents or graphics presented on or through this portal. The information is supplied on the condition that the receivers of the information will make their own determination as to its suitability and accuracy. In no event will IIITM-K or Department of Agriculture be responsible for any loss whatsoever resulting from the use of or reliance upon the information or services provided on this portal. This Portal may contain other proprietary notices and copyright information, the terms of which must be observed and followed. This portal may contain links to other web sites. IIITM-K or Department of Agriculture is not responsible for the content, reliability or accuracy of those sites. Inclusion of a link in this portal does not imply our endorsement of the site. By submitting or sending any information or material, you grant to IIITM-K and Department of Agriculture an unrestricted, irrevocable license to use, reproduce, display, modify and distribute those information and material for purposes it may deem fit. IIITM-K and Department of Agriculture shall be free to use any ideas, concepts, know-how, code or techniques contained in such information for any purpose whatsoever. You are responsible for complying with the laws of the jurisdiction from which you are accessing this site and you agree that you will not access or use the information on this site which violates such laws.     Post Query for Expert Answers Crop Information GIS Based Agri Advisory Farming Practices Fertilizers & Pesticides Kerala Agri Directory Discussion Forum       Farmer Database | Applications Download | Research | Soil & Water | Related Links   KISSAN Kerala Operations Centre, IIITM-K, NILA, Techno park Campus, Thiruvananthapuram Private Policy | Disclaimer  