ANIMAL HUSBANDRY ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Central Cattle Development Organizations These organizations include the 7 Central Cattle Breeding Farms, the Central Frozen Semen Production and Training Institute, Hessarghatta and the 4 Central Herd Registration Units, which have been established by the Department in different regions of the country for production of genetically superior breed of bull calves, good quality frozen semen and identification of location of superior germplasms of cattle and buffaloes, to meet the requirement of bulls and frozen semen doses in different parts of the country. Central Cattle Breeding Farms (CCBF) The Central Cattle Breeding Farms located at Suratgarh ( Rajasthan), Chiplima and Sunabeda (Orissa), Dhamrod (Gujarat), Hessarghatta (Karnataka), Alamadhi (Tamil Nadu) and Andeshnagar (U.P). are maintaining bull mothers of important cattle and buffalo breeds which include Tharparkar, Red Sindhi, Jersey, Holstein Friesian, Crossbred (HF x Tharparkar, Jersey x Red Sindhi), Surti and Murrah. The farms produce bull calves from these bull mothers and supply high pedigree bull calves and bulls to the State Governments and other breeding organisations for production of frozen semen. The farms located at Sunabeda, Suratgarh and Andeshnagar also have the facilities for production of frozen semen. The Central Cattle Breeding Farm, Alamadhi has been associated with Associated Herd Progeny Testing Programme of the Central Institute for Research on Buffaloes, Hissar. The buffaloes available at the farm are used for test mating of Murrah bulls and semen of proven/ high pedigree bulls is used for further genetic improvement. The Central Cattle Breeding farms follow the fodder cropping programme as recommended by Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi and also produce fodder seeds for distribution under Central Minikit Testing Programme under which free fodder seed minikits are provided to farmers. The farms provide breeding facilities to the cows and buffaloes of the nearby villages free of cost and also conduct training of farmers in dairy farming under Animal Husbandry Extension Programme. During 2004-05, the farms have produced 297 bull calves (till Feb 2005) and trained 1114 personnel in the management of bull mother farms. Central Frozen Semen Production and Training Institute, Hessarghatta This is a premier Institute producing frozen semen doses of indigenous exotic and cross breed cattle bulls and Murrah buffalo bulls for use in artificial insemination. The institute also provides training in frozen semen technology to technical officers of the State Governments and acts as a centre for testing the indigenously manufactured frozen semen and AI equipment. The institute has acquired proficiency in Embryo Transfer Technology sponsored by the Department of Biotechnology from 1987-88 to 1991-92. The Institute conducts the following four training programmes: 1. Frozen Semen Processing technology (3 weeks) 2. Management of field AI Programme and Infertility (2 weeks) 3. Laboratory techniques for evaluation and quality control of frozen semen (2 weeks) 4. Andrological aspects of bull breeding soundness (3 weeks) During the year 2004-05 (till Feb 2005) the Institute produced 11.5 lakh doses. 19 Cows were impregnated with embryo transfer and 151 professionals were trained.