ORS TMV - Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute Search this site Home Home About us Units Agronomy Plant Breeding and Genetics Agrl. Entomology Plant Pathology Technology Developed Faculty Publication Region II Station Cauvery Delta Zone TRRI ADT SWMRI SRS SIR CRS VPT ARS PKT NPRC North Eastern Zone ARS VIR CEM TVM SRS MLT SRS CUD RRS TIR RRS VRI ORS TMV Important Links What is New Contact us & How to Reach ORS TMV OILSEEDS RESEARCH STATION, TINDIVANAM GENESIS v  Pioneer research station in Tamil Nadu exclusively for oilseeds. v  Started as Agricultural Research Station in 1935. v  Upgraded as Regional Research Station in 1962. v  Renamed as Oilseeds Research Station (ORS) and brought under Tamil Nadu Agricultural University in 1981. v  C. Subramaniam Institute of Agriculture for Diploma programme was started during 2004.  CROP VARIETY/HYBRID GROUNDNUT 13 VARIETIES SESAME 7 VARIETIES CASTOR 6 VARIETIES 1 HYBRID BLACKGRAM 1 VARIETY MOTH BEAN 1 VARIETY Mandate       To evolve groundnut, sesame and castor varieties with desirable attributes viz., short duration, high yield, high oil content, drought tolerance, fresh seed dormancy, resistance to major insect pests and diseases etc., v    To develop crop management technologies for the released varieties. v   To identify the best crop rotation and inter crop suited for the zone. v   To develop improved weed management practices. v   To screen cultures and genotypes so as to identify resistant types. v   To produce nucleus and breeder seeds of improved groundnut, sesame, castor, black gram and moth-bean varieties. v   To monitor the groundnut breeder seed programme at State Oilseeds Farm, Musaravakkam. v   To determine the effects of continuous application of single and combined application of Organic and Inorganic fertilizers on the nutrients availability of soils v   To find out suitable micronutrients and bio-fertilizers for augmenting the yield. v   To evolve integrated insect pests and diseases management practices. To test the efficacy of bio-products and new chemical formulations against insect pests and diseases . Location Oilseeds Research Station, Tindivanam is located in Villupuram district and North Eastern zone of Tamil Nadu on the Tindivanam – Pondicherry National Highway. This station is situated two Km away from Tindivanam Town. This station is nearest to Erayanur Village .  Agro-Cimate of the station Extent : 44.75 hectares Relative humidity : 83-86% Latitude : 12.5  N Maximum Temperature : 33-42  o C Longitude : 79.5  E Minimum Temperature : 20  o C Altitude : + 45.6 m Soil : Sandy Loam Average Rainfall : 1158 mm pH : 7 to 7.5 S.W.Monsoon : 312 mm Irrigation  Open wells   :   08 N.E. Monsoon : 846 mm  Bore wells : 01   Technologies developed     Technologies developed     29 high yielding pest, disease and drought tolerant varieties have been released ( Thirteen in groundnut; Seven in sesame Seven in castor and Two in pulse crop). v Nine tyned tractor drawn TNAU seed drill for groundnut sowing was successfully demonstrated v Intercropping systems of highly profitable were developed. 1:6 Black gram – Groundnut; 1:6 Castor – Groundnut; 1:4 pearl millet – Groundnut. v Dual spraying of Glyphosate 1% (post-emergence) 15 days prior to sowing followed by pre-emergence application of metolachlor 2 1 kg ai/ha on third day after sowing controlled weeds efficiently. v Summer ploughing followed by glyphosate spray effectively controlled Haryali (Cyperus rotundus) weed . v Groundnut seed hardening with calcium chloride 0.5 per cent induced drought tolerance and increased the yield. v Application of dried sugarcane trash @ 5 t/ha as mulch increased the yield of groundnut and castor. v A manorial schedule of 10:10:45 NPK kg/ha with 6.25 M.T. of farm yard manure has been developed for rainfed groundnut. For irrigated groundnut, the schedule was fixed as 25.50.75 N.P.K. kg/ha. v Application of gypsum at 200 kg/ha as basal and 200 kg/ha as top dressing at45 th day increased the groundnut yield. v Application of nutrient spray containing a mixture of diammonium phosphate 2.5 kg, ammonium sulphate 1.0 kg, borax 500 g and planofix 400 ml. per ha or groundnut rich @ 2 kg per ha at 25 th and 35 th day after sowing increased groundnut yield. v Enriched farm yard manure @ 750 kg/ha is recommended in the case of non availability of bulky farm yard manure. v Ten per cent infested leaflets was found to be the economic threshold level for groundnut leaf miner (GLM). v Intercropping castor with groundnut in 1:6 or 1:10 ratio reduced Spodoptera incidence. v Intercropping pearl millet with groundnut at 1:4 ratio reduced GLM incidence. v Spraying of Carbendazim 50 WP 250 g/ha plus Mancozeb 1000 g/ha was effective in reducing rust and late leaf spot of groundnut . Professor and Head,  Dr. R. Vaidyanathan, Ph.D.,   Faculty                Name                             :  Dr.R. VAIDYANATHAN, Ph.D., Designation                   :  Professor and Head Field of specialization  : Agronomy (Weed Management) Phone No.                     :  9442472103 Mail ID                           :  profvaidy@yahoo.co.in             Name                             :  Dr.G.V. RAMASUBRAMNIAN, Ph.D., Designation                   :  Professor (Agrl. Entomology) Field of specialization  : Integrated Pest Management Phone No.                     :  9444737858 Mail ID                           :  gvrams1958@gmail.com             Name                             :  Dr.SANGEETHA PANICKER, Ph.D., Designation                   :  Professor (Plant Pathology) Field of specialization  : Bio Control Phone No.                     :  9940871944 Mail ID                           :  sangeetha_murali@hotmail.com             Name                             :  Dr.K.M.S. ANANDAN, Ph.D., Designation                   :  Professor and Head Field of specialization  : Soil Fertility Phone No.                     :  9940420657 Mail ID