Kerala Map Home » Maps » Kerala Map   Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Districts in Kerala Kerala Road Map Railway Map Rivers in Kerala Tehsils in Kerala Regions in Kerala Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Forests in Kerala केरल का नक्शा Cities in Kerala Kochi Thiruvananthapuram Ernakulam Munnar Thrissur Travel to Kerala Places to visit in Kerala Backwaters Map Beaches in Kerala Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Kerala Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya Pilgrimage Destinations Map About Kerala How to Reach Kerala History of Kerala Geography of Kerala Weather in Kerala Economy of Kerala Industries in Kerala Kerala Government Kerala Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Hotels in Kerala Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Kumarakom Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Trivandrum Hotels in Thiruvananthapuram Hotels in Guruvayur Hotels in Thekkady Hotels in Wayanad Kerala Ayurveda Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Utilities Distance Chart Kerala Pin code Kerala STD code Education in Kerala Universities in Kerala Karten von Kerala Ubersichtskarte von Kerala       Kerala Map केरल का नक्शा Map of Kerala Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Kerala Map showing major roads, railways, rivers, national highways, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Kerala Location Map Kerala District Map Kerala City Map Kerala Tehsil Map         Kerala Road Map Kerala Physical Map Kerala Railway Map Kerala Travel Map Geographically located in the Southwest region of India, Kerala was established on November 1, 1956. Many Malayalam speaking regions were merged together to form this beautiful state that is spread across an area of 38,386 square kilometers. Situated in the extreme of Southwest peninsula of India, this place lies between the Western Ghats on the east and Arabian Sea on the west. The varied demography, different traditions and culture and distinct situation have made it one of the most attractive tourist destinations in India. Fondly known as 'God's Own Country', it is considered as one of the paradises of the world. The state has 14 districts which are further divided into 21 Revenue divisions, Taluks and Revenue Villages. Few of the districts were renamed in the year 1990, such as Thiruvananthapuram (earlier known as Trivandrum). Thiruvananthapuram is the capital of the state, while other important cities include Kannur, Kozhikode, Thrissur, Kolam, etc. Kerala can be accessed through different modes of transports. It is easily reachable through roads, railways and air. The western coast of the state is mostly approachable through national highways and the eastern coast is accessible through state highways. The railway network is spread across the entire state connecting almost every major city and town. There are three major international airports which make Kerala well connected to all the major cities and states in India. Kerala has emerged as one of the most popular tourist places in India. The natural beauty in the form of beaches, mountain ranges, wildlife, backwaters and lush green areas offer a splendid view to the visitors. There are many places to be visited here. The cities and the places in Kerala have significance of their own. Thiruvananthapuram is the capital of the state, where tradition and modernity coexists. Beautiful beaches, monuments and museums, intricately carved temples, art galleries and the greenery makes the city more attractive for the tourists. As the state is blessed by nature, it has something to offer to everyone. Kochi, earlier known as Cochin, is popularly known as 'Queen of the Arabian Sea' and is also called 'Gateway to Kerala'. Beaches, museums and islands are greatest tourist attractions. The boat ride and the live Kathakali performances impress and draw the visitors. A small town and a hill station, Munnar is located in the Southwest of Kerala. Tea plantations, waterfalls, holiday facilities make it a famous resort town. National parks and wildlife are also not to be missed. Activities such as rock climbing, bicycle riding and boating gives the visitors another reason to love this place. The Backwaters of Kerala are other important tourist destinations in the state. They are made up of the interconnected rivers, lakes and canals which merge into Arabian Sea. Houseboat or Kettuvallam rides and the boat races during festivals are alluring for the tourists. Kerala has much more to offer to its visitors. The magical festivals, splendid art forms, exotic cuisines, ayurvedic health vacations give a unique experience to the tourists in the state. Kerala State Information Capital Thiruvananthapuram Date of formation 1. Nov. 1956 Governor P. Sathasivam Chief Minister Oommen Chandy Tourist attractions Kovalam, Wayanad, Kannur, Thekkady, Kasargodu, Moonnar, Kumarakom, Alappuzha Festivals Snake Boat Races, Chinakathoor, Dharani Dance Festival Major dance and music forms Mohiniyattam, Kathakali, Kalaripayattu Arts and crafts Kalamezhuthu paintings; Murals in temples using 'pure' colours such as white, red, black, green and ochre; Bell metal idols, lamps etc. Languages Malayalam Size 38,863 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 33,406,061 Rivers Periyar, Bharathapuzha Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Periyar NP, Wayanad NP, Silent Valley NP State animal Elephant State bird Great Indian hornbill State flower Kanikonna or Indian laburnum or amaltas State tree Coconut Major crops Coconut, rubber, coffee Factoids Edakkal caves in Arnbukutty Moun am have petroglyphs or rock carvings and are believed to have been made by Neolithic men. Believed to be the oldest of all martial art forms, Kalaripayattu gets its name from lalari' or school and 'payattu' or practice. No. of District 14 Blogs about Kerala Theyyam : A Ritual Art Form of North Kerala :   My thirst for adventure, food and culture took me to Kerala where I spent more than nine months. I explored the coffee plantations, tasted finger-licking food and witnessed one my favourite dance forms – Theyyam. Each region of Kerala has its own unique dance form and I could spend a lifetime knowing about all of them. After spending few months to understand 'Theyyam', I realised that this art form runs really deep. North Kerala… read more... Five Places for Family Vacations in India : Planning a family vacation is a bigger task than planning a solo trip. A lot many things need to be kept in mind while choosing the right kind of destination according to each and every member of the family. Bigger the family, wider the choices! Family holidays play a major role in maintaining family ties in this super-hectic city life. A vacation is the time when you can give all your attention and love to… read more... Best places for photography in India : Beautiful are those places which turn an amateur onlooker into a dexterous photographer! The priceless beauty of certain places urges you to capture their essence in a picture. Fortunately, India is rich with many such awe-inspiring muses which when clicked come out as mesmerizing art pieces. Technology has made everything so convenient that one can actually capture a moment in the blink of an eye and relish it for ever. The growing trend of selfies… read more... Ten Most Popular Shooting Locations of Bollywood : The Indian film industry has its audience spread all across the globe. Thousands of films make it up to the silver screen every year and the size of audience watching these films is just infinite. Bollywood is, therefore, one of the best mediums for promoting tourism in India. The stupendous topography of India makes it a charismatic location for shooting films. There are a lot many picturesque locations in India and films play a major… read more... The Magical Dhoni Waterfalls in Kerala : Location: Palakkad, Kerala Waterfalls are one of the most beautiful gifts of nature and India has been lucky enough to receive them in abundance. Our country is a proud host to some of the most breath-taking waterfalls in the world. The spectacular beauty of each one of them casts a magical spell on the onlookers blessing them with a divine experience. Speaking about the waterfalls, the first name that strikes the mind is that of… read more... Last Updated on : December 12, 2014 Kerala Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map Regions Map Kozhikode Monorail Map District Map Rail Map Road Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala About Kerala History Geography Weather Rivers and Lakes Languages Festivals Onam Culture Art Spices Economy Hotels in Kerala Alleppey Hotels Angamaly Hotels Changanacherry Hotels Guruvayur Hotels Idukki Hotels Kannur Hotels Kasaragod Hotels Kochi Hotels Kollam Hotels Kottayam Hotels Kozhikode Hotels Kumarakom Hotels Malappuram Hotels Munnar Hotels Nilambur Hotels Palakkad Hotels Palghat Hotels Punalur Hotels Sultan Battery Hotels Thalassery Hotels Thekkady Hotels Thiruvananthapuram Hotels Thrissur Hotels Trivandrum Hotels Varkala Hotels Wayanad Hotels Travel to Kerala Travel to Alleppey Travel to Kumarakom Travel to Kannur Travel to Kozhikode Travel to Mallapuram Kerala Backwaters Beaches in Kerala Travel to Palakkad Travel to Pathanamthitta Travel to Thekkady Travel to Wayanad Travel to Kochi Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Kerala Travel to Kovalam Travel to Munnar Travel to Trivandrum Travel to Varkala Travel to Thrissur Pilgrimage Destinations Map Places to Visit in Kerala Places to visit in Alleppey Places to visit in Kochi Places to visit in Kovalam Places to visit in Kozhikode Places to visit in Kumarakoram Places to visit in Munnar Places to visit in Thekkady Places to visit in Thrissur Places to visit in Trivandrum Places to visit in Varkala