Monitoring and Evaluation of Watershed Projects SiteMap | Login | |  |  |  |  Marathi Hindi English Monitoring & Evaluation System For Watershed Projects (v 3.5)     Watershed Codes MicroWatershed List SchemeWatershedList GIS Watershed List                                                                                Image Gallery Archives     Central Governement Schemes NWDPRA -National Watershed Development Programme .... Read More...... RVP - River Valley Programme ...Read more...... IWMP- Integrated Watershed Development Programme Programme read More...... RKVY- Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojna -- Read more......   State Government Schemes Gatiman -Ekatmik Watershed Development Programme ...Read more...... Adarsh gaon -Adarsh Gaon Watershed Development Programme .. Read more...... RIDF - Read more...... CheckDam - Readmore...... JalBhumiSandaran - Read more...... Padkai Vikas Programme - Read more...... Panlot Chalval - Read more......   Evaluation   FarmPond Impact Study- Part 1 FarmPond Impact Study- Part 2      Watershed Importance The rain-fed agriculture contributes 58 per cent to world’s food basket from 80 percent agriculture lands . As a consequence of global population increase, water for food production is becoming an increasingly scarce resource,and the situation is further aggravated by climate change . The rain-fed areas are the hotspots of poverty, malnutrition, food insecurity, prone to severe land degradation, water security and poor social and institutional infrastructure.atershed development program is,therefore, considered as an efective tool for addressing many of these problems and recognized as potential engine for agriculture growth and development in fragile and marginal rain-fed areas. Management of natural resources at watershed scale produces multiple production, improving livelihoods, protecting environment, addressing gender and equity issues along with biodiversity concerns.   Watershed Components   The components of watershed development programme include; (i) soil and land management (ii) water management (iii) crop management (iv) afforestation (v) pasture or fodder development (vi) livestock management (vii) rural energy management (viii) other farm and non-farm activities (ix) and development of community skills and resources. All these components are interdependent and interactive.   Untitled Page   Latest Updates,News and Contents Title Date Select Contunous Countour Trenches CCT 25/11/2014 Select Vegetative Filter Strip in place of diversion drain 25/11/2014 Select Vegetative Contour Hedges with furrows 25/11/2014 Select Gully Control Measures 25/11/2014 Select Pasture Development 25/11/2014 Select Tree Plantation along with Nala bank 25/11/2014 Select Contour Vegetative Hedges 4 percent slope 25/11/2014 Select Contour Vegetative Hedghes supported by trenches 4 to 8 per slope 25/11/2014 Select Repairing of Existing conservation measures 25/11/2014 Select Contour Dead Furrows 25/11/2014 Select Contour Cultivation 25/11/2014 Select Soil and Water conservation Treatments 25/11/2014 Select Farm Pond Impact Assessment Study in 12 districts of Nashik,Pune,Kolhapur and Aurangabad divisions 1/12/2014                                 |   | |    |  | Web Information Manager  |   About us  |  Contact us  | Feedback   Disclaimer: The content of this website is owned by the Directorate of Soil Conservation and Watershed Management, Department of Agriculture, Maharashtra State and they may be contacted for any further information or suggestion. Neither National Informatics Centre, NIC and nor Directorate of Soil Conservation and Watershed Management, Department of Agriculture, Maharashtra State is responsible for any inadvertent error that may have crept in Display of Data on Net. Information available on site is for internal use of department and it cannot be used for any legal purpose and, requires concern office authentication. NIC and Directorate of Soil Conservation and Watershed Management, Department of Agriculture, Maharashtra State hereby disclaim any responsibility in Display of Data on Net. Important Notice: Site generated reports are based on online data entry done by staff, and have to be certified by concern office for validity and authenticity. This portal is designed by National Informatics Centre (NIC) for Directorate of Soil Conservation and Watershed Management , Department of Agriculture, Maharashtra State , Best viewed with 1024 * 768 Screen Resolution. Copyright © 2012 NIC.