Campus Life JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Campus Life Campus Life IICPT CAMPUS LIFE   Our campus has sophisticated boarding facilities separately for boys and girls. Reading rooms, recreation area, in-door and out-door games with state of the art amenities are provided for students to spend their leisure time. Living experience in IICPT is a mix of fun and learning. Campus Lifestyle... It's a diverse community of students at IICPT, and the activities on offer are as diverse and varied too. From entertainment to extra-curricular or even religious pursuits, there's never a dull moment on campus. Student Affairs From extracurricular programs to cultural performances, forums, and clubs, there’s a wide range of activities at IICPT. Students are encouraged to engage themselves in various cultural and literary activities after the academic classes. Counselors are available to guide students and share personal issues and problems. Arts & Culture Looking Beyond Academics... It's our firm belief at IICPT, that to enhance the skills of our students, they must be provided with opportunities to explore their creativity. Cultural programs are organized several times during the year to encourage creative pursuits and nurture talent. Students form teams and share responsibility in organizing the events. Hostel Life IICPT has separate hostels for men and women with well furnished rooms and  equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, reading rooms, television and music rooms.  The hostel messes provide nutritionally balanced, wholesome and tasty food. Hostel life at IICPT is a mixture of fun and learning.  For the sake of recreation games like carom board, badminton, foot ball and cricket are available. Sporting Excellence IICPT has excellent sports and recreation facilities on campus, with dedicated facilities for table tennis, volley ball, foot and ball badminton. Students participate regularly in Inter Collegiate, Inter University and State Level Tournaments and have won laurels for IICPT. No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com