Accreditation | Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering University Home About OSU Academics Faculty and Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Growing Oklahoma Search... Division Home Calendar Campus Map OSU Quicklinks Local Weather Menu           Division Home People Faculty (All) Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Resources CEAT Giving Page DASNR Giving Page CASNR Alumni Page OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation Hire OSU Grads BAE Newsletters OSU Job Search Employment Opportunities Student Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Degree Options Degree Sheets and Flowcharts Recruitment and Application Process Scholarships and Financial Aid Senior Design Projects Study Abroad Student Projects Student Links Graduate Student Welcome Graduate Programs Biomechanical Systems Bioprocessing and Biotechnology Environment and Natural Resrouces Food Processing BAE Graduate School Application Process Assistantships BAE Graduate Courses BAE Research Labs Graduate Student Links Accreditation Research BAE Research Labs Advanced Technology Research Center BioEnergy BioEnvironmental BioTechnology BioPhysical Properties Bioprocessing Lab Environmental Preperation FAPC Ground Water Machine Testing Machine Vision Research Shop Sensors Lab SPREC Welding and Engines class Wind Tunnel BAE Research Shop Bio Products and Energy Hydraulic Engineering OK-FIRE EPSCoR Extension Extension News Agriculture Machinery Systems AgWeather Applications Engineers BAE Fact Sheet Biobased Products and Energy Center OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Stored Products Research and Education Center (SPREC) Stormwater and Low Impact Development SUNUP Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Program News and Events News Events BAE Newsletters Publications and Outreach Impact Statements – April 2014 Archive Links Professional organizations American Society of Agriculturaland Biological Engineers North American Benthological Society American Society of Civil Engineers Energy Management Institute American Meteorological Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Automotive Engineers Collegiate organizations Alpha Epsilon ASABE student club ASABE Facebook page Cowboy Motorsports BAE Sites AGMACH$ Agricultural Machinery Systems Agweather BAE Extension fact sheets BAE Labs OSU Biobased Products and Energy Center Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit OK EPSCoR BREOI Oklahoma Mesonet OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Poultry Waste Management Stormwater and Low Impact Development Sun Grant Initiative – South Central Region Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Programs DASNR Sites DASNR OCES county office directory Robert M. KerrFood & Agricultural Products Center SUNUP CEAT OSU Sites OSU Home Hire OSU Grads News OSU Athletics Stillwater Resrouces Oklahoma Resources Oklahoma Departmentof Agriculture, Food, and Forestry Oklahoma Bioenergy Center Oklahoma Departmentof Environmental Quality Federal Resources Agriculture Research Service ARSGrazinglands Research Laboratory ARS, Conservationand Production Laboratory USDA U.S. Departmentof Energy – Bioenergy U.S. National Science Foundation U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency, Region 6 Other Resources Worldwide Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Directory The Environmental Working Group Microsoft Research Maps (formerly Microsoft Terra Server – satellite photos) Ground Water Protection Council, GWPC Center for Advanced Spatial Technologies, CAST Contact Us BAE Links BAE Home About BAE Archive People Undergraduate Resources Graduate Students Resources Research Extension News and Events Links and Resources Alumni Resources Contact Us Accreditation The Bachelor of Science degree in Biosystems Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,  http://www.abet.org , under criteria for biological engineering and similarly named programs. Current enrollment – 119 students Recent Graduating Classes: Fall 2012 – 3 students Spring 2013 – 28 students Summer 2013 – 9 students Fall 2013 – 5 students Educational Objectives Provide the comprehensive education necessary to prepare students for successful, productive, and rewarding careers in engineering for agricultural, food, and/or biological systems. We expect graduates of our program to: Establish themselves as practicing professionals able to understand, analyze, and solve real-world problems in food, agricultural, environmental, and/or biological systems. Be effective in oral, written, and visual communication as practicing professionals. Be able to work successfully as a member of a professional team and function effectively as responsible professionals. Be able to perform in a professional and ethical manner as a practicing professional. Be committed to enhancing knowledge and skills through continuing education and actively participate in professional development activities. Student Outcomes An ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering. (ABET criterion 3.a.) Applies mathematical principles to obtain analytical or numerical solutions to model equations. Applies engineering science principles in the context of Biosystems engineering. An ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data. (ABET criterion 3.b.) Demonstrates knowledge of proper procedures for conducting experiments. Uses appropriate methods to analyze and interpret data. An ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability. (ABET criterion 3.c.) Develops problem statements and general approaches to addressing Biosystems engineering design problems. Develops and evaluates various alternative solutions for a specific biosystems engineering design problem. Employs project planning principles to carry out the design process in a timely manner. Builds a prototype of a system, component, or process, evaluates the performance, and revises the design as appropriate. An ability to function on multi-disciplinary teams. (ABET criterion 3.d.) Shares responsibilities with other team members. Interacts effectively with other team members. Fully participates and follows through on commitments to the team. An ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems. (ABET criterion 3.e.) Recognizes when engineering principles can be applied in the solution of problems. Examines approaches to solving engineering problems in order to choose the most effective approach. Collects and interprets needed data and information. Correctly applies engineering principles to solve a problem. An understanding of professional and ethical responsibility. (ABET criterion 3.f.) Identifies and describes ethical issues involved in a particular problem or project and how the ethical issues might affect the practicing engineer, an individual client or company, and relevant public. Demonstrates knowledge of the professional code(s) of ethics and their application in addressing ethical issues. An ability to communicate effectively. (ABET criterion 3.g.) Selects appropriate writing style and content, and develops and revises documents, for various audiences and purposes. Plans, prepares and delivers a well organized, logical, oral presentation. Creates effective professional graphics for a diverse audience. Gathers information from a variety of sources.  Uses information to produce technical documents and presentations. The broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental and societal context. (ABET criterion 3.h.) Describes the environmental impact of engineering technology. Describes the economic impact of engineering technology. Demonstrates an awareness of the societal/global impact of engineering technology.   A recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning. (ABET criterion 3.i.) Identifies additional skills and information required for professional practice. Identifies appropriate life-long learning resources. Demonstrates the ability to engage in self-directed learning. A knowledge of contemporary issues. (ABET criterion 3.j.) Demonstrates knowledge of an important contemporary issue related to Biosystems engineering. Demonstrates an awareness of sources of information on important contemporary issues. Identifies potential linkages between contemporary issues and engineering practice. An ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice. (ABET criterion 3.k.) Selects and applies appropriate techniques and tools for a specific engineering task. Interprets and applies current engineering standards and patent laws.   ABET, Inc. 111 Market Pl., Suite 1050 Baltimore, MD 21202 Phone: 410.347.7700 Fax: 410.625.2238 Oklahoma State University - Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Home Accessibility Safety Legal and Trademarks © 2015 - Biosystems and Agriculture Engineering @ Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved