 Government of India, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture Skip to Main Content | Screen Reader Access | | | | हिंदी में | Follow us on Twitter Home Acts & Rules Citizen Charter RFD Schemes & Guidelines Schemes Info Guidelines Write to Us CPGRAMS Feedback & Grievance Miscellaneous Parliament Questions Recruitments Tenders Reach Us Contact Us Telephone Directory You are here : Home > Presentation About Us Divisions DAC Organisation Presentations Reports and Publications Programmes & Schemes Agriculture Contingency Plan Circulars and Notifications CACP FAQs RTI e Governance Projects Related Links Divisionwise Presentations Crops Presentation of Kharif Conference 2015 Presentation of Rabi Conference 2014 Pre-Rabi DAC–ICAR Interface Group Meeting held under the Chairmanship of Agriculture Commissioner on 30.08.2013 Presentation of Kharif Conference 2014 Presentation of Rabi Conference 2013 Horticulture Presentation during MIDH workshop, 2014 Information Technology National Workshop on ICT Applications in Agriculture held on 19 & 20 June, 2014 in Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. A National Workshop on ICT Applications in Agriculture was held in Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi on 19 & 20 June, 2014. The response from participants from the entire country was overwhelming. In fact, nearly 220 participants from State Departments of Agriculture and Allied Sectors in 17 States, State Units of NIC, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, State Agriculture Universities, Indian Space Research Organization, Insurance Companies took part in deliberations. Besides, this representatives of Agro-Industries and Progressive Farmers also made valuable contributions during deliberations of the 6 Working Groups on the following subjects :- Click here for Working Groups and further details. Working Group Subject Working Group 1 Licensing Applications for Fertilisers, Seeds and Pesticides and related aspects of availability, pricing etc. Working Group 2 Soil Testing (Soil Health Card) and STCR application, Agricultural Statistics Working Group 3 Seed Availability Application and Fertilizer Quality Control & Farm Machinery and Fund Flow Mechanism Working Group 4 Farmers’ Portal and SMS portal Working Group 5 Training Applications and Agricultural Extension Working Group 6 Other NeGP-A Services (including Drought, Irrigation, Marketing, Fisheries, AH) The workshop was inaugurated by Shri Ashish Bahuguna, Secretary (Agriculture & Cooperation) and Shri R.S. Sharma, Secretary, DeitY. During his inaugural address, Secretary DeitY laid emphasis on use of scalable systems and regular updation of data. He also exhorted the participants to use crowd sourcing for building FAQs, Knowledge-base and other Data-bases by making common public contribute. He also highlighted the thrust given by the Government of India to cloud-computing, open-source software and interoperability. He suggested State Agriculture Portal which could be customized for various States. The Secretary (Agriculture & Cooperation) emphasized that end product should be made simple and technology should be governed by end user feedback. The data created by one window of ICT should be available to all others. For instance, a large percentage of calls received in Kisan Call Centres relate to pests and diseases. This information should be made available to researchers, academia and even common public. There ought to be enough dialogue with the State Governments to keep the efforts mainstreamed. Before this, while giving an overview of ICT initiatives in Agriculture & Allied sectors in the country Shri Sanjeev Gupta, Joint Secretary (Extn. & IT) in the Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation explained the concept of USSD (Unstructured Supplementary Services Data) with an illustration of identification of appropriate machinery along with its source. He also explained basic features of Farmers’ Portal and SMS Portal. He elaborated as to how nearly 100 crore SMS messages had been sent to the farmers in 11 months based on location and priorities of crop/agriculture practices of various farmers. New value added features such as supervisory control, user level delivery reports, graphical dashboard etc. were also explained. In case of Farmers’ Portal drill down approach down to the block level along with choice of appropriate crop and all relevant information related thereto were also demonstrated live. The gathering was informed that Agriculture is number 1 among all the Central Government Ministries and Organizations by a wide margin in e-Taal Portal of the Department of Electronics & Information Technology. Approval of NeGP-A in all the States with a total value of Rs. 874 crores was also announced. Before this, Dr. Ranjana Nagpal, DDG, NIC welcomed the guests and elaborated on objectives of the workshop and services to be rolled out in NeGP-A. She assured that NIC will do its best to develop application software packages in keeping with the timelines laid down by the Department. Click here for Workshop Presentations and Working Groups Recommendations. Six Working Groups headed by the Joint Secretaries concerned deliberated for long hours on the topics given to them by dividing themselves among sub-groups wherever necessary. The discussion focused on existing systems and approaches, identification of best practices from the States/Central Organizations and up-scaling/integration of pioneering efforts. Following main presentations were made during deliberations of the Conference and its Working Groups:- General Presentations S. No. Title of Presentation Presenter Organization 1. Overview of ICT Initiatives in Agriculture Sh. Sanjeev Gupta, JS (IT) DAC 2. USSD Applications in Agriculture Sh. Rajesh Gera, DDG NIC, Delhi 3. Farm Crop Management System (FCMS), Crop Doctor and other Tamil Nadu Initiatives Sh. Sandeep Saxena, APC Tamil Nadu 4. E-Parwana – Licensing Application Shri Kailash NIC, Pune 5. Soil Testing Application Sh. Amit Majumdar NIC, Kolkata 6. Farm Machinery Delivery System & e-Jal-nidhi application in Odisha Ms. Sarita Sahoo NIC, Bhubneshwar 7. Micro Irrigation Management in Karnataka Sh. Kartikeyan NIC, Bengaluru 8. GIS Applications in Agriculture Sh. Vishnu Chandra NIC, Delhi 9. Use of Satellite Technology – BHUVAN in Agriculture – particularly Drought Management Sh. Murthy NRSC 10. Managing Micro Irrigation Programme in Gujarat by Gujarat Green Revolution Company Sh. J.G. Simon GGRC 11. Basic features of NeGP-A Guidelines during XII Plan Sh. Sanjeev Gupta DAC 12. Migration of Central & State Application under NeGP-A Col. (Retd.) Ashok Suri DAC 13. Block Level Weather Forecast Dr. Ashok Kumar IMD 14. Gramin Krishi Mausam Sewa Sh. M.C. Khicchar CCS, HAU, Haryana Working Group Recommendations Working Group Subject Presenter 1. Licensing Applications Sh. Kailash, NIC, Pune 2. Soil Health Management & STCR Applications Sh. Amit Majumdar, NIC, Kolkata & Sh. Deepak Dey, IISS 3. Seed Availability Application, On-farm Machinery Application, Fertilizer Quality Control Application 4. Farmers Portal & SMS Portal Dr. Shakeel Ahmed, JS, DAC 5. Extension and Training Application in Agriculture Dr. V.P. Sharma, MANAGE, Hyderabad 6. Drought Relief and Management, Forecasted Weather and Agromet Advisory and Marketing Information Application Sh. Murthy,NRSC, Sh. Vishnu Chandra, DDG, NIC & Sh. Rajesh Srivastava, TD, NIC. Mechanization And Technology Presentation on Farm Mechanization before Parliamentary Consultative Committee (Jan-2013) Oilseeds Presentation on NMOOP at a Glance Rainfed Farming System RADP - Presentation Planning Commission-10.11.2010 Status Note-EGoM-13.03.2013 Watershed Presentation for COS (Revised)-12.01.2012 NMSA -Ministry of Agriculture-Presentation 10.02.2011 NMSA Presentation before PMCCC (Sept-2012) Home Archives Vigilance RTI Download Forms Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This site is best viewed on IE 8 and Higher Versions This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation Ministry Of Agriculture, Government of India Page Last Updated on : 08 April, 2015