KISSAN-Kerala   Sitemap | Contact Us | Feedback         Search | About KISSAN | Kerala @ Glance | What's New | Events | FAQs | The Team | Institutions | Home   FARM INFORMATION BUREAU Farm Information Bureau is empowered through the KISSAN- Kerala Project Publication Division Farm News Division Press Archival Division Digitalization of Photographic Division Query handling Farm Information Bureau was formed by integrating the Agricultural Information Service of the Department of Agriculture and the information unit of the Department of Animal Husbandry and started functioning on 1st January 1969.The Bureau is the nodal agency providing active and complete information communication support to the extension and developmental activities in the farm sector in Kerala. This is a unique organization which looks after the publicity and propaganda activities of the Departments of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Dairy development, Co-operation etc. Kerala Karshakan is the prestigious farm fortnightly journal published by the Bureau which is a premier publication in this front. The bureau produces technical bulletins regularly to help the extension staff and farming community. Karshika Mekhala Varthakal the daily farm news bulletin through All India Radio has gained wide acclaim among the farming community. The Bureau gives daily press releases to the News Papers and actively supports the weekly farm feature column Karshika Rangam in all dailies. The Bureau publishes Farm Guide annually which serves as ready and authentic reference on agricultural scenario of the state. Printing of leaflets, booklets and pamphlets, which serve as ready reference material for the farming community is also under taken by the Bureau regularly. The Bureau participates in major and minor exhibitions conducted both within and outside the state. Video films on agriculture are also produced. Exploiting the potentials of Information Technology FIB introduces Web Portal and Satellite Data Casting service to feed the right farmer with right information in right time. The Bureau has two regional offices at Ernakulam and Kozhikode and district units in the remaining eleven districts.     Extension Dept of Agriculture Dept of Animal Husbandry Dept of Dairy Development Dept of Fisheries FIB Research KAU ICAR Others Others Others   Farmer Database | Applications Download | Research | Soil & Water | Related Links   KISSAN Kerala Operations Centre, IIITM-K, NILA, Techno park Campus, Thiruvananthapuram Private Policy | Disclaimer  