TNAU Agritech Portal :: Banking & Credit Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact Banking & Credit :: EXPORT IMPORT BANK OF INDIA (EXIM BANK)   The EXIM Bank was set up in January 1982 with the main object of giving a boost to the country’s export promotion drive and to pay for the increased imports. It took over the operations of the International Finance Wing of the IDBI. It acts as the apex agency in coordinating the activities of the other institutions engages in the financing of exports and imports of goods and services. The Bank is responsible for providing refinancing facilities to the commercial banks and other commitments in the areas of exports and imports. As observed in the Export Import Bank of India Act, 1981: “……the Bank may grant, in or outside India‚ loans and advances by itself or in participation with any bank or financial institution whether in India or outside India‚ for the purpose of export or import and shall also function as the principle institution engaged in financing of the export and import in such manner as it may deem appropriate….” Objectives    Within the framework of the basic aim of the Bank‚ the objectives of the Bank may be summarized as under: Provision of financial‚ technical and administrative assistance in the export – import sectors; planning‚ promotion‚ development and financing of export oriented concerns; undertaking and financing research‚ surveys and techno – economic studies in connection with the promotion and development of foreign trade; collection‚ compilation and dissemination of market and credit information in respect of international trade. Functions Provision of financial for the export and import of goods and services‚ not only of India but also of third world countries. provision of financial help for the exports and imports of machinery and equipment on lease basis; Provision of financial help for facilitating joint ventures in foreign countries. undertaking of limited merchant banking activities such as underwriting of stocks‚ shares‚ debentures‚ etc of companies engaged in the export – import sectors; Provision of financial‚ technical and administrative assistance to parties engaged in the export- import sectors. Broadly‚ the Bank provides two types of assistance‚ viz., (i) funded assistance and (ii) non-funded assistance. Funded assistance is provided to Indian exporters to enable them to operate in international markets. In particular‚ it includes the following: 1. Loans to Indian Companies (a) Direct financial assistance to exporter in the form of medium term credit to enable them to extend deferred credit to overseas buyers; (b) Overseas investment finance to enable Indian promoters of overseas  joint ventures to finance equity participation in the form of export of plant and machinery or cash remittances; (c) Technology and consultancy services; (d) Pre-shipment credit to finance export contracts for capital goods. II. Loans to Foreign Governments‚ Companies and Financial Institutions Overseas buyers credit directly to foreign importers for importers for import of Indian capital goods and related services; Lines of credit to foreign Governments and financial institutions for import of Indian capital goods and related services; Re-lending facilities to banks overseas to enable them to provide term finance for import of Indian capital goods. III. Loans to Commercial Banks in India Export bills rediscounting facility; Refinance of export credit. Non – funded assistance is provided in the form of guarantee in association with Indian commercial banks on behalf of Indian exporters/contractors in favour of overseas importers/employers and banks. These guarantees are in the form of bid bonds‚ advance payments and performance guarantees‚ retention money guarantees and guarantees for raising finance abroad. Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) Finance The importance of SME sector is well-recognized world over owing to its significant contribution in achieving various socio-economic objectives, such as employment generation, contribution to national output and exports, fostering new entrepreneurship and to provide depth to the industrial base of the economy. India has a vibrant SME sector that plays an important role in sustaining economic growth, increasing trade, generating employment and creating new entrepreneurship in India.  Indian SMEs require business advisory services to enhance their international competitiveness in a highly competitive globalising world. The SMEs find the services of reputed national and international consultants as not cost effective and often, not adequately focused. Recognising this knowledge gap, Exim Bank of India has been endeavouring to provide a suite of services to its SME clients. These include providing business leads, handholding during the process of winning an export contract and thus assisting the generation of export business on success fee basis, countries/ sector information dissemination, capacity building in niche areas such as quality, safety, export marketing, etc. and financial advisory services such as loan syndication, etc. For further details  Click here Agri Finance The globalization and post-WTO scenario offers considerable scope for exports of Indian agricultural products. Exim Bank has a dedicated Agri Business Group to cater to the financing needs of export oriented companies dealing in agricultural products. Financial assistance is provided by way of term loans, pre-shipment/post-shipment credit, overseas buyers' credit, bulk import finance, guarantees etc. Term loans with varying maturities are provided for setting up processing facilities, expansion, modernization, purchase of equipment, import of equipment/technology, financing overseas joint ventures and acquisitions etc. The Bank has strong linkages with other stakeholders in agri sector such as Ministry of Food Processing Industries, GOI, NABARD, APEDA, Small Farmers' Agri-Business Consortium (SFAC), National Horticultural Board etc. Apart from financing, the Bank also provides a range of advisory services to agri exporters.  The Bank also publishes a number of Occasional Papers, Working Papers on export potential of various sub-sectors in agriculture and a bi-monthly publication in different languages on global scenario in agri-business and opportunities therein.  For further details  Click here Source http://www.eximbankindia.com www.eximbankagro.com   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.