Jharkhand Ministers and MPs Home » Jharkhand » Administration » Jharkhand Ministers and MPs   Jharkhand झारखंड का नक्शा Jharkhand Map Capital of Jharkhand Jharkhand Cities Jamshedpur Ranchi Bokaro Dhanbad Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Reach by Train About Jharkhand Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Travel to Jharkhand Places to visit in Jharkhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Daasam Falls Sun Temple Population Sex Ratio Map Fact sheet education Universities In Jharkhand Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Lok Sabha Constituencies Business and Economy Ministers and MPs Government Agricultural Map Geography and History Mineral Map District Map in Hindi Hotels in Jharkhand Bokaro Hotels Deoghar Hotels Dhanbad Hotels Jamshedpur Hotels Kumardhubi Hotels Ranchi Hotels Language Jharkhand by Road Ranchi Airport Map Information Media People,Culture and Festivals Pin code STD code       Jharkhand Ministers and MPs Jharkhand Government Jharkhand ministers and Jharkhand MPs address the problems of the state at two different levels. While the Jharkhand ministers are a part of the executive council of Jharkhand and look after the smooth functioning of the various departments of the state, the Jharkhand MPs are a part of the Lower House of the Indian legislative, of the bicameral central legislative body of India. However, both the Jharkhand ministers and Jharkhand MPs work for the betterment of the state through progress in various spheres. Ministers of Jharkhand Jharkhand ministers, among the ministers and MPs of Jharkhand are chosen from among the members of the legislative assembly, from among the ruling party or the ruling coalition. The council of ministers in Jharkhand has strength of 11 cabinet ministers looking after the various departments of the state's governance. Given below is the list of the various Jharkhand ministers along with their respective offices: Name Departments Shri. Rajendra Prasad Singh Finance (Institutional Finance & National Savings), Commercial Tax, Energy, Health, Medical Education & Family Welfare, Parliamentary Affairs Smt. Annapurna Devi Water Resources, Social Welfare, Women & Child Development, Registration Shri. Champai Soren Welfare, Transport, Industry Shri. Saimon Marandi Food, Public Distribution & Consumer Affair, Rural Work, N. R. E. P Shri. Hazi Hussain Ansari Building Construction, Minority Welfare, Co-operative Shri. Suresh Paswan Tourism, Urban Development Smt. Geetashree Oraon Human Resource Development, Art, Culture, Sports & Youth Affairs Shri. Jai Prakash Bhai Patel Drinking Water and Sanitation, Excise Shri. Chandra Sekhar Dubey Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Labour, Employment and Training Shri. Mannan Mallick Animal Husbandry & Fisheries, Disaster Management Shri. Yogendra Sav Agriculture & Sugarcane Development, Housing MPs of Jharkhand Jharkhand MPs are elected from the fourteen parliamentary constituencies of the state. A list of the Jharkhand MPs with their respective constituencies and parties are provided below: Name of the MP Parliamentary Constituency Political Party Devidhan Besra Rajmahal BJP Shibu Soren Dumka JMM Nishikant Dubey Godda BJP Inder Singh Namdhari Chatra Ind. Babulal Marandi Kodarma JVM Ravindra Kumar Pandey Giridih BJP Pashupati Nath Singh Dhanbad BJP Subodh Kant Sahay Ranchi INC Ajay Kumar Jamshedpur JVM Madhu Koda Singhbhum Ind. Karia Munda Khunti BJP Sudarshan Bhagat Lohardaga BJP Kameshwar Baitha Palamau JMM Yashwant Sinha Hazaribagh BJP Jharkhand administration is comprised of a legislative body of 81 members of the legislative assembly. A council of 11 cabinet ministers works under the supervision of the chief minister in order to look after the operations of the various departments of the state. The administration of Jharkhand is chosen through a democratic electoral process. The last assembly elections were held in 2009, when the NDA seized power to defeat the UPA by a wide margin. Jharkhand Executive Jharkhand executive is headed by the chief minister. On July 13, 2013 Hemant Soren has sworn as the new Chief Minister of the state. Former CM, Arjun Munda had resigned on 8th January 2013. A council of ministers looks after the smooth workings of the various departments responsible for the governance of the state. There are 11 cabinet ministers presently who form the council of ministers in Jharkhand government. The bureaucratic set up is strong, as the officers involved in various directorate and secretariat offices look after the workings of their respective departments. The Jharkhand High Court is the apex body of the judicial wing of the Jharkhand administration. Jharkhand Legislative Jharkhand legislative is going through its first legislative session. The tenure is for five years, unless certain inevitable situation causes it to be dissolved prior to the stipulated time. The legislative of Jharkhand is the supreme law giving body. Jharkhand legislative is a unicameral body with 81 members to the legislative assembly, chosen from the 81 assembly constituencies of the state, through an electoral process. The legislative in Jharkhand operates through three sessions as in other legislative councils of the state, budget, monsoon and winter. Key Figures in the Jharkhand Legislative The legislative council of Jharkhand works under the ultimate supervision of the governor of the state, Sri Syed Ahmed. He is the representative of the president in the state. Appointed by the center, he is the supreme legislative authority in the state. The proceedings of the house are conducted by the honorable speaker of the house, the post currently held by Sri Chandreshwar Prasad Singh. Members of the Jharkhand Legislative Assembly The members of the Jharkhand legislative assembly are elected from the assembly constituencies of the state. There are a total of 81 seats in the Jharkhand legislative assembly, with an equal number of members of the legislative assembly. The BJP-led NDA is the ruling coalition of the Jharkhand legislative assembly at present, assuring 42 out of the 81 seats at the beginning of the session. However, certain shifts in the political scenario have changed the equation to a degree. However, the Jharkhand legislative continues to be one of the most widely represented legislative councils as far as the sheer spectrum of political parties go. Judiciary Jharkhand judiciary is an important part of the governance of the state. The Jharkhand High Court is the apex court of the judiciary in Jharkhand. Apart from this, there are many lower courts including district courts that look after the civil and the criminal cases reported in the state. High Court of Jharkhand The high court of Jharkhand is the apex court of the Jharkhand judiciary. Located in Ranchi, this high court was formed after the formation of the state in 2000. The permanent bench of the Patna high court at Ranchi was transformed into the Jharkhand High Court. With nine judges at present, working under the supervision of Hon'ble Chief Justice Sri Prakash Chandra Tatiya, the entire judiciary at Jharkand territory falls under the juridical supervision of the Ranchi High Court. Last Updated on : January 24, 2014 Jharkhand Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Ministers and MPs Jharkhand Election Results             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule