Agriculture in Kerala Home » Maps » Kerala » Agriculture in Kerala   Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Districts in Kerala Kerala Road Map Railway Map Rivers in Kerala Tehsils in Kerala Regions in Kerala Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Forests in Kerala केरल का नक्शा Cities in Kerala Kochi Thiruvananthapuram Ernakulam Munnar Thrissur Travel to Kerala Places to visit in Kerala Backwaters Map Beaches in Kerala Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Kerala Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya Pilgrimage Destinations Map About Kerala How to Reach Kerala History of Kerala Geography of Kerala Weather in Kerala Economy of Kerala Industries in Kerala Kerala Government Kerala Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Hotels in Kerala Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Kumarakom Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Trivandrum Hotels in Thiruvananthapuram Hotels in Guruvayur Hotels in Thekkady Hotels in Wayanad Kerala Ayurveda Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Utilities Distance Chart Kerala Pin code Kerala STD code Education in Kerala Universities in Kerala Karten von Kerala Ubersichtskarte von Kerala       Kerala Agriculture Kerala , the state located in the southern tip of India is bordered by Arabian Sea and the extensive network of azure backwaters, rivers and streams, boasts of an agrarian economy. The abundance of water due to the 34 lakes and other small streamlets, innumerable backwaters and waterbodies and 49 rain-fed rivers flowing over the terrain of the state and also the adequate annual rainfall of 118 inches received by this state probably facilitates agriculture to a great extent and hence the economy of the state is dominated by agriculture. Agriculture Map of Kerala Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Downlaod   Buy Now   * Agriculture Map of Kerala showing different crops and areas where these are cultivated. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The most essential or the staple crop is the rice or paddy. About 600 varieties of rice are grown in the sprawling paddy fields of Kerala . In fact the Kuttinad region of the district of Kerala is known as the 'rice bowl of the state' and enjoys a significant status in the production of rice. Next to rice is another very important crop which is known as Tapioca and is cultivated mainly in the drier regions. Tapoica is a major food of the Keralites. Besides production of the main crop, Kerala is also a major producer of spices that form the cash crops of the state. Kerala's spice trade is about 3000 years old and it is well known how the fresh aroma of the superb quality Kerala spices lured foreigners into this country in the medieval ages. Kerala produces 96% of the country's national output of pepper. The important spices are cardamom, cinnamon, clove, turmeric,nutmeg and vanilla. Cardamom is exported and brings great revenues to the country. Other cash crops that constitute the agricultural sector include Tea, coffee, cashew, coconut, areca nut, ginger and coconut. In fact coconut provides the principal source of income in Kerala- from coir industry to coconut shell artifacts; coconuts bring most of the economic gains to Kerala. Approximately, Kerala provides about 70% of Indian output of coconuts. Cashew is also an essential cash crop. Raw cashew is seasoned with salt and spices and is also a hot favorite with everybody. Almost every tourist buys a packet of Kerala cashews and love gorging on them. Kerala also accounts for 91% of natural rubber production of the country. Kottyam district has extensive areas producing and processing rubber. Apart from rubber, other plantation crop likes plantains or bananas are also grown in plenty. These bananas are of varied qualities ranging from red green and yellow colored. Last but not the least, the home gardens of Kerala also adds to the state's Agrarian economy with a large number of vegetables, spices, coconuts, fruits grown locally. Agriculture in India Andhra Pradesh Assam Bihar Chhatisgarh Goa Gujarat Himachal Pradesh Jammu And Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Orissa Punjab Rajasthan Tamilnadu Tripura Uttaranchal Uttar Pradesh West Bengal Last Updated on : 23/07/2013 Kerala Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map Regions Map Kozhikode Monorail Map District Map Rail Map Road Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Travel Map Backwaters Map Beaches Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations Map Pilgrimage Destinations Map About Kerala History Geography Weather Rivers and Lakes Languages Festivals Onam Culture Art Spices Economy             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule