Travel to Dehradun - Tourism, Dehradun Tourist Map Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Dehradun Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Dehradun Airport Dehradun Hotels Places to Visit in Dehradun Tapkeshawar Temple Sahastradhara Tapowan Forest Research Institute Rajaji National Park Robber's Cave Laxman Sidh Temple Santala Devi Temple Sai Darbar Temple Malsi Deer Park Clock Tower Ram Rai Gurudwara Sikh Pilgrimage Har ki Doon Trekking and Adventure Cities to Visit Near Dehradun Mussoorie Travel Haridwar Travel Rishikesh Travel Lachhiwala Travel Chandrabani Travel Karuna Vihar Travel Jim Corbett National Park Route Maps Delhi to Dehradun Dehradun to Auli About Dehradun Geography Climate History Uttarakhand Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Flights to Dehradun Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Home » Dehradun » Travel to Dehradun Travel to Dehradun Dehradun Tourist Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map Showing all the important tourist locations in the city of Dehradun. It shows Maist Deer Park, Dakpatthar, Shastra Dara Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Dehradun Tourism Dehradun is the capital city the recently formed state Uttaranchal. It is one of the oldest cities in India. Myths and legends still do rounds in this land. You also avail references of Dehradun even in the scriptures of the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. A travel to Dehradun would take you to a land where some of the premier educational institutes are located. But there are many tourist attractions too in Dehradun. The mountainous beauty complete with lofty hills, wooded valleys, highland streams, caves and a temperate climate is an abiding lure for traveling to Dehradun. Pay a visit to Tapkeshawar Temple, Sahastradhara, Tapowan, Forest Research Institute, Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology in your travel to Dehradun. If you have a penchant for wild lives, head for Rajaji national Park as you travel to Dehradun. Myriad number of wild flora and fauna would charm you for sure. Another reason to travel to Dehradun is that the city serves as the gateway to reach the several tourist attractions in the Garhwal Himalayan region. How to Reach Dehradun Dehradun is the capital city of Uttaranchal . The state has been carved out recently from another north Indian state Uttar Pradesh. But Dehradun was an important city in this part of region since long past. The new status of capital has added to the significance. Several tourist destinations in Uttaranchal and other north Indian states are located close to Dehradun. By Air: The capital city of Dehradun has its own domestic airport named Jolly Grant Airport . Located at the outskirts of the city, the airport lies only 25kms away. Daily flight operates to and from Delhi, which is the nearest international airport. Delhi is connected by air to all the major Indian cities like: Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Kolkata etc. By Road: an extensive network comprised of National Highways, Sate Highways, and metalled motorable roads make Dehradun easily accessible from any part of northern India. A few prominent cities, which have road connections to Dehradun, are: Agra (381kms), Delhi (235kms), Jaipur (493kms), Lucknow (582kms). By Train: Dehradun itself is a key railway station in northern part of India. Almost all metro cities in India like: Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata have direct trains to Dehradun. Several important trains also connect the city with Varanasi, Lucknow , Mussoorie and so on. Shopping in Dehradun Who wants to return from a tour without buying souvenirs or gifts for friends and relatives ? If you are looking forward to a great shopping in Dehradun before returning from the tour, the city would not disappoint you. Uttaranchal has a tradition of handicrafts. Dehradun being the capital of the state has good market places. So you can easily find the specialties of Uttaranchal in the markets of Dehradun. Like all the Himalayan regions, Uttaranchal is also rich in forests. Abundance of wood has been the reason of exquisite woodcrafts prepared by the local artisans. Check out artifacts and utilities fashioned out of wood, bamboo and cane while shopping in Dehradun. Woolen garments mostly made by the Tibetan women are also popular items for shopping in Dehradun. Warm and beautiful sweaters, cardigans, shawls at dirt-cheap prices are available at the markets round the year. Local painting and ornaments may also feature in your shopping list in Dehradun. There are many places for shopping in Dehradun. But Paltan Bazaar area, lined with various shops is the most popular haunt. You may also hang out at Rajpur Road and Ashley Hall areas. Places to Visit in Dehradun Tapkeshawar Temple Sahastradhara Tapowan Forest Research Institute Rajaji National Park Robber's Cave Laxman Sidh Temple Santala Devi Temple Sai Darbar Temple Malsi Deer Park Clock Tower Ram Rai Gurudwara Sikh Pilgrimage Har ki Doon Last Updated on : 10/09/2013 Travel to Uttarakhand Travel to Auli Travel to Dehradun Travel to Haridwar Travel to Gangotri Travel to Bhimtal Travel to Kedarnath Travel to Mussoorie Travel to Nainital Travel to Ranikhet Travel to Dhanaulti Travel to Almora Travel to Rishikesh Travel to Uttarakashi Travel to Chamoli Travel to Pithoragarh Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Places to visit in Auli Places to visit in corbett Places to visit in Dehradun Places to visit in kedarnath Places to visit in Mussorie Places to visit in Nainital Places to visit in Rishikesh Places to visit in Uttarkashi Places to visit in Haridwar About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule