CASNR names outstanding senior, outstanding freshman and seniors of distinction — College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Search OKSTATE.EDU... Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Academic Depts Ag Economics Ag Education, Communications & Leadership Animal Science Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resources Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences Multidisciplinary Programs Environmental Sciences Master of International Agriculture Program Future Students Student Services Visitors CASNR Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Now Be an OSU Cowboy! Undergraduate Admissions Graduate College College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Navigation Home Academic Departments Future Students Student Services CASNR Scholarships Applications Study Abroad Farm to Fork News CASNR names outstanding senior, outstanding freshman and seniors of distinction Events Alumni Employers Faculty Resources Personnel Request for Information Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Search Advanced Search…   Login You are here: Home / News / CASNR names outstanding senior, outstanding freshman and seniors of distinction Info College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources CASNR names outstanding senior, outstanding freshman and seniors of distinction Duncan, Oklahoma, natives, Jessica Neal and Allison Christian, have been named Oklahoma State University’s College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Outstanding Senior and Outstanding Freshman for 2015. STILLWATER, Okla. – Duncan, Oklahoma, natives, Jessica Neal and Allison Christian, have been named Oklahoma State University’s College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Outstanding Senior and Outstanding Freshman for 2015. Neal was named the Louis and Betty Gardner Outstanding Senior for CASNR. An animal science major with a minor in biochemistry and in microbiology, she is a 2011 graduate of Duncan High School and the daughter of Greg and Shelly Neal. Brett and Kent Gardner were named CASNR Outstanding Seniors during their time at OSU. They created an endowment to support the recognition of the outstanding senior in honor of their parents, Louis and Betty. Neal’s collegiate activities include participating in undergraduate research all four years of her collegiate career, being named a 2013-2014 Niblack Research Scholar and presenting her research at several scientific meetings. She also served as a CASNR career liaison, Freshmen in Transition student academic mentor, AG1011 student academic mentor and a teaching assistant. “It was such a surprise and honor to be recognized as the outstanding senior,” Neal said. “This award showed me that all I have done in my college career was not only important to me but also has made an impact on the college. This is by far the ultimate honor a CASNR student can earn, and it is all thanks to the faculty and staff I have had the outstanding opportunity to interact with while at OSU.” Neal was named a 2014-2015 OSU Senior of Significance and received an award of merit from the department of animal science. She is a past recipient of the Charles and Magda Browning Outstanding Freshman award. “Both the CASNR Outstanding Senior and Outstanding Freshman awards are meant to recognize a student’s commitment to academic excellence, service to others and leadership in the college,” said Cynda Clary, CASNR associate dean of academic programs. “Jessica and Allison have put in the time and effort to distinguish themselves among their peers and uphold CASNR’s high standards of service leadership. We could not be more proud to have America’s brightest students walking among us each day.” Christian was named the Charles and Magda Browning Outstanding Freshman Award winner for CASNR. An animal science major, she is a 2013 graduate of Duncan High School and the daughter of Jon Christian and Tina Huffman. The Brownings established the Outstanding Freshman award to recognize both the academic excellence and outstanding leadership activity during a student’s freshman year at OSU. It is awarded at the end of a student’s sophomore year for their efforts as a freshman. Christian’s collegiate activities include being a member of the Collegiate Farm Bureau, being involved in Greek and campus life, and participating in numerous community service projects through Chi Omega women’s fraternity. “I never anticipated being the CASNR Outstanding Freshman when I first came to college,” Christian said. “I simply took part in the things I enjoyed. This award inspires me to continue serving those around me in all I do throughout the rest of my collegiate career.” She also received her State FFA Degree and is a member of the OSU Honors College. In addition to these awards, CASNR recognized fifteen seniors of distinction. Their names, hometown and major include: Marli Claytor, Cushing, Oklahoma, natural resource ecology and management Joshua Conway, Ringwood, Oklahoma, agribusiness Melissa Rae Golden, Terlton, Oklahoma, plant and soil sciences and agribusiness Elizabeth Hickman, Bettendorf, Iowa, biosystems engineering Brian Highfill, Mooreland, Oklahoma, agricultural economics Samantha Ruth Kaiser, Elkins, Arkansas, entomology Kyree Larrabee, Meade, Kansas, animal science Jessica Neal, Duncan, Oklahoma, animal science Hannah Nemecek, Owasso, Oklahoma, agricultural communications Jonathan Overton, Yukon, Oklahoma, biosystems engineering Cassandra Rodenbaugh, Tulsa, Oklahoma, natural resource ecology and management Sarah Schobert, Sasix, Virginia, animal science Chacey Schoeppel, Fairview, Oklahoma, agribusiness Alexis Sirois, Argyle, Texas, animal science Kelly Rose Vierck, Juneau, Wisconsin, food science The Oklahoma State University College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources believes in the value of hands-on education and the importance of having a well-rounded student experience. Our award-winning faculty members are dedicated to developing students and are passionate about adding value to the total educational experience. With 16 majors and 62 study options, plus more than 60 student organizations, the college is committed to expanding minds and inspiring purpose. Learn more at casnr.okstate.edu. ### REPORTER: Lindsay V. King MEDIA CONTACT: Melissa Mourer Communications Coordinator Agricultural Communications Services 144 Agriculture North Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Phone: 405-744-3737 Fax: 405-744-5739 Email: melissa.mourer@okstate.edu Oklahoma State University, U. S. Department of Agriculture, State and Local governments cooperating: Oklahoma State University in compliance with Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Executive Order 11246 as amended, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and other federal and state laws and regulations, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, gender, age, religion, disability, or status as a veteran in any of its policies, practices, or procedures, and is an equal opportunity employer. Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Accessibilty Safety Legal and Trademarks Webmaster © 2015 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved