Mapusa City Map Home » Maps » Goa » Mapusa   Cities in Goa Panaji Calangute Vasco da Gama Margao Mapusa गोवा का नक्शा About Goa Weather History Culture Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Mapusa City Map Map of Mapusa City Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Mapusa city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Goa   Vasco da Gama City Map Panaji City Map Margao City Map Mapusa City Map   Calangute City Map Mapusa is a small town clustered around the Mount (Alto). Mapusa - pronounced as 'Mapsa' by the locals - is Goa's third largest town and the capital of the northern Bardez taluka. It is 13 kms from Panaji - a share- taxi or a bus will take you there. It is mainly a market town for the surrounding beach areas of Calangute, Candolim, Anjuna and Baga among others. Even its name is thought to be derived from the Konkani word for a 'measure' - 'map' and the phrase fill up - 'sa'. Otherwise a small town forming the hub of north Goa , its location makes it the converging point of all overland routes in Bardez taluka. Moreover, its proximity to the Rio de Mapusa has enabled it to develop a commercial reputation. Mapusa has an even blend of residential, commercial establishments and gardens. The beaches nearest to this town are the Anjuna and Chapora beaches. The Kansarpal-Kalbadevi temple, believed to be about 800 years old lies 14 km from Mapusa. It is a fairly small town with mostly modern building spread around the slopes of a small hillock called Altinho. Mapusa, however, does not have too many tourist sites. There are a few colonial era Municipal building on the Altinho hill, a fairly modern temple of Lord Hanuman just a few minutes from the main bus stand and most importantly the Church of Our Lady of Miracles about 2 kms east of the market area. Locally, the church is also known as St Jerome's Church and dates back originally from the year 1594. Since then it has been rebuilt several times. The Church of Our Lady of Miracles is more famous for its annual feast than for its architectural splendour. Since the Church is located on the original site of an ancient Hindu temple, the Hindu community also considers it sacred area. Consequently, in a fine display of communal harmony that exists in Goa, the annual feast held on the 16th day after Easter is enthusiastically celebrated by Christians and Hindus alike. The other famous shrine is that of Lord Bodgeshwar, located on the outskirts of the town in the middle of some rice fields, which is beautifully lit up at night and draws thousands of devotees for its annual Jatra. Mapusa's main claim to fame is its famous Friday market. People from all over Goa come here to buy and sell their wares on Friday. So apart from other regular items, you will also get plants and saplings, ready spiced Goan pork sausages called chouricos, fresh and dried fish, prawns, incense, spices, fruits and vegetables, clothing, junk jewelry, and the famous country liquor such as toddi and cashew feni and even souvenirs from other states of India. Everything is available at reasonable prices. Another item to look out for is the magnificent banana crop from the nearby village of Moira. Some basic information about Mapusa is give below: Accommodation: Tourist Hotel Hotel Satyaheera Ruchira Hotel Vilena Access Roadways: There are a number of buses. Buses are also available for Belgaum, Hubli and Pune, as well as Chapora, Candolim and Arambol. A journey to Anjuna or Calangute by Motorcycle costs around RS 30 to RS 35. By taxi, it costs around RS 100, autorickshaw costs less at Rs 75. A drive from the station costs around RS 80 by autorickshaw and RS 125 by taxi. Railways: The nearest railhead is Mapusa Road (Shivim), about 12 km north, east of the town proper. Only some trains like the Konkan Railways stop here. Last Updated on : 8/06/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule