e-Governance — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / e-Governance Share Info e-Governance The e-Governance section provides one stop information access to available online citizen services, state specific e-Governance initiatives, mobile governance, RTI etc. Complementing e-Governance Movement in India E-Governance movement in India is changing the way people access public services. InDG attempts to provide awareness to public on various online services/initiatives at national and state level. Empowering Knowledge Centre Operators Rural landscape in India is set to take the advantage of the flourishing ICT initiatives, more specifically the Common Service Centres (CSCs). InDG initiative provides the much needed platform for the Knowledge Centre Operators and VLEs, to share and learn from each other's experiences. Transforming service delivery system e-Governance in India has reached the "Transactional" stage and provides various services to citizens offered by Central Government agencies and different State Government departments. National e-Governance Plan (NeGP), initiated in 2006, attempts to make all Government services accessible to the common man in his/her locality, through Common Service Centers (CSC) being set up across India. As on 31 March 2014, about 1,33,847 ( CSC website ) CSCs are operational with different brand names and have started delivering services to people. India is set to take advantage of the flourishing ICT initiatives facilitated by various institutions, more specifically the CSCs. InDG initiative offers much required content and services in local languages that makes the difference in the lives of the under-served communities. The major focus of e-Governance vertical of this portal is to support the ongoing e-Governance movement in India by providing one stop information access to available online citizen services, state specific e-Governance initiatives and awareness about online legal services, mobile governance, RTI etc. Keeping in mind the importance of empowering the VLEs, the portal has included an exclusive section "VLE Corner" to enrich them with resource materials and provide them a platform to share their experiences in their own languages. e-Governance in India This section gives the details about National e-Governance Plan,initiatives,Resources and various e-Governance initiatives at state level. About RTI Act 2005 The Right to Information Act 2005 (RTI) is an Act of the Parliament of India "to provide for setting out the practical regime of right to information for citizens." The Act applies to all States and Union Territories of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. e-Gov Services online This section gives the details about online citizen services and various related useful link information with a brief introduction. Resources for VLEs This section gives the details about CSCs , various useful link and related services. Mobile Governance This section gives the details about emerging mobile governance in india and various related useful link information with a brief introduction. Judicial Services in India This section gives the details about online legal services initiative and related various useful link information. Shyam Kishore Mar 01, 2014 01:00 PM When we go for E-Governance, training and acknowledgment programme should be arranged for all subsequently. Because If we do not know about E-Governance then how we benefitted from E-Governance. aniket Sep 12, 2014 11:33 AM how to ask an mla to raise voice against issues in my area AKASH KUMAR HALWAI Oct 27, 2014 08:56 AM Hello Aniket, Dont depend on MLA of your area. One person can change the entire world. so Please do it yourself to raise voices against issues in your area. Better, take the help of your Local News reporter and publish the problems you are facing. Daipayan Mandal Dec 07, 2014 08:27 AM There should be a digital signature for every person and documentation for new registration should online as we did for pan card, when service is delivered to the person his verification should be done again through tablet with delivering person, data should sent immediately to concerned record office connected by secured network. This would reduce time, energy, and complains And increase the transparency in services. HISBANUR RAHMAN Mar 31, 2015 10:48 PM Government should provide free or low cost Optical Fiber Broad Band Internet service to CSCs in West Bengal ;This will ensure the sustainability of CSCs . Kris Dev Apr 17, 2015 09:47 AM Introduce Biometric Smart Card (BSC) for every citizen. Make all transactions online using BSC. Nothing should be hidden from the eyes of the public. Make total transparency the rule rather than exception. Implement 100% Sec 4 (1) a of RTI Act in letter and spirit. E-Governance will automatically happen and true democracy implemented. Post Your Suggestion (If you have any comments / suggestions on the above content, please post them here) Name Your Message   Type the word given below Navigation e-Governance in India Citizen Access to Information (RTI) Digital India e-Gov Services online Resources for VLEs Mobile Governance Judicial Services in India Discussion Forum - e-Governance Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector See More.... Energy Energy Basics Energy conservation Energy efficiency Energy production Best Practices Women and Energy Policy Support Rural Innovations See More.... e-Governance e-Governance in India About RTI Act 2005 e-Gov Services online Resources for VLEs Mobile Governance