Chennai Bangalore Expressway, Map of Chennai Bengaluru Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway »Chennai Bangalore Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Chennai Bangalore Expressway Map of Chennai Bangalore Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Chennai Bangalore Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Bengaluru Chennai expressway is a proposed expressway connecting the major metropolitan cities of South India- Bengaluru (Bangalore) in Karnataka and Chennai in Tamil Nadu. The National Highway Authority of India has proposed to develop this expressway as part of the National Highway Development Project. Bangalore is the capital of Karnataka and the IT hub of the country. Chennai is the capital of Tamil Nadu and an important industrial and port city. Both the cities are populous metropolises of the country. At present the National Highway no 4, along with National Highway 7 and National Highway 46 are the roads connecting these two cities. The NH 7 starting from Varanasi in UP connects north India to Chennai. The NH 4 passes through Maharashtra and connects Mumbai to Bangalore and then to Chennai. NH 46 runs within the state of Tamil Nadu and connects Krishnagiri to Ranipet. All the roads connecting Bengaluru and Chennai pass through a number of towns and some go through long detours through the Eastern Ghats. The four lane Krishnagiri road, part of the NH 7 and NH 44, and also of the Golden Quadrilateral connecting all the metropolitan towns of the country-Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai- is the most widely used road and 343 kilometer long. Alternatively, a second route which is the Old Madras road and part of NH4 goes through Chittoor. Although it is shorter than the NH7 stretch, is a two lane road and is congested. It also passes through three states. There is a third road, 345 kilometers long, part of the NH 46 , that connects the cities, but as it goes through the Eastern Ghats, it is has many sharp bends. The six-lane expressway with a total length of 250 kilometers would pass through Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. It would begin at Hoskote in north Bengaluru and run through Malur in Karnataka, Palmaner and V Kota in Andhra Pradesh. In Tamil Nadu it would go through Gudiyatam and Arakkonam, culminating at Sriperumbudur, 40 kilometers from Chennai. As this would be the shortest route between the two cities of Bangalore and Chennai, the expressway with a design speed of 120 kilometer per hour would reduce the travelling time between the cities to just two hours. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule