Mobyle portal Mobyle is a framework and web portal specifically aimed at the integration of bioinformatics software and databanks. Sorry, the Mobyle Portal requires javascript support. Please use a browser that supports javascript. Sorry, the Mobyle Portal requires that you accept cookies . Please configure your browser to accept cookies from our server. loading... Mobyle set email sign-in activate sign-out refresh workspace or [more] Classify: by category by package Programs workflows and tutorials: separate mixed My Workflows Data Bookmarks [overview] Jobs [overview] Welcome Forms Data Bookmarks Jobs Tutorials Welcome to Mobyle, a portal for bioinformatics analyses Mobyle 1.5 is now available on Mobyle@Pasteur! Create your workflows and save them in your Mobyle workspace for fast and easy reuse with BMPS . Please refer to our BMPS tutorial for more details! Rename your jobs and data for easier navigation in your workspace. Just hover the job or bookmark you'd like to bookmark (either on the left menus or in the data overview or jobs overview panels), a pencil will appear on the right, enabling you to rename your data and jobs. Portal news New services available: blast2 : The Protein Data Bank is now available via "Protein db" parameter (14/05/2013) T-Coffee is now available, imported from the mobyle@rpbs portal (14/02/2013) CLUSTAL-OMEGA update to version 1.1.0 which add the support of DNA/RNA. (29/07/2011) clustalO-multialign aligns a set of protein sequences. clustalO-sequence adds new sequences to an existing alignment. clustalO-profile aligns 2 profiles (alignments). stride , from the Ressource Parisienne en Bioinformatique Structurale , is a tool for protein secondary structure assignment from atomic coordinates. (20/07/2012) HCA , from the Ressource Parisienne en Bioinformatique Structurale , a tool for Hydrophobic Cluster Analysis. (20/07/2012) Alignments and Phylogenetic trees can now be edited using Jalview and Archaeopteryx and directly bookmarked in your workspace or chained to another program (22/05/2012) transcript_or_bacteria_contig_analysis , a workflow developed in the context of the MobyleNet initiative, is dedicated to the detection of CDSs on trancript or bacterial genomic contigs and to the annotation of peptidic translations (07/12/2011) eval23d , from the Centre de Biochimie Structurale , is a tool for the evaluation of structures based on local statistical potentials. You can also use it in PAT (05/12/2011) signalp predicts signal peptides in proteins. (upgrade to version 4.0) (27/10/2011) msaprobs a protein multiple sequence alignment algorithm based on pair hidden Markov models and partition function posterior probabilities (01/08/2011) . CLUSTAL-OMEGA is a general purpose multiple sequence alignment program for proteins (29/07/2011) clustalO-multialign align a set of protein sequences. clustalO-sequence add new sequences to an existing alignment. clustalO-profile align 2 profiles (alignments). in protein structure prediction (restricted access) (30/03/2011) netchop predicts cleavage sites for human proteasome. netNglyc predicts N-glycosylation sites in proteins. netOglyc predicts O-glycosylation sites in proteins. signalp predicts signal peptides in proteins. targetp predicts the subcellular location of eukaryotic proteins. tmhmm predicts transmembrane helices in proteins. MAFFT a Multiple alignment program for amino acid or nucleotide sequences (03/03/2011) Credits Mobyle is a platform developed jointly by the Institut Pasteur Biology IT Center and the Ressource Parisienne en Bioinformatique Structurale . More information about this project can be found here . Overview This page lets you control the data bookmarks stored on the server. Session usage: (total space available: 262144.00 KiB) Overview Sort by name and identifier date