Farmer Portal : Website Policy Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access हिंदी में Insurance Storage CWC Cold Stores Grameen Bhandaran Credit Branch Locator Debt Relief Short Term Credit Med./Long Term Loans Agricultural Banking Agricultural Credit Crops Wheat General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Maize General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Rice General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Diagnostic Tool Pulses General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Jute General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Sugarcane General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Other Crops Pest & Diseases Extension Activities Demonstrations Farmer Friend Farm School Beneficiary List NHM NFSM MSP MSP Determination Questionnaire Kharif Rabi Sugarcane Copra Jute Palm Oil Notified MSP Current Archives Animal Husbandry Schemes Guidelines Report Disease Login Booklets and Fliers Agromet AFMU Met Center Regional Center IMD HQ State Seed Dealer Fertilizer/Pesticide Dealer POP Storage MSP Booklets and Fliers District Seed Dealer Fertilizer Dealer Pesticide Dealer Farm Machinery Manufacturer/Trader New Registration Registered Authentication Authority Association & FMTTI State Dealer M & T Division Seed Avalibility NeGP-A Feedback Admin Status Home » Website Policies Home Page About Us Seeds Dealers Availability Central Varieties Adaptable Varieties Quality Testing Certification Pesticide Dealers Crop Pest Database Precautions(Press Ad) IPM Best IPM Practices State Wise Best Practices Producers Registration Farm Machinery Video Clips Farmer Guide Find A Machine Manufacturers Dealers Fertiliser Dealers Availability Information Soil Test Report Soil Fertility Maps Agromet Advisory English Regional Language Farmer Friendly Material Booklets & Flyers Handbooks Success Stories Video Films Audio Clips Market Price Other Agri Commodities Minor Forest Produce Exports & Imports Agri Export Zones Benefit of Agri Export Zones Drought Management Economics & Statistics Package of Practices Programmes and Schemes Website Policies This is the Official website of Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry Of Agriculture, Government of India, designed, developed and hosted by National Informatics Centre (NIC). The site has been developed to provide information to the general public. An attempt has been made through this site to provide reliable, comprehensive, accurate information about Department of Information Technology and its various Groups/Organizations. Hyperlinks at various places have been provided to other Indian Government Portals/Websites. The content in this site is the result of a collaborative effort of various Groups and Divisions of the Department. It is our endeavour to continue the enhancement and enrichment of this site in terms of content coverage, design and technology on a regular basis. We have put in our best efforts to ensure that all information on this portal is accessible to people with disabilities. For example, a user with visual disability can access this portal using assistive technologies, such as screen readers and screen magnifiers. We also aim to be standards compliant and follow principles of usability and universal design, which should help all visitors of this portal. This portal is designed using XHTML 1.0 Transitional to meet Guidelines for Indian Government Websites and also adheres to level A of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 laid down by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Part of the information in the portal is also made available through links to external Websites. External Websites are maintained by the respective departments who are responsible for making these sites accessible. DAC is working towards making its portal accessible for persons with disabilities, however currently Portable Document Format (PDF) files are not accessible. In addition, information provided in Hindi language is also not accessible. If you have any problem or suggestion regarding the accessibility of this portal, please write to Us to enable us to respond in a helpful manner. Do let us know the nature of the problem along with your contact information. Content Contribution, Moderation & Approval Policy (CMAP)  (50.9 KB) Content Review Policy (CRP) (44 KB) Content Archival Policy (CAP)  (15 KB) Copyright Policy Material featured on this Portal may be reproduced free of charge after taking proper permission by sending a mail to us. However, the material has to be reproduced accurately and not to be used in a derogatory manner or in a misleading context. Wherever the material is being published or issued to others, the source must be prominently acknowledged. However, the permission to reproduce this material shall not extend to any material which is identified as being copyright of a third party. Authorisation to reproduce such material must be obtained from the departments/copyright holders concerned. Hyperlinking Policy Links to external websites/portals At many places in this website, you shall find links to other websites/portals. The links have been placed for your convenience. DAC is not responsible for the contents and reliability of the linked websites and does not necessarily endorse the views expressed in them. Mere presence of the link or its listing on this Portal should not be assumed as endorsement of any kind. We cannot guarantee that these links will work all the time and we have no control over availability of linked pages. Links to DAC-Website by other websites We do not object to you linking directly to the information that is hosted on this site and no prior permission is required for the same. However, we would like you to inform us about any links provided to this Portal so that you can be informed of any changes or updations therein. Also, we do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on your site. The pages belonging to this site must load into a newly opened browser window of the User. For more details and banners to link to our Portal visit our Link to Us Section. Thank You, Webmaster DAC-Website Fax: +91-11-24301851/862 Email: webmaster AT dac.gov.in Privacy Policy DAC-Website does not automatically capture any specific personal information from you, (like name, phone number or e-mail address), that allows us to identify you individually. If the DAC-Website requests you to provide personal information, you will be informed for the particular purposes for which the information is gathered and adequate security measures will be taken to protect your personal information. We do not sell or share any personally identifiable information volunteered on the DAC-Website to any third party (public/private). Any information provided to this website will be protected from loss, misuse, unauthorized access or disclosure, alteration, or destruction. We gather certain information about the User, such as Internet protocol (IP) addresses, domain name, browser type, operating system, the date and time of the visit and the pages visited. We make no attempt to link these addresses with the identity of individuals visiting our site unless an attempt to damage the site has been detected. Webmaster DAC-Website Fax: +91-11-24301851/862 Email: webmaster AT dac.gov.in Home About Us Help Weather Forecast Feedback RTI Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India