India | INTERNATIONAL SERICULTURAL COMMISSION Skip to main content HOME About Us Historical Background Current Position Mission and Objectives Organizational Structure Membership Country Membership Collective Associate Membership Individual Associate Membership Join as a Member Core Activity Research and Development Training Scholarship Volunteer Expert Programme Sharing of Genetic Resources Global Partnership Programme Consultancy Global Meetings Awards Publications Benefits Member Country Collective Associate Member Individual Associate Member Non Member Country Silk Companies Fashion Industry Pharmaceutical, Cosmetics & other Sectors Researchers / Students Sericologia About Sericologia Structure Chief Editor How to Subscribe Sericologia Information to Contributors Publication Current Issue Previous Issues Portfolio National Delegates Secretary General Officer on Special Duty Secretary to Secretary General Executive Silk Industry Silk - An Introduction Evolution of Silk Types of Silk Key Components Merits Millennium Development Goal Statistics Silk Products Search form Search this site You are here Home » Country Profile » India India Date of Joining:  Monday, January 19, 1959 National Delegate:  Central Silk Board Nodal Ministry:  Ministry of Textiles Region:  Asia Vertical Tabs History Sericulture and Silk Industry is an avocation in India at least the second century B.C.  According to historians, raw silk was exported during the reign of Kanishka in 58 B.C. Some legend says that Chinese Buddhist monks smuggled in eggs of silkworms and seeds of the Mulberry tree in their hollow bamboo sticks.  In its long history, silk industry has passed through periods of great prosperity as well as decline.  The modern silk history dates back to the 15th Century, which was also famous for sculpture and paintings. During the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries sericulture flourished in the States of the then Bengal, Mysore and Kashmir.  Indian silk industry has improved manifold since independence from the raw silk production level of 1437 MT during First Plan period (1969-74) to 23679 MTs by the end of March 2013.  This has been possible due to the sustained efforts of Central Silk Board, Govt. of India, its research agencies, Provincial (State) sericulture departments and private stakeholders.  Development and introduction of improved races of silkworm breeds, high yielding food plants, improvement in rearing practices, organized seed production network, technology up-gradation in reeling, weaving, wet processing, etc., along with the investment made by the governmental agencies have led to an overall improvement in productivity and quality. India’s silks are known for their finery and artistic designs and distinct colours. Today India is the second largest silk producer of raw silk and also has the distinction of being the world’s largest consumer of pure silk.  The country is known the world over for the exquisite brocade fabrics of Banaras, silks of Karnataka, tie-and –dye and Patola of Gujarat and Rajasthan, ikats from Orissa, fine Bandhej and temple silks of Kancheepuram and Tanjore, etc., are only a few of the myriad range of silk weaves, textures and patterns available in India. India is the only country in the world to produce all the four known varieties of silk including Mulberry, Eri, Tasar and Muga.  Mulberry is the largest practiced sericulture industry accounting for almost 76 per cent of the entire silk production.  The industry provides employment to more than 7.6 million people across 51,000 villages, who operate 328,627 handlooms and 45,867 powerlooms with 8,14,616 weavers.  Its exports of silk are worth about US$ 360 Million of which 70 per cent comprises natural silk yarn and fabrics, 13 per cent made-ups and 26 per cent garments. Domestic demand stands at 28800 MT compared to production of 23679 MT annually thanks to the growing demand for silk fabrics and sarees from Indian women.  Aggressive promotion of the silk industry in India has attracted a large number of organized players to set up modern units for both apparel as well as home textile production. Types of Silk India is home to some of the most exotic and wide-ranging silks in the world.  In fact, each silk producing cluster is unique in its patterns, designs and colour combinations.  Traditional as well as modern methods of production co-exist in perfect harmony, with the handloom varieties having a distinctness of their own. High fashion fabrics from classic dupion to fine mulberry organza, taffeta, crepe, georgette, chiffon, tabby, satin and twill are a rage amongst international fashion designers the world over.  A significant feature is that colours and designs of weaves, prints, embroidery and appliqué work are made to designers’ specifications with flexibility of the exporter to supply small quantities and infinite varieties. Home textiles in pure silk is also becoming a major story out of India.  Dupion, jacquard, embroidered, yarn-dyed and other decorative work are used on a wide range of products and sold in the international markets. India is the only country in the world producing all the four commercially known varieties of silk; Mulberry, Eri, Tasar and Muga. The country is known the world over for the exquisite brocades, dobbies, yarn-dyed prints and embroidery among others. Mulberry  Muga Tasar Eri   Infrastructure Union Government: Central Silk Board (CSB), coming under the Ministry of Textiles, Govt. of India, is the Central Agency for the development of Sericulture and Silk Industry.  The main activities of the CSB are R&D, upkeep of the 4 tier seed production network, supports the provincial government to implement field development programmes, promotion of silk at national and international level, and framing & implementing policy actions for the organized development of the industry.  The activities of CSB are undertaken through 300 units and 4000 employees in different parts of the country.  800 scientists and 2500 technical staff are deployed for specialized areas in different disciplines of the industry.  CSB spend about US $60 Million per annum for the development of the sericulture and silk industry. Provincial Governments: All the provincial Governments have separate departments dealing with sericulture and silk industry.  Their major responsibilities are; implement field development programmes, extension, marketing, seed production, and incentivize investments among the stakeholders. The investment by the provincial Governments to the industry is at the level of US $ 50 Million per annum. Private Sector: The private sectors, including the Non-Government Organizations are also playing an important role for the development of the industry.  Private Investment is witnessed in seed production,  post yarn and export sectors. Click here to view the overall infrastructure facilities available in the country Statistics                     Resources I Mulberry varieties The country evolved some of the highest yielding mulberry varieties in the world. Click here to view the commercially available mulberry varieties in India. II Silkworm Races Two types of silkworm races are used in the country; the multivoltine and bivoltine.  The multivoltine is the native race and the bivoltine was imported into the country as part of the collaborative programmes taken up with Japan. The evolution of Cross Breeds (CB) using bivoltine as a male parent during 1970s heralded a new chapter in the country by transforming sericulture as an economically viable commercial enterprise among the farmers.  With the assistance of Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), many improved bivoltine breeds suitable to tropical Indian conditions have been developed.  This is expected to significantly reduce India’s dependency on imported silk from China. There are two types of hybrids used for commercial purpose: A. Bivoltine Hybrids B: Multivoltine X Bivoltine Hybrids Click here to view silkworm breeds released to the field III Machineries India has developed many improved machineries for onform and the post-cocoon operations.  This has significantly improved the quality and productivity of silk. Click here to view the machineries Outlook The Plan activities for the different sectors of the country have been conceived on a Five Year period.  The XII Plan period has already commenced from April 2012 - March 2013, and is expected to conclude in 2016-17.  XII Plan proposed an ambitious target of producing 32000 MTs of silk with special focus on producing internationally graded import substitute bivoltine silk. Silk Products The sheer fineness, harmony of colours and intricacy of designs are hallmarks of India’s enchanting range of silks.  From the exquisite brocades of Banaras to the myriad range of jacquard, satin, crepe, dobby, chiffon, organza, taffeta, dupion, embroidered, yarn-dyed, prints and others, India offers an amazing variety of silks for fashion and home textiles both in the hand-woven and machine woven sectors. Over the years, international designers have used Indian silks to create awe-inspiring collections.  Indian designers have fashioned their collections using a variety of Indian silks both for the domestic as well as international markets. Today India is not only a leading exporter of silk products, but is also a big consumer.  Silk is considered sacred in India because of the "purity" and is purchased during important festivals, religious ceremonies and occasions like marriages, etc. Hand Block Prints The art and craft of textiles block printing dates back centuries.  Artisans created unique designs that strongly revolved around themes of religious festivities, nature and the like…in fact they used only natural vegetable dyes to produce some of the most fascinating palette of colours that reflect the rich ethos and heritage of India. Screen-printed Wonders Pure silk crepe fabric is used to create some wonderful designs.  Screen-printing is amongst the most popular methods used by manufactures and designers in India.  Here again, each region of India has specific and unique designs, patterns and colours that continue to fascinate and inspire us to this day. Hand-painted India possesses well-defined motifs from the earliest days.  Many of these are adapted by modern-day designers using various techniques of dyeing and printing.  An increasing use of ‘hand painting’ on pure silk is producing artistic collections that are creating waves on the fashion ramps globally.  The fashion garments shown on these pages use the hand-painted technique on a range of pure silk fabrics like chiffon, samo-satin, jacquard satin, and crepe amongst others.  After painting, the fabric is processed in a steam chamber for about six hours, after which it is stretched, washed and roll polished… Embroidery for value-addition India’s ancient heritage of hand-embroidery is not only being kept alive but being used to create high value-added fabrics for the international markets. In fact, the silk sector in the country is using both the methods – hand and machine embroidery on a range of apparel and home textile products that are much in demand by international buyers. Beadwork and sequins are embroidered on this lehenga set in classical zardosi while the top is hand-crocheted pure silk. Western Fashion Wear Western women’s wear in pure silk have been sparkling the international fashion horizon for some years now.  Designers from India have made their presence felt by showcasing their collections at leading international events.  Formal, cocktail and bridal wear are integral parts of the collections using a wide variety of Indian silks.  Home textiles in pure silk is also becoming a major story out of India.  Dupion, jacquard, embroidered, yarn-dyed and other decorative work are used on a wide range of products and sold in the international markets. Jacquards & Dobbies India is perhaps amongst the few countries that have the traditional handloom and modern integrated mills working side by side, each is creating exquisitely created fabrics across the spectrum of fibres including pure silk.  The traditional jacquard and dobby patterns of the master weavers and craftsmen are now legendary and continue to inspire the designers and weavers of today producing such exquisite jacquard and dobby fabrics for the discerning international markets. Brilliant Brocades The famous brocades of Banaras are the ‘fabric of dreams’ and also known as ‘Kinkhab’.   Artists created some of the most attractive floral designs using silk and gold threads.  The contemporary pure silk brocades of India are ranked high amongst the fabrics used to fashion garments, made-ups and other home décor products.  Though the technique of weaving these lovely brocades has spread to other parts, Banaras continues to be the most important center for manufacturing pure silk brocades. Fashion Accessories India is emerging as an important source for pure silk fashion accessories in a variety of designs.  Growing demand from the international as well as domestic markets is attracting more number of manufacturers to enter this category.  India is particularly strong in pure silk scarves, stoles, neckties, shawls and even some home décor products.  Scarves in 50g crepe silk and stoles in 50g georgette silk are used in the popular products.   A good necktie is in 80g pure silk twill. Famous Indian Silk Sarees Silk has been intermingled with the life and culture of the Indians.  Though India is producing all the varieties of silk i.e., dress materials, scarves/stoles, readymade garments, almost synonymous with the word silk.   It is the traditional costume of the Indian woman since time immemorial.   There are innumerable references in Indian literature about this draped garment and the style of wearing differs from time to time, region to region and people to people.  The silk sarees of India are among the living examples of the excellent craftsmanship of the weavers of the country. The artistic and aesthetic sense of Indian weavers is not content with striking colours they choose for the fabrics, but lies in their mastery over the creation of floral designs, beautiful textures, fine geometry and the durability of such work.  The weaver not only weaves with yarn but with intense feeling and emotion.  In India, there are a number of silk weaving centers spread all over the country, known for their distinct and typical style and products.  For Indians, particularly ladies, silk is lifeline – the elixir.  Silk is interwoven with the way of life and culture of a region. Craftsmen all over the Indian sub-continent tried to master the weaving of sarees as exclusive as one can think of, putting motif designs, colours, pattern and versatility in them.  No two sarees can be of same design left to the choice of weaver, thus there is innumerable pattern or diversity.  Over the years, specific centres sprung and developed to promote a particular pattern of design / weaving and they became distinct. The Tricks of Tie and Dye The resist dyeing technique has been practiced in India since centuries.  There are two distinct traditions in this technique.  The patola or ikat technique involves the dyeing of the tie-resist yarn. The bandhej or bandhini involves the dyeing of the fabric. The Patolas of Gujarat The patolas are known for their precision, subtlety and beauty.  Both warp and weft are dyed by dye resist method in a range of five or six traditional colours like red, indigo, blue, emerald green, black or yellow.  The exact and highly skilled process ensures that when the fabric is woven, the design will appear precisely and create a magnificently coloured and figured ground of great richness and beauty with birds, flowers, animals, dancers, etc., in a geometrically stylized perfection. Temple Silks of the South South India is the leading silk producing area of the country also known for its famous silk weaving enclaves like Kancheepuram, Dharmavaram, Arni, etc. While the temple towns like Kancheepuram are renowned for their magnificent heavy silk sarees of bright colours with silver or gold zaree works, the centers like Bangalore and Mysore are known for their excellent printed silks.  The traditional handloom silks always score over the powerloom silks in the richness of their textures and designs, in their individuality, character and classic beauty.  Handloom weaving remains a symbol of versatility and creativity of living craft.  Today, Indian silks, especially the handloom products, remain the most beautiful and cherished the world over. India, the Largest Consumer of Silk India’s passion with pure silk is legendary and dates back to the 15th century.  Silk is worn on ceremonial and special occasions; it adorns the Gods and Goddesses in temples, and is used by fashion designers to make haute couture garments.  India’s silk industry is driven by the huge domestic demand, mainly for sarees.  The sheer range of sarees available in India is mind-boggling with each region having a unique type of saree in pure silk.  While India produces about 23,679 MT of raw silk, its domestic demand today stands at over 28800 MT.  This shortfall is met through imports. World Romances with Indian Silk Traditional Indian textiles and the country’s diverse cultural ethos have inspired leading designers as well as consumers worldwide. Silk remains their fabric of choice and an ideal medium for expression of their individual styles be it for fashion on home décor products.  For years, the sheer range of sensuous Indian silks has provided international fashion brands and labels the opportunity to produce unique collections.  The US, Germany, and UK are among the biggest buyers of Indian silk products. High fashion silk fabrics – from the classic dupions, to fine mulberry organza, taffeta, crepe, georgette, chiffon, tabby, satin and twills are sought for the premium collections including boutique and designer garments, cocktail dresses, and fashion accessories.  Pure silk made ups in the typical Indian dupion, exquisite jacquard, dobby, yarn dyed, embroidered are adorning the top most homes of consumers in the highly developed western world.  And that romance continues even today! Indian Silk Inspires Designers Fashion designers the world over continue to draw inspiration from India’s rich traditions and heritage, art and culture, religious, and the way of life…Much of this reflected in the versatility of Indian silk.  The sheer array of fabrics produced by traditional craftsmen, the vibrant colours and wide spectrum of woven designs, the intricate and detailed embroidery…all continue to fascinate the fashion conscious west. Some of the major silk fabrics commonly used by these designers are chiffons, organza, satins, georgettes, lightweight plains, taffetas, crepes, dupions, brocades, embroidered silks and other intricately woven design fabrics.  Indian designers too have been working very closely with the handloomweavers for a long time now for developing their silk fabrics.  It is the work of such designers and couturiers that has helped bring back the focus on pure silk whereby expanding its possibilities and demand. Bring Elegance to Home Décor India today is a leading player in the home textiles sector both in the international as well as domestic markets.  It produces the entire range of products, but its silk specialties remain much sought after.  Bed spreads, duvets, cushion covers, throws, quilts and carpets are some of the items produced for the export markets.  Modern and vertically integrated silk textile companies are manufacturing some of the finest home products.  Home textiles in pure silk is also becoming a major story out of India.  Dupion, jacquard, embroidered, yarn-dyed and other decorative work are used on a wide range of products and sold in the international markets. Famous Silk Centres in India State District Reeling Centre Weaving Centre Andhra Pradesh Ananthpur Chittoor Nizamabad Rangareddy Cuddapah Krishna Ongole Warangal Nalagonda Nellore Guntur Parvathipuram Vizag Kamma West Godavari Adilabad East Godavari Mahaboobnagar Kurnool Kadri, Hindpur, Penukonda Palamner, Madanapalli Nizamabad Hyderabad Cuddapah Penugonda, Vijaywad, Ramayanpeta Ongole Atmakur, Hanumakonda Nalagonda Nellore Guntur Parvathipuram Paderu Bhadrachalam Yelur Uttanur Dharmavaram       Pochampalli Venkatagiri       Peddapuram, Samlkote Narayanpet Gadwal, Rayadurg Karnataka Kolar Kolar     Bangalore (rural) Siddalghatta, Vijaypura, Chikkaballapur, Ramanagaram, Kanakapura, Chnnapatna Bangalore, Anekal, Doddaballapur   Mysore Kollegal, T.Naraipura Kollegal   Chamarajnagar Chamarajnagar     Gadag Shirahatti Byadagi   Chitradurga   Monakalmur   Mandya   Melukote   Bagalkote   Gulegudda, ilekal, Rakbhavi, Bannahatti, Ramadurga Kerala Palaghat Palaghat     Kottayam Kottayam     Kanthalore Kanthalore     Kasargod Kasargod     Kannur   Kannur West Bengal Maida Mathabari, Madhughat, Maida Maida   Birbhum Rampurhat Birbhum   Murshidabad Berhampore Murshidabad   West Dinjanpur Islampur     Bankura     Uttaranchal Dehradun Dehradun   Uttar Pradesh Varanasi   Varanasi   Bhadol   Bhadol Tamilnadu Krishnagiri Krishnagiri, Hosur, Denkanikottai, Palacode     Coimbatore Coimbatore Coimbatore   Dharmapuri Dharmapuri    