Vision & Mission | Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home Vision & Mission Vision & Mission VISION of Horticulture Department Second Green Revolution for doubling production. Promoting Horticulture as a profitable and viable sector by leveraging technology. Increasing the income levels of horticulture farmers and assuring them an improved quality of life. Strengthening the forward and backward linkages. Promoting Organic farming as a way of life. Exploiting Information Technology tools in all aspects of horticulture. Encouraging farm mechanization. MISSION of the Horticulture Department Increasing productivity and production through adoption of Hi-tech horticulture practices. Strengthening the production and supply of quality Pedigree planting materials. Timely supply of inputs - High yielding / Hybrid seeds, fertilizers, bio-fertilizers, bio-pesticides, etc. Promoting High Density Planting in perennial crops. Efficient and effective utilization of water and fertilizer through Precision Farming. Thrust on Integrated Nutrient Management & Integrated Pest Management. Canopy management and rejuvenation of old Orchards. Reduction of post-harvest losses through modern Post-harvest technologies. Providing refrigerated transportation facilities for Horticulture produce to reach the local, national and international market. Availability of horticultural produce in the markets for consumers through retail outlets. Creating awareness on Organic c farming through a multi pronged approach. Ensuring higher income to farmers through efficiency improvement in the production, supply chain and market linkages of horticultural produce, using Information Technology. Use of Information Technology tools in administration, information exchange, extension, marketing for speedy transfer of horticulture related information. More thrust on horticulture based farming system in rain fed areas. Capacity building for Department Personnel / Farmers/ Entrepreneurs. Strengthening infrastructure facilities in the horticulture training institutes. Promotion of horticulture as an integrated activity involving agriculture, animal husbandry, silviculture, apiculture, sericulture, fisheries in rural areas and encouraging terrace gardening in the cities. Development of new gardens and eco-parks for promotion of tourism. Effective utilization of assets in the State Horticulture Farms.   Visitor Counter: 843115 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015