Places to Visit in Nalanda and Tourist Destinations near Nalanda Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Travel to Patna Shopping in Patna How to Reach Patna Hotels in Patna Flights to Patna Patna Distance Chart Patna Airport Map Patna Metro Map Places to Visit in Patna State Secretariat Building Darbhanga House Sinha Library Padri Ki Haveli Moin-ul-Haque Stadium Pathar Ki Masjid Begu Hajjam Mosque Imarat-E-Shariya Sadaqat Ashram Gandhi Maidan Nagholkothi Qila House Phulwari Sharif Shaheed Smarak Khuda Baksh Oriental Library Tourist Destinations Near Patna Travel to Nalanda Travel to Bodhgaya Travel to Vaishali Travel to Rajgir About Patna Patna Map Patna Weather Travel to Bihar Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Bihar Places to Visit in Bihar Home » Patna » Places Near Patna » Places to Visit in Nalanda Places to Visit in Nalanda In ancient India, Nalanda was a prime seat of knowledge and learning. In the 5th century, the Gupta emperors for the study of Buddhism founded here a university, which was one of the greatest study centers in the contemporary world. The biggest of all tourist attractions in Nalanda is the excavated remains of the ancient university. Elaborately planned temples and monasteries, daises for the professors speaks volumes for its glorious past. Places to See in Nalanda Nalanda University Archaeological Complex This is the excavated site of the great university. Spread over an area of 14 hectares, the complex had red brick buildings hemmed by gardens. A central walk way runs through the complex from north to south. on the eastern side of the central alley were the Viharas (monasteries) and the Chaityas (temples) on the west. A half broken statue of lord Buddha is housed in a chapel. The Nalanda Archaeological Museum The museum, although small in size, stands just opposite the entrance of the excavated site. It has an impressive collection of Buddhist and Hindu bronzes and a number of undamaged statues of the Lord Buddha that were found in the area. Two enormous terra-cotta jars, which stand behind the museum in a shaded enclosure, date back to 1st century. Nava Nalanda Mahavihara The institute, devoted to the study and research in Pali Literature and Buddhism, is a new addition to the tourist attractions in Nalanda. Many students come to study here from abroad. Hieun Tsang Memorial Hall The hall is constructed recently in memory of the famed Chinese traveler Hieun Tsang. Surajpur Baragaon Close to Nalanda, the place houses a Sun temple beside the lake. It is a popular Hindu pilgrimage. Last Updated on 19/09/2013 Travel to Bihar Travel to Bihar Travel to Bodhgaya Travel to Nalanda Travel to Vaishali Travel to Rajgir Travel to Patna Places to visit in Bihar Places to visit in Bihar Places to visit in Bodhgaya Places to visit in Patna Places to visit in Rajgir Places to visit in Vaishali About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule