Acts/Rules | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > My Government > Acts/Rules Acts/Rules Constitution of India Constitution of India (Full Text) Search in Constitution of India Amendments Government Directory Union Government States & UTs Codes Judiciary Indian Parliament President of India Rajya Sabha Lok Sabha Publications Recent Publications Archive Who's Who President Vice-President Prime Minister Council of Ministers Governors Lt. Governors & Administrators Chief Ministers Judges of Supreme Court Chiefs of Armed Forces Members of Parliament MLAs/MLCs Schemes Documents Annual Report Budget Census Report Citizens Charter E-Books Gazetteer Notification Guidelines Others Plan Document Policy Reports Forms Downloadable Fillable People Speak Acts/Rules In this section, you can access full text of all the Central Acts passed by the Indian Parliament since 1834 by searching the India Code Information System (INCODIS). State Acts are also available. Users can access all the Rules passed by the Parliament and State Legislative Assemblies. Subordinate legislations issued by various Departments are also given in this section. Data from States Data from States Select State Rajasthan Search Acts Jurisdiction <Any> Central State State <Any> Andaman and Nicobar Island (UT) Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chandigarh (UT) Chhattisgarh Dadra and Nagar Haveli (UT) Daman and Diu (UT) Delhi (NCT) Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu and Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Lakshadweep (UT) Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Odisha Puducherry (UT) Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Tamil Nadu Telangana Tripura Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhand West Bengal Ministry <Any> Apex Bodies Election Commission of India Ministry National Human Rights Commission NITI Aayog Prime Minister's Office Keyword All Acts/Rules 3901 Act/Rule(s) found. Himachal Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Charges for Transmission, Wheeling and Intervening Facilities and Fees and Charges to be collected by the State Load Despatch Centre) Regulations, 2006 Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Himachal Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Charges for Transmission, Wheeling and Intervening Facilities and Fees and Charges to be collected by the State Load Despatch Centre) Regulations, 2006 Departmental Examination Rules, 1997 of Himachal Pradesh Institute of Public Administration Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Departmental Examination Rules, 1997 are provided by the Himachal Pradesh Institute of Public Administration (HIPA). Notifications, commencement and application of the rules, conduct of examinations, etc. details are provided for the users. Employment Exchange (Compulsory Notification of Vacancies) Rules, 1960 Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Employment Exchanges (Compulsory Notification of Vacancies) Rules, 1960 document is provided by the Director General of Employment and Training, Ministry of Labour and Employment. Detailed information related to the provisions of the Rules is available. Acts and notifications by Ministry of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find acts, rules and notifications of Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME). Links are available for acts such as Khadi and Village Industries Commission Act, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act etc. Details of central acts in alphabetical and chronological order are available. Users can also access list of recent general notices. Acts and Rules for school education by MHRD Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find Acts and Rules pertaining to school education and literacy provided by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (HRD). Users can find various Acts such as the National Council for Teachers Education Act 1993 and Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last »