Assistance for Modernisation of Slaughter Houses and Carcass Utilization Plants Skip to main contents | Accessibility Options | Screen Reader Access मुख्य सामग्री पर जाएं | अभिगम्यता के विकल्प Home About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Guidelines Dairy Development Fishery Fodder Large Ruminants(Bovine) Livestock Extension Livestock Insurance Livestock Health Piggery Development Poultry Small Ruminants Threatened Breeds Trade Bovine Breeding Trade Conferences Statistics Animal Husbandry Statistics Livestock Census Fisheries Poultry Reports Forms Grievances Public Grievances Contact Us Sunabeda Suratgarh Andeshnagar Breeds Chiplima breeds Dhamrod breeds Hessarghatta breeds Sunabeda breeds CHRS-centre names Suratgarh Breeds Tenders English हिन्दी में Welcome to Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries पशुपालन, डेयरी और मत्स्य पालन विभाग में आपका स्वागत है Search : खोजें : Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Home / Schemes / Animal Husbandary / F.No.48-7/2009-TS (Sheep) / Assistance for Modernisation of Slaughter Houses and Carcass Utilization Plants Assistance for Modernisation of Slaughter Houses and Carcass Utilization Plants   Objectives of the Scheme (a) Modernization of Slaughter Houses To supply hygienic meat for domestic and export market To reduce environmental pollution To reduce bird-hit menace to air-crafts (b) Establishment of Carcass Utilization Centre To fully utilize animal by-products of fallen animals and waste from slaughter houses. To reduce environmental Pollution Implementing Agency : State Governments/ Directorates of Animal Husbandry/ Municipal Corporations/ Local Bodies/ Livestock Corporations Target Group/Beneficiaries :   It is not a beneficiary oriented scheme. Pattern of Financial Assistance (a) Modernization of Slaughter houses 50% of the project cost from GOI and 50% from the State. (b) Establishment of Carcass Utilization Centers 100% grants-in-aid to meet capital expenditure for building, plant & machinery and effluent treatment plant. Only 50% grant is provided for electricity, water fencing boundary, essential housing etc. by the GOI and remaining from State Govt. Year when the scheme started     1988-89 Year Outlay(Rs. lakhs) 2001-02 600.00 2002-03 600.00 2003-04 400.00   Eligibility Conditions For Modernization of Slaughter houses and Establishment of Carcass utilization plants by State Government/ Corporation/ Municipal Corporations etc. But this Scheme has been approved till 2003-04 and no new projects are being considered w.e.f. 2002-03. Physical Targets  As this scheme is development oriented, no physical targets have been set. Procedure for applying Not applicable as this Scheme is approved only till 2003-04 and no new projects are being considered w.e.f. 2002-03. Achievements 5 projects under modernization of slaughter-houses and 13 projects under establishment of carcass utilization plants have been completed. For Further details contact Assistant Commissioner, I/c Meat Unit, Room No. 406, B-Wing, Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi-110001. Telephone (O)23388911/5033   Help | Terms of Use | Site Map | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer | Hyperlinking Policy | Privacy Policy | Archives | Contact Us This website belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ©  2014 All rights reserved. Designed,Developed & Hosted by NIC