Places to Visit in Punjab and Tourist Destinations near Punjab Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Punjab Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Punjab Places to Visit in Punjab Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Wagah Border Sheesh Mahal Gurudwara Anandpur Sahib Harmandir Sahib Pushpa Gujral Science City Gurudwara Kiratpur Sahib Dera Baba Nanak Goindwal Sahib Tourist Circuits Temples in Punjab Palaces in Punjab Forts in Punjab Other Religious Places More Attractions Cities to Visit in Punjab Amritsar Travel Ludhiana Travel Chandigarh Travel Punjab Hotels Amritsar Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Patiala Hotels Mohali Hotels Jalandhar Hotels About Punjab History Geography Climate Home » Punjab » Places to Visit in Punjab Places to Visit in Punjab The picturesque state of Punjab or Panchal with its sprawling farmlands has been aptly nicknamed the smiling soul of India. The fertile terrains are drained by the majestic Ravi, Beas, Sutlej, Chenab and Jhelum and abound in natural beauty. Punjab tourism thus has plenty to offer tourists from all across the world. The blazing Punjabi sunsets when the sky turned gold-amber and the corn colored hills were all at one blue and indigo and violet- and below them, cupped in the rocky hollow and half hidden by the palm trees, lonely pool glinted like a jewel in a brass setting in the last of the slanting sunlight is truly a sight to behold. The tourism department of the Punjab Government has developed some comprehensive package tours that include sightseeing the eminent tourist attractions surrounding a particular belt at an affordable price. Besides, the state famed for the imperial Golden Temple exudes an underlying aura of deep-rooted sanctity. The Ram Tirth, Amritsar and Balmiki's hermitage are two renowned Hindu pilgrimage sites in Punjab while Mazaar, Pir Baba Haji Rattan, Bathinda City is a legendary mosque in the secular state. Punjab, an erstwhile princely state of India and the former empire of Maharaja Ranjit Singh is opulent in majestic and lavish palaces and crenellated forts. The state was also a mute spectator to the horrors of the Jalianwala Bagh massacre. The state is well connected with airports at Chandigarh and Amritsar, several railway stations as well as arterial national highways that link Punjab with the outside. The colorful and exuberant state also boats of a diverse natural heritage and abounds in festive celebrations throughout the year. The state where Bhangra music and dhaba culture reigns is a shopaholic's paradise with its woolen and hosiery products, carpets, jutis and other handicrafts. Punjab, the land of five rivers and astounding cultural diversity is renowned for its cuisine, culture and history. The bright green fertile farming land, shimmering waters, skies in various shades of blue give your senses an ever lasting liveliest experience. The charming cities here are dotted with enticing monuments, gurudwaras, sacred shrines, temples, ashrams, wide lakes, museums, shopping centers, and wildlife sanctuaries. Travel Maps Golden Temple Punjab Wildlife Sanctuaries Places to See in Punjab Golden Temple The Golden Temple is a famous pilgrimage center and one of the most famous tourist attractions of Punjab and India. The oldest and holiest shrine of the Sikh faith, it is revered by thousands of devotees of all faiths across the world. The temple is nestled amidst a beautiful pool called "Amrit Sarovar". The dome of the temple is covered by a layer of Gold plating which gives it a brilliant dazzle in the summer sun, hence the name Golden Temple. Read More..... Jallianwala Bagh Jallianwala Bagh was the site where hundreds of innocent and unarmed protesters were trapped and massacred by British army on 13th of April, 1919. Remains of bullet marks, pierced walls, and a martyr's well which became the funeral ground for thousands of people who jumped off to protect themselves from the firing are testimonies of the biggest tragedy in India. Read More..... Wagah Border Wagah Border, 28 kilometres away from Amritsar separates India from Pakistan. Major tourist attraction here is the "Lowering of Flags" ceremony conducted by the security forces of India and Pakistan namely Border Security Force and Pakistan Rangers. Read More..... Sheesh Mahal Punjab, the smiling soul of India has been aptly nicknamed the city of gardens and palaces. The imperial palaces of Punjab accentuate the beauty of the rambling farmlands and majestic temples. Sheesh Mahal is one such exquisite palace in Patiala that flaunts the flamboyant grandeur of the erstwhile maharajahs. Read More..... Gurudwara Anandpur Sahib Expounding the sacred message of Sikhism, Anandpur Sahib stands on the north-western corner of Chandigarh. As the motherland of Khalsa, the place has a significant religious prominence. Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji was believed to have brought the holy place into being in 1664. Read More..... Harmandir Sahib Harmandir Sahib in Amritsar is popularly known as the Golden Temple. It is also known as Sri Darbar Sahib. This Gurdwara is located in the central part of old Amritsar. The Harmandir Sahib is situated on a rectangular platform surrounded by the water of Amrit Sarovar. It is from this lake that the city of Amritsar got its name. The architecture of the Harmandir Sahib is a combination of the Hindu and Muslim styles. It has a two story marble structure. Harmandir Sahib can be reached by the Guru's Bridge. The upper floor is of this temple is gold plated and is crowned with the golden dome. The golden dome is an inverted lotus shaped structure. Read More..... Pushpa Gujral Science City Pushpa Gujral Science City, situated on the Jalandhar- Kapurthala Road, sprawls across 72 acres of land and is one of the biggest science parks of North India. The project has come about owing to the tremendous support of the Government who has committed to provide a mammoth sum of Rs. 70 crore. Read More..... Gurudwara Kiratpur Sahib Gurudwara Kiratpur Sahib was established in 1627 by the sixth Sikh Guru Sri Har Gobind Sahib in a small peaceful town at the foothills of the Shivalik range in Punjab. He lived his last few years of his worldly life here in Kiratpur. Situated on the bank of river Sutlej in present day Ropar district, the auspicious place had regular association with the other Sikh Gurus that followed. Here the seventh Sikh Guru, Guru Har Rai and eighth Sikh Guru, Guru Har Krishan Dev Ji were born and brought up. Even the first Sikh prophet, Guru Nanak ji is known to have visited this place in his lifetime. The place is also associated with the memory of the renowned Muslim Saint, Pir Buddan Shah who was gifted with a very long life. Read More..... Dera Baba Nanak Dera Baba Nanak is situated 35 kms to west of Gurdaspur in Punjab, on the left bank of river Ravi .The great Guru Nanak Dev Ji spent the last twelve years of his precious worldly life here in Dera Baba Nanak. The whole place was in fact the abode of Guru Nanak Ji but it was on this bank that he chose to meditate. A beautiful gurudwara stands here today to commemorate the place. Read More..... Goindwal Sahib The town of Goindwal holds immense significance in reference to the Sikh religious pilgrimage sites. The town lies south east of Amritsar and only thirty Kilometers away from the city. The Goindwal town boasts of some of the important Gurudwaras and among them the Goindwal Sahib is one of the greatest. The Goindwal Sahib Gurudwara in Punjab is the pride of the state and it is a major pilgrimage and tourists attraction. Read More..... Last Updated on : 20/09/2013 Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Punjab Tourism Pushpa Gujral Science City Jallianwala Bagh Martyr's    Memorial Gurudwara Kiratpur Sahib Dera Baba Nanak Goindwal Sahib Sheesh Mahal Gurudwara Anandpur Sahib Harmandir Sahib Travel to Punjab Travel to Punjab Travel to Amritsar Travel to Ludhiana Places to visit in Punjab Places to visit in Amritsar Places to visit in Ludhiana Flights to Punjab Flights to Amritsar Flights to Chandigarh Flights to Ludhiana Travel Agents Chandigarh About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule