Dadra and Nagar Haveli Map Home » Maps » Dadra & Nagar Haveli » Map of Dadra and Nagar Haveli   Dadar Nagar Haveli दादरा और नागर हवेली का नक्शा Dadar Nagar Haveli Map Silvassa City Silvassa City Location Tehsil Lat Long Location Capital Government and Politics Parliamentary Constituencies People, Culture and Festivals Travel to Dadra Nagar Haveli Places to Visit in Dadra Nagar Haveli Travel to Silvassa Places to Visit in Silvassa Silvassa Wildlife Hotels in Dadra & Nagar Haveli Silvassa Hotels Reach by Train Reach by Road Business and Economy Geography and History Weather Education Population Infrastructure Language Pin code       Dadra and Nagar Haveli Map Click any Neighbouring state on the map and get the detailed map Map of Dadra and Nagar Haveli Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Dadra and Nagar Haveli Map highlights the National Highways, Major Roads, District Headquarter, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Dadra and Nagar Haveli is a Union Territory in Western India, with Silvassa as its capital. While Nagar Haveli is located between Maharashtra and Gujarat , Dadra is an enclave which is a few kilometers north of Nagar Haveli in Gujarat. Dadra and Nagar Haveli was a former Portuguese colony and the territory was formally merged into the Union of India in 1961. The population of Dadra and Nagar Haveli is 342,853 (2011 census) and the Union Territory covers an area of 487 km sq. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli: For administrative purposes, Darda and Nagar Haveli has been divided into two taluks, namely Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Dadra is the headquarter of the Dadra Taluk and Silvassa is the headquater of Nagar Haveli. A Lieutenant Governor takes care of the administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli . Tourism in Dadra and Nagar Haveli: Dadra and Nagar Haveli is home to beautiful gardens, lakes and waterfalls. This Union Territory has become a popular tourist destination and some of the tourist attractions in Dadra and Nagar Haveli are the Tribal Museum, Vanganga Lake Garden, Island Garden, Mini Zoo and Bal Udyan among others. Dadra and Nagar Haveli Information Capital Silvassa Date of formation 11. Aug. 1961 Administrator Narendra Kumar Tourist attractions Tad Keshwara Temple, Van Vihar, Damanganga River, Dudhani (water sports) Festivals Barash (Diwali), Ivaso, Bhawada Languages Gujarati, Hindi, Marathi, Konkani Size 491 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 343,709 Rivers Silvassa, Khanvel Major crops Paddy, ragi, millet, pulses, oilseeds Factoids Not much is known about this region's ancient history which contains many tribes. The ghangal, a musical instrument made with a gourd, bamboo and iron strings, is a part of Warli religious rituals. No. of District 1 List of Districts in Dadra and Nagar Haveli Sr. No. District District HQ Population (2011) Growth Sex Ratio Literacy Area (km 2 ) Density (/km 2 ) 1 Dadra and Nagar Haveli Silvassa 343709 55.88% 774 76.24 704 698 Last Updated on: September 24, 2014 Travel to Dadra and Nagar Haveli Places to visit in dadra-nagar-haveli Travel to Silvassa   Union Territories of India   Andaman and Nicobar Pondicherry Dadra and Nagar Haveli Daman and Diu Delhi Chandigarh Lakshadweep             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule