Amarnath Yatra Route Map Home » Maps » Jammu & Kashmir » Amarnath Yatra Map   Jammu and Kashmir Jammu and Kashmir Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Rivers Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map India Pakistan Border Dispute जम्मू और कश्मीर का नक्शा Cities Srinagar Jammu Leh Pahalgam Gulmarg Udhampur                    more.. Travel to Jammu and Kashmir Places to visit in Jammu Amarnath Yatra Map Vaishno Devi Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hotels in Jammu and Kashmir Gulmarg Hotels Jammu Hotels Katra Hotels Leh Ladakh Hotels Pahalgam Hotels Patnitop Hotels Srinagar Hotels Gulmarg Hotels Assembly Polls J&K Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities In Jammu And Kashmir Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Amarnath Yatra Amarnath Yatra Route Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing location of Amarnath Cave and also Rivers, Major roads nearby this holy place. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Amarnath is located in Jammu and Kashmir and is popular Hindu pilgrimage site. Dedicated to Lord Shiva, the Amarnath Temple is one among the most revered Hindu pilgrimage places in India. According to Hindu mythology it is believed that this is where Lord Shiva explained the secret of life and eternity to his wife Parvati. Inside the main Amarnath Cave sits a giant ice stalagmite that is supposed to resemble the Shiva Ling and every year thousands of pilgrims make this difficult trek up into the mountains to show their devotion to Lord Shiva. The ice Shiva Ling forms between the months of May to August and then gradually melts away. The other ice formations in this cave represent Shiv and Parvati's son Ganesh. The dates for the Amarnath Yatra this year are from 28 June 2014 to 10 August 2014. Registration can be done online through the Amarnath Yatra official website www.amarnathyatra.org Children who are below the age of 13 years and persons above the age of 75 years will not be eligible to undertake the Amarnath Yatra 2014. How to Reach Amarnath Air : The closest airport to Amarnath is Srinagar , located at a distance of around 95 km from Pahalgam, the base camp for Amarnath Yatra. Srinagar is connected to major cities in India by airlines such as Air India, GoAir, IndiGo, Jet Airways, JetKonnect and Spicejet. Pawan Hans and Himalayan Heli Helicopters also fly to Amarnath and can be booked through their official websites www.pawanhans.co.in or www.himalayanheli.com or www.onlineglobalhelicorp.com Rail : The nearest railhead to Amarnath is Jammu, located at a distance of around 281 km from Pahalgam, the base camp for Amarnath Yatra. Major trains connecting Amarnath to other parts of the country are: Delhi: Jammu Rajdhani Chennai: Andaman Express Howrah: Himgiri Express Ahmedabad: Sarvodaya Express Jamnagar: Jam Jat Express Pune: Jhelum Express Road : It is possible to travel to Amarnath by bus or taxi. Taxis and buses are available for travel from Jammu to Pahalgam (a total distance of 281 km). Buses and taxis can be hired from the Tourist Reception Centre (Jammu and Kashmir Government), located at Raghunath Bazaar (bookings can only be made early in the morning). The journey by road (walking) passes through Pahalgam - Chandanwari - Pissu Top - Sheshnag - Panchtarni and then finally reaching the holy cave of Amarnath. Accommodation in Amarnath Many government and non-government, charitable organizations provide tent accommodation and community kitchen (Langar) facilities to pilgrims at a very nominal price or at times even free of cost. Important Tips for Amarnath Yatra: Achieve physical fitness a month before the Yatra. Begin deep breathing exercise as there is lack of oxygen at high altitudes. Carry warm and comfortable clothes during the Yatra as temperatures can drop radically. Carry a raincoat and torch as it might rain or snow during the Yatra Keep some identification of yourself with you all the time Carry a water bottle and some dry fruits to snack on the journey Keep a moisturizer or a cold cream to protect your skin from dry conditions Always follow instructions given by the Yatra Administration Carry basic medication along with you Take regular breaks and try not to exert yourself too much during the climb Last Updated on : July 16, 2014 Jammu and Kashmir Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Elevation Map District Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Jammu and Kashmir Travel Map Handicrafts Map Gulmarg Location Map Leh Ladakh Map Leh Location Map Vaishno Devi Location Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Jammu to Amritsar Route Map Jammu to Chandigarh Route Map Jammu to Delhi Route Map Jammu to Srinagar Route Map Amarnath Yatra Map Places to Visit in Jammu Leh Tourist Map Trekking Route Map Pocket Maps Chandigarh to Jammu Delhi to Jammu Jammu to Leh Jammu to Pahalgam Jammu to Shimla Chandigarh to Srinagar Delhi to Srinagar Leh to Srinagar Chandigarh to Vaishnodevi About Jammu and Kashmir Hotels in Jammu and Kashmir Rivers and Lakes Jammu Kashmir Elections Election Results Chief Minister Dental Colleges Medical Colleges             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule