 Welcome to Food Corporation of India Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A हिन्दी मे देखे भारतीय खाद्य निगम Food Corporation of India Home Contact Us Sitemap Corporate Email Headquarters FCI Operations Procurement Storage & Contract Movement Finances Sales Stocks Quality Control Engineering Import & Export Industrial Relation-Labour Open Market Sale Scheme Introduction MTF for sale of wheat under.. MTF for sale of wheat under.. Policy for Bulk Sale through E-Auction.. Policy for sale of wheat through.. Status of Sale of wheat under.. Status of Sale of rice under.. Public Distribution System Brief note on PDS and other.. Commodity/Scheme wise allotment and offtake under.. Quality Standard of issuable Ready Stocks.. National Food Security Act 2013.. Allotment And Off-take under NFSA .. FCI Highlights Home About Us Objective Board of Directors (As on 23.04.2015).. Code of Conduct and Ethics Citizens Charter of FCI High Level Committee Organisational Structure Zonal / Regional Offices North Zone Delhi Region Haryana Region HP Region J&K Region Punjab Region Rajasthan Region UP Region Uttarakhand Region East Zone Bihar Region Jharkhand Region Orissa Region WB Region West Zone Chhattisgarh Region Gujarat Region Maharashtra Region MP Region South Zone A P Region Karnataka Region Kerala Region Tamil Nadu Region North-East Zone Arunachal Region Assam Region Manipur N&M Region NEF Region Institute of Food Security Personnel Seniority List Staff Body Election 2014 Vigilance Manpower FCI Regulations Immovable Property Returns of Cat.I (Page-1) Immovable Property Returns of Cat.I (Page-2) Blank APAR forms of Cat-I Employees corner Information Technology Sports & Welfare Activities EPS Claims Downloads CPF Claims List Of Hospitals Empanelled By Headquarters Postings / Transfers / Promotions orders MIS & KPIs Format for Regions MIS & KPI's Formats for Zones Proforma of PEG Scheme Recruitment FCI invites application for the Post of Management Trainee (General/ Depot/ Movement/ Accounts/ Technical/ Civil Engineering / Mechanical Engineering / Electrical Engineering)and Manager (Hindi) for manning posts in its Depots and Offices spread all over Training Institute Immovable Property Returns Photo Gallery Press Release Press Releases by FCI FCI In News RTI RTI Manuals RTI Act-2005 RTI Report /Suo Motu Disclosure Appellate Orders Contact Us HeadQuarter North Zone Delhi Region Haryana Region HP Region J&K Region Punjab Region Rajasthan Region UP Region Uttarakhand Region East Zone Bihar Region Jharkhand Region Orissa Region WB Region West Zone Chhattisgarh Region Gujarat Region Maharashtra Region MP Region South Zone A P Region Karnataka Region Kerala Region Tamil Nadu Region North-East Zone Arunachal Region Assam Region Manipur N&M Region NEF Region Institute of Food Security Ministry Tenders Circulars Related Sites MOCAF&PD CWC IISFM FAP E-GRAINS IRRS Raj Bhasha E-Litigation E-Tendering Procurement Management System(PMS) News & Updates Food Corporation of India, Headquarters Sports Promotion Committee, invites applications for awarding Stipend in the field of Sports activities for the year 2015-16. FCI invites application for the Post of Management Trainee (General/ Depot/ Movement/ Accounts/ Technical/ Civil Engineering / Mechanical Engineering / Electrical Engineering)and Manager (Hindi) for manning posts in its Depots and Offices spread all over FCI (Staff) Regulations-the 1971st and Appendix RFP for Selection of System Integrator of Depot Online System. Orders for 1203 promotions within category-III posts in North Zone. Same can also be viewed at Employee corner in North Zone. Delegation of powers in respect of matters connected with Personnel Administration. EP-09-2015-10 dated 30.04.2015 Introduction of Stagnation Impact Amelioration Scheme 2014 for Category-III & IV employees of Food Corporation of India MoU 2015-16 signed between Ministry and FCI Tentative List of Assistant Grade - I Employees Likely to be promoted to the post of Manager during 2015 in North Zone Draft Concession Agreement, RFP for construction of Silos (As on 26.03.2015) "Report of the High Level Committee on Reorienting the Role and Restructuring of Food Corporation of India" Public Notice Important Notice about fake websites Uploading of the Immovable property Return of Category-II and III employees. Do's and Don'ts of Cyber Security Policy Cyber Security Policy for FCI MSP of Paddy, Wheat and Coarse Grain for 2014-15 MoU between the Food Corporation of India and Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, department of Food & Public Distribution View More Ensuring Food Security of Nation Sports & Welfare Activities Sports & Cultural Activities: The Food Corporation of India is actively promoting Sports & Cultural activities in the organization through the Sports Promotion Board, constituted in the year 1969, with Chairman and Managing Director as its ex-officio Patron and President respectively. At Zonal & Regional level similar Committees are functioning with Executive Directors & General Managers as their ex-officio Presidents. The Constitution of the Sports Promotion Board. The Office bearers/main functionaries of the Board. FCI Sports Promotion Board (SPB) also organizes All India Inter Zonal Tournaments in Football, Cricket, Hockey, Badminton and Table Tennis every year. In addition to this, Sports Promotion Board also organizes one of the All India Public Sector Tournament allocated by the All India Public Sector Sports Promotion Board (AIPSSPB). FCI encourages its sports persons through participation in various prominent Tournaments as well as All India Public Sector Tournaments/National Championships in almost all major disciplines of sports. Further, FCI encourages its sports persons by providing financial assistance for their participation in accredited International events abroad. Salient features of SPB’s activities and its schemes are given hereunder:- (1)  Affiliation: FCI Sports Promotion Board and its Zonal Sports Promotion Committees are affiliated with under mentioned following National & State level Federations /Associations:- Athletic Federation of India All India Public Sector Sports Promotion Board Badminton Association of India Bengal Hockey Association Bengal Wrestling Association Delhi & District Cricket Association Delhi Hockey Association Delhi Hockey Association Delhi Soccer  Association Delhi Table Tennis Association  Hockey India Indian Weight lifting Federation Indian Power lifting Federation Indian Football Association   The affiliation with the above Sports Federations/Associations allows FCI sports persons to participate in various tournaments organized by these Federations/Associations, and also represent these Federations/Associations in the National & International Championships. The affiliation with these Federations helps FCI teams in direct participation in the National Championships. Our Football Team has been regularly participating in the Super Division/A Division League of India Football Association at Kolkata for the last many years. Our team has played alongside and against the players of well known football Clubs of Kolkata like East Bengal, Md. Sporting, Mohan Bagan etc., our Hockey, Cricket, Table Tennis and Badminton Teams have shown excellent performance at State/National level tournaments. (1)  Stipend Scheme Food Corporation of India has been encouraging young, talented and budding students sports persons since 1986 through Stipend Scheme keeping with the objectives of National Sports Policy. About 150 promising sports persons showing potential for outstanding performances are granted stipend in the scheme.. The sports persons are given adequate exposure at State/National level, as part of the FCI Teams. The success of FCI SPB Stipend Scheme is evident from the outstanding performances of Ms. K. Malleshwari (Weightlifting), S/Shri Saurav Ganguly & Ajay Ratra (Cricket), Sharad Kamal & Prithviraj Bose (Table-Tennis) who were earlier on the stipend rolls of the Corporation. The Stipend Scheme has recently been modified by giving preference to medal winners by increasing stipend amount.   Category Age Group Amount Per month Eligibility criteria 1) Premier  Stipend   18 – 24 yrs. Rs.15,000/- a)Team Game:- Representing the country In Seniors b) Individual events: 1 to 6 th Rank in Sr.         National or Semi finalist in Senior National Championship 15 – 18 yrs. Rs.12,000/- a)Team Game:- Representing the country Juniors/Sub Juniors b)Individual events: 1 st   to 6 th Rank in Jr. or Sub Jr. or  semi-finalist in Jr. or Sub Jr. National Championship 2) Elite Stipend 18-24 yrs. Rs.10,000/- a)Team Game: Representing the State/University b) Individual events: 7 th   to 12 th Rank in Sr. or quarter finalist in National Championship 15-18 yrs. Rs. 8,000/- a)Team Game: Representing the State/University in Jr. National b)Individual events: 7 th to 12 th   Rank in Jr. or Sub Jr. National and quarter- finalist in Jr. or Sub Jr. National Championship (1)  REVISED SPORTS POLICY   FCI Sports Promotion Board has  reviewed  the existing Policy pertaining to various aspects of sports & cultural activities such as  recruitment of meritorious sportspersons,  grant of cash incentives, increments, out of turn promotion for outstanding achievements in sports and cultural,   transfer policy for sportspersons. The revised Sports Policy duly approved by the Board of Directors in its  356 th meeting held on 20 th May, 2013 is given as under:-  (a)CASH INCENTIVES (i)                  INTERNATIONAL TOURNAMENTS            (Individual as well as team events) S.No   Tournaments Amount (in Rs.) 1. Winner of Prestigious National & International Awards (Arjuna, Padma, Dronacharya, Rajiv Gandhi KhelRatna, Dhyan Chand Awards) To be decided by President (SPB)/ Managing Director 2. CATEGORY - A Medal winning performance in Olympics Games     Participation (without medal)   Gold           10  lakhs Silver            5  lakhs Bronze         3  lakhs 2  lakhs   3. CATEGORY - B Medal winning performance in Asian Games, World Championships, Commonwealth Games,    Participation (without medal)     Gold             5  lakhs Silver            3  lakhs Bronze         2  lakhs 1      lakh 2        4. CATEGORY - C Medal winning performance in Asian, Commonwealth Championship,   Participation (without medal)     Gold            3  lakhs Silver          2  lakhs Bronze        1  lakhs                50,000/-     (ii)      NATIONAL TOURNAMENTS (National Games, National Championship, All India Inter Institutional Championship, All  India Public Sector Tournaments etc. organised by Govt. of India, Sports Authority of India/ National Sports Federations/All India Public Sector Sports Promotion Board) 1. Individual events Amount (in Rs.)   a)    For winning each Gold medal with a new National Record b)    For winning each Gold medal without any new National Record c)    For winning each Silver medal d)    For winning each Bronze  medal 1,00,000/- 75,000/- 50.000/- 25.000/- 2. Team events  (each member)       a)    Winner (Gold medal ) b)    Runners up (Silver medal) c)    3 rd position (Bronze medal) 30,000/- 20,000/- 10,000/- (iii)   STATE LEVEL For medal winning performance in the State League/State Championship organized by State Associations 1. Individual events Amount (in Rs.)   a)    For winning each Gold Medal b)    For winning each Siler medal c)    For winning each Bronze medal 30,000/- 20,000/- 10,000/- 2. Team events  (each member)       a)    Winner (Gold medal) b)    Runners up (Silver medal) c)    3 rd position (Bronze medal 10,000/- 7,500/- 5,000/- (b) INCREMENTS (i)      International Championships Category Games Increments A   Olympics Grant of Additional increments for medal winning performance shall be considered on merits, on receipt of result by President (SPB). Participation: One increment B Asian Games, World Championships, Commonwealth Games Gold Medal                  : 3 increments Silver Medal                 : 2 increments Bronze Medal              : 1 increment C Asian/Commonwealth Championships Gold Medal                  : 2 increments Silver / Bronze Medal  : 1 increment   (i)            National level events: Events Increment Senior National Games/Championship, All India Inter Institutional Championship, All India Public Sector Tournaments etc. organised by Govt. of India, National Sports Federations/All India Public Sector Sports promotion Board. Gold Medal                  : 2 increments Silver / Bronze Medal  : 1 increment ü  Increments for both individual and team events. ü  All Members of FCI team including Coach and Manager eligible for grant of incentive  (i)            Incentive Increments for Coaches : a)    Two incentive increment to employees of FCI who are appointed as Coach to Senior/Junior Indian Team with medal winning performance. b)    One incentive increment to employees of FCI who are appointed as Coach to Senior/Junior Indian Team c)    One increment to employees of FCI who are appointed as Coach to Senior State Teams with medal winning performance. (i)            Incentive increment to Referees/Umpire’s a)    One advance increment to Referees/Umpires for international event/tournament (v)   An employee will be eligible to earn upto five increments during his/her service career. (c ) OUT OF TURN PROMOTION   (i)            First out of turn promotion Represented the country with medal winning performance in:- Olympic Games World Cup World Championship Asian Games / Championship Commonwealth Games / Championship      OR Sportspersons representing FCI/State in the Senior National Championship/Games, All India Inter Institutional Championships & All India Public Sector Tournament org. by National Sports Federations/All India Public Sector Sports Promotion Board on three occasions with medal winning performance in each championship. (i)            Second and subsequent out of turn promotion Represented the country with medal winning performance in:- Olympic Games World Cup World Championship Asian Games / Championship Commonwealth Games / Championship   (i)               OUT OF TURN PROMOTION FOR COACH    ü  If he/she has trained a sportsperson or a team for at least 240 days preceding the event which goes on to win a medal in any of the international Games/Championship mentioned above.   ü  A Coach who is an employee of the Corporation will be considered for out of turn promotion even if the sportsperson(s) he/she has trained is not a Govt. Servant Out of Turn promotions subject to:- ü  Minimum gap of 12 months between first and second out of turn promotion. ü  Employee  will be eligible for upto three promotions during his/her service career   (d)      RECRUITMENT OF SPORTSPERSONS i)  Annual Quota of recruitment of sportspersons ii)  Spot recruitment of exceptional sportspersons from the National Coaching Camps, National Sports events on the basis of their current achievements can be made for higher posts. iii)    Dedicated Committee’s may be formed of FCI’s eminent sports persons who have knowledge and understanding of sports, its advantages & pitfalls, problems of the sports persons so as to facilitate & promote healthy atmosphere in FCI for all the sportspersons to have better personal and professional career.  The members would be the like of S/Smt. Shiny Wilson, Karnam Malleshwari, Thoiba Singh, N. Sivaraj, Amarjeet Kaypee,Devang Gandhi etc.  They may pay regular visits to all over India to find the real budding/emerging talented sportspersons by visiting i.e. Sports Authority of India (SAI) and State run coaching centres, private clubs etc. and attending different institutional/ state/ national/ international meets/games. The Committee’s may recommend the name of the sportspersons to the Sports promotion Board which after examining all the names recommended by the Committee may submit the proposal for recruitment for approval of President (Sports Promotion Board)/Managing Director.  iv)   The criteria for recruitment at higher level will be  as under: Individual  games Post                     Eligibility Manager  : Participation in Olympics, World Cup/Championships or Medal Winning    Performance in   Asian Games/Cup AG.I        :  Medal Winning Performance in International Tournaments/ meet AG.II       :  Gold Medalist in Senior National or represented the Country in International Tournaments/ meet Team game Manager :   Participation in Olympics, World Cup/Championships /Asian Games/Cup AG.I      :  Represented the country AG.II     :     Member of India ‘A’ Team/ represented the Zone  However, as per Regulation 7(4)  of FCI(Staff) Regulations,1971 Patron-President (SPB)/CMD have the power to give appointment to outstanding/meritorious sportsmen/women who have distinguished themselves in sports at State/National / International level  for  Category-II,III and IV posts, including the promotional posts, subject to their fulfilling the conditions prescribed for such posts. (e)    TRANSFER POLICY    “Sportspersons who are actively involved in sports both as players and administrators should be exempted from transfer till the time they are associated with sports” (f)    INCENTIVE TO FORMER NATIONAL & INTERANTIONAL SPORTSPERSONS  (One-time benefit) It is also proposed that Former National & International sportspersons of the Corporation  who had achieved laurels at the  National/International level prior to the formulation of the incentive  but had not been rewarded may also be granted incentive increments as stipulated in the incentive scheme. (1)  Cultural Activities: FCI Sports Promotion Board also extends assistance to promote cultural activities for the welfare of the employees in Zones/Regions/Headquarters.  Zonal/Regional Committees conduct competitions at Zonal/Regional level in almost all the Zones in the cultural activities such as Drama, One-Act plays, Instrumental music, Mono acting, Dance etc, to promote  awareness of Indian culture amongst  employees. The Committees also encourage  employees’ children for participating in such events by giving prizes for their performances in the field of fine arts, education as well as sports and games. All India FCI Inter Zonal Competition is also organized every year.   Incentive to cultural artists at par with sportspersons    for medal winning performances  at National  level  The Board of Directors in its 356 th meeting held on 20 th May, 2013 has approved the Revised In-service Incentive Scheme for  sportspersons for medal winning performances both at National and International level. On the same analogy, it has been felt that the cultural artists who exhibit similar performance in the All   India FCI Inter Zonal Cultural Competition as well as All India Public Sector Cultural Competition organized by All India Public Sector Sports Promotion Board deserve to be encouraged by giving suitable incentives at par with similar achievements by sportspersons. It has therefore been decided with the approval of Board of Directors in its 357 th meeting held on 24 th July,2013 that the in-service incentive to FCI’s employee cultural artists will be admissible as under:- (a)  CASH INCENTIVES National level Competition   Event: All India Public Sector Cultural Competition org. by All India Public Sector Sports Promotion Board Cash Incentive to be paid to  each employee cultural artists   Winner (Gold medal ) Runners up (Silver medal) 3 rd position (Bronze medal)   30,000/- 20,000/- 10,000/- (a)  INCREMENTS   National level Competition  Events Increment to be given to  each employee cultural artist All India Public Sector Competition organised by All India Public Sector Sports promotion Board. Gold Medal                           :   2 increments Silver/ Bronze Medal              :   1 increment ü  Increments for both individual and team events. ü  All Members of FCI team including Coach and Manager eligible for grant of incentive ü  An employee will be eligible to earn upto five increments during his/her service career. These revised instructions as above are effective from the 1 st April, 2013. (1)  Leave & travel facilities: FCI employees selected for sporting events of National/International importance are treated as ON DUTY for the period of actual days of participation and for the period spent in pre-participation Coaching Camps. Various other facilities viz., Accommodation, Refreshment & Kit etc. have all been substantially enhanced recently. Allowance being paid to sports persons & cultural artists (1)  Prominent sports persons: Many FCI sports persons have contributed in bringing laurels for the Corporation as well as the country. The names of some of the outstanding and prominent sports persons (game-wise) are given as under:- Khel Ratna/Padma Sri/Arjuna Awardee Ms. K. Malleshwari Weightlifting Padma Sri/Arjuna Awardee Ms. Shiny Wilson Athletics Arjuna Awardees: Sh. Satish Kumar Athletics(Deaf & Dumb) Athletics: Sh. Syam Kumar GR. Ms. Sany Joseph, Ms. Rita Sen, Ms. Rinku Atta, Ms. Shantimol Philips, Ms. Pranati Mishra, Ms. Savatri Sur, Ms. E.B. Shyla, Ms. K.S. Bijimol, Ms. Susma Behra, Sh. Baiju, Sh. SA. Kujur, Sh. Mahvir Ram Lohra. Badminton: Sh. Davinder Dhillon, Sh. Kaushik Pal, Sh. Alwin Francis, Sh. N. Srujan and Sh. Anshuman Borah Cricket: Sh. Debang Gandhi, Sh. Amarjeet Kaypee, Sh. Vipin Vats, Sh. Amitava Roy, Sh. Arup Bhattacharjee, Sh. Ashish Wiston Zaidi, Sh. Akash Malhotra, Shri Paras Dogra, Sh. Pankaj Thakur, Sh. Naveen Negi and Sh. Alok Bhattacharjee (an International Umpire). Foodball:  Atnu Bhattacharjee, Sh. Alok Mukhrjee, Sh. Victor Amalraj, Sh. Sarup Das, Sh. Narender Thapa, Sh. Babu Mani, Md. Farid , Sh. Sudip Chkarvati, Sh. Devasis Sarkar and Md. Quadeer Sheikh. Hockey: Sh. Thoiba Singh (Olympian), Sh. Kuljajit Meetai & Sh. Navbeer Singh Powerlifting: Ms. Chhaya Bhatt and Sh. Mahesh Khandelwal Table Tennis: Sh. Sivananda Seshadri Swimming: Ms. Mukta Goel and Sh. Goutam Purket Weightlifting: Sh. G. Ganashekar, Sh. N. Shivraj and Ms. K. Kalyani (7)         Notable achievements of  the FCI sportspersons(event-wise) during 2013-14 is given as under:- Badminton FCI Team won Runners-Up Trophy in the All India Inter Institutional Badminton Tournament organized by Badminton Association of India for last three years. FCI Team secured Bronze Medal in the All India Public Sector Badminton Tournament held at Kanpur from 4 th   to 8 th Oct., 2013 Cricket FCI cricket team secured 1 st   position in the recently concluded   DDCA Premier Division Supper League Championship held at New Delhi. In the process FCI team defeated leading Clubs/Institutions. FCI cricket Team won the Runners-up Trophy alongwith Cash Prize of  Rs.3 lakhs in the All India Bihar Gold Cup (T-20) Cricket Tournament held at Patna during March, 2013. Winner of 28 th All India Bishamber Lal Sah Memorial Seven-A-Side Cricket Tournament held at Nainital during May, 2013. Won 37 th All India Lala Radhubir Singh Memorial Hot Weather  Cricket Tournament held at New Delhi during June, 2013 Won Runners-up Trophy in the 40 th All India Goswami Ganesh dutt Memorial Cricket Tournament held at New Delhi during May/June, 2013 In the median appearance FCI Combined Cricket team showed exemplary performance in the BCCI CORPORATE  CUP CRICKET TOURNAMENT held at Mumbai during Feb., 2014 FCI Cricket team won the Runners-up Trophy in the ALL INDIA PUBLIC SECTOR CRICKET TOURNAMENT org. by FCI at Pune from 18-22 nd March, 2014   Football FCI (South Zone) Team won the All India Football Tournament   held at Hayangudi, with a cash prize of Rs. 50,000/- and a trophy. FCI (North East Zone ) Team won the Bishnuram Medhi Running Silver Cup Tournament. FCI (East Zone) Team secured Runners-Up position in Traders Cup Football Tournament org. by Indian Football Association (WB). Hockey FCI Team won the Group “B” League org. by Bengal Hockey Association. FCI Combined Hockey Team participated  for the first time in the Senior National Hockey Championship org by Hockey India at Lucknow during March, 2014 and showed exemplary performance   Table-Tennis Sh. Sivananda Seshadri  of South Zone  has been adjudged the current Tamil Nadu State Rank-I .  He also Won Runners-up Trophy as member of Tamil Nadu State in the last National Table Tennis Championship held at Lucknow. FCI Table Tennis Team secured Bronze Medal in the 43 rd All India Inter Institutional Table Tennis Tournament held at Dharwad (Karnataka) from 22 nd to 27 th Aug., 2013.