Sale of Cotton : The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. Skip to main content Text Size: Contrast Scheme: Home Submit Query Feedback Related Links Faq Contact Us Search: You are here: Home Sale of Cotton Print (Opens in a new window) Large Print (Opens in a new window) Sale of Cotton Corporation carries out its marketing operations with the twin objectives of rendering necessary marketing support to the cotton growers on the one hand and meet the ever increasing requirements of quality cotton from the textile mills and especially EOUs on the other hand. In order to meet the growing demand of quality cotton of the textile mills at large, a stringent drill is followed through variety-wise & grade-wise purchases of kapas, its processing, packing, sample testing and scientific storage of cotton bales in the godowns. To overcome the problem of contamination in cotton, maximum quantities of kapas are arranged to be processed in the modern ginning and pressing factories only. In addition to this, good quality grey cloth is being used extensively for packing of cotton bales. Wherever no modern factories exist, extra labour is employed for removal of all possible foreign materials. All operations being sales driven, quality cotton of any specific grade and parameters, can be supplied to meet the specific demand of the client mills. For its reputation of maintaining high standards in quality, Corporation, over the years, has acquired the status of a "Dependable Supplier of Quality Cotton" in large quantity along with a personalized pre and after sales service. Many of the prestigious groups in the country, including EOUs, take keen interest in CCI cotton and it has resulted into manifold increase of its domestic sales to private sector mills. To increase its turn over through the season, Corporation pursues a very aggressive sales policy with main highlights as under: Quick Links About Us Open List Hon'ble Minister of State Textiles (Independent Charge) CCI - An Organisation Board of Directors Highlights of Achievements Objectives Operations Network Procurement of Kapas Sale of Cotton Financial Performance Brief note on Financial Performance Ten Year Financial Result Annual Report Developmental Activities National Cotton Scenario Current Cotton Scenario Press Releases CSR Statistics Vigilance Citizens Charter Right to Information Act Technology Mission on Cotton (TMC) Property Return (Immovable) Lokayukta Return Public Notices Open List Tenders Auctions Awards Recruitment Notices Complaint Policy (101.71 KB) Centralized Public Grievance Redress And Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) E-Magzine / E-Journal Open List Rajbhasha Rashmi Quarterly Report (140.12 KB) Day's Sales Quotes Export Sitemap Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Disclaimer Help Accessibility Statement Website designed and developed by: Barrierbreak Technologies | © 2011 The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. All Rights Reserved.