Bathinda City Map Home » Maps » Punjab » Bathinda City Map   Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bathinda Mohali Ferozepur                    more पंजाब का नक्शा Punjab Punjab Map Districts of Punjab Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Punjab Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Punjab Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Telephone Directory Government and Politics Travel to Punjab Places to visit in Punjab Wildlife Sanctuaries Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Geography and History Handicrafts People Culture and Festivals Pin Code Universities In Punjab       Bathinda City Map City Map of Bathinda Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Bathinda city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Bathinda is one of the oldest cities in the Indian state of Punjab. It was named after the Bhati Rajput kings and is located around 224 km west of Chandigarh, the capital city of Punjab. The city was once known as Tabar-e-Hind which means the Gateway to India. As per the 2011 Census, the population of Bathinda is 285,813 and the average literacy rate of the city is 82.84 %. The geographical coordinates of Bathinda are 30.20°N 74.95°E. The city has an average elevation of 660 ft. The climate of Bathinda is semi arid with high difference between summers and winters. Summers are generally hot and winters are cold with low temperatures. Dust-laden winds are often observed in summers and the vegetation is quite scanty in the region. The city of Bathinda is surrounded by twelve small and medium towns, making it a hub of industrial activities in the region. The Bathinda cantonment is alleged to be the Asia's largest and has one of the biggest cotton and food-grain markets in the country. The government has proposed a massive development programme to set up a special economic zone (SEZ) for textile, Bathinda Airport, an international cricket stadium and academy, a flying school and an air-conditioned bus stand. Shopping malls and top end hotels are also coming up in the city. Traveling to Bathinda is easy as the city is well connected through rail and road. The nearest airport to Bathinda is in Chandigarh. From here buses or cabs can be hired to reach the city. The railhead in Bathinda is one of the largest railway junctions in the country. Government and private buses are also easily available to reach Bathinda from nearby cities and states. Last Updated on : 23/07/2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule