Kirandul , Chhattisgarh Home » Maps » Chhattisgarh Map » Chhattisgarh   Cities in Chhattisgarh Naya Raipur Surajpur Kondagaon Baloda Bazar Ambikapur Pendra Kirandul Baikunthpur                      more... छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Chhattisgarh Chhattisgarh Map Districts of Chhattisgarh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Chhattisgarh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Chhattisgarh Forests Parliamentary Constituencies Economy History Government Politics How to Reach Geography People Culture Festivals Travel to Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Chitrakoot Waterfall Indravati National Park Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Area Chhattisgarh at a Glance Capital City Chief Minister Governor Pincode Population Telephone Code Chhattisgarh Factsheet District Map in Hindi Universities in Chhattisgarh       Kirandul City Kirandul is a city in the Indian state of Chhattisgarh . It is a part of the Dantewada district of the state. There are many tourist spots in the district of Dantewada. It is one of the most visited districts of this state. There are dense forests of teak in this city. The hills in this district are also very beautiful. Three major rivers flow through this region. They are Godavari, Indravati and Shankhini. The city of Kirandul is well connected to many parts of this district by road as well as railway. This region is under the South East Railway. The nearest air terminal to Kirandul is in the city of Raipur. The Kirandul city is actually a part of the larger city Bailadila. The large industrial area of Bailadila consists of two towns; while one is Kirandul the other one is Bacheli. There are iron ore mines in this region. Regular bus services are available that connect these two cities. The Kailash Nagar hills, a peak of the Bailadila range is very close to the Kirandul city. It is located at a distance of only 12 km from the city. You can available to reach you to the beautiful hills. This peak is rich in iron deposits. There are many schools in the Chhattisgarh city of Kirandul. The most important of them are the Kendriya Vidyalaya and the DAV Public School. Arvind Maha Vidyalaya is also there in the city of Kirandul. The people of the neighboring cities also send their children to Kirandul for education. Cities in Chhattisgarh Kirandul City Namna Kalan City Sirgiti City Bhatapara City Chhuikhadan City Shivrinarayan City Baloda City Pandariya City Bhilai City Bemetra City Arang City Phunderdihari City Dharamjaigarh City Dongragarh City Birgao City Jamul-Durg City Mehmand City Baloda Bazar City Takhatpur City Surajpur City Khairagarh City Dipka City Simga City Lormi City Kunkuri City Telgaon City Baikunthpur City Bhilai Charoda City Tilda-Newra City Lingiyadih City Gandai City Urla-Raipur City Akaltara City Chharchha City Jashpur-Nagar City Bhatgaon City Gharghoda City Bagbahara City Mowa City Bade-Bacheli City Saraipali City Deori Bilaspur City Bhanpuri City Kota City Bilha City Bodri City Kondagaon City Gobranawapara City Chirmiri City Ahiwara City Champa City Dongargaon City Bhaiyathan City Pathalgaon City Pithora City Geedam City Jagdalpur City Kharod City Katghora City Ambikapur City Dhamdha City Frezarpur City Balod City Sarangarh City Kharsia City Pendra City Kumhari City Naila Janjgir City Naya Baradwar City Basna City Patan City Gogaon City Khamhria City Sakti City Gaurella City Manendragarh City Ambagarh Chowki City Kurud City Ratanpur City Ramanujganj City Dalli Rajhara City Banarsi City Vishrampur City Naya Raipur City Mungeli City Khongapani City     Last Updated on : 29 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule