Mizoram Caves Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Mizoram Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to reach Places to Visit in Mizoram Museums of Mizoram Caves Wildlife Sanctuaries Tomb of Vanhimailian Mangkahia Lung Vantawng Falls Phawngui Activities Tourist Destinations Near Mizoram Aizawl Travel About Mizoram History & Geography Climate Home » Mizoram » Tourism » Caves Mizoram Caves Carved out of the mountainous hills that lie in north eastern region, the Mizoram Caves are one of the most frequently visited tourists' destinations of the state. The caves are great repositories of the legends and the folktales that relate the glorious and valiant life of the people who resided in the region earlier. The caves of Mizoram also retell the stories of the villages that are now non existent. The Pukzing Cave is the biggest cave in the state of Mizoram that stretches to the length of 25 meters. The cave is situated in the village of Pukzing that lies close to Marpara. The cave is believed to be carved out by Mualzavata whose name refers to the one who can clear the forested region of a 100 ranges in a single day. The Milu Puk lies close to the village of Mamte in the district of Lunglei. The cave preserves the skeletons of human beings who are believed to belong to the tribe of Tlau. The caves are situated at a distance of 130 kilometers from the town of Lunglei in Mizoram. The Kungawrhi Puk is named after the beautiful girl Kungawrhi who was abducted and confined in this cave by the spirits. Attracted by her beauty, the spirits attacked her when she was returning to her husband, Pnathira's village. She remained confined in the cave till her husband rescued her from there. The cave is situated between the villages of Farkawn and Vaphai. The Lamsial Puk speaks of the horrific war that raged between the two neighboring villages of this region. The bodies of the brave and gallant warriors of the village of Lamsial are preserved in the form of skeletons in the cave. Pukzing Cave The Pukzing Cave is situated within the district of Aizwal. The cave is believed to be carved out single handedly by one of the strongest men of the region, Mualzavata. The Pukzing Cave in Mizoram is frequently visited by the people who arrive for sight seeing in Mizoram. The natural carvings and formations in the cave lure tourists to visit it. The Pukzing Cave of Mizoram bears a legend that the cave was carved out by Mualzavata who was believed to be the strongest man of the state. The name of Mualzavata in itself is self explanatory as it means the person who could clear the forested regions of a hundred ranges in a single day. The Pukzing Cave at Mizoram is located in the western fringes of the Himalayas near the village of Marpara. The cave is one of the largest Mizoram caves in the state with a length of 25 meters. The adventure seekers often visit the cave. Milu Puk Milu Puk is one of the popular Mizoram caves that is situated near the village of Mamte. It is part of the district of Lunglei. The tourists can reach the cave which is easily accessible from the town of Lunglei located at a distance of 130 kilometers. The buses ply regularly on the routes that connect the town of Lunglei to the Milu Puk, Cave which is one of the most frequented caves of the state of Mizoram. The chief feature of the Milu Puk in Mizoram is that the cave is embellished with skeletons and carcasses of human beings. The cave is often referred to as the cave of skulls. It is often assumed that the skeletons belong to the people of the Tlau tribe who resided in the region. The heap of skeletons is a tragic display of the lost tribe that was a part of the state of Mizoram. Of the wide array of caves, Milu Puk of Mizoram is frequented by the tourists who arrive in search of adventure. Kungawrhi Puk The Kungawrhi Puk is one of the popular Mizoram caves that is situated on the hills between the villages of Farkawn and Vaphai. The cave is set on the south eastern fringes of the district of Aizwal. It is believed that the cave was used by the spirits as a confinement for the beautiful girl, Kungawrhi. Legend has it that Kungawrhi was betrothed to the valiant young man Pnathira. The couple was attacked by the spirits when they were returning to Pnathira's village after the conjugal ceremony. The beauty of Kungawrhi appealed to the spirits who abducted her and confined her in this cave. She remained there till she was rescued by her brave husband Pnathira. The cave derives its name from the girl. The Kungawrhi Puk of Mizoram is one of the biggest caves of the state that is frequently visited by the tourists. The cave is easily accessible from the nearby villages of Farkawn and Vaphai and the capital city of Aizwal. The tourists may reach the cave of Kungawrhi Puk in buses and hired private cars that traverse the routes to the cave. Lamsial Puk The Lamsial Puk is one of the Mizoram caves that recall the horrific tale of the raging battle between two neighboring villages. The Lamsial Puk in Mizoram is situated near the village of Farkawn which lies in the south eastern fringe of the district of Aizwal. The Lamsial Puk at Mizoram preserves the skeleton of the brave warriors who sacrificed their lives in the fearsome battle that was fought between the two neighboring villages of the region. The soldiers hailed from the village of Lamsial, which is now extinct. However, the skeletons that are present in the cave of Lamsial Puk are reminiscent of the brave warrior tribe that resided in the village. The cave also reveals the horrors of war. The Lamsial Puk of Mizoram is easily accessible from the village of Farkawn and the city of Aizwal. Buses and hired private cars ply regularly on the roads that traverse the region near the cave. Last Updated on : 27/06/2013 Mizoram Tourism Museums of Mizoram Sightseeing in Mizoram Mizoram Caves Mizoram Wildlife Sanctuaries Activities in Mizoram Accommodation in Mizoram About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule