System of Rice Intensification - SRI-Rice news 2014 SRI International Network and Resources Center   Home About Us Projects SRI News Events Latest Additions Contact Us About SRI Methodology FAQs Origin of SRI Other Crops Countries and Regions Asia | Africa | Americas Information Resources SRI Websites / Groups Research Practical Information Other Publications Photo Gallery Videos Presentations Marketing Past Conferences Spanish documents Home > 2015 SRI-Rice News SRI-RICE CENTER NEWS - 2015 This page contains updates about the SRI International Network and Resources Center (SRI-Rice) (Go to the latest resources page for news about SRI from around the world) 2015 2014 2013 2012 JUNE 2015 SRI-Rice to Sponsor K. N. Pant's Presentation at Cornell on the the System of Ringer Millet Intensification (SFMI) , June 5 K. N. Bhatt, Associate Professor at G. B. Pant University in Uttar Pradesh, India, will present an SRI-rice-sponsored seminar at Cornell University on June 5. His talk, entitled Finger Millet for Nutrition, Health and Ecological Security: Increasing productivity through "SFMI" will be held 12:00-1:00 PM in 100 Mann Library. SRI-Rice Director of Programs to give talk at the Regional Review of the SRI Lower Mekong Basin Project in Cambodia , June 2-3 Erika Styger will travel to Siem Reap, Cambodia, to attend the Regional Review and Planning Workshop (year 2015) of the project on Sustaining and Enhancing the Momentum for Innovation and Learning around the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) in the Lower Mekong River Basin (SRI-LMB) . Her presentation is entitled Improving and Scaling Up SRI in West Africa: Insights from a regional, 13-country project. MAY 2015 SRI-Rice Co-sponsors SRI SE Asia Regional Conference in Malaysia SRI-Rice is sponsoring fourteen participants to the Southeast Asia Regional Conference on SRI to be held in Alor Setar, Malaysia, on May 25-28, 2015. The sponsored participants are from Indonesia, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand, USA and Vietnam. Erika Styger will give the keynote address at the event and Lucy Fisher will join the forum "Positioning SRI in the Context of Sustainable Development" as a panelist. SRI-Rice will also sponsor side events for 3) Asian participants in the Arsenic Project, 2) the SRI Global Research Network and 3) for representatives of the SRI national networks in SE Asia. IP/CALS Celebrates Norman's Uphoff's Achievements Leading to the Olam Prize for Food Security , May 6 Members of the Cornell Community were urged to "think global, celebrate local" at an event hosted by International Programs / CALS to recognize Norman Uphoff''s tireless work with SRI that led to the Olam International Prize for Innovation in Food Security . Uphoff accepted the award on behalf of SRI International Network and Resources Center (SRI-Rice) on March 16 at the Global Science Conference for Climate-Smart Agriculture in Montpellier, France. He is shown at right with Ronnie Coffman, the International Programs / CALS director at Cornell. SRI-Rice Communications Director Presents Online Experiences of SRI and Conservation Agriculture Lucy Fisher made a presentation on the Cornell's SRI and Conservation Agriculture websites, social media, and associated research databases at the Agriculture Network Information Collaborative ( AgNIC ) Annual Conference , held May 6-7, 2015, at the National Agriculture Library in Beltsville, Maryland. The SRI and Conservation Agriculture websites that are maintained by SRI-Rice are both recognized at AgNIC partner sites. SRI-Rice Sponsors Sekhar Bhadsavle's Presentation at Cornell on the Saguna Rice Technique , May 5 Sekhar Bhadsavle, who has been working on a new method of raised bed rice cultivation in India, presented a SRI-rice-sponsored seminar at Cornell University on May 5. His talk, entitled, Growing No-Till Rice with SRI: Increasing Productivity with the Saguna Rice Technique was held 4:00-5:00 PM in 135 Emerson. APRIL 2015 SRI-Rice Director of Programs Presents at CNS-Riz/WAAPP Workshop in Mali , April 29 Erika Styger gave a talk entitled "Présentation du Centre SRI-Rice de l’Université Cornell et Perspectives de Collaboration" at the Regional Planning Workshop of the National Center of Specialization of Rice (CNS-Riz): West Africa Agricultural Productivity Productivity Program , held April 27-30, 2015, at CICB, Bamako, Mali. She is shown at left with the Minister of Rural Development of Mali, Dr. Bokary Treta, who was also attending the event. Prof. Chun-E Kan to Present Seminar on SRI in Taiwan , April 16 Kan Chun-E Kan, a professor at National Taiwan University, presented a SRI-rice-sponsored seminar at Cornell University on April 16. His talk, entitled, The System of Rice Intensification in Taiwan: Adapting SRI to Existing Farming Systems and Making Links with the Private Sector ,was held 4:00-5:00 PM on April 16 in 100 Mann Library. Dr. Kan, who is visiting Cornell during April, will describe a conceptual framework of SRI collaboration for large-scale paddy farming in Taiwan. Norman Uphoff Wins the Clifton Wharton, Jr., Emerging Markets Award , April 15 SRI-Rice Senior Advisor Norman Uphoff won the 2015 Clifton Wharton, Jr., Emerging Markets Award on April 15 in a ceremony in 401 Warren Hall on the Cornell University campus. The award was presented by Ralph Christy, current director of CIIFAD, following the CIIFAD International Symposium Panel on Inclusive Value Chains and Economic Progress and the Student Multidisciplinary Applied Research Teams (SMART) Poster-Paper Session . The Wharton award was created in 2007 to honor the outstanding work of Dr. Clifton R. Wharton, Jr., in the areas of Philanthropy, higher education, business and public policy. Two previous award winners, Dr. Maldan Nesheim and Dr. Robert Herdt, were on hand for the ceremony. Norman Uphoff's SRI-Related Publications Now Online, April 13 Over the past decade, Norman Uphoff has authored and coauthored numerous publications about SRI. Now, his list of publications is accessible from our general publications page. SRI-Rice Seminar by John Duxbury Explores Arsenic Issues in Rice that Affect Producers, Marketers and Consumers , April 10 SRI-Rice cosponsored a talk by John Duxbury entitled Arsenic in Rice - From Field to Fork on Friday, April 10, 12:20-1:10 PM, in 102 Mann Library. Duxbury, professor emeritus at Cornell, is a leading scientist in the investigation of arsenic in rice - from its effects on rice plants in the field and how to measure it to national and international standards and consumer protection. SRI-Rice is currently involved in a multi-country project to verify that SRI methods can indeed reduce arsenic in rice. A video of the talk will be online soon. (See video of the presentation.) Uphoff to Give Keynote Address at National Consultation on "SRI for Increased Productivity and Ecological Security" in Allahabad, India , April 6 On April 6, the SRI-Rice Senior Advisor, Norman Uphoff, presented a video keynote address at the National Consultation on " System of Rice Intensification for Increased Productivity and Ecological Security " was held April 6-7, 2015, at the Govind Ballabh Pant Social Science Institute in Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India. MARCH 2015 SRI-Rice Advisor Coauthors Journal Articles on SRI in Central China and Taiwan , March 21 Two articles on SRI in Taiwan and Central China were published in early online editions during March 2015. Wei Wu, Jianliang Huang, Farooq Shah, and Norman Uphoff authored the article Evaluation of System of Rice Intensification methods applied in the double rice-cropping system in Central China , which was published in Advances in Agronomy on March 20 (hard copy in press). A second article by Yu-Chuan Chang, Norman T. Uphoff, and Eiji Yamaji, entitled A conceptual framework for eco-friendly paddy farming in Taiwan, based on experimentation with System of Rice Intensification (SRI) methodology, was published in Paddy and Water Environment. Norman Uphoff Accepts Olam Prize for Innovation in Food Security on behalf of SRI and SRI-Rice , March 16 SRI-Rice won the Olam Prize for Innovation in Food Security in a ceremony on March 16 at the Global Science Conference for Climate-Smart Agriculture in Montpellier, France. The award, which was accepted by Norman Uphoff, was created in partnership with Agropolis Fondation and is one of four initiatives launched to mark Olam’s 25th anniversary. The award recognizes achievement for innovation that carries a significant impact on the availability, affordability and accessibility or adequacy of food. [See Olam press release and article in the Cornell Chronicle for details.] New Two-Wheel Tractor Newsletter Available on the Conservation Agriculture Website, March 16 SRI-Rice maintains the Conservation Agriculture Research and Resources website in collaboration with the CU Conservation Agriculture Group at Cornell. In addition to curating news, extension material and a research database with material in five languages, the website uploads and maintains back issues of Jeff Esdaile's Two-Wheel Tractor Newsletter . For those of you who are interested in smallholder agriculture, don't miss the March edition that just went up! SRI-Rice Advisor Makes Presentation at Climate-Smart Agriculture Conference in Montpelier, France , March 16 Norman Uphoff presented " A review of contributions that the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) can make " at the Third Global Science Conference on Climate - Smart Agriculture (CSA) , which was held in Montpellier, France, March 16-18, 2015. Cornell Gift Fund Now Accessible through the SRI-Rice website! March 15 Those who would like to get involved with SRI-Rice can now show their support by donating through our new gift fund administered through Cornell University. More information on how to donate is available on our donation page . It's easy! A new blue button (right) on our home page will lead you to more information on how to help support SRI-Rice outreach, research and information resources. February SRI Newsletter and Website Additions Available , March 14 Our SRI-Rice Selected News Updates for February (on ScoopIt ) as well as the February additions are now available. During the February 2015, 3,956 unique visitors from 90 countries viewed 9,980 pages on the SRI website . Total Facebook views: 1,191 with 1,537 all-time likes. Twitter followers: 1,028. Total YouTube views: 46,180 (1,146 new this month). Slideshare: 426 slideshow and poster presentations uploaded and 159 subscribers. There are 676 items in our Refworks research database. (These also appear in the Mendeley SRI Research Network site.) We now have 163 (7 new) members of the SRI Equipment Exchange as of the end of February! SRI-Rice Video-Conference with Costa Rican Ministry of Agriculture, INTA and the Rice Corporation (CONARROZ) , March 12 On March 12, Erika Styger and Norman Uphoff participated in a two-hour video-conference with the Minister of Agriculture Luis Felipe Arauz Cavallini and twelve members of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG), along with representatives from the Institute for Innovation and Transfer of Agricultural Technology, (INTA) and the Rice Corporation (CONARROZ). SRI-Rice made a presentation about SRI and answered questions from the participants. SRI Support Trip to Senegal, West Africa , February 26-March 9 As part of the 13-country SRI-WAAPP project, SRI-Rice conducts periodic support trips to participating countries and provide technical assistance as requested by the host countries. Devon Jenkins traveled to Senegal and co-facilitated two SRI trainings of trainers for ANCAR agents and local NGO staff in the Casamance and the southern Peanut Basin (which is also the target zone for SRI-WAAPP project activities in Senegal), visited with staff and farmers working with PRODAM on a large SRI project in the Matam area, and met with UCTF/WAAPP, Peace Corps, ANCAR and IED Afrique in Dakar. Devon was accompanied by the SRI-WAAPP National Facilitator Abdoulaye Sy (ANCAR) and UCTF/WAAPP Senegal's Technical Expert Mour Guèye. FEBRUARY 2015 SRI /SCI Among Two Finalists Selected for Olam Prize for Innovation in Food Security , February 27 According to a press release from Olam International, SRI /SCI is one of two finalists for the inaugural Olam Prize for Innovation in Food Security. The award, in partnership with Agropolis Fondation, is one of four initiatives launched to mark Olam’s 25th anniversary. The finalists have been recognized for their innovation which carries a significant impact on the availability, affordability and accessibility or adequacy of food. The winner will be announced on March 16 at the Global Science Conference for Climate-Smart Agriculture in Montpellier, France. An article on the Farming First website also provides details of the award and the finalists. National Training of Trainers Workshop on SRI in Côte d’Ivoire, West Africa, February 22-26 An SRI training of trainers workshop was organized by FIRCA/WAAPP from February 22-24 in Yamoussoukro, Côte d’Ivoire, regrouping more than 60 participants, extension staff and farmers from all over the country. The trainers included Alphonse Bouet from CNRA and a team from the regional coordination unit, Minamba Bagayoko from CNS-Riz Mali, as well as Erika Styger and Devon Jenkins from SRI-Rice. Regional SRI Workshop in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, February 16-19 2015 This four-day workshop brought together over 60 participants from all 13 countries that are part of the West Africa Agriculture Productivity Program (WAAPP) to discuss the progress with SRI in 2014 and to plan country and regional activities for 2015 under the 3-year project " Improving and Scaling up SRI in West Africa ," for which SRI-Rice provides technical support and advice. Erika Styger and Devon Jenkins were part of the co-organizers with CNS-Riz from Mali and the FIRCA/WAAPP from Côte d’Ivoire. Devon has prepared a map for SRI-WAAPP of the current SRI trials and training sites in West Africa (Click on map at right to see details). SRI-Rice Social Media Statistics Pass the 1,000 Mark / January Newsletter Available , February 17 The SRI-Rice Twitter surpassed 1,000 followers and our SRI-Rice Facebook page has passed the 1,500 mark for "likes" this month. Thanks to all who are interested in keeping up with SRI by reading our tweets and reading our posts! Our SRI-Rice Selected News Updates for January (on ScoopIt ) as well as the January additions are now available. During the first month of 2015, 3,896 unique visitors from 85 countries viewed 9,526 pages on the SRI-Rice website . SRI Arsenic Project Holds Workshop for Global Participants in the Philippines , February 15 An SRI and Arsenic in Rice Workshop was held at the Central Bicol State University of Agriculture, Naga, Philippines, on February 13-15, 2015, to prepare research collaborators from six countries for the upcoming research on arsenic in rice led by SRI-Rice and scientists from several departments at Cornell University. Photos of the event are available on the SRI-Mas website. The project, entitled " Reducing Inorganic Arsenic Levels in Rice by Appropriate Water Management ," is a collaboration between Cornell scientists and researchers in Indonesia, Malaysia, Mali, Nepal, Philippines, and Sri Lanka, who will test reduced water-use practices associated with SRI in order to determine whether arsenic can be reduced in rice across a range of soils, while maintaining yields. Citizen Science 2015 – Inaugural Conference in San Jose, California, February 11-12 Erika Styger and Devon Jenkins participated in CITIZEN SCIENCE 2015, the inaugural conference of the Citizen Science Association, on Feb 11-12, in San Jose, California. More than 650 people attended the conference from 25 countries. [.. more on the event] Jean-Claude Balcet Joins SRI as a Visiting Scientist and Advisor , February 4 Dr. Jean-Claude Balcet, an agro-economist and Africa specialist currently working with the World Bank, has joined SRI-Rice as a Visiting Scientist and Advisor for the project Improving and Scaling up SRI in West Africa .   JANUARY 2015 December SRI Highlights, Online Statistics and SRI-Rice Website Additions Now Available , January 15 Our SRI-Rice Selected News Updates for December (on ScoopIt ) are now available. The December additions to our website are also ready, so you can find what's new on SRI-Rice online since last time you checked in! Some of the SRI-Rice statistics for December 2014 are as follows: 3,838 unique visitors (3,851 last month) from 92 countries (95 last month) viewed 9,002 pages (10,386 last month) on the SRI website . Total Facebook views: 2,083 (1,917 last month) with 1,473 all-time likes (53 new this month). Twitter followers: 973 (18 new this month). DECEMBER 2014 November SRI Highlights and SRI-Rice Website Additions Now Available , December 15 Our SRI-Rice Selected News Updates for November (on ScoopIt ) are now available. The November additions to our website are also ready, so you can find what's new on SRI-Rice online since last time you checked in! Some of the SRI-Rice statistics for November 2014 are as follows: 3,851 unique visitors (3,678 last month) from 95 countries (92 last month) viewed 10,386 pages (10,157 last month) on the SRI website . Total Facebook views: 1,917 (1,084 last month) with 1,422 all-time likes. Twitter followers: 955 (20 new this month). NOVEMBER 2014 SRI-Rice Director of Programs and SRI-WAAPP Regional Coordinator Visit India , November 3-13 Erika Styger and Gaoussou Traoré (Regional Coordinator of the SRI Scaling Up project for West Africa ) traveled for 10 days in India, visiting with KGVK Agro in Ranchi, Jharkhand State and the NGO Pran in Gaya, Bihar State, many SRI farmers who were in the process of harvesting rice and planting winter crops. The National Consortium for SRI hosted Erika and Gaoussou’s visit in New Delhi. Prabhat Gautam Joins SRI-Rice , November Prabhat Gautam, who completed a MPA degree from the Cornell Institute for Public Affairs in May 2014, joined SRI-Rice in November to work on SRI-Rice's projects on citizen science and climate smart agriculture. SRI-Rice Sponsors Workshop on Small-Scale Rice Production Equipment in Thailand , November 1-3 A Workshop on Small-Scale Rice Production Equipment for SRI was held November 1-3, 2014, at the Asian Institute of Technology (AIT), Bangkok, Thailand. Sponsored by SRI-Rice and the Asian Centre of Innovation for Sustainable Agriculture Intensification (ACISAI), the event was attended by 60 participants from 12 countries. The presentations are available on the SRI-Rice website. A field trip to farms associated with the Thailand Weekend Farmers Network included demonstrations of SRI weeders and markers as well as group transplanting using the "dart method" that is gaining popularity with the network farmers throughout Thailand. October SRI Highlights and SRI-Rice Website Additions Now Available , November 10 Our SRI-Rice Selected News Updates for September/October (on ScoopIt ) are now available. The October additions to our website are also ready, so you can find what's new on SRI-Rice online since last time you checked in! Some of the SRI-Rice statistics for October 2014 are as follows:3,678 unique visitors (3,754 last month) from 92 countries (97 last month) viewed 10,157 pages (10,342 last month) on the SRI website . Total Facebook views: 1,084 (2,236 last month) with 1,367 all-time likes. Twitter followers: 935 (26 new this month). Total YouTube views: 40,089 (1,111 new this month). We have 388 presentations (all time) uploaded and 140 subscribers on our Slideshare site. There are now 648 papers (17 new this month) in our Refworks research database. OCTOBER 2014 SRI-Rice Senior Advisor Participates Club of Rome Food Security Event in India , October 31 Norman Uphoff participated in in the Global Conference on Securing Food for All: The Critical Need for Coherence in Policies and Action , which was organized by the Indian National Association for the Club of Rome and convened October 30-31, 2014 at the Taj Mahal Hotel in New Delhi, India. He spoke in the opening plenary session, for which Dr. M.S. Swaminathan and the Cabinet Secretary, Mr. Ajit Seth, were the chief guests, and on a panel the second day of the conference. SRI-Rice Cosponsors Workshop on Building Alliances Around SRI and Agro-Ecology Fifty participants from 16 countries attended the Workshop on Building Alliances around SRI and Agro-Ecology , which was organized by Oxfam and SRI-Rice. The event was held October 27-28, 2014, at the Maple Hotel, in Bangna, Bangkok, Thailand. The meeting provided a forum for discussing how respective and collaborative efforts can contribute to the more rapid and effective scaling-up of SRI use in participants’ countries and regions and around the world. Participants drafted and signed an open letter to the IRC during the workshop encouraging those attending the 4th International Rice Congress (see item below) to keep in mind the needs of small farmers and to consider the benefits of SRI. SRI-Rice Participates in 4th International Rice Congress (IRC) with Oral Presentations, Posters and a Booth SRI-Rice was represented at the 4th International Rice Congress (IRC) by Norman Uphoff, Erika Styger, Lucy Fisher, Devon Jenkins and Zhoucen Feng, as well as others from the Ithaca SRI community: Olivia Vent (Lotus Foods), Ed Baxter (SRI Global, Inc.) and Marguerite Uphoff (SRI health advisor). SRI-Rice, with assistance from SRI Global, Inc., and Oxfam, organized a booth (right) with numerous publications and a Cambodian rice dragon weeder. Oral presentations were made by Erika ( SRI Research Review ) and Zhoucen, SRI Intern ( SRI in China ). Devon and Lucy presented posters on Improving and Scaling Up SRI in West Africa , and Development of Equipment for SRI , respectively. Other posters about SRI by members of the global SRI community presented at the 4th IRC can be found on the SRI website. SEPTEMBER 2014 SRI-Rice Sponsors SRI/SCI Talks by Anil Verma and Ashwini Chhatre at Cornell University , September 15 Anil Kumar Verma, executive director of the Indian NGO PRAN, presented a seminar at Cornell on Scaling up the System of Rice Intensification and the System of Wheat Intensification in Bihar, India on September 15 at 12:20PM (see video and PowerPoint ). On September 18, Ashwini Chhatre, faculty at the Indian Institute of Business in Hyderabad, gave a talk at 4:00PM entitled The Challenges of Rainfed Agricultural Development in India: Where System of Crop Intensification (SCI) Options Might Fit In . Both presentations took place in 102 Mann Library at Cornell. Norman Uphoff Joins Panel on Innovation for Vulnerable Farmers at Harvard University , September 12 Norman Uphoff, SRI-Rice Senior Advisory, was a panelist at the workshop on "Innovation for Vulnerable Farmers: Drought and Water Scarcity Adaptation Technologies Workshop" held on September 10-12, 2014, at Harvard University. The workshop was sponsored by the Initiative on Innovation and Access to Technologies for Sustainable Development at the Sustainability Science Program at Harvard University. Students and Interns Join, Return To and Depart From SRI-Rice , September Sean Finnerty, a junior studying International Agriculture and Rural Development, has joined SRI-Rice as a research assistant. John Lowry, also a Cornell junior, is volunteering his time this year to work on SRI social media. Aravind Boddupalli, our summer intern working on the SRI equipment access project, has returned to the University of Minnesota. Zhoucen Feng, Haiti intern with SRI-Rice and the iF Foundation, is currently back in Ithaca helping SRI-Rice prepare for the International Rice Congress (IRC) coming up in Bangkok in October. Zhoucen will also present a paper on SRI research in China at the IRC. AUGUST 2014 SRI-Rice Completes SRI Technical Manual for West Africa , August 15 A Technical Manual for SRI in West Africa , which was written by Erika Styger and Devon Jenkins for the project on Improving and Scaling up of the System of Rice Intensification in West Africa, is now available online. The manual, currently available English and soon to be available online in French, was first released at the August 4-10 regional project workshop held in Kpalimé, Togo. As much of the comprehensive information contained in the manuals is relevant for SRI in other parts of Africa and the world, they are a valuable addition the Global SRI Community's technical resources. July SRI Highlights and SRI-Rice Website Additions Now Available , August 15 Our SRI-Rice Selected News Updates for June (on ScoopIt ) are now available. The July additions to our website are also ready, so you can find what's new on SRI-Rice online since last time you checked in! Some of the SRI-Rice statistics for June 2014 are as follows: 3,723 unique visitors from 95 countries viewed 11,284 pages on the SRI website. Total Facebook views: 1863. Twitter followers: 807 (12 new this month). total YouTube views: 35,991 (830 new this month). We now have 385 presentations (al time) uploaded on Slideshare acct. and 579 papers in our Ref Works research database. SRI-Rice Co-organizes Workshop for West Africa SRI Scaling Up Project in Kpalimé, Togo, August Devon Jenkins and Erika Styger traveled to West Africa where they co-organized the first major SRI "training of trainers" and technical exchange workshop being implemented in conjunction with the project on Improving and Scaling Up the System of Rice Intensification in West Africa . The workshop, which will be held August 4-10 in Kpalimé, Togo, had participants from 12 West African countries. Erika also visited Ghana to provide support for the World Bank-sponsored SRI project being undertaken with the West Africa Agricultural Production Program's (WAAPP) National Centre of Specialisation for Rice. SRI-Rice Represented at the Northeast USA Rice Conference Lucy Fisher participated in the Fifth Annual Northeast USA Rice Conference in Westminster, Vermont, which was held August 2, 2014, at the Akaogi farm. At the event, information was provided about SRI projects in the USA being undertaken by Jim Lyons (at left in photo) in New Jersey and Glenn Roberts in South Carolina (center of photo); Glenn is involved in the SARE SRI program with Clemson University Coastal Research and Education Center's Organic Research Farm (CREC-ORF). JULY 2014 SRI-Rice Director of Programs Joins Atkinson Center Faculty Fellows , July 18 Erika Styger is now an Atkinson Center Faculty Fellow (See ACSF listing ). The Atkinson Center's Faculty Fellows program is intended to recognize and promote the work of researchers across many sustainability disciplines at Cornell who are actively engaged with ACSF. Styger is currently a co-PI on the research project " Reducing Inorganic Arsenic Levels in Rice by Appropriate Water Management ," which is funded by ACSF's 2014 Academic Venture Fund . June Newsletter and Website Additions Now Available , July 15 Our SRI-Rice Selected News Updates for June (on ScoopIt ) are now available. Also, the June additions to our website are also ready, so you can find what's new on SRI-Rice online since last time you checked in! Some of the SRI-Rice statistics for June 2014 are as follows: 3,723 unique visitors from 95 countries viewed 11,284 pages on the SRI website. Total Facebook views: 1,863. Twitter followers: 807 (12 new this month). total YouTube views: 35,991 (830 new this month). We now have 385 presentations (all time) uploaded on Slideshare acct. and 579 papers in our Ref Works research database. JUNE 2014 SRI-Rice Participates in the SRI Workshop in New Delhi , June 30 Norman Uphoff gave several presentations the Workshop on Changes in Rice Production and Rural Livelihoods: New Insights on the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) as a Socio-Technical Movement in India , which was held June 19-21 at the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences (NASC) in New Delhi. PowerPoints of his talks are now available: 1) Revising Agronomic and Socio-Economic Paradigms for Crop Improvement: Findings from SRI Research Globally and 2) System of Rice Intensification (SRI) - Implications for Indian Development Policy: A Global Perspective and Some Specific Suggestions . Presentations were also given by people previously working with us at Cornell: Pratyaya Jagannath (formerly a Cornell graduate student and SRI-Rice research assistant) and Shambu Prasad (a 2014 Fulbright Fellow with SRI-Rice/International Programs), both of whom were instrumental in organizing the event. SRI-Rice Participates in Project on Arsenic Reduction in Rice , June The research project "Reducing Inorganic Arsenic Levels in Rice by Appropriate Water Management" was among twelve successful proposals selected by the David R. Atkinson Center for a Sustainable Future to receive funding from the 2014 Academic Venture Fund. SRI is one of the water management regimes to be investigated in regards to its potential to reduce arsenic content in rice. In addition to SRI-Rice, Cornell investigators on the award represent Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, Biological and Environmental Engineering, Crop and Soil Science. (Read more in the SRI-Rice June feature article. ) Update on the SRI-Rice Research Assistants , June 20 • Aravind Boddupalli (right), an undergraduate at the University of Minnesota, will be joining SRI-Rice as a summer research assistant after attending the International SRI Research Conference in New Delhi. working on the equipment initiative and the SRI research databases. • Zhoucen Feng has returned to her internship in Haiti in early June to finish up monitoring SRI field trials with iF Foundation. (See her new blog postings .) She spent April and May at the SRI-Rice office working on the Chinese language SRI research materials (see map ) and helping us figure out how to find and acquire rice production equipment from China and Japan. • Sidney Madsen is also joining us to work on the research and media sections of the Conservation Agriculture website, which is a collaborative project with the Cornell Conservation Agriculture Group. May Newsletter and Website Additions Now Available Our SRI-Rice Selected News Update (on ScoopIt) for May is now available (and will be updated monthly). Readers have responded positively to this new format. The May additions to our website is also ready, so you can find what's new on SRI-Rice online . During May 2014, 4,506 unique visitors from 113 countries (99 last month) viewed 12,318 pages on the SRI-Rice website. There were 943 Facebook views. Twitter followers are now 795 (46 new during May). MAY 2014 Usha Martin University Pro-Chancellor Presents SRI Seminar at Cornell , May 23 Yezdi Karai visited Cornell University May 22-23 to talk about the new Usha Martin University (UMU) in Jharkhand state, India, which is planning to set up an SRI Institute. He also presented a seminar entitled SRI: Experience and Opportunities in Jharkhand State, India . Karai is Pro-Chancellor and member of the Board of Directors for UMU in Jharkhand state, a board member of the NGO KGVK (Krishi Gram Vikas Kendra) and founder and director of KGVK Agro, a company that creates diversified livelihood opportunities in agriculture for village communities. SRI-Rice Students Moving On Xingyu Luo, plant sciences, and Christine Ly, biological sciences, have graduated from Cornell and are (sadly) leaving the SRI-Rice office. Xingyu, who worked on the SRI-Rice research database, will be going to graduate school at the University of Wisconsin. Christine Ly, who maintained the contact database and worked on several research projects, is headed for medical school. Jeevan Gyawali, who provides technical support for the SRI-Rice website will be spending the summer with General Electric in Boston. We wish them all well! Shambu Prasad Returns to India! Shambu Prasad C., Professor of Rural Management and Development at Xavier Institute in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, and Fulbright fellow with SRI-Rice at Cornell, has finished his 8 month assignment with SRI-Rice / International Programs at Cornell University. On May 2, Shambu and his family left Ithaca for Bhubaneshwar, India. We will miss him at the office! APRIL 2014 SRI-Rice Director Assists COMACO in Zambia , April 20 Erika Styger traveled to Zambia April 15 - May 1, 2014, to work with the NGO Community Markets for Conservation (COMACO) on a rice production systems diagnostic in the northern and eastern regions of Zambia. (See report) . She also assisted in the design of a four-year SRI project funded by the Royal Norwegian Embassy. Henry Ngimbu, who has worked with SRI-Rice on projects in Zambia and elsewhere in Africa, joined the group. SRI-Rice Seminars at Cornell Now Have their Own Page , April 19 Our SRI-Rice Ad Hoc Seminar Series has a new page ( http://sri.cals.cornell.edu/aboutsri/aboutus/seminars/index.html ) where you can follow our group presentations at Cornell. Anyone who would like to be on our SRI-Rice seminar mailing list should contact the SRI-Rice Director of Communications . Zheng Jiaguo Gives Presentation at Cornell on Agricultural Water Savings with SRI in Sichuan, China , April 15 On April 15, Dr. Zheng Jiaguo gave a SRI-Rice-sponsored seminar at Cornell entitled " Agricultural water savings possible through SRI for water management in Sichuan, China ." Dr. Zheng is a National Rice Expert for the Ministry of Agriculture, People’s Republic of China, and Professor in the Tillage and Cultivation Research Center, Sichuan Academy of Agricultural Sciences (SAAS), Chengdu, Sichuan, P.R.C. He visited SRI-Rice on April 14-15, 2014. (See flyer and presentation .) SRI-Rice Fulbright Fellow Gives Presentations at Cornell and at the University of Massachusetts , April 11 and 23 Shambu Prasad (shown at right on his way to the Social Justice Fair) gave a presentation at the Science for the People Conference , held April 11-13 at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. His presentation, entitled "The knowledge commons in agriculture: Emerging peoples science initiatives in India," was part of the Agricultural Science and Food Justice panel. On April 23, Prasad will give a seminar (4:30pm, G08 Uris Hall) at Cornell sponsored by the South Asia Program. The title is "Agricultural transformations: Some insights on agency and innovation from SRI in India." SRI-Rice Senior Advisor to Present at BioVisionAlexandria 2014 in Egypt , April 7 Norman Uphoff will present a paper entitled "Opportunities to get more food production and climate-resilience by producing better phenotypes from available genotypes; Mobilizing services of the plant-soil microbiome" at the