Goa District Map Home » Maps » Goa » Goa District Map   Goa District Map North Goa South Goa गोवा का नक्शा About Goa Weather History Culture Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Cities Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Goa District Map District Map of Goa Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing Districts in Goa. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Goa is India's smallest state in terms of area and is the country's most popular tourist destination. Goa is bordered by the Arabian Sea to the West, Maharashtra to its North and Karnataka to its East and South. With a GDP per capita two and a half times that of the country as a whole, Goa is India's richest state. Panaji is Goa's capital city, while Vasco Da Gama is its largest city. Goa covers an area of 3,702 km sq and has a total population of 1,457,723 (2011 census). Goa is divided into two districts, North Goa and South Goa. Panaji is the headquarters of North Goa and the district is further divided into four sub divisions and six taluks. The headquarters of South Goa is Madgao and the district is further divided into three sub divisions and six taluks. Each district is governed by a District Collector appointed by the Government of India. Goa still displays a strong cultural influence of the Portugese who ruled the area in the early 16th century. Goa is famous across India and the world for its beautiful beaches, Portuguese style churches, varied flora and fauna due to being situated on the Western Ghats (A UNESCO World Heritage Site). List of Districts in Goa S No. District Headquarters Population (Census 2011) Sex Ratio (per 1000) Average Literacy 1 North Goa Panaji 818,008 963 89.57% 2 South Goa Margao 640,537 986 87.59% Goa Beaches and Churches: Goa is essential known for its beaches and some of Goa's most famous beaches are Calangute Beach, Baga Beach, Anjuna Beach, Colva Beach, and Palolem Beach among others. Apart from that, Goa is also known for its Portugese style churches, a lot of which are located in Old Goa. The most famous among these churches are the Basilica of Bom Jesus, Church of St. Francis of Assisi, Chapel of St. Catherine and the Church of St. Anne, among others. ABMOD Last Updated on: 20 th March 2013 Goa Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Tehsil Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map About Goa Weather History Area Pincode STD code Facts Liberation of Goa Languages Culture Dance Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival Goa Travel Map Wildlife Map Beaches Map Forest Map Shopping Centres Places to see in Goa Dudsagar Waterfall Goa State Museum Basilica of Bom Jesus Church of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception Beaches in Goa Temples in Goa Candolim Beach Colva Beach Anjuna Beach Arambol Beach Forts in Goa Forests in Goa Varca Beach Benaulim Beach Nehru Stadium Goa Waterfalls Wildlife Sanctuaries Churches in Goa   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule