Inland Fisheries Society of India Vol 46(1), June 2014 Revised Rate of Membership Welcome to Inland Fisheries Society of India and Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute' Barrackpore Photo Gallary Journal Search The Inland Fisheries Society of India (Founded in 1969 and registered under the West Bengal Society Act XXVI of 1961) (Reg No. S/9452 of 1968-1969) The Inland Fisheries Society of India (IFSI) The Inland Fisheries Society of India, a registered body under the West Bengal Society act XXVI of 1961 (Reg No. S/9452 of 1968-1969), came into existence in 1969. The society aims to promote Inland Fisheries Research in India. Details ........ Location The office of the Inland Fisheries Society of India is located at the 'Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute' (CIFRI), Barrackpore, West Bengal, India. Details ........ Journal of IFSI The society brings out 'Journal of the Inland Fisheries Society of India' a biannual journal devoted to publishing original research articles, monographs and invited reviews in Inland Fisheries. Details ........ Fellowship The society awards fellowships, 'Fellow of Inland Fisheries Society of India' (FIFSI), to workers for significant contribution in development of Inland Fisheries in the country and abroad. Details ........ Seminar/Symposia/Workshops The society regularly organizes scientific meetings, symposia, seminars, workshops and lectures in Inland Fisheries to infuse interest in fisheries research, exchange and dissemination of information. Details ........ Office Bearers The Society is governed by the Governing body headed by the President, Prof. A. P. Sharma. Details ........ Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute A frontline inland fisheries research institute, coming under the fold, the 'Indian Council of Agriculture Research' (ICAR), Government of India and located at Barrackpore, West Bengal. Details ........ Home | About Us | Publication | Activities | Membership | Contact Us © Copyright to IFSI All Copyrights are reserved Site : Developed & Maintained by Digitron Systems Last updated on : 12.02.2015