Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Programmes/themes >> Vayalagam Tankfed Agriculture Development Programme Vayalagam Tankfed Agriculture Development Programme There are numerous small irrigation tank structures spread over the entire Deccan Plateau, which serve millions of small and marginal farmers in South India. The tanks deteriorated because of neglect over the years, and need urgent renovation and good management. Vayalagam Tankfed Agriculture Development Programme (VTADP) was initiated in the year 1992 to work on these small-scale water bodies with the participation of the farmers. The programme believes that the local management of the tank system can be the only solution to the problem in the long run. The programme has moved from working on isolated tanks, to cascade of water tanks and tank-based watersheds, and also at sub- basin levels. Now, the programme has identified ‘Water’ as a unique tool for alleviating poverty, and has evolved into a separate people's institution as 'DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation (DVTF)'. The Foundation aims at upscaling the renovation works with community participation. The key components are: Organising the farmers around the tanks and later on at the level of cascades, and promoting tank-based farmers' associations at block and district level. Rehabilitating water harvesting structures with farmers’ contribution and participation to improve the acquisition of water by restoring the system efficiency and increase water use efficiency. Promoting tank-based watershed development by including tank rehabilitation as a component of watershed development for harvesting all the rain water within each watershed boundary. Organising microfinance groups (MFGs) to provide access to savings, credit and insurance services to the farmers. Establishing Vayalagam Agriculture Development Centres to enhance productivity of tankfed agriculture by creating awareness about new farming and irrigation management practices. Promoting producer and marketing groups to undertake bulk purchase of farm inputs and collective marketing of farm produces to get the benefits of economy of scale. Collaborating with relevant academic and research institutions at national and international levels to do research on tank systems and tankfed agriculture. Advocating for supportive policies to aid community action in conservation and development by interacting with the local, State and Central Governments. Read more on Vayalagam Tankfed Agriculture Development Programme ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved