Noida Greater Noida Expressway, Map of Noida Greater Noida Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway » Noida Greater Noida Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Noida Greater Noida Expressway Map of Noida Greater Noida Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Noida Greater Noida Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Noida -Greater Noida Expressway connects two suburbs of Noida in Uttar Pradesh. Noida , a part the national capital region of Delhi is one of the most developed towns in Uttar Pradesh. It is an industrial and educational hub with a lot of company offices located here, along with many residential colonies. Noida is close to the south east Delhi. Greater Noida, a new suburb, is located 20 kilometers from Noida in the Gautama Budh district of UP. It is also a fast growing planned industrial township, home to many multinationals that have their offices here. There are also many educational institutes and residential colonies and complexes. There are plans to build a world class Exposition Mart, Cultural Center and a night safari in the town. The Yamuna Expressway links the town to Agra. There is an International Airport and transport hub with an interstate bus terminus and railway station planned to be constructed in Greater Noida near the Yamuna Expressway. The Noida -Greater Noida expressway, built at the cost of Rs 400 crores, connects the township of Noida to this planned new township of Greater Noida. As Greater Noida is only 40 kilometers from Delhi, this expressway has reduced the travel time to the commercial centers and residential complexes here. There is lot of real estate development along the route of the Expressway with educational institutes, five star hotels, malls, hospitals and commercial centers in the process of being built. The Expressway has six lanes and is 25 kilometers in length. It begins at Sector 15 A of Noida and ends at the Alpha commercial belt in Greater Noida. A knowledge park with 24 engineering and management institutes is proposed to be built at this end. As the Yamuna expressway begins at Greater Noida, the route offers a smooth uninterrupted drive to Agra, home of the Taj Mahal and the top tourist destination of the country. In addition the Yamuna Expressway is less crowded than the NH 2 which runs through the crowded cities of Faridabad, Ballabhgarh and Palwal en route to Agra. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Colleges in Noida/Greater Noida Animation Colleges in Greater Noida Engineering Colleges in Noida MBA Colleges in Noida Animation Colleges in Noida Hotel Management Colleges in Greater Noida MCA Colleges in Greater Noida BBA Colleges In Noida Hotel Management Colleges in Noida MCA Colleges in Noida BCA Colleges in Greater Noida Law Colleges in Greater Noida Polytechnic Colleges in Greater Noida BCA Colleges in Noida Law Colleges in Noida UPTU Colleges in Greater Noida B Pharma Colleges in Noida Mass Communication Colleges in Greater Noida UPTU Colleges in Noida Engineering Colleges in Greater Noida Mass Communication Colleges in Noida Education Centers in Noida Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule