History of Nagaland Home » Nagaland » History of Nagaland   Nagaland नागालैंड का नक्शा Nagaland Map Kohima City Map Mokokchung City Map Districts of Nagaland Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Society and Culture Media Kohima Location Nagaland Location Physical Map Minerals Map Nagaland Pincode Nagaland STD Code Agriculture Map Capital Lat Long Geography Economy Assemblypolls Places to visit in Nagaland Wildlife Sanctuaries Nagaland Museums Japfu Peak Hotels in Nagaland Dimapur Hotels Kohima Hotels Government & Politics History Universities In Nagaland       History of Nagaland There is no written document that tells us about the history of Nagaland . However, the medieval documents of the neighboring place of Ahom in Assam mention the economic and social lives of the Naga ethnic groups. Some of the major historical facts about Nagaland are given below. In the year 1816, Assam was invaded by Myanmar, following which Myanmar started controlling the place from 1819 to 1826. In the year 1826, the British started ruling over this region. By the year 1892, the entire Naga region excepting the Tuensang area was under the control of the British. The British rule brought an end to the massive bloodshed and inter-regional conflicts. Post India's independence, Nagaland remained a part of the state of Assam. The extremist people and the Naga groups took part in an intense revolt for freedom from the nation of India. However, finally, the Indian army succeeded in making this revolt a failure in the year 1955. The district of Assam called Naga Hills and the Tuensang area were made to represent a single unit under the Indian administration. At the meeting of Naga People's Convention in the year 1960, it was finally decided that Nagaland will be considered a full-fledged state of India. In the year 1963, Nagaland was finally declared a separate state, which constitutes an important part of Nagaland history. Various rebellious actions continued to be taken by the extremists and the Naga ethnic people. The restoration of peace in Nagaland is a major part of Nagaland history. It pertains to the initiative taken for resolving the political disturbances in Nagaland. At one point, the situation was out of control and presidential rule had to be declared in this state. In the year 1975, many anti-government leaders agreed to accept the administration of the Indian government but there were still some people who kept on agitating against the government. Restoration Of Peace in Nagaland The restoration of peace in Nagaland is one of the most important segments of the history of Nagaland. It pertains to the efforts taken to restore peace and order in the state of Nagaland. Before and after independence, the Naga ethnic people and some extremists took part in a number of revolts demanding the separate identity of the Naga people outside the administration of the Indian government. Nagaland was declared a separate and full-fledged state in the year 1963. After this declaration, a lot of initiative was being taken to resolve the existing political problems. A very significant name in this context is the Nagaland Baptist Church Convention or the NBCC. In the third convention, the Nagaland Baptist Church Convention took the decision to usher in peace in the state. This convention was held between the 31st of January and the 2nd of February in the year 1964. At this convention, about five thousand people belonging to the different Nagaland ethnic tribes were present. In this convention, the government was offered the suggestion to take the help of Mr Shankar Deva, Mr Jayaprakesh Narayan, Mr Michael Scott and Mr Bimala Prasad Chaliha. On the basis of this convention, the well known 'Peace Mission' was established. Mr Michael Scott, who was an Anglican churchman and Mr Jayaprakesh Narayan, a Sarvodaya leader and a devout Gandhian had big roles to play in this mission of peace in Nagaland. Another eminent figure associated with this mission was Mr B P Chaliha, the then chief minister of Assam . Last Updated on 01/21/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule