Food Science and Nutrition | University of Mysore Top_Menu Tenders RTI Gallery ePrints@UOM Contact Us University of Mysore Navigation About UOM Emblem NAAC CBCS Syllabus Administration Chancellor Pro-Chancellor Vice Chancellor Registrar Registrar (Evaluation) PMEB - Director CDC - Director Finance Officer Administrative Officer Authorities Syndicate Academic Council Finance Committee Faculty & Departments Faculty of Arts Faculty of Science and Technology Faculty of Commerce Faculty of Education Faculty of Law Institutes P G Campuses Facilities Library You are here Home » Food Science and Nutrition Overview Courses Offered Faculty Syllabus Time Table Annual Report Contact Food Science and Nutrition Brief History of Department University of Mysore has sown a seed of M.Sc. Course in Home Science in the year 1970 at the palatial mansion in Manasagangotri campus. A seed sown on that day has grown up as tree of Department of studies in Food Science and Nutrition (Formerly Department of Studies in Home Science until 6th February 1994) offering Postgraduate and Doctoral Degree programme in Food Science and Nutrition, Human Development covering the following areas of study: University of Mysore is the only University offering postgraduate and Ph.D. courses in Food Science and Nutrition in the state of Karnataka since more than three decades. The master’s programme in Human Development was introduced in the academic year 1993-94. The department celebrated Silver Jubilee in the year 1995. The department is housed in its own academic building in the Manasagangotri campus in the year 1976 and got an extension wing of the department under VIII U.G.C. plan (1993). A new building for housing Human Development course was also built in year 1999-2000. The department has well equipped and furnished classrooms and staff rooms, an instrument room, Nutritional biochemistry and Food science laboratories, Research laboratories are equipped with various instruments  - spectrophotometers (uv-vis), automated protein digestor, flourimeter, semi-auto analyzer, viscometer, freeze dryer, rotary evaporator etc. computers with internet facility are available. Facilities of national institutions such as CFTRI, DFRL and NIN are also utilized for collaborative research work. Late Dr.S.G. Srikantia, former director of the National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad, worked as honorary visiting professor at the department from 1980-89. He made substantial contribution to enhance the standards of research and teaching at the department. Since inception of Department more than 750 M.Sc. Dissertations and 29 Ph.D Degrees have been awarded. The department has to its credit more than 280 research papers published in reputed journals and more than 465 research papers presented in international/national conference/Symposia/Seminars along with Books/booklets/Pamphlets written by its faculty in English and Kannada on Food groups and Diet during diseases, more than 20 Radio talks and 4 Television programmes were aired. Faculty and Students have won various awards too. More than 18 research projects have been completed and 4 research projects are on going. The  faculty also provides consultancy services to the needy people at counseling Centre/clinics and provide expertise to food industry/hospital/others on invitation. UGC–DRS has sanctioned financial assistance under Special Assistance Programme (SAP-I) for a period of 5 years i.e. 1-4-2007 to 31-3-2012.   List of Ph.D. Awarded Food Science and Nutrition Research Projects of  Food Science and Nutrition Food Science and Nutrition Career Opportunity Food Science and Nutrition  M.Sc. Eligibility Criteria Food Science and Nutrition  M.Sc. CBCS Syllabus 2011 Food Science and Nutrition  Ph.D. Entrance syllabus Food Science and Nutrition  Ph. D. course syllabus   List of Ph.D Awarded in Human Development Human Development Career Oppurtunity Human Development M.Sc. Eligibility Criteria Human Development M.Sc. CBCS Syllabus 2011 Human Development Ph.D. Entrance syllabus Human Development Ph. D. course syllabus About UOM History Emblem CBCS Accreditation Admissions P G Courses Constituent Colleges Institutes Research Centre Academics Departments Courses Notifications Application Processing -  Online Programs Contact Us Address Directory CampusMap 2015Powered by © Zocampus (Q Ventures Pvt Ltd)                                                                              VICE-CHANCELLOR'S DESK      TENDERS      NEWS      EPRINTS@UOM      CONTACTUS