Kosi River Changes its Course Home » Bihar » Kosi River Changes Its Course   Bihar बिहार का नक्शा Bihar Map Bihar at a Glance Bihar Cities Motihari Chhapra Bhagalpur Bodhgaya Samastipur                    more.. Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Travel to Bihar Places to Visit in Bihar Wildlife Sanctuaries Nalanda Archaeological Museum Ashokan Pillar Buddha Stupa Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Education Universities In Bihar Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Government and Politics Hotels in Bihar Bhagalpur Hotels Bodhgaya Hotels Gaya Hotels Forbesganj Hotels Katihar Hotels Patna Hotels Purnia Hotels Rajgir Hotels People, Culture and Festivals Handicrafts Agricultural Map Geography and history New Course of Kosi river District Map in Hindi STD code Pin code       Kosi River Changes Its Course Kosi River Changes Its Course Print Email Save   Buy Now * Map showing new course of Kosi river, Bihar. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. Known to be the Sorrow of Bihar , Kosi river has once again lived up to the epithet it has acquired over the years. This young river, which frequently changes its course has leashed the fury on the people of Bihar, this time in a never seen devastating manner. Kosi has shifted its course 120 km eastwards and has started flowing in its 300 year old bed which was abandoned due to the westward shift in the course of the river. The Kosi has a history of shifting westward. The westward shift of Kosi has been in phases thus did not cause damage to such an extent. As predicted by the Kosi experts, this eastward shift is sudden and turbulent and has caught people as well as authorities by surprise. The 2 km breach in the embankment of Kosi in Kusaha, Nepal has resulted in this catastrophe. The three districts of Supaul, Araria and Madhepura have been worst affected with more than 25 lakh people being homeless. The death toll has been reported to be 50 which is still expected to rise as this Katrina of India will take time to subside. Efforts are on full swing to plug the breach in the bank and restore Kosi to its original course. The State government of Bihar and the Center are working hand in hand along with the government of Nepal to handle this crisis. Last Updated on 14 June 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule