Annual Temperature Map of India Home » India » Annual Temperature Map of India   About India Political Map of India States and Capitals of India Districts of India Physical Map of India India Outline Map India River Map India Satellite Map India Zone Map Tier I And Tier II Cities of India Per Capita Income of India Climate Map of India Temperature Map of India India Seismic Zone Map India Topographic Map Mountain Ranges in India Soil Map of India Vegetation Map of India Lakes in India Telecom Circles Map Hydro Power Plants in India Thermal Power Plants in India Nuclear Power Plants in India Pre Partition Map of India Annual Rainfall in India Water Resources of India Map of Ruling Parties of India India Map in Various Languages Google Map India Universities in India Transport Network in India India Road Map National Highways in India India Railway Map Indian Railways Timetable Railway Zones Map of India Konkan Railway Delhi Metro Airports in India Air Network in India Ports in India Facts about India India Flag Geography of India History of India India Census Maps Economy of India Culture of India AIIMS in India Travel to India Tourist Places in India Religious Places in India Taj Mahal India Taj Mahal Facts Char Dham Yatra Beaches in India Hill Stations in India Hotels in India Jyotirlinga Shrines in India States of India Andhra Pradesh Goa Gujarat Tamilnadu Cities of India Delhi Mumbai Kolkata World Map World Continents Map Custom Mapping Major Events in 2015 My India What is Net Neutrality Land Acquisition Bill Child Labour in India Water crisis in India Unemployment in India Overpopulation in India Poverty in India       Annual Temperature Map of India Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the annual temperature of India Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. India Annual temperature India is a vast country and can be categorized into six main subcategories that have been described by the Koppen climate classification. The annual temperature of the country can be classified according to the season that comprise of the summer season, winter season and the rainy season. Summer in the Indian Sub continent can be extremely high and can reach around 44 degree Celsius, which can be the maximum. Many states in the county experience hot climate that reach the average temperature of 45 degree Celsius. Rainfall in the country various according to geographical location and here again some parts experience hot and humid climate, while some states experience cold winds. However, the average temperature in the country cannot be as high as the summers. Winters are cooler and pleasant and many states have an average temperature of 25 degree C. The northeastern and the northern parts of the country experience extremely cold climates that can reach below 0 degree temperature. Regions of India India has extraordinary climatic regions that range from tropical to the south region and the Himalayas experience alpine climate. South India that includes Karnataka , Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh receive pleasant winter season that can be experienced from November to February. The temperatures can be a maximum 17 to 20 degree C. The Western India comprising of Maharashtra , Gujarat and Haryana too experience pleasant climate during the winters. The north Indian states are very cold due to their proximity to the Himalayas and also experience heavy snow fall and temperatures can be very low. The eastern states too experience cold weather and can be extreme as well. The rains, which begins in June and lasts till September, also differ in many parts of India, while the desert region experiences very little rainfall, most other parts especially south India receives heavy rainfall. Himalayas experience spring and autumn which are very pleasant in this part of the country. Summers in India are hot. They begin from April to June. The average temperature during these months can be around 40 to 45 degree Celsius. India Monsoon South West Monsoon North East Monsoon South West Monsoon in 2011 Political Parties in States South West Monsoon in 2012 Annual Temperature Map of India Annual Rainfall in India   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule