Hungund Hosapete (Hospet) Expressway, Map of Hungund Hosapete (Hospet) Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway » Hungund Hosapete Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Hungund Hosapete (Hospet) Expressway Map of Hungund Hosapete Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Hungund Hosapete (Hospet) Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Hungund - Hospet Expressway is part of the National Highway 13 which runs through the state of Karnataka and connects Hungund in Bagalkot district with Hospet in Bellary district. The GMR group and Oriental Structural engineers have designed and built this tolled expressway on a build, transfer and operate basis (BOT) for the National Highway Authority of India. The expressway was made partially operational in a trial run in end July 2012. Parts of it are still being developed. The expressway runs on a 99 kilometer stretch of the NH13. NH13 runs from Sholapur in Maharashtra to Mangalore in Karnataka and passes through important towns such as Sholapur, Kushtagi, Hospet, Chitradurga, Sringeri, Bhadravati, Shimoga and Mudabidri. Hospet is a hub for iron ore mining and is only 12 kilometers from Hampi, which has the world heritage ruins of the Vijaynagar Empire, so it is a popular tourist destination in the area and has a lot of tourist and industrial traffic. The stretch of the highway between Hospet and Chitradurga was two laned and extremely congested due to heavy truck traffic. In addition the condition of the road was very bad with numerous pot holes, which led to frequent accidents. The two-lane national highway was upgraded to four lanes on this stretch. This four-lane expressway has made driving smooth for the traffic coming specially from Bangalore, the capital of the state, bound for Hampi , Badami, Aihole, Pattadakhal and other popular tourist towns in north Karnataka. Aihole, Pattadakhal and Hampi are known for the ancient rock cut temple complexes. Moreover with the reduction of travelling time and congestion on the highway, the expressway is expected to give a boost to the trade and commerce in the state. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule