Mohit Kumar : Agricultural Equipments Operated Manually - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Mohit Kumar : Agricultural Equipments Operated Manually Home Mohit Kumar : Agricultural Equipments Operated Manually Manufacturers and suppliers of agricultural equipments operated manually Mohit Kumar Agricultural equipments operated without any power and at the same time provide high productivity would make farming cost-effective and efficient for small and marginal farmers. We Farm has taken the responsibility to ergonomically design these manually operated farming equipment. The manufacturing plants are located at Jharkhand, one in Ranchi and another one at Jamshedpur, Tatanagar. Mr. Mohit Kumar, one of the founder members shares information on these equipment.  All the products are designed in compliance with the farming requirements. A few equipment are light in weight developed especially for women so that they can manage it well and work becomes easy. Farmers have to invest money only in purchasing these equipment, and later there is no expense like fuel or battery cost. All the equipment are maintenance free. Dry Land Weeder is used for weeding in row crops for removing shallow rooted weeds. It has been designed ergonomically for easy operations in any region in any soil. It is operative in dry land and garden land crops and is ideal at a soil moisture content of 8% to 10%. They have different accessories also such as grass cutter, furrow, etc. It is a multiple device which can be used with the single equipment. Seed Drill is a newly designed equipment. There are two types of seed drill, one is double and another is single line sowing. The seed drill has 7-8 multiple rotors that can be replaced based upon the seed to be sowed in the farm. It is effective for SRI method of rice cultivation. “When wheat is sowed in the farm, the seeds are placed in the seed drill and it has to be dragged by a single farmer, one acre in a day. It reduces the work of farmer substantially,” informs Mr. Mohit Kumar. Seed drill can be used in green gram, black gram, sesame, millet, green peas and for multiple vegetables. It shall reduce the labor cost. A few other equipment are Broad Fork, which is used to break open the compact soil, Wheel Hoe helpful in cutting weeds quickly, Seed Dressing Drum used to mix the seeds to get the better crop, Paddy Thresher and Rice Transplanter etc. Farmers are trained through live demonstration of these equipment at their farm land. “We have teamed up with a few NGOs who are fully trained on the use of all the equipment. If farmers find it difficult to buy, then they can also opt to rent it from these NGOs,” shares Mr. Mohit Kumar. He further adds, “Even the Government is encouraging the farmers to use these equipment and hence provides some subsidy on the purchase”. Excerpts: Do you provide the instruction manual or any training for using these equipment? A video has been developed and placed at YouTube so that it helps the farmer. However, generally the company representative visits the farmer at his farmland and gives live demonstration. Later if farmer finds the equipment useful he can either contact the company directly or also reach out to the nearest NGO partners. Approximately what is the maximum area of the farm where these equipment can be used well? One acre is the maximum area because all these equipment are manual ones. Beyond one acre it is not recommended. What is the price range of your equipment? All products are having the different price range. It is between Rs 1000 to 5000. Tell us about the after sales service of these products. The equipment come with a warranty. In case of any damage they can be replaced any time up to 3 years. The expected life of these equipment is more than 5 years. If the farmer finds any issue with the products the company will be ready to take back its product. Are the equipment used in SRI operations light in weight so that it becomes easy for women users? Yes, definitely. Almost all the equipment are developed for the use of women farmers. There are many advanced technologies. Then why one should opt for the manual equipment? Just is it reasonable or any other reason apart from it? The reason is that the company has identified that there are 70% of the farmers who are marginal farmers and so exclusively those 70% of the population are focused on keeping in view of small and marginal farmers. Remaining 30% are big farmers having big farms and have the capability to buy farm machinery supplied by renowned manufacturers across the globe. Moreover We Farm is looking forward to change the world of small and marginal farmers and to make their remarkable contribution felt across globe. Complete discussion available at – http://bit.ly/1cQEQJV Our Correspondent Contact Details: We Farm Rani Bagan, Bariyatu,Ranchi, Jharkhand, India  Mob: 08404856864, 09334726481 Email: kmrmohit@gmail.com Web: http://www.vfarmgreens.com/ Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Mohit Kumar : Agricultural Equipments Operated Manually Related – articles, consultants, downloads Rajaram Agro Industries – agri-machinery&equipments American Spring & Pressing Works – plant protection equipments J. J. Overseas – hi-tech farming equipments Flowchem Process Equipments You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water