Red Fort Agra Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Agra Travel Tourist Map About Agra Weather Shopping Hotels in Agra How to Reach Taj Mahotsav Travel Agents Travel Tips Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri How to Reach Agra Agra Airport Agra Distance Chart Flights to Agra Agra Buses Trains to Agra Agra Route Map Delhi to Agra Varanasi to Agra Bharatpur to Agra Agra to Nanital Agra to Dehradun Agra to Lucknow Agra to Jaipur Agra to Allahabad Agra to Ajmer Tourist Destinations near Agra Mathura Travel Vrindavan Travel Bharatpur Travel Delhi Travel Jaipur Travel Ranthambore Travel more.. Agra Map Location Map Railway Map District Map Road Map more.. Home » Agra » Red Fort Agra Agra Fort Amar Singh Gate: The Amar Singh Gate or The Lahore Gate is named after Rao Amar Singh of Jodhpur. Formerly called as Akbar Darwazza (Akbar Gate), it forms the main entrance of the Agra Red Fort. Akbar Darwaza: It is named so because Akbar, the Mughal emperor, used to enter the fort through this gate. The gate, with two octagonal towers crowned by a chhatri, symbolizes the rich history of the Mughal era. Second gate: The Delhi Gate is the grandest of the four gates. It was built as the king's formal gate. It is not opened for tourists. Entrance: After making an entry through the Amar Singh Gate, one has to cross the inner gateway called Hathi Pol ("Elephant Gate"). Originally it had two upturned trunks of elephants that made an arch. Anguri Bagh: Anguri Bagh or the Garden of Grapes was built as the paradise garden for the royal ladies. It is divided into sections in geometrical pattern, having varieties of grapes and flowers. Diwan-i-Am: Diwan-i-Am is a huge assembly hall where the general public was addressed by the ruler. This included imparting relevant news and gathering feedback from the people. Diwan-i-Am inner view: The Hall of Public Audience or Diwan-i-Am has nine bold arches on the inner side of the front wall and two arched gateways on the other two sides. Jahangiri Mahal: Jahangiri Mahal, a beautiful building inside the Agra Fort, was the chief palace for the royal ladies. It has been named after Jahangir by his father, Emperor Akbar. View of Taj Mahal: One can get an incredible view of the Taj Mahal from the Musamman Burj or the Octagonal Tower of the Agra Fort as it looks over the Yamuna River at the white marvel. Pillar at Musamman Burj: The Musamman Burj's walls are decorated using delicately cut and fitted colored stones. The walls were designed in such a way so that the royal ladies could look out without being seen from outside. Designs inside Jahangiri Mahal: The interior of the Jahangiri Mahal reflects a blend of architecture of Central Asian and Hindu styles. Ornamentation and spatial organization is a special feature of the palace design. Agra Red Fort was designed and built by the great Mughal ruler, Akbar, in about 1565 A.D. It was initially built as a military establishment but later on his successors made many additions to the main structure. Several Mahals , which were built afterwards, converted half of the structure into a magnificent palace. The Red Fort is situated in Agra, Uttar pradesh on the banks of Yamuna River. It is known as Red Fort because it is built of a kind of red sandstone. Within this Fort there lies some of the most exquisite architecture of the Mughal Period; like the Pearl Mosque, Moti Masjid, Diwan-i-Khas, Diwan-i-Am and Jahangiri Mahal. The Red Fort in Agra encompasses a radius of three kilometers and is bordered by a wall, which is 70 foot tall. Two walls made of red sandstone surround the fort. The Red Fort has four gates. The fort contained more buildings in it but just a few of those remain till date. The most eminent of these remaining buildings is the Jahangiri Mahal; a multi-storied palace built by Akbar for his Begum, Jodha Bai. Among the other important structures that still remain are the Mausam Burj, the Diwan-i-khas, and the Shaha Burj. Visiting Time and Entry Fee The Red Fort in Agra remains open from sunrise till the setting of the sun, to welcome the visitors. The best time of the year for places to visit in Agra is from November to February. Children under the age of twelve will have the privilege to enter without any ticket. However, the adults will need to buy tickets worth five rupees to enter Red Fort. Agra is well connected to Delhi by the means of air. Railway is another option to reach there. People from far away places come to visit Agra's Red Fort. It is simply stunning, a mind-blowing experience, the impact of which remains forever. Agra Fort - Entry Fee, Timing, Address, Official Website Address Rakabganj, Taj Road, Agra, Uttar Pradesh - 282001 Entry Fee Entry fee for Indians: 20 Rs. Entry fee for Foreigners : 300 Rs. No Entry fee for children below the age of 15 years. Timing Visiting Hours - 6.00 AM - 6.00 PM Days When Closed   Phone No (Official) +91-562-2227261 , +91-562-2960457 Official Website agrafort.gov.in Photography allowed or not *Tourists are advised to hire approved guides & photographers who exhibit their identity cards. Nearest railway station Agra Cantt. Train Station Last Updated on : April 18, 2015 Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule