Hi-Tech Sanitizer - Food Grade Hydrogen Peroxide stabilized with Nano Silver - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Hi-Tech Sanitizer – Food Grade Hydrogen Peroxide stabilized with Nano Silver Hi-Tech Sanitizer – Food Grade Hydrogen Peroxide stabilized with Nano Silver Buy directly from supplier Request Price Description Product Description HI-TECH SANITIZER (Unique Combination of Food Grade Hydrogen Peroxide stabilized with Nano Silver) Indications:- Hi-Tech Sanitizer with its unique multi tasking capabilities is having wide spectrum bactericide/biocide effective against all kinds of Virus,bacteria,yeast,spores,moulds,fungus & algae. FEATURES & ADVANTAGES :- • Hi-Tech Sanitizer is effective against microbial bio films. • Hi-Tech Sanitizer is effective at low concentrations & prevents recontamination. • Hi-Tech Sanitizer has Long-lasting action • Hi-Tech Sanitizer does not leave any residues & no formation of Trihalothanes formed. • Hi-Tech Sanitizer is Non toxic, non irritant, colorless & odorless • Hi-Tech Sanitizer is Eco friendly, user friendly, bio degradable and Non Hazardous. • Hi-Tech Sanitizer is Acts as a very good deodorizer. Composition:- • Food grade hydrogen peroxide: 15% • Nano Silver : Mechanism of Action:- The presence of nano silver ensures that the penetration of the cell wall of the micro organisms, enabling peroxy radicals to attack and kill the genetic material DNA of the micro organisms. This synergistic action of hydrogen peroxide & nano Silver ensures 100% kill of the micro organisms including viruses and spores (virucide and sporicide). It is well known fact that the hydrogen peroxide is the only oxidizing agent that does not leave any residue. This ensures that no post rinse is required. Dosage • Drinking Water – 10-20 ml (10-20 ppm) in 1000 Ltrs of water. • Fumigation- 20 ml (2%) in 1 Ltr of Water. • General purpose surface / floor cleaning – 5 to 10 ml (0.5 to 1%) in 1 ltr of water. Pack:- • 1 Ltrs, 5 Ltrs, 10 Ltrs, 30 Ltrs If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: HT1 . Category: Nutrients . Tag: plant sanitiser . Social share Related Products Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Nutrients Sujalam Grow more Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Nutrients Nutra power Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Nutrients Organic mix Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Inputs , Nutrients Potassium Humate 95% Crystal Free Read More Request Price Quick View Nutrients Potassium Humate powder – 98% Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Nutrients Vermicompost Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits