What is Mudra Bank - Its objectives and main highlights Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Banks in India Axis Allahabad American Express Andhra Arab Bangladesh Bank Muscat (S A O G) Bank Of America Bank Of India Bank Of Baroda India Bank of Maharashtra Bank of Punjab Bank of Rajasthan Bharat Overseas Barclays Bank PLC Canara Bank India Centurion Citibank Corporation Cosmos Co-operative Bank Ceylon Catholic Syrian DBS Dena Dhanlakshmi Deutsche Bank India Development Credit Export-Import Bank Of India Federal Bank India Global Trust HDFC Hongkong Shanghai Banking ICICI IDBI Indian Overseas IndusInd Bank Industrial Development ING Vysya Ind Bank Housing Jammu and Kashmir JP Morgan Chase Karnataka Karur vysya Kotak Mahindra Lakshmi Vilas Lord Krishna Mizuho Corporate North Knara G.S.B. Co-op. Oriental Bank of Commerce Punjab and Sind Punjab National Reserve Bank Of India Royal Bank of Scotland Ratnakar Standard Chartered State Bank Of India State Bank Of Indore State Bank of Hyderabad State Bank of Patiala State Bank of Mysore State Bank of Travancore State Bank Of Bikaner & Jaipur Syndicate SBI Commercial Shamrao Vithal Co-operative South Indian Tamilnad Mercantile The Nainital Bank Ltd. Union Bank Of India United Bank of India UCO Vijaya YES BANK India Bank Account Portability Home  » Banks-in-india » Mudra Bank Mudra Bank Overall Rating:  [ 4 / 5 ]Total Votes [  2  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 Mudra Bank or Micro Units Development and Refinance Bank may be described as a public sector entity that deals in various financial products and services. Primarily, it makes loans accessible to small entrepreneurs, who otherwise find it hard to procure financial assistance of any kind, and this is done in lieu of low rates of interest. Narendra Modi started this bank on April 8, 2015. The project was formally announced by Arun Jaitley when he was presenting the Union Budget for the 2015-16 fiscal year. Objective of Mudra Bank The main aim of the Mudra Bank programme is regulate the lending and borrowing activities in the microfinance setup of India and thus make it stable to a certain extent. It also looks to make this sector see greater levels of inclusive participation. The initiative aims to provide crediting services and financial support to those microfinance entities that are functioning across the country. These organizations primarily cater to small business units, self help groups, retailers and individual entrepreneurs. The Mudra Bank initiative will also be employed to register all the microfinance institutions and then start a system of rating their performances and accrediting them. Products and Offerings The Mudra Bank will provide three kinds of loans – Shishu, Tarun and Kishore. The maximum amount that will be lent under Shishu loan is Rs. 50,000. For Kishore loan, the upper limit is Rs. 5 lakhs and in case of Tarun loan, the maximum amount has been fixed at Rs. 10 lakhs. Now, the bank will determine which loan applicant falls under particular category and the loans will be provided in accordance to that. Shishu loans are basically for the ones who are just starting out their businesses, Kishore loans are for those who are in the middle stage of their business endeavours and Tarun loans are for those who are looking to move on to higher levels, such as doing business expansion. Benefits and Demerits The biggest potential advantage of the Mudra Bank programme  is that it can help a large number of countless entrepreneurs across the country by providing financial support, which is such an important component in their existence and eventual success. With its focus on the underprivileged section of the Indian economic hierarchy, Mudra Bank may one day replicate what Grameen Bank has done in Bangladesh. On the other hand, some experts feel that with a bank working as a microfinance institution, there may be a question of conflict of interest coming up soon. They have also questioned about the need of having a new microfinance entity when there are already several institutions like such in place. They feel that it may also give rise to shadow banking programmes. Mudra Bank Scheme Highlights Following are certain special features of the Mudra Bank: Mudra Bank is established via a statutory enactment. It will be a part of the Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana. It will function in the service area that falls outside the purview of the conventional banks. For this purpose, it shall use last mile agents. The programme has used the NSSO Survey of 2013 to identify its prospective clients. Among its target clientele, only 4percent can access loans that are going to be provided by the banks. The bank will try and make sure that its clients never run up any debt; therefore, it will focus on responsible methods of lending. Mudra Bank will, at the start, have a corpus of Rs. 20,000 crore. It will also have a credit guarantee fund ranging between Rs. 2000 crore and Rs. 3000 crore. How it can Help Indian Economy? The Mudra Bank initiative is expected to help at least 5.77 crore small business entities in India. This is a major help considering that these organizations hardly get banks that provide loans to them and other financial assistance. Mudra Bank will work in association with coordinators who would work locally and provide finance to its intended beneficiaries. It is also expected to regulate different microfinance institutions in India and further aid them with refinancing services from time to time. It is also expected to provide guidelines for them and allot ratings so that they can function accordingly. Mudra Bank will also help the job scenario in this sector, which, at present, employs around 12 crore workers across India. Each unit in this segment incurs debts of only INR 17,000. Self-employed people are also supposed to be benefited by the Mudra Bank programme. At present, there are 5 crore and 75 lakh such people in India and they work with an aggregate fund of Rs. 11 lakh crore. Future Plans As of now, Mudra Bank will work as a non banking financial company and it will also be a SIDBI (Small Industries Development Bank of India) subsidiary. However, later on, it is expected to become an independent entity. It will also look to increase its product line in the future with MUDRA Card, credit enhancement and portfolio credit guarantee facilities. As of now, only a few sectors – Land Transport, Food Products, Community, Textile Product, and Social and Personal Services – are being covered; however, the scope of the programme is set to be expanded in the days ahead. Last Updated on 4/23/2015 List of Bank Branches in India Abhyudaya Co Op Bank Ltd Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank Allahabad Bank Andhra Bank Axis Bank Bank Of America Bank Of Bahrain And Kuwait Bank Of Baroda Bank Of Ceylon Bank Of India Bank Of Maharashtra Bank Of Tokyo Mitsubishi Ufj Ltd Barclays Bank Plc Bassein Catholic Co Op Bank Ltd Bnp Paribas Canara Bank Catholic Syrian Bank Ltd Central Bank Of India Chinatrust Commercial Bank Citibank Citizen Credit Co Op Bank Ltd City Union Bank Ltd Corporation Bank Credit Agricole Corp N Invsmnt Bank Dbs Bank Ltd Dena Bank Deutsche Bank Ag Development Credit Bank Limited Dhanlaxmi Bank Ltd Dicgc Dombivli Nagari Sahakari Bank Limited Firstrand Bank Limited Hdfc Bank Ltd Hsbc Bank Ltd Icici Bank Ltd Idbi Bank Ltd Indian Bank Indian Overseas Bank Indusind Bank Ltd Janakalyan Sahakari Bank Ltd Janata Sahakari Bank Ltd Jp Morgan Chase Bank Kapol Co Op Bank Karnataka Bank Ltd Karur Vysya Bank Kotak Mahindra Bank Mahanagar Co Op Bank Ltd Maharashtra State Co Operative Bank Mashreq Bank Psc Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd New India Co Operative Bank Ltd Nkgsb Co Op Bank Ltd Nutan Nagarik Sahakari Bank Ltd Oman International Bank Saog Oriental Bank Of Commerce Parsik Janata Sahakari Bank Ltd Punjab And Maharashtra Co Op Bank Ltd Punjab And Sind Bank Punjab National Bank Rajkot Nagarik Sahakari Bank Ltd Reserve Bank Of India Standard Chartered Bank State Bank Of Bikaner And Jaipur State Bank Of Hyderabad State Bank Of India State Bank Of Mysore State Bank Of Travancore The Ahmedabad Mercantile Co Operative Bank Ltd The Bank Of Nova Scotia The Bharat Co Operative Bank Mumbai Ltd The Cosmos Co Operative Bank Ltd The Federal Bank Ltd The Jammu And Kashmir Bank Ltd The Kalupur Commercial Co Op Bank Ltd The Kalyan Janata Sahakari Bank Ltd The Karad Urban Co Op Bank Ltd The Karnataka State Co Operative Apex Bank Ltd Ba The Lakshmi Vilas Bank Ltd The Mehsana Urban Co Operative Bank Ltd The Mumbai Sub Urban Co Op Bank Ltd The Nainital Bank Limited The Nashik Merchants Co Op Bank Ltd The Ratnakar Bank Ltd The Royal Bank Of Scotland More Banks Top 10 Banking Companies Nationalised Banks Commercial Bank Loans Income Tax Calculator EMI Calculator Currency Convertor Online Net Banking Tips Bank Jobs In India Bank Exams In India Bank Branches Locator Bank ATM Locator Export-Import Bank Of India India Banking Industry Investment Banks Mortgage Banking Banking Glossary & Terms About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED