Crop Production :: Rice :: System of Rice Intensification (SRI) | Home | Seasons & Varieties | Tillage | Nutrient Management | Irrigation Management | Weed Management | Crop Protection | Cost of Cultivation | FAQ Crop Production :: Rice :: System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Cultivation System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Cultivation-Video System of Rice Intensification (SRI) short film Success Stories Video SRI International Network and Resource Network Components of System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Cultivation Young Seedling (14 days old) Single Seedling/hill Square Planting Weeding by Cono Weeder Alternate Wetting & Drying LCC based N Management   Nursery Management Soil Mixture Blending Soil Mixture Wooden Frame Filling the Wooden Frame Sowing Sprouted Seeds Lifting Seedlings Lifting Seedling Mat  Mainfield Square Planting  Transplanted Young Seedling Weeding Moving Weeder from 10-15th day onwards Moving Weeder Weeder moved in both direction Nutrient Management LCC based N Management Grown up System of Rice Intensification (SRI) field System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Cultivation in Tamil Nadu 1. Season Dry season with assured irrigation is more suitable. Difficulty in crop establishment may be seen in areas with heavy downpour (NE Monsoon periods of Tamil Nadu) 2. Varieties Hybrids and varieties with heavy tillering 3. Nursery 3.1. Seed rate 7- 8 kg for single seedling per hill 12 -15 kg/ha for two seedlings per hill wherever difficulty in establishment of rice is seen Preparation of nursery area : Prepare 100 m2 nurseries to plant 1 ha.  Select a levelled area near the water source. Spread a plastic sheet or used polythene gunny bags on the shallow raised bed to prevent roots growing deep into soil. Preparation of soil mixture : Four (4) m3 of soil mix is needed for each 100 m2 of nursery.  Mix 70% soil + 20% well-decomposed pressmud / bio-gas slurry / FYM + 10% rice hull. Incorporate in the soil mixture 1.5 kg of powdered di -ammonium phosphate or 2 kg 17-17-17 NPK fertilizer.   Soil Mixture Blending Soil Mixture Filling in soil mixture : Place a wooden frame of 0.5 m long, 1 m wide and 4 cm deep divided into 4 equal segments on the plastic sheet or banana leaves. Fill the frame almost to the top with the soil mixture. Pre-germinating the seeds 2 days before sowing : Soak the seeds for 24 h, drain and incubate the soaked seeds for 24 h, sow when the seeds sprout and radical  (seed root) grows to 2-3 mm long. Soil application  of   biofertilizers  : Application   of Azospirillum   @ 2 kg and   mycorrhizal fungi @ 5 kg for 100 m2 nursery area Sowing : Sow the pre-germinated seeds weighing 90 -100 g / m-2 (100g dry seed may weigh 130g after sprouting) uniformly Cover them with dry soil to a thickness of 5mm. Sprinkle water immediately using rose can to soak the bed and remove the wooden frame And continue the process until the required area is completed. Sowing Sprouted Seeds Watering : Water the nursery with rose can as and when needed (twice or thrice a day) to keep the soil moist. Protect the nursery from heavy rains for the first 5 DAS. At 6 DAS, maintain thin film of water all around the seedling mats. Drain the water 2 days before removing the seedling mats for transplanting. Watering with Rose Can Spraying fertilizer solution (optional) : If seedling growth is slow, sprinkle 0.5% urea + 0.5% zinc sulfate solution at 8-10 DAS.      Mat Nursery Lifting seedling mats : Seedlings reach sufficient height for planting at 15 days.  Lift the seedling mats and transport them to main field. Lifting Seedlings Lifting Seedling Mats For elite seedling production under modified mat nursery : seed fortification with 1.0% KCl mixed with native soil and powdered DAP @ 2.0 kg per cent along with Pseudomonas 240 g/ cent followed by drenching with 0.5 % urea solution on 9 DAS 4. Main field preparation Puddled lowland prepared as described in transplanted section Perfect leveling is a pre-requisite for the water management proposed hereunder 5. Transplanting 1-2 seedlings of 14-15 days old Square planting of 25 x 25 cm (10 x 10 inch) Fill up the gaps between 7th and 10th DAT. Transplant within 30 minutes of pulling out of seedlings. There may be difficulty in crop establishment in areas with heavy downpour (North East Monsoon periods of Tamil Nadu)     Square planting with single seedling Transplanted Young Seedling 6. Irrigation management Irrigation only to moist the soil in the early period of 10 days Restoring irrigation to a maximum depth of 2.5cm after development of hairline cracks in the soil until panicle initiation Increasing irrigation depth to 5.0cm after PI one day after disappearance of ponded water   Alternate wetting and drying (irrigate until hairline crack develop) 7. Weed management Using rotary weeder / Cono weeder / power operated two row weeder Moving the weeder with forward and backward motion to bury the weeds and as well to aerate the soil at 7-10 days interval from 10-15 days after planting on either direction of the rows and column. Manual weeding is also essential to remove the weeds closer to rice root zone.  Using rotary weeder / Cono weeder Weeder should be moved in both directions 8. Nutrient managements As per transplanted rice. Use of LCC has more advantage in N management. Green manure and farm yard manure application will enhance the growth and yield of rice in this system approach. Under sodic soils, during rotary weeding, apply Azophosmet @ 2.2 kg/ha and PPFM as foliar spray @ 500 ml/ha. N management through LCC Time of application is decided by LCC score Take observations from 14 DAT in transplanted rice or 21 DAS in direct seeded rice. Repeat the observations  at weekly intervals up to heading Observe the leaf colour in the fully opened third leaf from the top as index leaf. Match the leaf color with the colours in the chart during morning hours (8-10 am). Take observation in 10 places. LCC critical value is 3.0 in low N response cultures like White Ponni and 4.0 in other cultivars and hybrids When 6/10 observations show less than the critical colour value, N can be applied @ 35kg N/ha in dry season and 30kg N/ha in wet season per application per ha. Green manure and farm yard manure application will enhance the growth and yield of rice in this system approach. Leaf Color Chart based N Management Other package of practices as recommended to transplanted rice Source: http://www.pustaka-deptan.go.id/rkb/knowledgeBank Updated on: Feb 2015   | Home | Seasons & Varieties | Tillage | Nutrient Management | Irrigation Management | Weed Management | Crop Protection | Cost of Cultivation | © All Rights Reserved. TNAU-2015.