System of Rice Intensification - SRI-Rice Support SRI International Network and Resources Center   Home About Us Projects SRI News Events Latest Additions Contact Us About SRI Methodology FAQs Origin of SRI Other Crops Countries and Regions Asia | Africa | Americas Information Resources SRI Websites / Groups Research Practical Information Other Publications Photo Gallery Videos Presentations Marketing Past Conferences Spanish documents Home > About Us > Donate HELP SUPPORT SRI-RICE! We deeply appreciate the wonderful relationships we have with our many supporters: Individuals, families, non-profits and even businesses in more than 50 countries! Now there's a new way and easy way to help-- with a donation to our new SRI-Rice Gift Fund . While the SRI International Network and Resources Center ( SRI-Rice) is housed at International Programs within Cornell University 's College of Agriculture and Life Sciences , we must raise our own funds to support our projects , staff , and outreach activities. Every contribution, regardless of its size, is crucial to help us improve rice production for millions of smallholder rice farmers around the world, while protecting water and the environment .   Gifts can be one-time or set up for regular monthly, quarterly, or even yearly donations. It's entirely flexible! And all donations are tax deductible in the United States. Please set up an online payment , or if you prefer to support us by check , make it payable to Cornell University, with SRI-Rice noted in the memo , and mail it to our office: SRI-Rice, IP/CALS 624 Bradfield Hall, Cornell University Ithaca New York 14853 If you are interested in a specific project related to the System of Rice Intensification or would like to discuss your participation and support for our work, kindly contact Erika Styger , director of programs, at eds8 AT cornell.edu, or at 607-255-8087. Thank you for joining us in our work. Your help makes us stronger, and together we can make a real difference! Your SRI-Rice Team     The SRI International Network and Resources Center (SRI-Rice) is supported by Ohrstrom Foundation, The Bridging Peace Fund, Marguerite and Norman Uphoff, and Jim Carrey's Better U Foundation   Contact Us   | SRI-Rice is associated with International Programs - CALS at Cornell University   | ©2014