|| Directorage of Extension || ORGANISATION PROJECTS TRAINING PUBLICATIONS PHOTO GALLERY EVENTS RELATED LINKS DISCLAIMER CENTRAL SECTOR SCHEMES ON EXTENSION SUPPORT TO CENTRAL INSTITUTIONS   Extension Support to Central Institutions This scheme has the following components: (i)                HRD activities : MANAGE based in Hyderabad is providing outstanding HRD support for middle and senior level extension functionaries who are engaged in extension activities including training for agri-clinic and agri-business centres through which Agri-Graduates are trained to set up their own business.    Extension Education Institutes: 4 Extension Education Institutes located at Nilokheri, Anand, Rajendrangar, and Jorhat to provide training to middle level extension functionaries are supported under this component.   Model training Courses/ Interfaces/ Workshops/ Seminars: 95% of the training needs of extension functionaries are met by the State agriculture and line departments. However , Model Training Courses on thrust areas are proposed to be supported under this component. 70 Model training courses are proposed to be supported.     (ii)     Exhibitions/Fairs Agriculture exhibitions are an excellent mechanism for showcasing latest technological advancements and dissemination of information to the farming community and also for promoting business opportunities in agriculture and allied sectors.    Agriculture fairs are organized at different levels.   -          At the national level, DAC organizes a Krishi Expo and/ or participates in India International Trade Fair organized by India Trade Promotion Organization.   -          DAC is supporting five Regional fairs – one in each region – every year. -          DAC also participates in ad-hoc exhibitions organized by various agencies -          The agriculture fair at block, district and state levels are also being supported by DAC under the Extension Reforms (ATMA) Scheme and decision in this regard rests with the States.   (iii)      Awards National Productivity Awards      Under the Scheme funds to the tune of Rs.20.00 lakh is provided to the National Productivity Council as Grant-in-Aid for implementing the scheme and 14 Awards are given to Organizations/Institutions working for the development of agriculture and allied sectors in a year.   (iv)       National Gender Resource Centre in Agriculture:   A Gender Resource Centre has been set up to work as a focal point for convergence and coordination of gender related issues within DAC, MOA.   This centre is to essentially review, monitor and assess the gender contents and impact of various on-going programmes of MOA and make recommendations on appropriate improvements in their strategy and design.   Besides, the centre is to collect, analyze and document information on Women in Agriculture and make it available in a user-friendly mode. It has also established a Gender Budgeting Cell which will look into the budgetary commitments for various schemes /programmes of DAC and the proportionate benefits flowing to women farmers.    (v)        Support to Restructured Directorate of Extension (DOE):             The fast changing extension scenario calls for redefining the roles, responsibilities and restructuring of the DOE to enhance its effectiveness and operational efficiency.   The Directorate of Extension has been restructured to meet current and future challenges, based on SIU study.      (vi)      Monitoring and Evaluation/ Innovative Activities:             The specific activities under this component include Central Monitoring & Evaluation of schemes by engaging institutions of repute and take up innovative activities.      