CREED KVK      29-05-2015  Friday    English   |   தமிழ் Home Profile General Agriculture /Irrigation PDS / Health Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and others Block Details Ariyalur Thirumanur Jayankondam T.palur Andimadam Sendurai Our Team Team Duties and Responsibilities Activity OFT FLD Trainings Extension Activity Clean India – Swachh Bharath SAC Publication Gallery Annual Report Contact Us Welcome to CREED Krishi Vigyan Kendra Cleanliness Pledge Mahatma Gandhi taught us to live for the country. He freed 'Maa Bharati' by breaking the shackles of slavery. Let us pledge to eradicate insanitation. It would be a great service to Mother India. I take the pledge that I would devote 100 hours every year for fulfilling the pledge of cleanliness. I would neither litter nor allow anyone to do so. I would begin cleanliness with myself, my family, my area and my workplace. We know that those countries are cleaner whose citizens do not litter.　 So we would aware people of the cleanliness drive from village and street to street. I would administer this pledge to 100 other persons, who would devote 100 hours every year for the cleanliness Gandhiji's dream was not only of an independent India, but also that of a neat and clean Nation.　 I would remain committed to it. Important activites Seed and Planting Material ICAR Zone VIII Online reporting system TNAU TANUVAS District Administration SMS Farmer Portal Directorate of cashew rese.. Directorate of Groundnut Agrimarket information Weather information Click here You must have PDF-capable software on your computer to view the document Click Here to Download Tamil Font to view Tamil Contents Kisan Call Center 1800 180 1551   000002442 Friday 29-05-2015 06:30:31 PM WELCOME TO ICAR-KRISHI VIGYAN KENDRA, ARIYALUR DISTRICT                Centre for Rural Education and Economic Development (CREED) established in the year 1987 was a registered Non Government, nonprofit making organization, providing spectrum of Community based / oriented services mainly in  rural, semi Urban / Urban population to improve the standard of living. It has been recognized as the premier social service organization and in recognition, the state government nominated CREED for the “Best Institution Award 2002”. It continued to gain the recognition of the District / Govt. Institutions for its various govt. sponsored programs.           In addition to the prime role and responsibilities in the formation of Self Help Groups for women and in micro financing, it established the Krishi Vigyan Kendra, in Cholamadevi at Ariyalur Dt. during the month of March, 2009           The establishment of CREED KVK was on 24.03.09 at Cholamadevi, Ariyalur Dt. with  nearly 50 acres of land  to provide Training in Farm Management.            Krishi Vigyan Kendra, is the Farm Science Centre under the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR), the Ministry of Agriculture, Central Govt of india, mainly to provide training in farm Management, agriculture to rural population in backward areas. The purpose of KVK is to identify the technological gaps and critical needs and requirements of the farmers. This formed the basis for framing operational modality like training, demonstration and on farm trails by KVK simultaneously the farm development work was also started as an important requirement for the strengthening of training cum demonstration infrastructure of the KVK           KVK has excelled in brining the modern technological packages at the farmers door steps with the help of various instructional units. The KVK today has sufficient resources to impart training skills not only for the farmers but also the rural youth.   Success stories Snake gourd seed production Integrated Farming System Hitech Tuberose cultivation techniques Copyright ©.CREED Krishi Vigyan Kendra Contact Us   |   How to Reach   |   Site Map Design & Developed by TAG Info Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. and update by B.Vivekananthan, PA(Computer)        