Women and Child Development — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Social Welfare / Women and Child Development Share Views View State: Open for Edit Info Women and Child Development This section covers various policies, organisations and other legal aspects related to women and child development. Women and Child Welfare This topic covers about Women and child Development Ministry and Policy Initiatives Women Development This topic covers about Women Development and welfare Prerna Scheme This topic covers the information about the Prerna scheme - Incentive to Parents of Girl Child Child Development This topic covers about Child Development and Welfare. Policies and Acts This topic covers about Policies and Acts related to Women and Child Schemes and Legal Awareness This topic covers about Schemes and Legal Awareness of Women and Child National Institutes This topic covers about National Institutes related to Women and Child Girl child welfare This section covers about welfare of girl child. Integrated child Development scheme Topic mentions about ICDS and its various components. Swachh Bharat Swachh Vidyalaya The topic covers about national mission swachh bharat swachh vidyalaya National tracking system for missing and vulnerable children The topic covers information about the web enabled Child Tracking System setup by the Ministry of Women and Child Development. Meera Didi Se Poocho This topic covers about to spread legal awareness as well as awareness of other relevant issues amongst women. Navigation Women and Child Development Women and Child Welfare Women Development Prerna Scheme Child Development Policies and Acts Schemes and Legal Awareness National Institutes Girl child welfare Integrated child Development scheme Swachh Bharat Swachh Vidyalaya National tracking system for missing and vulnerable children Meera Didi Se Poocho Scheduled Caste Welfare Scheduled Tribes Welfare Backward Classes Welfare Unorganised Sector Welfare Differently- abled Welfare Community power Financial Inclusion Unorganised Sector Minority Welfare Senior citizens Welfare Rural Poverty Alleviation Urban Poverty Alleviation NGO-Voluntary Sector Disaster Management Fight against social evils Skill development Social Security Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme Discussion Forum - Social Welfare Related Items Social Welfare Grants to NGOs for welfare of Child and Women Labour Ministry of Women & Child Development Beti Bachao Beti Padhao more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance