Elephant Falls Meghalaya Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Meghalaya Travel Tourist Map Shopping How To Reach Meghalaya Hotels Places to Visit in Meghalaya Elephant Falls Police Bazar Mawsynram Dainthlen Waterfalls Khasi Monoliths Nongsawlia Presbyterian Church Krem Umshangktat Garo Hills Naphak Lake Tourist Destinations in Meghalaya Shillong Travel Baghmara Travel Jowai Travel Nongpoh Travel Cherrapunji Travel About Meghalaya History Geography Home » Meghalaya » Tourism » Elephant Falls Elephant Falls The capital state of Meghalaya, Shillong has been entitled as the 'Scotland of the East'. This is because of its aesthetic, graceful and picturesque landscapes. The city is bestowed with some quintessential sightseeing facilities like the Ward Lake or the Botanical Garden. But what holds attention of the tourists are the waterfalls in and around Shillong. Among them the Elephant Falls of Meghalaya holds the prime attention. Elephant Falls is situated at the outskirts of the main city of Shillong. It is almost 12 kms away from the hustle and bustle of the city life. The unique part of Elephant Falls in Meghalaya is that it is a two-tier waterfall set in the dingles of the rocks. The beauty of Meghalaya Elephant Falls is increased manifold by the two falls-the Wir Phang Falls and the Wei Iaplam Falls. Though both of them are busy tourist spots, none resembles the voluminous and elegant Elephant Falls. Elephant Falls at Meghalaya solely holds the attraction of Upper Shillong. Specially in the rainy seasons, Elephant Falls comes to its full vigor and justifies its name. Let apart the tourists, even the locals cannot resist the temptation of an outing in the months of July and August. These are the two months that witnesses a huge crowd in this place. Elephant Falls of Meghalaya is a must visit tourist destination of Meghalaya. Last Updated on : 19/06/2013 Hotels in Meghalaya Shillong Hotels Meghalaya Tourism Cherrapunji Mawsynram National Parks Police Bazar Meghalaya Cities Meghalaya Attractions Meghalaya Sightseeing About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule