Andaman and Nicobar Island Beaches Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andaman and Nicobar Travel Shopping How to Reach Andaman and Nicobar Hotels Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar Long Island Cellular Jail Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park Anthropological Museum Islands Beaches in Andaman & Nicobar Andaman & Nicobar Monuments Museums in Andaman & Nicobar Picnic Sports Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Activities Honeymoon Places to See in Nicobar Port Blair Indira Point Car Nicobar Katchal Great Nicobar Island About Andaman Nicobar History Climate Home » Andaman & Nicobar Islands » State Tourism » Andaman and Nicobar Island Beaches Andaman and Nicobar Island Beaches Andaman and Nicobar Island Beaches Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email   Buy Now * The Map showing Beaches in Andaman and Nicobar Island. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. Andaman and Nicobar Islands beaches are widely popular all across the world because of their abundant and unspoilt natural beauty. The beaches in this region have still managed to retain their original glory because this part of the country has still not come across the evils of commercialization. The Andaman and Nicobar Island beaches make for a perfect holiday destination far away from the monotony and routine of daily city life. Despite the tropical climate of the region, beaches of Andaman and Nicobar Islands offer a calm and cool environment that add to the beauty of the turquoise blue waters. The beaches at Andaman and Nicobar Islands also support a diverse range of marine life and water sports. Some of the popular types of the water sports that the beaches in this region offer include swimming, scuba diving, water-skiing windsurfing etc. The beaches around Andaman and Nicobar Islands are also ideal for sun bathing, sea bath, snorkeling, fishing, etc. Such activities are mostly enjoyed by foreign tourists who come from the remotest corners of the globe to experience the ecstasy of this beautiful group of islands. The most amazing feature of the beaches in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is that they do not have any such major man made developments such as beach side cafes or parks, etc., but they are still one of the star attractions for tourists. The reason is their all pervasive beauty which is nature's gift. Once you are at the Andaman and Nicobar Islands beaches, you are sure to soak yourself in the eternal beauty of the place. Ramnagar Beach Ramnagar Beach of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is situated in the northern region at the Diglipur Island and is accessible through water and road. The sandy beach is only 15 kilometers away from Kalighat. The beach is surrounded by palm and coconut trees and other coastal shrubs.Ramnagar Beach offers a breathtaking view of the serene environment. The beach has tourists flowing in from not only India but from through out the world. The beach which is famous for its widely scattered grains of sand offers the travelers a chance to spend some quality time there and rest on the sandy beach. The nearby vegetation at Ramnagar Beach in Andaman and Nicobar Islands also comprises of various fauna. If you are a wildlife buff, then do go out for trekking. Moreover, you can also explore the marine life by going for a scuba diving or snorkeling. These two adventurous water sports activities are very famous. Ramnagar Beach in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is the abode of the turtles. You can also spend a small vacation at the exotic locale while residing at the lodges and guest houses maintained by the government. Moreover, you can also take a sun bath so as to refresh yourself from tiredness. Ramnagar Beach Andaman and Nicobar Islands can be visited during any time of the year. But if you want to enjoy the panoramic scenery of the spring blossoms, then do visit the magnanimous sandy beach in between the months of December and early April. Radhanagar Beach Radhanagar Beach is one of the two popular beaches located at Havelock Island in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The other one is Vijaynagar Island. The serene beach which is far away from the polluted cities and towns has a majestic spell that attracts tourists to its beauty.Radhanagar Beach of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is situated at a place which is 7 kilometers away from Dolphin Yatri Niwas at Havelock Island. The beach is the favorite among all nature lovers who love to explore the nature of different places. Radhanagar Beach offers a wide range of fauna and flora for one to explore. The main attraction of the Radhanagar Beach in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is its calm and clean surrounding which offers you a soothing sensation and relieves you of all the worldly worries. The beach is also a favorite hangout of love birds as the place has nothing to hinder their privacy. At Radhanagar Beach, you will love to spend some time swimming. You can also try your luck in fishing as the sea water is an abode to various species of fish. And if you are a sports lover, then try out some water sports at Radhanagar Beach. But if you are at Radhanagar Beach just for relaxation, then do try out for a session of sun bath. People from all across the globe visit this beach. Though you can visit Radhanagar Beach at Andaman and Nicobar Islands during any time of the year, you can enjoy the real beauty of the nature in between March and April when the spring is in full bloom. During this period, you can explore the natural flora of the island. Harminder Bay Beach Harminder Bay Beach is counted amongst one of the most exquisite beaches of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The beach is sited 100 kilometers away from Port Blair at Hut Bay Island. You can travel to the pristine beach through ships run by Inter Islands shipping services from Port Blair. The exuberant locale of the Harminder Bay Beach at Andaman and Nicobar Islands has played an extravagant role in attracting tourists towards it. The sandy beach does not have any large development such as parks, restaurants, etc. but it is still one of the favorite tourist hangouts. Harminder Bay Beach of Andaman and Nicobar Islands not only just offer you scenic pleasure rather they also offer you opportunities to explore the nature. You can check out the marine life in the waters of the sea or go out for fishing. If you like adventurous sports, then Harminder Bay Beach is the perfect venue. Harminder Bay Beach Andaman and Nicobar Islands is the finest location for relaxation. You can take a sun bath or stroll along the sandy beach. Moreover, while you are traveling in the ships to reach Harminder Bay Beach in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, you get a chance to explore the waters of the sea. The climate of the beach is tropical and is cool in the evening. Go and relish amidst the various flora and fauna, rocks, soils, water and natural beauty of the Harminder Bay Beach. The Harminder Bay Beach is a very popular beach of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Karmatang Beach Karmatang Beach which is surrounded by natural beauty from all sides has a very calm and quiet environment. The beach which is famous for the turtles is a perfect retreat for the city dwellers who visit the beach for small vacations. The weather of the Karmatang Beach is very pleasant. Karmatang Beach at Andaman and Nicobar Islands is located in the northern region of the Middle Andaman, 12 kilometers away from Mayabunder. The beach is 240 kilometers away from Port Blair if you are traveling through road and 136 kilometers away if you are traveling through water. Though there are many islands and beaches near Mayabunder, but Karmatang Beach in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is the most prominent of all because of its charming beauty. The beach is the best place to rejuvenate and relax with your family and friends. The sandy beach is surrounded by green coastal vegetation. Corbyn's Cove Tourism Complex Corbyn's Cove Tourism Complex is one of the very popular beaches in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The beach which is just 7 kilometers away from the capital city of Port Blair is very beautiful and is a perfect location for capturing some wonderful moments in camera. The place is ideal for small vacations or picnics. Corbyn's Cove Tourism Complex of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is accessible through Port Blair. You can get down at Port Blair airport or sea port and take the local transport to the beach. The sandy beach surrounded with trees of coconut and palm at Corbyn's Cove Tourism Complex in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is the finest locale for one to relax. The place which is bounded by natural fauna and flora is a traveler's delight in the whole island groups. The water near the Corbyn's Cove Tourism Complex at Andaman and Nicobar Islands has a very strong current due to which large waves rise in it. The whole view is scintillating. People visit here to see the strong waves. The sea beach of Corbyn's Cove Tourism Complex also offers opportunities for water sports lovers to enjoy their favorite sports. Andaman and Nicobar Islands' Corbyn's Cove Tourism Complex is also favorable for sun bathing and sun basking. Do not try swimming as the water has strong currents. You need not worry for accommodation or refreshment facility as the beach has various restaurants located in ts vicinity. Some of the very popular names are the Peerless Resort, Hornbill Nest Guest House and the Waves Restaurant. The best time to visit Corbyn's Cove Tourism Complex is in between December and early April when the flora and fauna are in full bloom. Last Updated on: 2 nd April 2013 Hotels in Andaman and Nicobar Portblair Hotels Havelock Hotels About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule