Buy from Farmers and Resell - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Buy from Farmers and Resell Home Buy from Farmers and Resell We profile two people who buy in bulk from farmers and then resell to other cities. We asked them what makes them different from the other traders and middle men already there. R.B.Traders in Maharashtra and A. P. Vanniarajan & Bros in Andhra Pradesh have one thing in common. Both the companies trade products to end customers after procuring it from farmers. While R.B. Traders supplies fresh fruits and vegetables, A. P. Vanniarajan & Bros trades red chillies. We got into discussion with Mr. Punjab Patil and Mr. Arun Jayakar from both these companies respectively, to find out how both the traders deal with different products, are alike with respect to the nature of their business. In times when middle men and traders are often blamed for taking undue advantage of farmers, R.B.Traders ensures that no such unfair practice is taken up by them. It treats farmers as partners and makes sale of their produce hassle free. “We reduce their transportation, market fee, and give them the commission so that they get good amount for fresh products with minimum handling till it reaches the end customer. In such a case more profit will be passed on to farmers and good quality product will be served to buyers who are depending on us. Hence we are working for farmers as well for buyers. This is our market strategy”, says Mr. Patil. He credits his company’s market strategy for the growth attained. Throwing some light on the company’s role as a trader that holds the power of either empowering or fooling farmers Mr. Arun says, “we believe that the farmer is the producer and he has the right to decide if wants to sell or hold back a few days. Being a commodity it depends on day to day demand and supply. Hence not much is in our hands. However, we do guide the farmers on trends when they ask out of good will.” He goes on to suggest that farmers should reduce input costs like pesticides, the usage of which is rampant. He advises not to borrow money from money lenders but rather find banks that provide loans on lower interest rates. He further asks farmers to grow in large size plots that enable automation which can reduce costs. Both the companies accept that it is unfair to leave the farmer exploited financially and in debt. R.B.Traders is proud to be doing trading business genuinely from beginning hence have enjoyed the operations and the success. Mr. Patil adds, “in future I have many things to achieve in this business. We are in partnership tie up with different farmers, so they need not worry for buyers and daily rates.”  Mr. Arun Jayakar is satisfied doing the business with high ethics. He adds, “we don’t speculate much as we believe in low margin and low risk with bulk volume.” We depend on the farmers to serve the increasing demand of increasing population so hats off to the farmers who are taking efforts to grow food for all us! R.B.Traders Mechanical engineer promises to take father’s horticulture trading business to new heights R.B.Traders was founded in 1994 by Mr. Punjab Patil’s father. Mr. Patil is now the managing director of the company. The company trades and supplies grains, yellow maize, raw material for dal and pulses. The annual turnover of the company is about Rs. 4 crores. It also has a branch in Nasik. “We have good source and production potential for tomato, bottle gourd, brinjal, capsicum, green vegetables, grapes, pomegranate and onion from Nasik and grain items from Jalgaon district in Amalner” Mr. Patil shares. The farmers from whom these fruits and vegetables are acquired are usually located within 50 sq. km area from Nasik city. The company also has a vegetable trading market where farmers bring produce in bulk for sale. Some farmers also join the company’s business as partners. Vegetables are currently supplied to markets in Mumbai. The vegetables are transported to the market within the same day to ensure fresh supply. Quality being a major criterion, the company ensures that the produce they receive from the farmers are ploughed the same day. It also provides storage facility to interested customers on a rental basis. An onion storage shed with tie up from farmers is another storage facility that the company has. All products are acquired from the farmers depending on the daily requirement in the market. Prices are decided on competitive basis. “We get in touch with the buyers everyday for the prices and grade they are looking for, and accordingly sell the same” Mr. Patil adds. In the future R.B.Traders wishes to develop an industry near farmers producing area for products like tomato sauce, ketchup, wine, pomegranate wine, juice, bottle gourd juice and onion powder making. It also plans to supply grain, poultry and animal feed raw material. Mr. Patil hails from the field of mechanical engineering. Having genuine interest in the progress of his company, he wishes to develop and achieve more in this field. A.P. Vanniarajan & Bros Passion for red chillies since childhood drives him to earn a living out of it Arun Jayakar A.P. Vanniarajan & Bros was established in 1978. Mr. Arun Jayakar’s grandfather Mr. V. P. S. A. Paramasivam Nadar is the founder of the company. Mr. Arun is one of the partners of the company. The annual turnover of the company is about Rs. 100 crores. The company trades in chillies and also exports turmeric and coriander. It operates in Virudhunagar and Theni in Tamil Nadu and Guntur and Khammam in Andhra Pradesh. Virudh Nagar and its surroundings are the largest producers of Chilli. Chillies from this district are transported to far off places like Delhi and Assam. Farmers from Guntur and neighboring districts bring their produce to commission agents in the market and the company buys the same through market auction. The produce is sold in cold storages and dispatched as per orders. “After a deal is confirmed we re-check the lot to see if all the bags are of uniform quality and worth the price we negotiated for. Then we weigh the material and bring in to our premises and further depending on the orders on hand we either re-pack into uniform weight for export or de-stem it or crush it as powder or store it for sale at a later stage” shares Mr. Arun. Good qualities of red chillies do not have discoloration, their sizes are almost uniform and moisture level is below 12%. With good will and good negotiating skills, the company reaches a suitable price in a highly competitive market. Being in the market for 15 years it has been able to judge market trends and have a great control on quality and price. A.P. Vanniarajan & Bros plans on integration with farmers to grow IPM chillies where pesticide use is low. As exporters they plan to sell these chillies to markets in USA and EU countries. Mr. Arun holds a diploma in textile. Sheer interest in chillies right from his childhood invited him into this business. Our Correspondent For more details, contact : R.B.Traders Jalgaon District, Maharashtra Mobile: 09922091699 Email: punjabpatil11@gmail.com A. P. Vanniarajan & Bros 25-16-218, G.T Road, (Near Mirchi Yard), Guntur-522004 Mob: (984) 918-4670 Email: apvandco@yahoo.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Buy from Farmers and Resell Related – articles, consultants, downloads Next Generation Farmers Passim Texin – Vegetable exporters DSK Milkotronics – Dairy solutions Abhinav Farmer Club You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar