Chhattisgarh Governor Home » Chhattisgarh » Chhattisgarh Governor   Chhattisgarh छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Chhattisgarh Map Cities in Chhattisgarh Naya Raipur Surajpur Kondagaon Baloda Bazar Ambikapur Pendra Kirandul Baikunthpur                      more... Districts of Chhattisgarh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Chhattisgarh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Chitrakoot Waterfall Haat Bazaars Indravati National Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Chhattisgarh Forests Parliamentary Constituencies Economy History Government Politics How to Reach Geography People Culture Festivals Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Area Chhattisgarh at a Glance Capital City Chief Minister Governor Pincode Population Telephone Code Chhattisgarh Factsheet District Map in Hindi Universities in Chhattisgarh       Chhattisgarh Governor The Chhattisgarh Governor is appointed by the President of India. He or she governs the state for a period of five years. Governor of Chhattisgarh Present Chhattisgarh Governor Currently, the Governor of Chhattisgarh is Shri Shekhar Dutt. Before becoming the governor of the state, he served in the capacity of an IAS officer as Secretary in the Ministry of Defense of the Union Government. Name of the spouse of Shekhar Dutt The name of Shekhar Dutt's wife is Sushmita Dutt. Educational Qualification of Shekhar Dutt Shekhar Dutt is an alumnus of the University of South Wales, Swansea (UK) and he accomplished his bachelor's degree in physics and science. He did his masters degree in development policy and planning. Civil services career of Shekhar Dutt Dutt was an IAS officer from Madhya Pradesh cadre, 1969 batch. He started his career by taking up a job of a Short Service Commission officer in the Indian Army. In 1971, when war broke out between India and Pakistan, he was honored with Sena Medal for showing courage during the war. While he was working for the Government of Madhya Pradesh, he occupied different important ranks and positions such as Principal Secretary, Departments of School Education, Sports & Youth Welfare and Principal Secretary in the Department of Tribal and Scheduled Caste Welfare. From 1985 to 1989, Mr. Dutt also served as Divisional Commissioner of Revenue Division, Raipur. While working in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of India, he was designated as Secretary of the Department of Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha & Homeopathy. He initiated assignments for searching new molecules from tree roots to be utilized for making pills and medicines. Shekhar Dutt also worked as the Director General of the Sports Authority of India, and he made an important contribution in organizing the Afro-Asian Games in Hyderabad, which took place in November 2003. During this tenure, India achieved a record number of medals (69) in the 2002 Manchester Commonwealth Games. Subsequently, Mr. Shekhar Dutt was appointed as the Joint Secretary in the Department of Defense Production. Afterwards, in 2005, he took over as the Defense Secretary of the country. Dutt demitted office from the post of the Defense Secretary in July 2007 and was subsequently assigned the post of Deputy National Security Advisor for a period of two years. It was a new post and he worked under the National Security Advisor M.K. Narayanan, who is the present Governor of West Bengal. During his term as Defense Secretary of the country, various plans were made for accelerating reconstruction and stimulating higher integrity. During the tenure as Joint Secretary in the Department of Defense Production under the Ministry of Defense, he occupied a number of important positions. He functioned as Director in the Board of Defense PSUs like the following: Bharat Dynamics Bharat Electronics Mazagaon Docks Bharat Earth Movers Goa Shipyard Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE) Previously, in the middle of 1980s, Shekhar Dutt acted as Director (Navy) under the Ministry of Defense. While working in the capacity of the Principal Secretary, Tribal Welfare, Mr. Shekhar Dutt played a pivotal role in drafting various plans and policies comprising specific ventures regarding improvement of various places, assembling merchandising of small forest harvests, and rural advancement via collective forest management method. He also commenced new ventures for the betterment of standard of drinking water and launched the Food Security Mission. In addition, Shekhar Dutt held the position of Director of Command Area Development in the Water Resources Ministry where he monitored over 80 principal irrigation ventures in the country. When he was working as Principal Secretary in the Departments of School Education, Sports & Youth Welfare for the Government of Madhya Pradesh, Shekhar Dutt was attributed with the launch of a ground-breaking project known as Education Guarantee Scheme. This scheme was implemented in those places where the panchayats and other societies operated the schools. The project assisted in spreading primary education in the state to a substantial degree. When did Shekhar Dutt take over as Governor of Chhattisgarh? H.E. Mr. Shekhar Dutt took over as the Governor of Chhattisgarh on January 23, 2010. Other honors conferred to Shri Shekhar Dutt In the month of September 2009, the name of Mr. Dutt was included to the board of trustees of DeSales University for tenure of three years. Contact address of Chhattisgarh Governor The contact details of Shekhar Dutt are as follows: Raj Bhawan Raipur Tel: 0771 - 2331101/105 0771-2331108 List of Governors of Chhattisgarh Sl. No Name of Governors From To 1 D. N. Sahay Nov 1, 00 Jun 1, 03 2 Krishna Mohan Seth Jun 2, 03 Jan 25, 07 3 E. S. L. Narasimhan Jan 25, 07 Jan 23, 10 4 Shekhar Dutt Jan 23, 10 Jun 19, 14 5 Ram Naresh Yadav(Acting) Jun 19, 14 Jul 14, 14 6 Balram Das Tandon Jul 18, 14 Incumbent Last Updated on: September 13, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule