Fisheries :: Home Fisheries :: CIFA Technologies Home Commercialized technologies of CIFA CIFAX `CIFAX' is a chemical formulation and first commercialized technology of CIFA. It prevents and cures ulcerative diseases of freshwater fishes. Manufactured & Marketed by: Durga Enterprises, Bhubaneswar, Odisha CIFACURE `CIFACURE' is used for controlling common bacterial and fungal infections of freshwater ornamental fishes. It is used in the aquarium and other out­door tanks where the ornamental fishes are grown. It controls many bacterial dis­eases like haemorahagic septicemia, ulcers, fin rot, tail rot, eye disease and other fungal infections. It is available in 25ml dropper bottles for easy to use. Manufactured & Marketed by: Durga Enterprises, Bhubaneswar, Odisha   Jayanti rohu `Jayanti roh u' was developed through selective breeding of rohu, Labeo rohita from different founder populations of North Indian rivers. Improved Jayanti rohu is the first genetically improved fish in India. It has shown improvement in the gain of 17 % per generation for growth trait. Dissemination of improved rohu to different parts of India is under progress.   The portable magur hatchery `The portable magur hatchery' using fibreglass reinforced plastic (FRP) has been designed and developed by CIFA. It includes egg incubation and hatching. The technology creates an suitable environment for high hatching percentage where maximum 50,000 fertilized eggs can be incubated at a time. Manufactured & Marketed by: M R Aquatech, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Immunoboost-C `Immunoboost-C' is an immunostimulant which improves brood fish health and seed production in carps. It modulates the fish immunity against microbial dis­eases and has been proven through extensive trials conducted at many aquacul­ture regions in India. It is also given to spawn, fry and fingerlings through bath treatment during seed transport. Manufactured & Marketed by: Smruti Agency, Bhubaneswar, Odisha FRP Carp Hatchery `FRP carp hatchery' has proved to be a very effective tool in producing quality carp seed for benefit of the farmers. It can be transported, installed and operated in remote places to ensure easy and timely availability of carp seeds. It is suitable for fish breeding in field conditions for 10-12 kg of carps in one operation and can be used as a tool for biodiversity conservation. Manufactured & Marketed by: M R Aquatech, Bhubaneswar, Odisha CIFABROOD `CIFABROOD' is an exclusive carp brood stock diet, adequately rich in es­sential nutrients. It advances gonad growth and maturation, facilitates early spawning and significantly increases spawning response. Suitable for multiple/repeated breeding, off season gonad growth and po%t spawning re­covery. The rate of feeding is 3-5% of total body weight during vitellogenic phase. Manufactured & Marketed by: Aisharya Aquaculture Pvt. Ltd. Naihati, West Bengal CIFACRY0 `CIFACRY0' is a manually operated handy cryofreezer for gamete cryopreser­vation. It is used for the cryopreservation of milt of freshwater fish species. This is suitable and more advantageous in terms of liquid nitrogen use, size of the unit, on-farm utilization and easy operation. It is helpful in maintaining the tempera- ture of the sample up to -196 C. Manufactured & Marketed by: Biotechnika, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Spot Agglutination kit 'Spot Agglutination kit' is used for quick on fam diagnosis of edwardsiellosis, aeromoniasis and bacterial gill disease of carps. The kit is easy to be used by any fish farmer at a low cost. Dot-ELISA kit `Dot-ELISA kit' is used for diagnosis of Edwardsiellosis, Aeromoniasis and Bacterial gill disease of carps through detection of bacterial antigen in infected tissues upto 72 hours of death and antibodies in serum for routine health monitoring of fish stock. It is suitable for farm site and laboratory use as well as health certification by diagnostic laboratories. White tail disease diagnostic kit 'White tail disease diagnostic kit', based on nested RT-PCR method for RNA segment II of Macrobrachium rosenbergii is a sensitive and specific di­agnostic tool that can detect carriers and early or latent infection in M. rosen­bergii. PCR screening of broods/seeds can significantly reduce the risk of crop failure. Starter-M ` Starter-M ' is nutritionally balanced and highly portable feed for baby magur. It ensures faster growth and high larval survival. 14 days feeding of Starter-M is good enough to get healthy fry. It is very much stable in aquatic environment.   FRP demand fish feeder The feeder is 30 lit capacity, which can hold 10 kg of pelleted feed (depends on the shape and size of the feed particles) with feed platform and protecting cover against rain. The feeder is suspended from MS pipe stand with the activating mechanism extending into the water through the conical portion of the hopper. The developed system would reduce the feed loss upto 15%, maintaining the appropriate water quality. In one acre pond area upto 6 no's feeders (based on biomass of fish) are required to deliver feed. Mechanical pond applicator 'Mechanical pond applicator' is used for effective application of different inputs like lime, inorganic fertilizer, medicines and manure slurry. The raft design has central tank and suction chamber with bifurcated delivery mouth. It spreads the input uniformly and effectively which reduces the man power and is cost efficient. Boneless whole carp `Boneless whole carp' technology has been developed using a manual deboning procedure, without distorting the shape of fish. Spiced boneless carps is a ready to use product in retail market. Roasted whole carp can be a very good fast food item as a carry home pack.     Source : Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Updated on Jan 2015   © All Rights Reserved. TNAU 2009-15.