BIDHAN CHANDRA KRISHI VISWA VIDYALAYA - Home Untitled Document BIDHAN CHANDRA KRISHI VISWA VIDYALAYA Administration Administrative Branches Planning and development Admission Faculty of Agriculture Agronomy Agricultural Biochemistry Agricultural Chemicals Agricultural Chemistry & Soil Science Agricultural Entomology Agricultural Economics Agricultural Extension Agricultural Meteorology & Physics Agricultural Statistics Animal Science Ag.Biotechnology Genetics & Plant Breeding Plant Pathology Plant Physiology Soil & Water Conservation Seed Science & Technology UG Syllabus Faculty of Horticulture UG Syllabus PG Syllabus Fruits & Orchard Management Vegetable Crops Floriculture & Landscaping Post-Harvest Technology Spices & Plantation Crops Faculty of Agricultural Engineering Human Resource Dept. wise UG Courses Semester wise UG Courses Directorate of Research Achievement Research Projects Fishery Sciences Directorate of Extension Education Training Farm Advisory Services Krishi Vigyan Kendra Directorate of Farms Central Library Placement Cell Students' Corner RKVY on e-Pest-Disease Surveillance Scout Code Contact detail of Scouts List of Hoogly Farmers List of Nadia Farmers List of Bankura Farmers List of Bardhaman Farmers List of Howrah Farmers Download videos Monitor Details Notification for Continuance Feedback Achievements Udyan Mela' 2013 BARC-BCKV programme BRNS-BCKV initiative Photo Gallery Extended Campus of BCKV, Burdwan WebMail Admission for 2015 Highlights Strategies for 2020. Published News-Letters Toll Free No. of Plant Protection CeRA E-Resources Link Rent of Farmers' Training Centre (Lake Hall) & Terms and conditions Bioved Research Society Honours VC Soc. for Appl. of Statistics in Agric. & Allied Sc. (SASAA) Dos and Don’ts of Internet Safety Patent received by Prof.J.P.Gupta CROP AND WEED SCIENCE SOCIETY Weather Forecast & Agro advisory Weekly forecast & advices     Current Visitor Number Merchant account, Credit Card Processing Payment Gateway Untitled Document   P.O. Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Mohanpur, Dist. Nadia, West Bengal, India, Pin - 741252. You need to upgrade your Flash Player. Install Flash Player The university established in 1974, has completed three decades of its existence as the pioneer institute of Agricultural Education, Research and Extension. The main objective of this Viswavidyalaya is to provide facilities for the study of Agriculture, Horticulture and Agricultural Engineering. It is also to conduct researches in these sciences and undertake the educational and extension programmes in agriculture among the rural clientele base, keeping in view the requirements of the state.   From the Vice Chancellor’s Desk Global agriculture is at a critical juncture now at the beginning of the new millennium. We are facing several critical challenges including alarmingly increasing world population; incidence of deadly chronic diseases including cancer, AIDS, diabetes, obesity and hypertension; malnutrition; depletion of fossil fuel; genetic erosion of biodiversity; environmental pollution; and drastic effects of global warming and climate change; to name a few. We have to employ several modern concepts, strategies, tools and techniques to combat and mitigate these challenges obviously complemented by traditional knowledge and methodologies. All these global challenges we confront to Read more... University Gate Garden at Farmers Training Centre Administrative Building Prof. Chittaranjan Kole at I.Y.S.C 5th Indian Youth Science Congress Untitled Document © 2005. Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya | Terms of Uses | Privacy Policy  