Natural fencing practices AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Tree Farming - Sivakumar Natural fencing practices Results 1 to 2 of 2 Thread: Natural fencing practices LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… November 24th, 2014 #1 shanmuga06 Join Date Aug 2007 Posts 1,606 Natural fencing practices Now a days where ever vacant land with rock pillar & iron wire fencing .So it's not good one and also against nature.So I suggest the farmers and landlords kindly do fencing with nature resources like planting the thorny pushy plants like Karoundiya,Gachukaya cesselpaniya ,Kiluvai sticks and indian coral tree and pithogulobium dule,Gliricidia and Nochi (tamil) ,Addathodai(herbal shrub) and othiya maram The above said plants are Eco friendly and very useful to farmers to feed their livestock. Thank you A Sivakumar, Priya Nursery Garden, Karaikudi-630001,TN 9843080275 priyagar06@yahoo.co.in Reply With Quote 2 Weeks Ago #2 rukmini Join Date Feb 2011 Posts 91 Blog Entries 1 Dear sir, Thanq very much for your kind advise. I am having 5 Acres land without fencing at road side point. Please advise and provide me the above said plants availabily and cost details.i belongs to Andhra state. guideline me properly. give reply to my email: bhaskarponnathota@gmial.com Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 03:03 PM .