India Real GDP Growth Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI India GDP    India GDP 2010-2011 India GDP History Calculating India GDP GDP India 2007 GDP India 2006 India Real GDP Growth India GDP Statistics India GDP Growth Rate India Per Capita GDP India GDP Composition Sector Wise Role of Major Industries-GDP You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home   » India-gdp » India Real GDP Growth India Real GDP Growth Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  2  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 It is the growth of Gross Domestic Product or GDP that determines the performance of Indian economy. Between the period 2007 and 2008, India real GDP growth stood somewhere at 9.20% and 9.00%, respectively. However, owing to the global financial meltdown, witnessed by all the developed and developing nations alike, with few still managing to perform better, the GDP growth rate of India drastically fell down to 7.40 %. This also added to the increase of fiscal deficit in India by 10.3% in the same period, making it the highest in the world. Components affecting GDP Growth in India The components that decide the GDP growth in India can be divided under three broad categories like: Agriculture Industry Services Contribution of the sectors in GDP growth According to statistics, the service industry contributes about 54% and industrial sector makes up 29% of the GDP. The agriculture sector accounts for 17% of the Gross Domestic Product. Major employment is seen in the arena of agriculture, which can be projected as 60%. Industrial sector and service sector account for 12% and 28% of employment, respectively. The main industries that contribute efficiently towards GDP growth in India are: Textiles Chemicals Steel Cement Food processing Transportation equipment Mining Petroleum Machinery Information technology enabled services and software In the agricultural sector, the products that largely decide the fate of the economic growth in India are rice, wheat, pulses, cotton, oilseed, jute, sugarcane, tea, potatoes, cattle, water sheep, goats, buffalo, poultry and fish. The recent data, which considerably reflect the performance of the above mentioned sectors in India's GDP growth, are provided as below. A snapshot of India real GDP growth in 2008-09: Manufacturing industry registered a growth of only 2.4% in 2008-09 as against 8.2% in 2007-08. Agriculture saw a rise of 1.6% in the current fiscal as against 4.9% in 2007-08. Community and social and personal services, which reflected positive growth in the current financial year, grew by 13.1% in 2008–09 from 6.8% in the previous financial year. Mining and quarrying also showed improvement by touching 3.6% growth rate from 3.3%. Gas, electricity and water supply including other services sectors showed marginal growth in 2008-09 reaching 3.4% as against 5.3% in 2007–08. Hotels, trade and transport sectors posted 8.1% growth as against 13% in the last fiscal. The growth in the construction industry was 7.2% in the previous fiscal against 10.1% in the period between 2007 and 2008. Nevertheless, it reflected the same rate of growth in the 4th quarter reaching 6.8%. About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED