TNAU Agritech Portal :: Sustainable Agriculture Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact Nutrition :: Definition NUTRITION Nutrition is the science of foods, the nutrients and other substances therein; their action, interaction and balance in relationship to health and disease; the processes by which the organism ingests, digests, absorbs, transports and utilizes nutrients and disposes of their end products. NUTRIENTS Nutrients are the constituents in food that must be supplied to the body in suitable amounts. HEALTH Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity. FOOD Material, usually of plant or animal origin, that contains or consists of essential body nutrients, such as carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins, or minerals, and is ingested and assimilated by an organism to produce energy, stimulate growth, and maintain life. BALANCED DIET A diet that provides all the essential nutrients in sufficient quantity and in the correct proportion to promote good health. The six main classes of nutrients are carbohydrate , fat (lipid), protein , vitamins , minerals , and water . BMI Body Mass Index (BMI) is a relationship between weight and height that is associated with body fat and health risk. The equation is BMI = body weight in kilograms/height in meters squared. MALNUTRITION Malnutrition is an impairment of health resulting from a deficiency, excess or imbalance of nutrients. A state of poor nutrition can result from insufficient or excessive or unbalanced diet or from inability to absorb foods. UNDERNUTRITION Under nutrition which refers to a deficiency of calories and /or one or more essential nutrients. OVERNUTRITION Over nutrition which is an excess of one or more nutrients and usually of calories. FOOD SECURITY Food security is a situation in which people do not live in hunger or fear of starvation . RDA Recommended Dietary Allowance- The RDA, the estimated amount of a nutrient (or calories) per day considered necessary for the maintenance of good health by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council/ National Academy of Sciences. The RDA is updated periodically to reflect new knowledge. It is popularly called the Recommended Daily Allowance. RDI RDI - Recommended Dietary Intake. Estimates of daily minimal dietary intake of established nutrients provided by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council. Optimal levels have not been formally established. FUNCTIONAL FOOD The term “functional foods” refers to a food that provides a health benefit as well as nutrients. The term can refer to whole foods, to fortified, enriched or enhanced foods, and dietary supplements that have the potential to improve mental and physical well being and reduce the risk of diseases. ANTIOXIDANT Any substance that reduces the damage caused by oxidation, such as the harm caused by free radicals. A chemical compound or substance that inhibits oxidation. A substance, such as vitamin E, vitamin C, or beta carotene, thought to protect body cells from the damaging effects of oxidation. NUTRACEUTICAL "Food, or parts of food, that provide medical or health benefits, including the prevention and treatment of disease." PHYTOCHEMICAL A non-nutritive bioactive plant substance, such as a flavonoid or carotenoid, considered to have a beneficial effect on human health.   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.