Geography of Himachal Pradesh Home » Himachal Pradesh » Geography   Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate हिमाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                 (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Cities in Himachal Pradesh Manali Shimla Dharamshala Dalhousie Kasauli                        more... Travel to Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Himachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Subhash Baoli Shivkul Sankat Mochan Places to Visit in Shimla Travel to Manali Travel to Kullu Travel to Shimla Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una Hotels in Kangra              more... Assembly Polls HP Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities in Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh Colleges       Geography of Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh is a favorite tourist spot in India. The Geography of the state is very interesting. Mainly the region falls under the hilly terrain. The location of the state has favored it as a pleasant hill station to be visited during the summer months. The Geographical Location of Himachal Pradesh is 30' 22' 40" North to 33' 12' 40" North latitude and its longitudinal extent is 75' 45' 55" East to 79' 04' 20" East. Himachal Pradesh occupies an area of 55,673 sq km. The capital of the state is Shimla. Himachal Pradesh is divided into twelve districts and it has 49 cities and towns. It comprises a population of 6,077,248, out of which the number of males is 3,085,256 and the number of females in the total population of the state is 2,991,992 according to the census of 2001. The state of Himachal Pradesh, India is a hilly region and it experiences a pleasant climate through out the year. It even experiences heavy snow fall during the winter months. The weather of Himachal alters with the change of altitude. The best time to visit the state of Himachal is from September to March. The population of Himachal is culturally rich and diverse at the same time. The communities residing in the Himachal region are very cordial people and they maintain a very well knit society. A very strong fellow feeling works in these simple people. The Himachal Pradesh region can be categorized into the following Geographical Divisions The Shivaliks or the outer Himalayas The central zone or the lesser Himalayas The northern zone or the great Himalayan and Zaskar The Chief Rivers of Himachal Pradesh that have a significant contribution towards the Natural prosperity of the state include: Chenab Beas Ravi Yamuna Sutlej Spiti Located on the western corner of Himalaya, Himachal Pradesh acts as the confluence of the pristine streams that are flowing through the quaint terrains of the majestic Hill. Characterized by thick cover of snow, the Chief Rivers of the state melts down in the summer months to satisfy the water consumption needs of the place. Important Landforms of Himachal Pradesh features primarily the mountainous terrains that surround the place from all directions. An integral part of the Himalayan ranges, the Landforms of the state are divided into many categories such as slope, elevation, microclimatic situations and vegetation. Last Updated on : 26 March 2012             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule