Farm to Fork — College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Search OKSTATE.EDU... Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Academic Depts Ag Economics Ag Education, Communications & Leadership Animal Science Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resources Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences Multidisciplinary Programs Environmental Sciences Master of International Agriculture Program Future Students Student Services Visitors CASNR Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Now Be an OSU Cowboy! Undergraduate Admissions Graduate College College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Navigation Home Academic Departments Future Students Student Services CASNR Scholarships Applications Study Abroad Farm to Fork News Events Alumni Employers Faculty Resources Personnel Request for Information Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Search Advanced Search…   Login You are here: Home / Farm to Fork Info College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Farm to Fork CASNR MOOC - From Farm to Fork: A Panoramic View of Agriculture Enrollment Options OSU offers three distinct ways to experience the course. Whether for free or for credit, you will explore, connect and engage in rich content that is informative and relevant.   Take course for free (Open to Everyone) If you just want to learn more about the topic but don’t wish to earn OSU course credits for participating. You will be able to see all of the course content, but may have limited access to discussions and assessments. Participation in the open course will not be certified on an official transcript. Take course for OSU credit (Current OSU Students ONLY) Current OSU students may enroll in the course through the OSU registrar to earn three hours of OSU course credit, subject to tuition and fees. Students will have full access to all course content, course activities, including discussions and assessments.   Take course for OSU credit (NonOSU Students ONLY) Enroll through OSU Correspondence Education to earn three hours of OSU course credit, subject to tuition and fees. You will have full access to all course content, course activities, including discussions and assessments. Enrollment OPEN Enroll for Non-Credit (Open to All) CLOSED Enroll for Credit (OSU Student) CLOSED Enroll for Credit (NonOSU Student) You know what happens between the grocery store and the fork, but what about the farm and the fork?   Farm to Fork: A Panoramic View of Agriculture is an online journey connecting agricultural science and your food. Go on a virtual tour of a dairy, swine, and beef farm. Study how farm practices impact the environment. Learn how modern livestock techniques impact the well-being of farm animals. Visit the DNA analysis labs that help keep food safe. Tour the soil test laboratories helping farmers apply the optimal amount of fertilizer. Visit a century-old experiment linking fertilizers to crop yields. Think critically about the impact of local food on the local economy. Do all of this and more in one online course to gain a panoramic view of agriculture—from the farm, to the fork.     Course Format The topics are separated into six modules, with the first module focusing on a host of dairy issues, and the other modules covering other livestock species, the places we buy food, modern chemical fertilizers, pesticide use, genetically modified organisms, the industrialization of agriculture, and the role of politics and culture in food today.   Each module contains a collection of short, engaging videos, and short readings from external articles as well as articles written specifically for the class.   After virtual farm tours, questions from students will be taken and answered in a subsequent video in what are called “virtual office hours.”   Students will periodically be asked to take pictures of agriculture and food related items and upload them to Wikimedia Commons, and will be asked to participate in forums to discuss their thoughts on some of the more controversial issues.   All material is accompanied with online quiz questions students can answer as they watch videos or read articles. There will be three online tests, each covering two modules. Participation points will also be awarded for remarks added to forums and uploaded pictures.   About the Instructor Dr. F. Bailey Norwood Professor of Agricultural Economics, Oklahoma State University A South Carolina native, Norwood dreamed of living in a state like Oklahoma where many others roped cattle and competed in rodeos. After receiving degrees from Clemson, Kansas State, and North Carolina State University, he got that chance. Since 2003 Norwood has taught undergraduate classes in the Department of Agricultural Economics at Oklahoma State University. He also has a research appointment where he studies consumer preferences for food and controversial agricultural subjects like farm animal welfare. Though he has forty journal article publications, he is most fond of his textbook, his book Compassion, by the Pound , his novel, and his forthcoming book, Agricultural Controversies . Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Accessibilty Safety Legal and Trademarks Webmaster © 2015 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved