 Census of India Website : Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India Your browser does not support script About Census Logo 2011 Census Data Population Enumeration Data Houselisting and Housing Data Acts, Rules And Notification Research on Census Data Geographical Code Directory Meta Data Corrigendum Vital Statistics Sample Registration System Civil Registration System Annual Health Survey MCCD NPR Introduction Acts & Rules NPR Schedules Instruction Manual on NPR Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Photographs NPR Biometric Enrollment Plan Check your aadhaar Status Permanent Enrollment Center Map & Atlas Introduction Administrative Atlas Linguistic Survey Linguistic Survey of India Jobs@Census Recruitment Rules Current Openings 227 - Online Visitors ABOUT US Census Organisation Network of offices Personnel Contact Us   CENSUS 2001 National summary Data India at a glance States at a glance Census Data Finder District profile   CENSUS DATA ONLINE Administrative divisions Population Economic activity Socio-cultural aspects Migration Households Projected Population Census News letter   QUESTIONNAIRE Houselisting Operations Population Enumeration   Maps Census GIS India State maps Theme based maps Map Products   Vital Statistics Sample Registration Defintions Vital Rates Bulletins Publications ")         Latest News : Announcement Of Best Papers To Be Awarded Attractive Prizes                Suggestions are welcome for the improvement of the website and may please be sent to - websupport.rgi@nic.in                Male Child (0-6) Population has increased whereas Female Child Population has decreased marginally during 2001-11                 8 States, Viz. Jammu & Kashmir, Rajasthan, Utter Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Meghalaya have proporton of child population more than 15 percent                 Sex Ratio of Population in india is 943                 Among the major States, Bihar occupies the first position with a density of 1106, surpassing West Bengal which occupied the first position during 2001.                 The minimum population density works out in Arunachal Pradesh (17) for both 2001 and 2011 Census.                 The total number of children in India is 164.5 millions, about 660 thousand more than the number recorded in 2001.                Highest proportion of urban population is in NCT Delhi (97.5%).                Density of population in India is 382 persons per sq km.                Delhi (11,320) turns out to be the most densely inhabited followed by Chandigarh (9,258), among all States/UTs, both in 2001 and 2011 Census.                You are Here: Home Last Updated on: 26-05-2015 16:00:00 IST   The Indian Census is the most credible source of information on Demography (Population characterstics), Economic Activity, Literacy and Education, Housing & Household Amenities, Urbanisation, Fertility and Mortality   + more The Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India has been released the Data on the HH-8 households by number of literates among the members of household age 7 years and above (census 2011)..... The Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India has been released the Data on the Special Tabulation on Adolescent and youth population classified by various parameters for India, States and Union Territories - Census of India 2011..... The Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India in collaboration with local Institute and University is organizing One-Day Data Dissemination Workshops at seven selected cities in the country.... +More The Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India has been released the Booklet on the missing..... ............................................................................................................................................................................. This website belongs to the office of The Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India, New Delhi, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India. Use of this site indicates that you accept the Terms of Use   Latest Releases  PCA for Female Headed Household Excluding Institutional Household (India & States/UTs - District Level)(Total, SC/ST)   C-21 Disabled Population By Type Of Disability, Marital Status, Age And Sex(India & States/UTs)   C-2 (Appendix) Marital Status by Single Year Age and Sex (India & States/UTs - District Level) (Total, SC/ST) 