Places to Visit and Tourist Destinations in India Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train World Heritage Sites Taj Mahal Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Sundarbans National Park Western Ghats Hill Forts of Rajasthan more... Hill Stations Leh Chamba Mount Abu Mussoorie Ooty more... Buddhist Destinations Bodhgaya Sarnath Shravasti Rajgir Vaishali more... Honeymoon Destinations Shimla Goa Kerala more... Religious Places Tirupati Nalanda Dwarka Ujjain Shirdi Golden Triangle Tour more... Historical Places Vijayawada Patna Bijapur Kota Pondicherry more... Beaches Anjuna Beach Calangute Beach Kovalam Beach Ramakrishna Beach Juhu Beach more... Adventure Sports Mountaineering Rafting Scuba Diving Camel Safari more... Wildlife Sanctuaries Jim Corbett National Park Periyar Wildlife Sanctuary Gir National Park Sariska National Park Ranthambore National Park more... India Political map India Road Map India Railway Map India Cuisine Map Hotels in India Distance Between Cities Driving Directions Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Airports in India Home » Maps » India » Tourist Places in India Tourist Places in India India Tourist map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing the tourist places in India. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Places to Visit in India India has become a popular tourist destination with thousands of people visiting different parts of India each year. It has much to offer to travelers and tourists. It is a land of hills, rivers, plateaus, plains, beaches, deltas and deserts. It also houses many luxurious hotels and resorts to cater to its booming travel and tourism industry. India offers luxury travel to its travelers and tourists. Cruise from the picturesque natural sites to the architectural wealth in this beautiful land. Almost all the cities in India have something to interest tourists. Some of the major tourist destinations in India are the Himalayas, Agra, Jaipur, Goa , Kerala , Delhi , Orissa and Maharshtra . North India Agra - Architectural grandeur of the Taj Mahal draws tourists from all around the globe to this erstwhile city of the Mughals More » Delhi - India's capital and political centre, Delhi, is known for its vivacious culture and aromatic delicacies. More » Jaipur - Experience the royal charisma of India, in the quaint 'Pink City'. More » Shimla - 'The Queen of Hills' impresses all with its panoramic views. More » Srinagar - Serene Dal Lake, tranquil mountains and quiescent 'Shikaras' define this Paradise on Earth. More » South India Bangalore - "The Garden City" lure its visitors with relaxed ambiance and salutary climate. More » Chennai - This metropolitan city is a perfect amalgamation of ethnicity and modernism. More » Coorg - With its Exotic greens, Coorg is a perfect retreat for trekkers and bird-watchers. More » Goa - Gorgeous beaches, sparkling waters and Goan cuisines are ideal to amuse any traveler. More » Ooty - Picturesque tea gardens and the laid-back charm are key highlights of this hills station in South India. More » East India Bhubaneswar - The "Temple city of India" houses over 600 temples. More » Darjeeling - Popular for it eco-tourism, tea plantations and the Toy Train ride, Darjeeling is frequented by travelers. More » Kolkata - Known as 'the Cultural Capital of India' and 'the City of Joy', Kolkata, mesmerizes all with its dynamism. More » Varanasi - Religious beliefs and sentiments associated with this place makes it the most revered pilgrimage destination in the country. More » West India Mahabaleshwar - With panoramic landscapes and moderate climate, Mahabaleshwar is a revitalizing holiday destination. More » Mumbai - Soothing breezes, breathtaking sea shore and spirited nightlife of the city makes it a popular tourist destination. More » Pune - The city lures visitors with architectural relics of its glorious history. More » Udaipur - Popular as the 'City of Lakes', it impresses travellers with its rich heritage, intricate architectural style and natural splendor. More » Central India Bhopal - 'The City of Lakes', Bhopal, is a fine blend of varied cultures, glorious history and ethnicity. More » Gwalior - It fascinates travelers with spectacular monuments, tradition and cultural extravaganza. More » Kanha - Popular for its rich flora and fauna, Kanha National Park is a delight for adventure enthusiasts. More » Ujjain - The holy city of Ujjain is mainly visited for ancient temples, religious activities and Kumbh Mela. More » North-East India Gangtok - It is a land of monasteries and offers interesting adventure sport options. More » Guwahati - Considered as the gateway to the north-east India, Guwahati lures tourists with its tribal traditions, authentic Assamese cuisines and green hills. More » Imphal - Rightly called the Jewel of the East, Imphal is ideal for nature lovers. More » Kaziranga - A national park and also a world heritage site, Kaziranga is identified as the home to the one-horned rhino and for wildlife safaris. More » Last Updated on : February 21, 2015 About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule