Goat farm project report AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Goat Farming - Mohsin Shaikh Goat farm project report Results 1 to 2 of 2 Thread: Goat farm project report LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… November 3rd, 2014 #1 smy82482 Join Date Mar 2012 Posts 2,324 Goat farm project report In Maharashtra you can easily buy an agriculture land,even if you are a non farmer.Yes you can do goat farming on nay agriculture land.Goat farming is an agriculture business,it comes under category of agriculture that's why government too supports it.To cultivate the goats fodder,you requires an agriculture land with plenty of water supply.So in India 99% goat farms are situated in agriculture lands. More details are given in my project report. Regards, DR.Shaikh Originally Posted by irfan_sj Dear Shaikh, Thanks for all the valuable information in the forum. I am keenly interested in looking this as my side business. I am a professional IT Engineer. My query is on land purchase. I am from Maharashtra and want to purchase agriculture land in Sawantwadi (Konkan). I am a non farmer but my wife's father has 7/12 on his name .. so getting an agricultural land should not be a problem. My concern is - Can we do a goat farming business on an agricultural land as I read in some article that agricultural land cannot be used for poultry/goat farming . OR there are some classifications of Agricultural land. - I intend to buy your project report and request you to clear my doubt on this and also include this in your project report on legal issues and process to be taken for the purchase of agricultural land. - As you can see this will be the major investment for entrepreneurs like me. My email is irfansj2000@gmail.com (9821747577) Reply With Quote March 25th, 2015 #2 vanifarms Join Date Mar 2015 Posts 6 Free project report For those who are looking for a free project report, visit Vani Farms - India - Boer and Thalachery Goats I hope its useful Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 01:05 PM .