Delhi Faridabad Skyway, Badarpur Flyover Map, DFSKYWAY Home » Roads » Expressway » Delhi Faridabad Skyway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Map Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Delhi Faridabad Skyway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Delhi Faridabad skyway became operational in 2010. This expressway on the National Highway 2 connects Delhi to Faridabad with a junction at the Mehrauli-Badarpur road at the border between the states of Delhi and Haryana. The National Highways Authority of India developed the expressway in collaboration with Hindustan Construction Company which has designed it. HCC is the concessionaire for collecting the toll and maintains the expressway. The tolled three-lane expressway is a 4.4 long elevated stretch on the NH2 and has reduced the travelling time from Delhi to Faridabad considerably. It begins at BTPS in Delhi and ends at Sector 37 of Faridabad. There are multiple 15 to 20 lane toll plazas at Faridabad and Delhi which make the entry and exit through the expressway quite fast. The NH 2 connects Delhi to Agra and other towns in Uttar Pradesh road and has one of the highest traffic densities in the region with a lot of interstate and local city traffic. Agra is one of the top tourist destinations of the country. Faridabad is an important industrial township of Haryana and as it is close to the national capital it is part of the national capital region. The region has a number of residential townships. This stretch is the only direct link from Faridabad to Delhi and has a very high traffic density with over sixty thousand vehicles plying daily. The Badarpur border near Faridabad was an extremely chaotic and congested bottleneck on the NH 2 with regular traffic jams. With the new expressway on this stretch designed to cross four main bottlenecks traffic lights at Jaitpur, Sarai Bypass, Mehrauli Badarpur road and Sector 37 of Faridabad, commuters can enjoy the uninterrupted and smooth driving on this road. Type of Vehicle Toll for single entry Toll for return Cars, jeeps and van Rs 20 Rs 30 Light Commercial vehicle Rs 30 Rs 45 Buses and Trucks Rs 60 Rs 90 Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule