The Respective Advantages of Raymond and High Pressure Grinder AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS General Questions & Answers The Respective Advantages of Raymond and High Pressure Grinder Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: The Respective Advantages of Raymond and High Pressure Grinder LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 2 Days Ago #1 vipeakapril Join Date Jan 2015 Posts 19 The Respective Advantages of Raymond and High Pressure Grinder Raymond from 1906 to design and manufacture the first generation has experienced a century now. Product technology has been fully developed and improved, and more applicable in a variety of industrial powder industry in the world, for the development of powder industry has played a catalytic role. Raymond mill is currently mining machinery following the crusher, grinder after one of the most intense competition of mineral processing equipment. Now all domestic manufacturers of Raymond series production technology is maturing, Vico Heavy Industries Group has 20 years experience in R & D Raymond mill production in recent years, the technology company for Raymond machine constantly updated, in terms of performance and constantly optimize the quality of the device is also called Raymond machine, Raymond Mill is suitable for barite, calcite, potash feldspar, talc, marble, limestone, ceramics, glass, etc. Mohs hardness of not more than 7 , powder processing and humidity below 6% of non-flammable mining, chemicals, building materials, metallurgy and other industries more than 280 kinds of materials. Finished size in the range of 100-325 mesh of arbitrary regulation. sand washing machine called high pressure mill, the company is engaged in the design institute based on years of research on fine milling equipment, devoted themselves to developing new milling equipment, pioneered the field of international industrial milling of high efficiency, low energy consumption era. High pressure medium speed mill for grinding barite, limestone, ceramic, slag, etc. Mohs hardness of not greater than 9.3 and humidity below 6% of non-explosive mines, metallurgy, chemicals, building materials and other industries more than 280 kinds of materials for high fine powder processing, product size in the range of 80-425 mesh adjustment (the smallest 1,000 head). And by adding a special device can produce 30-80 mesh coarse powder. As can be seen from the above, the high pressure mill is Raymond mill upgrade, high pressure mill added a special high-pressure spring device, when the roller rotary motion around the spindle, roller mill ring to squeeze pressure much higher than the ordinary milling machine, grinding its high product quality, uniform size. And Raymond mill simply rely on the roller ring extrusion mill to achieve material crushing, relative to the high pressure mill for grinding intensity weaker, fineness coarse. In addition, when the grinding roller and grinding ring when a certain degree of wear, roller grinding ring for extrusion pressure will change, high pressure mill by adjusting the length of the high-pressure spring to maintain stability between the roller and grinding ring squeeze pressure, and Raymond mill will not have this kind of performance, when the grinding roller and grinding ring wear is severe, only the timely replacement to work properly. Secondly, Raymond mill and high pressure mill product output per unit of time is different, in the same time, high-pressure micro-grinding mill production Bi Leimeng high above 20%. stone jaw crusher: Jaw crusher machine,Stone jaw crusher, Jaw crusher for sale,Jaw crushing machine supplier-Vipeak Heavy Industry Mining Machine Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 01:20 PM .