Travel to Mumbai - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Travel to Mumbai Mumbai Tourism How to Reach Shopping in Mumbai Hotels in Mumbai Mumbai Airpot Map Weekend Trips from Mumbai Places to Visit in Mumbai Mumbai Film City Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Mumbai Amusement Parks Essel World Water Kingdom Fantasy Land Beaches in Mumbai Chowpatty Beach Juhu Beach Marine Drive Gardens in Mumbai Hanging Garden Kamla Nehru Park Sanjay Gandhi National park Religious Places in Mumbai Siddhivinayak Temple Mumbadevi Temple Haji Ali Dargah Monuments in Mumbai Elephanta Caves Gateway of India Tourist Destinations Near Mumbai Aurangabad Tourism Khandala Tourism Lonavala Tourism About Mumbai Climate of Mumbai Culture of Mumbai Mumbai Location Mumbai Metro Fare Education in Mumbai Mumbai Map Mumbai Road Map Mumbai Metro Map Mumbai District Map Mumbai Railways Mumbai Localities Maharashtra Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Maharashtra Places to Visit in Maharashtra Home » Maps » Mumbai » Travel to Mumbai Travel to Mumbai Mumbai Travel Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map Showing the Major Travel Locations in Mumbai. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Mumbai Tourism Mumbai previously known as Bombay should be on the itinerary of any tourist traveling to India. The name Mumbai comes from mumbadevi, patron goddess of the koli fishing folk, the earliest known inhabitants of Mumbai. Mumbai, the state capital of Maharashtra is a major metropolitan city of India. The bustling city of Mumbai is the financial, commercial, industrial and celluloid capital of India with the largest and the busiest port handling India's foreign trade, a major International airport and India's largest Stock Exchange. It is the hub of cinema and film industry-the "Indian Hollywood" is also known as 'Bollywood'. Mumbai is India's international gateway and it is easy to reach Mumbai by air, rail or road. How to Reach Mumbai Mumbai is India's international gateway. Being the commercial capital of the country, Mumbai has all infrastructures for domestic and international travel and is more accessible than other Indian cities. By Air Mumbai can be reached through numerous flights. The international terminal Sahar, renamed as Chatrapati Sivaji International Airport operates round the clock. Hotel bookings and pre-paid taxis are available at the terminal. The domestic terminal Santa Cruz is about 5km apart and can easily be reached through regular shuttle buses between the two terminals. The domestic airport is well connected and can be used to visit most parts of Western and Southern India. Flights to Mumbai By Rail Mumbai is a prominent railway hub of the country. It is the headquarters to two railway zones, central and western. While Central Railways handles services to the east and south, Western Railways has services to the north from Churchgate and Central stations. The main railway station Chattrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST) formerly known, as Victoria terminus (VT) is located in the heart of the city. Local and outstation trains ply from here. Other railway stations are Dadar, Churchgate and Kurla. Bookings are to be made in advance to avoid the last minute rush, as trains are the most used mode of transport. The extensive system of suburban electric train network is the most sought after transport means in Mumbai for city travel. Flights to Mumbai By Road Mumbai is well connected by a network of roads to the rest of India by and state highways. Mumbai has one of the best public bus systems of any major Indian city called BEST buses. Mumbai has a huge fleet of metered black-and-yellow taxis as well. Shopping in Mumbai Shopping in Mumbai is a memorable experience as one wanders through its bazaars with charming names like Chor Bazar, Mutton Street and Zaveri Bazar. Chor Bazaar is believed to have the original name Shor Bazaar or the Noisy Market, that aptly described the yelling and shouting of the local traders on Mutton Street while selling their second hand house hold goods. Today, it is a bustling market selling a range of new and old furniture, antiques, jewellery, wooden articles, leatherwear and other curios. Mutton St in Chor Bazaar specializes in antiques, ingenious reproductions and miscellaneous junk. Crawford market is famous for flowers, fruits, meat and fish. Zaveri Bazaar is the main retail centers for gold and diamonds, and nearby Pydhoni for silver. It has excellent jewellery that has international quality ranging from simple glass bangles and classical necklaces to ornate folk art and elaborate costume jewellery. One may also find a cluster of up market boutiques in Om Chambers at Kemp's Corner and a series of showrooms on Hughes Road, just behind Chowpatty Beach. Islamic attar (essential oil) perfume shops are found scattered along Mohammed Ali Rd, clustered in Bhendi, Null and Zaveri Bazaars. Colaba and Flora Fountain (Hutatama Chowk) in the heart of South Mumbai is famous for ethnic artifacts and departmental stores. People looking for cheap clothes frequent Fashion Street. Bandra, the so-called Queen of Suburbs, is the residential abode of the who's who of Mumbai's Bollywood stars, industrialists and the likes. Bandra's Linking Rd is worth a stroll, though the clothes here tend to be familiar western labels rather than local designs. Places to Visit in Mumbai Essel World Fantasy Land Suraj Water Park Water Kingdom Tikuji-ni-Wadi Juhu Beach Marine Drive Elephanta Caves Film City Flora Fountain Mumbai High Court Kanheri Caves The Gateway Of India Rajabai Clock Tower University Building Worli Fort Balodyan Gardens Hanging Garden Jijamata Udyan Zoo Kamala Nehru Park Sanjay Gandhi National Park Babulnath Temple Buddhist Temple Haji Ali Dargah Jain Temple Mumbai Mahalaxmi Temple Mount Mary Church Mumbadevi Temple Siddhivinayak Temple Walukeshwar Temple Last Updated on : January 20, 2014 Travel to Maharashtra Travel to Ajanta Travel to Aurangabad Travel to Ellora Travel to Khandala Travel to Lonavala Travel to Haji Ali Travel to Mumbai Travel to Nagpur Travel to Nashik Travel to Panchgani Travel to Pune Travel to Shirdi Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Ajanta Places to visit in Aurangabad Places to visit in Khandala Places to visit in Lonavala Places to visit in Mahabaleshwar Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Mumbai Places to visit in Nagpur Places to visit in Nashik Places to visit in Pune Places to visit in Shirdi About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule