Guiding in Documentation and Product development. | LEISA INDIA Magazines English Hindi Kannada Marathi Oriya Punjabi Tamil Telugu Home About Us Services Impact Subscription Archives Online Library CD Version Videos/Photos Videos Photos Contact Us Contribution Leisa India Low External Input Sustainable Agriculture LEISA INDIA > Services > Guiding in Documentation and Product development. Guiding in Documentation and Product development. Alternative and sustainable agricultural practices are being followed in many regions, practiced by many farmers and promoted by a number of organizations. However, these are not being disseminated far and wide, as they are not being noted or documented. One of the major reasons for not documenting is the lack of skills to document apart form time and resources. LEISA India team has been guiding organizations in documenting their field experiences. We strongly believe that a long term support is crucial in helping organizations pick up the skills and nuances of documentation. One off training events are just not an answer to this issue. Therefore LEISA India team has been supporting field level organizations, both in India as well as in other countries by providing long term hand holding support.  We have guided MISEREOR supported organizations (eg., ORRISSA, KIRDTI, DULAL in Orissa, KRAPAVIS in Rajasthan, ADS in Maharashtra and Caritas, BARCIK and BIA in Bangladesh) in documenting their experiences in people led development processes. The document, “Strengthening people-led development ” is an outcome of an elaborate participatory process, jointly done with ILEIA, The Netherlands. LEISA India team has also been supporting in bringing out event specific publications . We have supported donor organizations like MISEREOR, Germany and CARITAS, India in bringing out special publications. The document “The Climate Crisis – People’s Potential and Needs for Adaptation and Mitigation” is a synthesis of the deliberations of the workshop orgasnied by MISEREOR and Welthungerhilfe. The document brings out examples of people’s existing strategies for adaptation and their needs and priorities to deal with the changing climatic conditions in future. This document is a joint effort by LEISA India team of AME Foundation, Bangalore and ILEIA, The Netherlands. South Asia Farmers Conference hosted by Caritas India was held during 9-13 February in Bangalore. Intensive discussions, sharing of experiences along with field visits enabled knowledge exchange among the participants. This document brings out the proceedings highlighting the learning and application aspects. Copyright© Leisa | All Rights Reserved. Designed by Dhyeya