Eligibility Benefits Home About Us Economic Reports Sectors Media Room Newsletters Events Global Initiatives Membership Contact Us ICC Theme for the year 2014-15 : "Development through Connectivity" Brief about ICC Theme of the Year Committee Members Expert Committee Past Presidents Publications Policy Papers Priced Publications Budget Memorandums Agro & Food Processing Energy Banking & Finance Minerals & Metals IT & ITES Logistics Infrastructure Tourism Health Care External Trade & WTO Environment Media Coverage Forthcoming Events Past Events Corporate Trainings Overseas Delegation Successful Partnerships Country Report MOU Partners Current Issue Archives Eligibility Membership Charges Membership Forms Contact Info Important E-mails Feedback Advertise with us On West Bengal On External trade On Banking & Finance On Infrastructure On Company Law & Taxation On Agro & Food Processing   Eligibility of becoming ICC Member     1. Merchants, bankers, ship-owners, representatives of commercial, transport or insurance companies, brokers and persons engaged in commerce, agriculture, mining or manufacture and persons engaged in or connected with Art, science or literature shall be eligible for election as members of the chamber.   2. There shall be two classes of members of the chamber, namely (i) Corporate Group Members and    (ii) Ordinary Members. 3. Any undertaking including a foreign company or the undertaking together with its associates, not exceeding four in number, actually engaged in industry, trade or services, which, in the opinion of the Committee of the Chamber have been enjoying good standing and contributing to economic activities, shall be eligible to become a Corporate Group Member of the Chamber.   4. Any individual, firm, company or corporation being a candidate for election as a member of the Chamber shall send with the proposal form, provided for by Article 9 of the Articles of Association presents a declaration that he or it is eligible for election as a member of this Chamber.   5. An undertaking desirous of becoming a Corporate Group Member, shall send an application to the Director-General or Director in the prescribed Form. Such application, complete with all supporting documents as specified in the form   6. The Committee shall decide any question which may arise as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candidate for admission as a member of the Chamber and their decision shall be final and they shall not be bound to assign any reason for their action.   7. A firm, joint stock company or other corporation shall not cease to be a member of the Chamber upon any change being made in the conventional or corporate name of the firm, company or corporation. In the case of a merger or other form of amalgamation the old membership may be continued under the new name with the approval of the Committee of the Chamber.   8. A firm shall not cease to be a member by reason only of a change in the constitution of the firm occasioned by the admission, retirement or death of a partner provided the business of the firm is continued in the conventional name in which such firm was elected as a member.   9. Any member may withdraw from the Chamber by giving two months notice in writing to the Director-General or Director of the intention of such member to do so and upon the expiration of the notice, such member shall cease to be a member of the Chamber.   10. A member shall cease to be a member of the Chamber: a) In case a member is an individual, if he is an un-discharged insolvent or if he is adjudged by a competent court to be of unsound mind or if he is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude b) In case of a firm if it is dissolved or adjudged insolvent or the partners are convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude. c) In case of a company, if it is wound up.   11. An Admission fee of Rs.5,000/- shall be paid by all firms or companies admitted to Ordinary membership of the Chamber after 1st January, 2004.   12. The Annual subscription payable by each member shall be as per the schedule described in the membership form.    13. Each Corporate Group Member shall pay or shall cause to be paid, a subscription of Rs.3 lakhs for each financial year or part thereof. A Corporate Group Member can nominate one representative on the Committee of the Chamber, subject to the approval of the name of the representative by the Committee of the Chamber. Such nomination can be sent only if it has paid its subscription for that financial year on or before 30th day of the Financial Year.   14. The Admission Fee for each ordinary member shall be payable on election along with the first Annual subscription. All subsequent Annual subscription shall be payable on the first day of the Financial Year and shall be paid in one installment.   The committee may whenever they think fit levy by way of additional subscription a surcharge of such amount on such members or class of members as they deem fit. Provided that in the case of Associate Members no surcharge shall be levied.     Home Privacy Policy Sitemap Terms & Conditions Membership Careers Contact Us Copyright © 2009 Indian Chamber of Commerce. All Rights Reserved Site developed by Computronics