Jaipur, Rajasthan Home » Jaipur   Jaipur About Jaipur जयपुर के बारे में Weather Pin Code STD Code Festivals Software Companies Manufacturers and Wholesalers Service Providers Gems Exporters Builders Jaipur Travel Travel to Jaipur Places to Visit in Jaipur जयपुर पर्यटन स्थल Places near Jaipur Hotels in Jaipur Restaurants Trains to Jaipur Buses from Jaipur Flights to Jaipur Airport Jaipur to Shimla Routemap Distance Chart Travel Agents Shopping Jai Mahal Palace Jaipur Fort श्री गोविंद देव जी मंदिर किशनपोल बाजार गणेश मंदिर मोती डूंगरी रामगढ़ झील सिसोदिया रानी का बाग Jaipur Map Jaipur City Map Airport Map Metro Map District Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Road Map Jaipur Education Colleges Engineering Colleges MBA Colleges Jaipur Localities Sitapura Industrial area Mansarovar Gangori Bazaar Jagatpura Ajmer Road Sikar Road Jhotwara Sanganer Shastri Nagar Vaishali Nagar more.. Rajasthan History and Geography Weather Cities in Rajasthan Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar more.. Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map       Jaipur Click on the Map for Bigger Map Jaipur is one of the most important cities in India from the point of tourism. Situated in Rajasthan the city was founded by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II on 18 November 1727. Jaipur is a land of natural beauty and great history. It has a flourishing tourism industry. Also called pink City, it is the capital of Rajasthan. It is well connected to the other parts of the world, through its vast network of airways, railways and roads. The palaces of Jaipur are the favorite spots for tourists, both Indian and foreign. Many old and neglected palaces and forts in Jaipur have been converted into heritage hotels. The service sector of Jaipur boasts of its tourism, real estate, insurance and hotel industry. Jaipur is the nucleus of Education in Rajasthan. The city houses several reputed colleges that attract students from different parts of the globe. Apart from the professional degree colleges there are numerous colleges in Jaipur that offer degrees in arts, commerce and science. The many Colleges in Jaipur are known for their sound academic history and facilities. Some of the important colleges are; Satya Sai College for Women, Shree Khandelwal Vaishya College, Vedic Kanya College for Girls, Government Maharaj Acharya Sanskrit College, Biyani College, Bharat Law College and many more. Jaipur Road Network has a well maintained road network. The city is easily accessible from all the important cities and towns of India. Jaipur is excellently connected by road, rail and air. The city railway station and airport are the major points of entry and exit to the state. Traveling to Jaipur is extremely easy even more because it is a major tourist spot in India. Jaipur shares great air connectivity with all the metros and cities in India. The Jaipur Airport is located at a distance of 13 km from the main city. Most of the domestic and international airlines operate to and from Jaipur. Flights to Jaipur from Delhi and Mumbai are pretty frequent. The regular international flights operate mostly from Jaipur to Sharjaha and Muscat. The Jaipur Railway Station is the main station of Rajasthan. Most of the cities and towns in India are connected to Jaipur by railway. There are a number of trains that run almost on a daily basis to and from Jaipur. Some of the important Trains to Jaipur are; Shatabdi, Mandore Exp. Jammu Tavi Exp. Ashram Exp Ahmedabad Mail Ibadat Exp. Ashram Exp etc. Jaipur, famously known as the "Pink City", is the capital of the state of Rajasthan in West India. Jaipur district has a total area of 11,117 sq. km. with an average population density of 470 people per sq. km. As per the 2001 census, the total population of Jaipur is 5,252,338. It almost equally comprises of Rural and Urban population. Jaipur District is situated in the eastern part of Rajasthan. It is bounded by Sikar and Mehendragarh district (in State of Haryana) in the north, Tonk district in the south, Alwar, Sawaimadhopur and Dausa district in the eat and Nagaur district in the west. Jaipur has a Legislative Assembly, as it is the state capital. There are 13 Tehsils and sub-divisions in the district which are named as Jaipur, Chomu, Amber, Sanganer, Shahpura, Bassi, Chaksu, Mojmabad,JamwaRamgarh, Phagi, Phulera, Kotputli, Viratnagar. Also, there are 13 Panchayat samitis and 2369 villages. Since Jaipur is situated in Rajsthan it is but obvious that the city will experience semi-arid climatic conditions. Jaipur Weather is very warm during summers and cold during winters. Jaipur witnesses three major seasons, summer, monsoon and winter. The summer months generally begin from April and last till July. The temperature during the summer months is generally between 30 °C to 45°C. The Monsoons in July generally begin from June. The city receives almost 650 millimeters of rainfall in a year. The Monsoons in Jaipur are characterized by heavy and frequent showers and thunderstorms. However the best time to visit this place is during the winters. November marks the beginning of winter in the city. The temperature during these months remains between 15-18 °C. Winters are pleasant with no cold waves or temperature extremities. Flights to Jaipur land at the Sanganer airport. The Sanganer airport was bestowed with the status of an international airport in 2006, this made it the 14th international airport in India. The domestic airport in Jaipur is home to several eating joints, shopping centers and medical facilities. There are many domestic flights to Jaipur that operate on a regular basis. Flights from Jaipur to cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Abramabad operate almost everyday. Some of the popular flights to Jaipur include; Indian Airlines, Air Sahara,Spice Jet, Air Deccan, Kingfisher Airlines, Alliance Air, Go Air and Jet Airways. The Royal city of Jaipur celebrates numerous festivals with full zeal all round the year. There are many Festivals in Jaipur. These festivals and fairs form an inseparable part of Jaipur's identity. Jaipur is at a distance of 260 km from Delhi and 240 km from Agra and forms a part the "Golden Tourist Circuit". The city attracts thousands of tourist from all over the world. Jaipur came into prominence after Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II established this beautiful city in 1727. Jaipur has been the cradle of many ruling dynasties and was an important cultural hub of that period. Location Located in the eastern part of Rajasthan, Jaipur shares its borders with Sikar and Alwar in the north, by Tonk, Ajmer, and Sawai Madhopur in the south, by Naguar, Sikar and Ajmer in the west and by Bharatpur and Dausa in the east. Infrastructure Jaipur is well connected with all parts of India by air, road and railways. Places of Tourist Interest Jaipur is a major tourist destination with many places of historical and religious importance. Some of the important places of tourist attraction are: Hawa Mahal- Hawa Mahal is one of the important hallmark of Jaipur that attracts tourists from all over the world City Palace- This is one of the architectural wonders that reflects a perfect blend of the Rajasthani and Mughal architectural style Jantar Mantar- This famous observatory was built to study the movements of stars and planets Albert Hall- This magnificent building is the store house of artifacts and paintings of the past Jaigarh Fort- This fort gives a birds eye view of Jaipur The city of Jaipur looks vibrant and colorful with its unique architecture and natural surroundings that makes it the most sought after destination of India. Last Updated on 07/26/2013 About Jaipur Weather Pin Code STD Code Festival Software Companies Manufacturers and Wholesalers Gems Exporters Builders Travel to Jaipur Hotels in Jaipur Restaurants Trains to Jaipur Buses from Jaipur Flights to Jaipur Airport Jaipur to Shimla Routemap Distance Chart Travel Agents Shopping Jai Mahal Palace Jaipur Fort Places of interest in Jaipur Ranthambore National Park Ramgarh Lake Famous Monuments Jantar Mantar Jaipur Localities Sitapura Industrial area Mansarovar Gangori Bazaar Jagatpura Ajmer Road Sikar Road Jhotwara Sanganer Shastri Nagar Vaishali Nagar Places to Visit in Jaipur Birla Planetarium Johari Bazar Birla Temple Albert Hall Museum Jaipur Zoo Ramgarh Lake Ganesh Temple Kishanpole Bazar Chandpole Bazar Statue Circle Raj Mandir Cinema Shri Govind Dev Ji Mandir Amer Fort Jaigarh fort City palace Hawa Mahal Jal Mahal Jantar Mantar Nahargarh Fort             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule