Jama Masjid in Fatehpur Sikri Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Agra Travel Tourist Map About Agra Weather Shopping Hotels in Agra How to Reach Taj Mahotsav Travel Agents Travel Tips Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri How to Reach Agra Agra Airport Agra Distance Chart Flights to Agra Agra Buses Trains to Agra Agra Route Map Delhi to Agra Varanasi to Agra Bharatpur to Agra Agra to Nanital Agra to Dehradun Agra to Lucknow Agra to Jaipur Agra to Allahabad Agra to Ajmer Tourist Destinations near Agra Mathura Travel Vrindavan Travel Bharatpur Travel Delhi Travel Jaipur Travel Ranthambore Travel more.. Agra Map Location Map Railway Map District Map Road Map more.. Home » Agra » Jama Masjid in Fatehpur Sikri Jama Masjid in Fatehpur Sikri About Jama Masjid is a very important mosque in India and is a huge prayer place for the Muslims, with prayers taking place every Friday. There are huge gatherings of people on festive occasions and Eid prayers. The mosque is also known as 'Friday Mosque' and is one of the largest mosques in India. It has a great place in the hearts of Muslims in India and is the most sought after pilgrimage place. History The Jama Masjid was built by Emperor Akbar as part of the Fatehpur Sikri complex. The place was also known as 'Jami Masjid'. It is said that the mosque took almost 6 years to complete and employed around 5,000 workers. The structure is said to have been built under the supervision of the saint Salim Chisti. Location The location of Jama Masjid is Fatehpur Sikri, Agra, in the state of Uttar Pradesh in northern India. It is located right in the centre of Fatehpur Sikri and is close to the western gateway of the Agra fort. One has to enter Buland Darwaza to visit the place. It is very close to the Agra railway station and the Delhi Gate of the Agra Fort. Architecture As one enters the place from the grand Buland Darwaza, one witnesses the magnificent Jama Masjid, which is a mosque that is placed on a platform that is elevated. The mosque has five main entrances to the praying area. The walls comprise of delicate and intricate carvings and inscription taken from the Holy Quran. The exterior is built with attractive red sandstone and white marble with detailed finishing. The center courtyard is vast and open, and can accommodate almost 25,000 people at a time. To the right is the Jammat Khana hall and next to it is Zenana Rauza, which was the tomb of the royal ladies of the court. The main attraction is the tomb of the sacred Sufi saint Sheikh Salim Chisti, who prophesied that Akbar will have a son who will succeed him. The whole architecture is said to be Persian in its make. The interiors are designed artistically and adorned with paintings and floral designs. The attractive three majestic sandstone domes are poised well and add beauty to the structure. The domes comprise vibrant coloured tiles with inscription on it. Best time to visit One can visit the place on all days of the week, from 7:00 a.m. in the morning to 6:00 p.m. in the evening. There is no entry fee. It takes around two hours to see the complete structure. The best time to visit is from October to March. Winter begins in November and can be pleasant during the day time. Nights are quite chilly. Summer begins from March and can get really hot from the months of April to June. Last Updated on : April 23, 2014 How to Reach Agra Agra Airport Distance Chart Flights to Agra Agra Buses Trains to Agra About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule