Pandyan Dynasty, Pandya Dynasty Map Home » History » Pandyan Dynasty   Indian Dynasties Chola Dynasty Chalukya Dynasty Pallava Dynasty Chera Dynasty Pandyan Dynasty                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Pandyan Dynasty Map of Pandyan Dynasty Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing major cities and current country boundaries during the Pandyan period.The kingdom of Pandyan reigned over south India. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. About Pandyan Dynasty One of the three famous ancient Tamil dynasties (other two being Chola and Chera), the Pandyan dynasty ruled several parts of the Southern India until the 15th century CE. Their main capital was Korkai, from where they ruled their country Pandya Nadu. Korkai was a seaport situated on the southernmost tip of the Indian Peninsula. Later it was moved to Madurai. Origin of the Pandyans It is believed that the Dhravidians must have penetrated into the southern part of the country in about 700 BC and organized developed themselves into distinguishable sects. The existence of such a community can be justified with titles such as Solan, Pandiyan, and Keralas. Initially in the first century AD, the Pandyan Kingdom consisted of only the greater part of modern Madura and the district of Tinnevelly. It was in the beginning of the thirteenth century AD that the famous Marco Polo tagged this dynasty as the richest existing empire. During the Pandyan Empire a great development in the architecture was seen with the construction and inauguration of many temples, some of which are Meenakshi Amman Temple in Madurai and Nellaiappar Temple, located on the bank of the river Thamirabarani in Tirunelveli. Rulers of the Pandyan Dynasty Jatavarman or Maravarman Pandyan was generally the names of the Pandyan Kings. Earlier they were believed to be Jains but after a few centuries of rule they became Shaivaits. Cheras were the allies of Pandyas for a long time as compared to the Cholas. Only due to their dependence with Cholas and Cheras they could continue free movement and carry out trade along the coast of Sri Lanka. The Pandyan dynasty expanded at a great pace. Its power spread over Kerala, the southwestern part of India and Sri Lanka. The expansion happened during the rule of kings like Kadungon (590-620), Arikesar Maravarman (670-700), Varagunamaharaja I (765-815), and Srimara Srivallabha (815-862). Some other Pandya kings were: Koon Pandiyan Mudukudumi Paruvaludhi Nedunj Cheliyan I (Aariyap Padai Kadantha Nedunj Cheliyan) Nedunj Cheliyan II Kadalan valuthi Nan Maran Kadalul Maintha Ukkirap Peruvaludi Nedunj Cheliyan III (Talaiyaalanganathu Seruvendra Nedunj Cheliyan) Maran Valudi Musiri Mutriya Cheliyan Pudappandiyan The Pandyans influences were seen at the highest point during the reigns of Jatavarman Sundara's, 1251-68. Fall of the Pandyans It was in 1311 that Madurai was invaded by the Delhi Sultanate forces that the conditions of the Pandyans worsen and they turned into mere local rulers. At the time of the invasion of the Kalabhras, the Pandyans, as of the Sangam literature marched into complete obscurity. It was in about 940 AD, that the Chola king Rajaraja reduced the Pandyas to tributary dependence which lasted for about the following two centuries. The Cholas dominating rule brought in a number of kings and emperors to rule the once powerful Pandyan Kingdom, such as Madura Sultans, Vijayanagara Rayas, Nayakas of Madura, Nawabs of Arcot. Towards the end of the sixteenth century, the Pandyan dynasty suddenly disappeared from Indian historical scene forever. Last Updated on : January 21, 2014               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule