Pomegranate - Agritalk - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Pomegranate – Agritalk Home Pomegranate – Agritalk Ramdas J Patil – expert in pomegranate cultivation participates in Agricultureinformation.com discussion forum Ramdas J. Patil R B Herbal Agro specializes in pomegranate cultivation in India. Led by Mr. Ramdas J. Patil, CEO, R B Herbal Agro, in association with Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri (Maharashtra) is working on the solution for the deadly disease, bacterial blight of pomegranate. Mr. Patil, an expert in pomegranate cultivation, answers questions related to pomegranate farm’s diseases, agricultural practices, climatic conditions, farming feasibility in specific areas, improving the yield and so on. Members on the AgricultureInformation.com forum comment and enquire about pomegranate cultivation practices and methods to control the disease. Bacterial Blight of Pomegranate In 2000 a bacterial epidemic spread had devastating effect on pomegranate crops. Till this day about 80 percent of pomegranate cultivation in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat are still getting affected. Mr. Patil informs, “Pomegranate is a fruit that is expensive even when it is in season. This is mainly because the fruit has many medicinal properties. Due to its health benefits the demand for pomegranate continues to increase.”   He adds, “It is useful in controlling prostate gland cancer. It also contains a high amount of antioxidants, which reduces heart problems and aging. It also has the ability to produce estrogen in women,” Mr. Patil said about pomegranate. Cause of the Disease At first, identifying the cause of the disease was difficult. Mr. Patil explains, “The anatomy of the pomegranate made bacteria an unlikely problem initially. Pomegranate rind is rich with tannins, which are antibacterial in nature.” According to Mr. Patil the disease was later identified as a bacterium known as XanthomonasOxanopodpvPunicea. “This bacterium can infect fruits, leaves and stems. Initially it appears as oily spots on leaves or fruits. It grows very fast, within 48 to 78 hours.” [hidepost] R.B. Herbal Agro also conducted studies to determine when the disease was most common. Weather plays a large part in the occurrence of epidemics. The incidences of the disease are less common in the winter season but increase during the rainy season. The most favorable condition for the growth of these bacteria is high humidity – more than 65 % RH and a temperature range of 28 to 320C. It grows slowly at temperatures below 150C. It appears more in the rainy season when the temperature is 320C – 350C. These bacteria rarely breed in the winter season. When the disease has progressed, there are various ways to identify it. One simple way to detect the disease is when a Y shaped crack appears on the fruit. Black spots and decaying leaves are also other symptoms. On the stem, it appears as a black spot with an oozing type wound leading to a dead arm. Controlling the Disease Mr. Shankar Reddy of Raichur is a pomegranate farmer having more than 3000 trees in his orchard, which is 7 years old. He has been fighting bacterial blight from past 4 years. He wanted more information to control the disease. After extensive research and studies, R.B. Herbal Agro along with M.P.K.V. Rahuri has developed a solution for the disease. It is called Char Sutri Karyakram or the “Four Point Program,” which helps prevent the spread of the disease. The four points are: 1. Cleanliness – helps to reduce inoculums 2. Horticultural practices – involves determining when to start seasons and determining how many fruits will grow on a plant. 3. Fertilization – keeps the pomegranate healthy through organic manure. 4. Scheduled sprays for disease control – helps control the growth of the bacteria. Mr. Patil recommends the following spray: • Prophyalexin 3 Ml + Cop-E 0.4 Gm – Per litre of water • R. B. Bordo 2.5 Gm + Sulfer 2 Gm – Per litre of water • Prophyalexin 3 Ml + PMBS 2.5 Gm – Per litre of water • Xanthonashak 0.5 Gm + R. B. Bordo 2.5 Gm – Per litre of water • Pseudo-FL 5 2 Ml + 5 Litres of Milk – Per litre of water Mr. Patil explained additional research for better yield saying, “We have studied and gathered data on the role of potassium and nitrogen on Bacterial Blight. We also found that biofertilizer is a useful tool to control bacterial blight. Optimum levels of ‘N’ & ‘K’ are required in the plant tissue to fight against bacterial blight.” Mr. Patil recommends a suitable INM programme to have a higher yield without any incidence of the disease. When pointed out that in Chile pomegranate is treated with methyl bromide to protect the fruit from certain invasive pests, Mr. Patil says, “Methyl bromide is a banned chemical since it is harmful for reducing ozone layer one should not use it for any purpose.” Member Mr. Hiren Pancholi appreciates all the information on controlling bacterial blight of pomegranate. He says, “We have recently promoted a product called anthium dioxcide from DuPont, which is a biocide, kills bacteria, spores, virus, fungus and algae. It was tried out at a half acre pomegranate farm in Solapur area and results were very good. Fruits were not bursting after using anthium dioxcide and only thing was that there was only oily spot at the bottom of the fruits. I am interested to carry out some professional trial to further continue with the positive result received at Solapur.” Mr. Patil recommends giving the material for trials to MPKV Rahuri. “Dr Raghuvanshi is a person working on this problem,” he informs. Training and Advice for Farmers R.B. Herbal Agro conducts training programs at their training center and also at the field level to educate farmers. He proudly claims, “We have conducted about 300 training programs so far,” maintains Mr. Patil. He adds, “We advise people to choose a scientific approach starting from soil analysis to selecting the soil for the plantation. Also, we give more attention to root and soil health rather than only on pest control through the use of chemicals.” According to Mr. Patil, there are thousands of success stories of farmers who have employed their methods. Farmers using the Four Point Program and correct bio-fertilizers are now enjoying good quality pomegranate. R B Herbal Agro provides training program for farmers in local language. “One is being conducted at Vaijapur Dist, Aurangabad on 22/06/2012 at 10 am. Anybody can attend the programe. There are no charges,” Mr. Patil informs. Best Practices for Pomegranate Cultivation Mr. Swamy comments that commercial cultivation of pomegranate brings good income for farmers. “It is good for the farmers, if they choose a scientific approach starting from soil analysis to selecting the soil for the plantation. Also farmers are fed up with the use of chemicals and fertilizers to control either root or any other disease.” He adds, “Farmers are facing huge losses with the production cost of pomegranate going sky high and low market value for their produce. In order to address such heavy losses, it is necessary to improve soil health along with plant health with locally available techniques and ingredients to control any problem either in the soil or in the plant. This kind of practice not only increases soil and environment health, but also reduces production cost along with pest and disease control.” A senior member wanted to know if it is possible to have brahmi or stevia as intercrop for pomegranate farming. Mr. Patil advices, “We do not recommend intercropping in pomegranate field except marigold and onion, during first six months of plantation.” Mr. Gaurav Deshpande is planning to grow a pomegranate farm. He says, “My farm is near Akola, Maharashtra. I want to know about the best variety of saplings, where will I get the best of the saplings, and how to identify the saplings. I want to grow Bhagva (or any other better variety as per your recommendation) in my 5 acre land.” Mr. Patil replies, “Bhagva is the best variety but in your area rainfall is more, therefore short duration variety Mrudula is suggested for you.” Another member Mr. Vijai Grewal enquires, “I am interested in pomegranate farming in Sri Ganganagar, Rajasthan. I want to know if it is commercially feasible to grow pomegranate in Rajasthan; what variety should I plant; the agronomic practices for such plants; any other info which will help me to analyze the pro and cons of such venture; and any other profitable horticulture alternative.” Mr. Patil replies, “Pomegranate can be commercially cultivated in Rajasthan. Bhagva would be a good variety to grow. If you provide us average rainfall and temp data of at least one year, we would suggest you the rest.” Member JP is planning to grow Pomegranate on 14 acres in his farm in Anantapur District, Andhra Pradesh. He wants to know how to prepare the land and how to test the soil health as per best practices. Mr. Patil recommends, “Pomegranates are cultivated in Anantapur District. Before planting the saplings you are required to test soil for all parameters, like pH, EC, water holding capacity, lime, Na and all nutrients. You can test the soil sample at Shet Jameen Meemansa Prayogshala, Herbal House,  Savarkar Nagar Satana Dist – Nasik- 423301, which is dedicated to pomegranate. They will suggest suitability as well as distance between plants, variety and all suggestions for its growth.” Mr. Gaurav Deshpande also owns a land piece near Guwahati, Assam. He wants to know if it is feasible to grow Pomegranate in this area. Mr. Patil replies, “Guwahati has heavy rainfall, therefore it would be difficult to grow pomegranate, but if you provide meteorological data I would suggest its feasibility.” Mr. Yogesh Telawne has 23 acres of land in Chiplun Taluka, close to Vashishta river in the Konkan belt. He asks for advice regarding pomegranate cultivation, “I want to know whether pomegranate can be planted in my region and also let me know which would be the best variety that can be grown.” Mr. Patil advises, “Kokan’s climatic condition is not suitable for pomegranate cultivation. You can still plant pomegranate on a small plot with Mrudula variety for experimentation.” Member, Mr. Jalindar R Adsul says, “I have 800 plants of Bhagva Pomo near Barshi of 15 months age. I decided to harvest the fruits this time, currently flowers, and small pomo started growing. Please advise if this rainy season is suitable for harvesting. Our area covers 560 mm rain in season.” Mr. Patil instructs, “It is not advisable to take fruits on 15 month old crop. Let it complete 2 years. I will be sending pomo booklet to your address.” Pomegranate Fruition A member wants to know on an average how long it takes for pomegranate trees to give fruits, to which Mr. Patil replies, “Generally it takes two years for a young pomegranate tree to start give fruits.” Gaurav Deshpande who has recently grown pomegranate trees in his farms wanted to know, “Basically nowadays, everything is driven by the demand in the market. Pomegranate has a very demand in the market. And we want to diversify ourselves in different types of fruits. I would want to know, is there is any particular technique to grow best quality of pomegranate” Mr. Patil maintains that his company provides a special treatment/method for growing good quality pomegranate. Organic Cultivation of Pomegranate Another member Feroz, who has 200 pomegranate plants aged about 3 years under organic farming wanted to know organic methods to grow pomegranate. Mr. Patil volunteers to share organic methods to cultivate pomegranate. “We can definitely grow and cultivate pomegranate organically. There are special methods for organic NIM and IPM,” he adds. Member Narender wanted to know if anyone conducted experiment by using panchagavya spray to maintain resistance to bacterial blight. Mr. Patil informs, “Very seldom people use panchagavya to control bacterial blight. But we do not have any data to support it. Also to my opinion, a scientific study is required for its usage and alone this may not be sufficient.” Ramdas J. Patil Mr. Ramdas J. Patil is the CEO and R & D Chief at R. B. Herbal Agro. He is also a member of Board of Studies in Plant Pathology and Microbiology at Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth (MPKV), Rahuri, Maharashtra. He has over 15 years of experience as a senior scientist in private sector. He worked as a technical director to Pomegranate Growers Association. R. B. Herbal Agro manufactures biofertilizers and biocontrol agents. It is also conducting extensive research on bacterial blight of pomegranate. R. B. Herbal Agro in association with M.P.K.V Rahuri is working on the solution for the deadly disease affecting pomegranate crops since 2000. This bacterial blight of pomegranate has afflicted about 80% area in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra, and Gujarat. Mr. Patil, along with M.P.K.V. Rahuri, has worked extensively on this project and come out with solution to control this disease with an integrated approach called Char Sutri Karyakram i.e. Four Point Program, which involves cleanliness, horticulture practices, fertilization, and spray schedule to control disease. “We had started in 1999 with a very small unit. We were among the first to start liquid technology for biofertilizers. We offer many different kinds of biofertilizers like azotobactor , acitobactor, rhizobium, potash solubizing bacteria, phosphate solubiling bacteria, silica soluniling bacteria, and acetobactor,” says Mr. Patil. The company mainly targets horticulture growing farmers and organic base produces for biofertilizers and biocontrol agents. Mr. Patil has done M.Sc., a course on mass production of bio-pesticides at NCIM New Delhi and MKV Parbhani, a course on mycorhizal technology at Mumbai, and a course on Methyl Bromide alternatives at Israel. For more information contact :  Mr.Ramdas Patil, R. B. Herbal Agro, ‘Herbal House’ 120, Savarkar Nagar, Satana-423301 Nasik (Maharashtra) India. Tel.: 91-2555-225206, 225204 Email – rbharbalagro@gmail.com, rbherbalagro@gmail.com Our Correspondent Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Pomegranate – Agritalk Related – articles, consultants, downloads Sprout Natural India – Mushroom cultivation Emerald Farms S V Lokhande – Tissue culture banana in 100% organic way! Soil Nutrients and its Fertility You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011