E-Newsletter The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us E-Newsletter Written by Administrator on 11 May 2014 . Posted in Publications Twitter News Letter for the Month of September & October, 2014 Dear Members, Greetings and Best Wishes of the season. I wish to apprise you of some of the meetings/seminars of FINER, on important relevant issues for the month of Sept and Oct, 2014. Most of them were issues concerning and pertaining to the North East Region. A meeting with a 9 Nos delegation from Bhutan to Guwahati, headed by Member of Parliament, of Bhutan, Shri Dupthob, was held on 15 th Sept, 2014 at FINER Secretariat, to discuss on trade and Investment opportunities in Assam and the North East Region. The meeting was attended by Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Shri Pabitra Buragohain and Shri Vishwanath Goenka, Member. The Annual Convention of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Assam was held on 20 th Sept, 2014 at Greenwood Resort. An Interactive session on “From the bottom to the top, what is the way forward for Tourism in Assam” was also organized at the Annual Convention where Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman was a keynote speaker. Live Viewing of the launch of the campaign Make in India’’ Initiative by Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi was organized in association with   FICCI  on 25 th Sept,2014 at   Hotel Brahmaputra Ashok, Guwahati   An interactive session to discuss the various issues involved and collate inputs and recommendations was also organized amongst the Senior officials from the State Governments, Business Associations and Captains of Industries & Commerce of the Region, present in the meeting. The meeting was attended by Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, Directors Shri Rajeev Agarwal, Shri Sunil Agarwal, Shri Vishal Agarwal, Ms. Indrani Chaudhury and host of FINER Members. TheFINER Trade Delegation comprising of Shri Chinmoy Sharma, Shri Pradyut Kr Bhuyan, Shri Anil Saraf, Shri B.L Agarwal, Shri Ajit Sarma Baruah, Shri Pankaj Kejriwal, Shri Rahul Chamaria, Ms Ranjana Bhajanka and Ms. Indrani Chaudhury visited Laos, Myanmar and Bangkok from 7 th to 15 th Sept,2014. The delegation headed by Ms. Indrani Chaudhury, attended a business seminar on Lao PDR Business Seminar promoting business links with the theme –“Working together towards sustainable growth, at the Vientiane Plaza, Laos on 9 th Sept, 2014. The Seminar was attended by Indian business people and representatives from the Lao Ministries of Agriculture and Forestry, Planning and Investment, Foreign Affairs and the Lao National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LNCCI) and FINER delegation team. The Delegation also has a meeting to share the opportunities for Investment in both India and Myanmar and the vision and policies of the governments of the Republic of Myanmar was held with His Excellency Shri Gautam Mukhopadhaya, Ambassador of India to Yangon at the Embassy’s Office at Yangon was held on 11 th Sept, 2014, followed by a Networking Dinner meet was organized by Mr Naresh Dinodiya, President of Indian Association of Myanmar on 11 th Sept, 2014 at Highland Mansion, Yangon , alongwith the members of Indian Association of Myanmar. An Interactive meeting was organized by the Embassy of India to Yangon, to showcase the Trade and Investment opportunities in Myanmar and share the opportunities for Investment in both India and Myanmar and also to promote and enhance future business relationships between both the Countries with the delegation team and the President and Members of the Union of Myanmar Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry (UMFCCI) at the UMFCCI’s Office and with the President, Vice-President and Members of Myanmar India International Business Association (MIIBA) alongwith the members of trade and commerce of Myanmar, at the MIIBA’s Office on 12 th Sept,2014 An Interactive meeting of the Delegation with Shri Susheel Kr Saraff, President ITCC and members of ITCC was organized at ITCC’s office on 13 th Sept,2014, to showcase the Trade and Investment opportunities in Thailand the vision and policies of the governments and share the opportunities for Investment in both India and Thailand and also to promote and enhance future business relationships between both the Countries. An MOU between ITCC and FINER to be signed shortly as decided in the meeting. A memorandum was submitted to Shri Tarun Gogoi, Hon’ble Chief Minister, Government of Assam, requesting for supporting the first Agro-Based Distillery (Radiant Manufacturer (P) Ltd) in the 6 th scheduled district of Karbi Anglong and the entire North East. A letter sent requesting for Right to information (RTI) to Shri Arun Kumar, Under Secretary, DIPP, Government of India on Eligibility of Interest subsidy claims for Existing Units which had undergone substantial Expansion under NEIP, 1997/NEIIP, 2007-reg A memorandum was submitted to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India, Chairperson, CBEC and Department of Customs, Mumbai, on issues of Multiple address label on the Export packs, requested by (member) Emami Group. A memorandum on extension NEIIPP 2007 was submitted to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India, Smt Nirmala Sitharaman was held during her visit to Guwahati on 13 th Oct,2014. A Press Meet was organized with Shri Cesare Bieller, Consul General of Italy at FINER Office to apprise the Press about the launch of the Italian Shenzhen VISA office at Guwahati, on 8 th Oct, 2014, The meeting was attended by Ms. Indrani Chaudhury, DDG. A Meeting with SLCB to discuss about the Banking Conclave was held on 15 th Oct,2014 SBI, Headquarters , Dispur. The meeting was attended by Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, Director Shri Sandeep Khaitan and DDG, Ms. Indrani Chaudhury A Press meet in association with Department of Industries & Commerce, Government of Assam, for the announcement of the launch of the Assam International Trade & Industrial Fair-2015 was held on 22 nd Oct, 2014 at Gymkhana Club, Guwahati. The meeting was attended by Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, Shri Pabitra Buragohain, Vice Chairman, Directors Shri Sandeep Khaitan, Shri Sunil Agarwal, Shri Rajeev Agarwal and Shri Bajrang Lohia and Ms Indrani Chaudhury, DDG. News Letter for the Month of August, 2014 Greetings and Best Wishes of the season. I wish to apprise you of some of the meetings/seminars of FINER, on important relevant issues for the month of Aug,2014. Most of them were issues concerning and pertaining to the North East Region. A seminar on  Awareness Seminar on Quality Management System/Quality Technology Tools  in association with MSME-DI and Quality Council of India, New Delhi on 1 st  Aug,2014 at Hotel Gateway Grandeur.  The main objective of the Seminar was be to support the sustainability and growth of MSEs by addressing common issues faced such as improvement of technology, skills and quality, to build capacity of MSEs for common supportive action through formation of self help groups, consortia, upgradation of associations, to upgrade infrastructural facilities in the new/existing industrial areas/ clusters of MSEs, to set up common facility centres (for testing, training centre, raw material depot, effluent treatment, complementing production processes, etc). The Chief Guest for the seminar was Shri P.K Saikia, Additional Director, DIC, Government of Assam. The seminar was attended  The meeting was attended by Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, Vice-Chairmen Shri Amit Kr Jain and Shri Pabitra Buragohain and a host of FINER members and representative from Press and Media A meeting to discuss on  the Assam State Budget – 2014-15  was held on  3 rd Aug,2014  at Hon’ble Chief Minister’s Conference Room, Secretariat Complex, Dispur. The meeting was attended by  Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Shri Pabitra Buragohain, Directors Shri Bajrang Lohia, Shri Ramesh Goenka, Shri Sunil Agarwal, Members Shri B.K Lohia, Shri Binit Todi and Ms. Raginee Goyal and Ms. Indrani Chaudhury, DDG, FINER An interactive meet with  Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS, Chief Secretary, Government of Assam,  and members of Trade and commerce,  on 9th Aug,2014,  which was followed by dinner.  The program was attended by  Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, Vice-Chairmen Shri Amit Kr Jain and Shri Pabitra Buragohain, and a host of FINER Directors and Members An interactive meeting with the  NE MP Forum  was organized on  12 th  Aug,2014  at The Oberoi, New Delhi. Hon’ble Minister DoNER, General (Retd) V.K Singh and almost all the MPs from the North Eastern Region attended the meeting.The meeting was attended by  Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, Vice-Chairmen Shri Amit Kr Jain and Shri Pabitra Buragohain, and a host of FINER Directors and Members and representative of Press and Media. Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, made a detailed presentation on the crucial issues pertaining to the North East Region, which needed to be addressed in right earnest. The interactive session between the Hon’ble MPs and the representative of  Industries & Commerce of the Region  turned out to be very successful as exchange of free and frank views which took place could help the law makers to evolve appropriate development strategy for the Region. An Interactive meet with Hon’ble  General (Retd) V.K Singh ,  Hon’ble Minister DoNER  was organized on the theme” DoNER-A catalyst for North East Development” at the Lily Hotel on 20 th  Aug,2014 where the  crucial issues pertaining to the North East Region was presented to the Hon’ble Minister. Hon’ble Minister appreciated the issues and suggestions put forward by FINER and assured their full support through the Ministry, for the sustainable development of the North Eastern Region. Hon'ble Minister briefed about the steps to be taken by the ministry and mentioned that Region would see lot of development activities in the near future. The interactive session between the Hon’ble Minister and the representative of  Industries & Commerce of the Region  turned out to be very successful as the Hon'ble Minister welcomed inputs, suggestions and concern raised by the members present and assured that the Ministry will always try its level best to address all issues and concerns of the public. The meeting was attended by  Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, Vice-Chairman Shri Amit Kr Jain and a host of FINER members and representative from Press and Media A seminar on  “Design Awareness of Manufacturing & Packaging Industries in the North Eastern region”  under the Design Clinic Scheme for MSMEs,  in association with NID, Ahmedabad,  to create a platform for MSME units in the North East Region and to improve their manufacturing competitiveness by interacting with Design Experts and Speakers was organized on 26 th  Aug, 2014 at Hotel Gateway Grandeur. The main objective of the Seminar was to create awareness and introduction to Design Clinic scheme. The participants were able to interact with the design Experts and Speakers to understand methodology and benefits of design to MSME in their business, products, service and operation. The Chief Guest for the Program was Shri Hemanga Deep Das, General Manager, DIC, Government of Assam. The meeting was attended by Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, Vice-Chairmen Shri Amit Kr Jain and Shri Pabitra Buragohain and a host of FINER members and representative from Press and Media A meeting with  Shri Tarun Gogoi, Hon’ble Chief Minister , Government of Assam and  Shri Pradyut Bordoloi, Hon’ble Minster Industries & Commerce , Government of Assam for the presentation of the proposed Assam International Trade & Industrial Fair to be organized in the month of Feb,2015 was held at Koinadhora on 27 th  Aug,2014 . A proposal was submitted to the Hon’ble Chief Minister and the Hon’ble Minster Industries & Commerce Government of Assam to organize the Fair. The proposed Assam International Trade & Industrial Fair -2015 will be organized at Jorhat from 19 th  to 25 th  February, 2015, in association with Department of Industries and Commerce, Government of Assam. The Meeting was attended by  Vice-Chairmen Shri Amit Kr Jain and Shri Pabitra Buragohain, Ms . Indrani Chaudhury, DDG and Mitali B. Kotoky, Manager-Operations. A Press Meet  was organized at FINER Conference Hall on 29 th  Aug,2014, to make the press aware of the Interactive meet organized with the NE MP Forum and Hon’ble Minister DoNER, Government of India, organized at Delhi and the issue raised by FINER. The press meet was attended by  Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, Vice-Chairman Shri Amit Kr Jain, Shri Sandeep Khaitan, Director and Ms. Indrani Chaudhury, DDG and representative from Press and Media. A  letter was sent to   the  Managing Director,  Assam Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd. (AIIDC),   the  Managing Director  Assam Small Industries Development Corporation Ltd. (ASIDC),  the  Managing Director  Assam Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. (AIDC),   the  Commissioner,  Department  of Industries & Commerce, requesting for general information regarding various Industrial Estate/ Area / IGC/ IIDC/etc under their authority. These information are required for the investors/ prospecting investor which will be helpful for the Industrial development of Assam and for preparing data bank for the next investment /business summits.     News Letter for the Month of July, 2014 Greetings and Best Wishes of the season. I wish to apprise you of some of the meetings/seminars of FINER, on important relevant issues for the month of July,2014. Most of them were issues concerning and pertaining to the North East Region. Hence, I would like to apprise you of the activities and events of FINER and to disseminate some of the important and relevant activities done throughout the month.  A memorandum on the issues of VAT Remission pertaining to FINER members was submitted to Shri Vinay Chhabra, Chief Commissioner, Central Excise, Customs & Service tax on 1 st July, 2014 at Customs House, Guwahati. The major highlight of the memorandum was on the issues relating to the implementation of Excise Duty on VAT remission placing before him reasons as to why the Judgement of the Supreme Court should not be made applicable to the units in the North East. Shri B. B. Mohapatra Commissioner of Central Excise & Service Tax, Guwahati, also attended the meeting and had a detailed discussion on the issue. The National level Meeting of the Representatives of MSME Association chaired by Hon’ble Union Minister MSME, Shri Kalraj Mishra was held at New Delhi, to discuss on the various issues concerning the MSME Sector, on 3 rd July,2014. Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman, represented FINER for the meeting and also submitted a memorandum on the issues of MSME sector in the North East to the Hon’ble Minister. The “Live viewing of the Union Budget” was organized on 10 th July,2014 with the print and Electronic Media at Terra Mayaa. The Union Budget was discussed and inputs of FINER as well as Guest was shared with the press. The Live Viewing was attended by Chairman Shri R S Joshi, Vice Chairmen Shri Pabitra Buragohain , Shri S.C Agarwala, Past Chairman, Directors- Shri Sandeep Khaitan, Shri Ramesh Goenka, Shri R.K More, Shri Chinmoy Sharma, Shri Sudip De and Shri Pankaj Jhunjhunwala besides Invites Shri H.N Das,Shri Shantikam Hazarika and Shri Biswajit Chakravarty, FICCI and people from the press. FINER represented a meeting on “Web site launching” for planning department of Government of Assam, on 14 th July,2014 at Secretariat. This was the initiative from government of India to track various project status ( 100 cr to 1000 crs) initiated by the industry for all the sectors and is the effort for single window project tracking system for government. A  FINER delegation consisting of Shri R S Joshi, Chairman, Shri Ramesh Goenka Chairman, Taxation Committee, Mr Binit Todi and Ms Raginee Goyal members Taxation Committee, FINER, met Mr H S Das, IAS Additional Chief Secretary, Finance, Government of Assam and Dr J B Ekka, IAS, Commissioner Tax, and submitted the Assam State Pre Budget 2014-15 memorandum, on 14 th July,2014 at Kar Bhawan, Guwahati . A meeting with Shri Nilamoni Sen Deka, Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture on 16 th July,2014 was held at the Secretariat complex on potential of different Food Processing Units. The minister took inputs and issues that they are facing from the members, for improvement on the sector. The meeting was attended by Ms. Indrani Chaudhury, DDG, Shri Ashish Bajaj, Member, Shri Ajit S. Baruah and N. Harlalka, Member. The 16th meeting of Empowered Committee on MSMEs and SLIIC jointly at RBI, Guwahati, on July 22, 2014 to discussion on the Progress in MSME financing, Progress made in rehabilitation of potentially viable sick MSE units, Financial Literacy Initiatives and Town Hall Meetings, Opening of branches in unbanked/under banked MSME clusters in NER, Land issues affecting MSME lending in North Eastern Region, Promotion of CGTMSE Scheme in NE Region, Grievance Redressal Mechanism in banks, Delay in submission of MSME data by banks, Recent Guidelines/ information issued by RBI related to MSME. The Meeting was attended by Shri R.S Joshi, Chairman and Shri Sandeep Khaitan, Director. A high level delegation of Federation of Industry and Commerce of North Eastern Region (FINER), comprising of Chairman, Shri R S Joshi, Vice Chairman, Shri Amit Kumar Jain, Directors, Shri Rajendra Chamaria and Shri Chinmoy Sharma, Members, Shri Pankaj Kejriwal and Shri Kamal Harlalka, was on a visit to Delhi, to meet the newly appointed Union Ministers from 23 rd till 25 th July,2014. The main purpose of the delegation was to meet the newly elected union ministers /MPs of the Region and Secretaries to the Government of India and submit a memorandum on the issues to be considered for the development of the North Eastern Region. The delegation headed by Shri R.S Joshi Chairman, submitted a memorandum to the following Hon’ble Union Ministers:- Shri Kalraj Misra, Hon’ble Union Minister, MSME Shri Nitin Gadkari, Hon’ble  Union Minister, Road Transport & Highways Shri Rajiv Takru, IAS, Hon’ble DoNER Secretary A memorandum was submitted to the Hon’ble minister on the issues to be considered for the development of the MSME Sectors in the North Eastern Region. A memorandum was submitted to the Hon’ble minister on the issues to be considered for the development of the Highways and expedite the ongoing projects in the North Eastern Region. 3) Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Hon’ble Union Minister Food Processing Industries A memorandum was submitted to the Hon’ble minister on the issues to be considered for the development of the Food Processing Industries in the North Eastern Region. 4) Dr. Gurdial Singh Sandhu, IAS, Hon’ble Finance Secretary A memorandum was submitted to the Hon’ble Secretary on the issues related to Banking to be considered for the North Eastern Region. Hon’ble Secretary also advised the delegation to organize a Banking Conclave to discuss the issue of the NE Region. A memorandum was submitted to the Hon’ble Secretary, on the issues to be considered for the development of the North Eastern Region through the Ministry of DoNER The delegation besides meeting the Union Minister and Secretaries, Government of India had a meeting with Shri PA Sangma, Shri S.D Rai, MP, Sikkim and Shri Sudangshu Mittal, BJP Spokesperson.  A Meeting with Shri Pradyut Bordoloi, Hon’ble Minister Industries & Commerce, Government of Assam, on 25 th July,2014 at Secretariat Complex, Dispur to discuss on the upcoming Assam International Trade Fair-2015,to be organized at Jorhat in Jan,2015.The Minister briefed the members present about the objective for organizing the fair and asked FINER to submit a presentation for organizing the same alongwith with the budget. The meeting was attended by Shri Bajrang Lohia, Director, Ms. Indrani Chaudhury, DDG & Ms. Mitali B. Kotoky, Manager-Operations. A memorandum was sent to Shri Piyush Goyal, Hon’ble Minister of State for Power, Coal, New & Renewal Energy, on the issues faced Industrialization in the North Eastern Region on vendor registration of POWERGRID and request the Hon’ble Minister to take appropriate action so the units application for vendor registration/approval is accepted and can be approved if they meet the stipulated criteria of POWERGRID. A memorandum was sent to Shri Arun Roy, Director, Inland Waterways Authority of India, on the issue of transportation of raw materials through ITW Terminal. A Memorandum on Tea to be declared as the “National drink” was submitted to Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi.       News Letter for the Month of June, 2014