Child labour in Cambodia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Child labour in Cambodia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search Child labour refers to the full-time employment of children under a minimum legal age. In Cambodia , the state had ratified both the Minimum Age Convention (C138) [ 1 ] in 1999 and Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention (C182) in 2006, which are adopted by the International Labour Organization (ILO). For the former convention, Cambodia had specified the minimum age to work to be at age 14. [ 2 ] Yet, significant levels of child labour appear to be found in Cambodia. In 1998, ILO estimated that 24.1% of children in Cambodia aged between 10 and 14 were economically active. [ 3 ] Many of these children work long hours and Cambodia Human Development Report 2000 reported that approximately 65,000 children between the ages of 5 to 13 worked 25 hours a week and did not attend school. [ 4 ] There is a need to eliminate child labour in Cambodia as a report by UNICEF states that child labourers could be missing out on education. When children do not attend school, they are denied the knowledge and skills needed for national development. [ 5 ] Without education and vital life skills, they are vulnerable to abuse and exploitation, which may exacerbate the existing cycle of poverty in their families. Consequently, this lack in productivity due to lack of education will hold back economic growth in Cambodia. [ 6 ] Contents 1 Situation of child labour in Cambodia 2 Efforts to reduce child labour 3 References 4 External links Situation of child labour in Cambodia [ edit ] It is believed that Cambodia’s economic growth and progress is a contributing factor to the increasing number of child labourers. The huge demands of the construction industry is one example where it has pushed children to work in factories or brick kilns, foreclosing the option of school education for most of them. [ 7 ] In 2003, an ILO survey reported that one in every ten children in the capital above the age of seven was engaged in child domestic labour. [ 7 ] Children who are too young to work in the fields work as scavengers. They spend their days rummaging in dumps looking for items that can be sold for money. [ 8 ] Others spend their days in the streets peddling. Tourists play a key role in this form of child labour as many are willing to buy from these children, out of good intentions, escalating demands. This reinforces the notion that children are more valuable in the streets than at school. However, there are also arguments that it might be better to buy from child sellers or they might be forced to work in even more hazardous activities. [ 9 ] A common ramification of child labour is denied access to basic services, namely education and healthcare. The Children’s Rights Department of the Cambodian League for Promotion and Defense of Human Rights (LICADHO) survey showed that out of 400 children aged 5 to 17 who worked as garbage dump scavengers only 35% went to school. [ 10 ] Child labourers also suffer from health problems. For instance, carrying excessive loads may cause stunt development. There is the possibility of child scavengers made injured by sharp, contaminated objects or moving traffic. Other problems include long hours of work, respiratory and skin diseases, life-threatening tetanus, joint and bone deformities. [ 9 ] The economic and societal impacts are far reaching, hence raising awareness and efforts to prohibit child labour are important. Efforts to reduce child labour [ edit ] The Cambodian government is working together with NGOs and UN agencies to tackle the problem of child labour. One of the major donors is the U.S Department of Labour. Since 2001, the department has funded ILO’s International Program on the Elimination of Child Labour to provide education and other services to children engaged, or are at risk of engaging in exploitive labour. [ 6 ] There has been some progress in Cambodia. In 2008 there were 2000 children working in the salt industry in the Kampot province. By 2010 it has decreased to around 250 children. [ 11 ] However, Cambodia has been attributed 11 goods, all of them being produced by child labor, in the 2014 U.S. Department of Labor report on such working conditions around the world. [ 12 ] References [ edit ] ^ [1] [ dead link ] ^ "List of Ratifications (APPLIS)" . Webfusion.ilo.org . Retrieved 2012-07-29 .   ^ World Development Indicators 2000 ^ Cambodia Human Development Report 2000 ^ "Child Labor Affect Human Capital Development" . Modernghana.com . Retrieved 15 Sep 2011 .   ^ a b "Child Labour in Cambodia(VOA News)" . Voanews.com . Retrieved 14 Sep 2011 .   ^ a b "Child Labour in Cambodia-A New Direction" . Ilo.org . Retrieved 14 Sep 2011 .   ^ "Cambodia's Culture of Child Labour" . The Sydney Morning Herald . 2007-12-23 . Retrieved 14 Sep 2011 .   ^ a b "Child Labour in Cambodia" . Human Rights In Ireland . Retrieved 16 Sep 2011 .   ^ "Briefing on Child Abuse/Violence and Exploitation in Cambodia" (PDF) . Licadho-cambodia.org . Retrieved 2013-10-28 .   ^ "Child Labour in Cambodia" . Humanrights.ie . Retrieved 16 Sep 2011 .   ^ 2013 Findings on the Worst Forms of Child Labor External links [ edit ] International Labour Organization List of Ratifications of International Labour Conventions Cambodian League for the Promotion and Defense of Human Rights Findings on the Worst Forms of Child Labor - Cambodia — U.S. Department of Labor v t e Child labour in Asia Sovereign states Afghanistan Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Burma (Myanmar) Cambodia China Cyprus East Timor (Timor-Leste) Egypt Georgia India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Japan Jordan Kazakhstan North Korea South Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Malaysia Maldives Mongolia Nepal Oman Pakistan Philippines Qatar Russia Saudi Arabia Singapore Sri Lanka Syria Tajikistan Thailand Turkey Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen States with limited recognition Abkhazia Nagorno-Karabakh Northern Cyprus Palestine South Ossetia Taiwan Dependencies and other territories British Indian Ocean Territory Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Hong Kong Macau Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Child_labour_in_Cambodia&oldid=648945532 " Categories : Cambodian society Child labour by country Labour in Cambodia Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from October 2013 Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Edit links This page was last modified on 26 February 2015, at 15:09. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view