Gross domestic product - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Gross domestic product From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from GDP ) Jump to: navigation , search "GDP" redirects here. For other uses, see GDP (disambiguation) . A map of world economies by size of GDP (nominal) in $US , CIA World Factbook , 2012. [ 1 ] Gross domestic product ( GDP ) is defined by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) as "an aggregate measure of production equal to the sum of the gross values added of all resident, institutional units engaged in production (plus any taxes, and minus any subsidies, on products not included in the value of their outputs)." [ 2 ] GDP estimates are commonly used to measure the economic performance of a whole country or region, but can also measure the relative contribution of an industry sector. This is possible because GDP is a measure of 'value added' rather than sales; it adds each firm's value added (the value of its output minus the value of goods that are used up in producing it). For example, a firm buys steel and adds value to it by producing a car; double counting would occur if GDP added together the value of the steel and the value of the car. [ 3 ] Because it is based on value added, GDP also increases when an enterprise reduces its use of materials or other resources (' intermediate consumption ') to produce the same output. The more familiar use of GDP estimates is to calculate the growth of the economy from year to year (and recently from quarter to quarter). The pattern of GDP growth is held to indicate the success or failure of economic policy and to determine whether an economy is 'in recession '. Contents 1 History 2 Determining GDP 2.1 Production approach 2.2 Income approach 2.3 Expenditure approach 2.3.1 Components of GDP by expenditure 2.3.2 Examples of GDP component variables 3 GDP vs GNI 3.1 International standards 3.2 National measurement 3.3 Interest rates 4 Nominal GDP and adjustments to GDP 5 Cross-border comparison and Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 6 Per unit GDP 7 Standard of living and GDP: Wealth distribution and Externalities 8 Limitations and criticisms 9 Lists of countries by their GDP 10 List of other approaches to the measurement of (economic) progress 11 See also 12 Notes and references 13 Further reading 14 External links 14.1 Global 14.2 Data 14.3 Articles and books History [ edit ] This section requires expansion . (March 2011) The concept of GDP was first developed by Simon Kuznets for a US Congress report in 1934. [ 4 ] In this report, Kuznets warned against its use as a measure of welfare (see below under limitations and criticisms ). After the Bretton Woods conference in 1944, GDP became the main tool for measuring a country's economy. [ 5 ] At that time Gross National Product (GNP) was the preferred estimate, which differed from GDP in that it measured production by a country's citizens at home and abroad rather than its 'resident institutional units' (see OECD definition above). The switch to GDP was in the 1980s. The history of the concept of GDP should be distinguished from the history of changes in ways of estimating it. The value added by firms is relatively easy to calculate from their accounts, but the value added by the public sector, by financial industries, and by intangible asset creation is more complex. These activities are increasingly important in developed economies, and the international conventions governing their estimation and their inclusion or exclusion in GDP regularly change in an attempt to keep up with industrial advances. In the words of one academic economist "The actual number for GDP is therefore the product of a vast patchwork of statistics and a complicated set of processes carried out on the raw data to fit them to the conceptual framework." [ 6 ] Angus Maddison calculated historical GDP figures going back to 1830 and before. Determining GDP [ edit ] Economics World GDP (PPP) per capita by country  (2012) Index Outline Category History Types Classification History of economics Economic history (academic study) Schools of economics Microeconomics Macroeconomics Heterodox economics Methodology JEL classification codes Concepts Theory Techniques Econometrics Economic growth Economic system Experimental economics Mathematical economics Game theory Market National accounting By application Agricultural Behavioral Business Computational Cultural Demographic Development Digitization Ecological Education Environmental Evolutionary Expeditionary Geography Health Industrial organization Information International Labour Law Managerial Monetary  / Financial Natural resource Personnel Public  / Welfare economics Regional Rural Urban Welfare Lists Economists Publications  ( journals ) Business and economics portal v t e GDP can be determined in three ways, all of which should, in principle, give the same result. They are the production (or output or value added) approach, the income approach , or the expenditure approach. The most direct of the three is the production approach, which sums the outputs of every class of enterprise to arrive at the total. The expenditure approach works on the principle that all of the product must be bought by somebody, therefore the value of the total product must be equal to people's total expenditures in buying things. The income approach works on the principle that the incomes of the productive factors ("producers," colloquially) must be equal to the value of their product, and determines GDP by finding the sum of all producers' incomes. [ 7 ] Production approach [ edit ] This approach mirrors the OECD definition given above. Estimate the gross value of domestic output out of the many various economic activities; Determine the intermediate consumption , i.e., the cost of material, supplies and services used to produce final goods or services. Deduct intermediate consumption from gross value to obtain the gross value added. Gross value added = gross value of output – value of intermediate consumption. Value of output = value of the total sales of goods and services plus value of changes in the inventories. The sum of the gross value added in the various economic activities is known as "GDP at factor cost". GDP at factor cost plus indirect taxes less subsidies on products = "GDP at producer price". For measuring output of domestic product, economic activities (i.e. industries) are classified into various sectors. After classifying economic activities, the output of each sector is calculated by any of the following two methods: By multiplying the output of each sector by their respective market price and adding them together By collecting data on gross sales and inventories from the records of companies and adding them together The gross value of all sectors is then added to get the gross value added (GVA) at factor cost. Subtracting each sector's intermediate consumption from gross output gives the GDP at factor cost. Adding indirect tax minus subsidies in GDP at factor cost gives the "GDP at producer prices". Income approach [ edit ] Countries by 2012 GDP (nominal) per capita . [ 8 ]    over $102,400    $51,200–102,400    $25,600–51,200    $12,800–25,600    $6,400–12,800    $3,200–6,400    $1,600–3,200    $800–1,600    $400–800    below $400    unavailable GDP (PPP) per capita (World bank, 2012). The second way of estimating GDP is to use "the sum of primary incomes distributed by resident producer units". [ 2 ] If GDP is calculated this way it is sometimes called gross domestic income (GDI), or GDP (I). GDI should provide the same amount as the expenditure method described later. (By definition, GDI = GDP. In practice, however, measurement errors will make the two figures slightly off when reported by national statistical agencies.) This method measures GDP by adding incomes that firms pay households for factors of production they hire - wages for labour, interest for capital, rent for land and profits for entrepreneurship. The US "National Income and Expenditure Accounts" divide incomes into five categories: Wages, salaries, and supplementary labour income Corporate profits Interest and miscellaneous investment income Farmers' incomes Income from non-farm unincorporated businesses These five income components sum to net domestic income at factor cost. Two adjustments must be made to get GDP: Indirect taxes minus subsidies are added to get from factor cost to market prices. Depreciation (or capital consumption allowance ) is added to get from net domestic product to gross domestic product. Total income can be subdivided according to various schemes, leading to various formulae for GDP measured by the income approach. A common one is: GDP = compensation of employees + gross operating surplus + gross mixed income + taxes less subsidies on production and imports GDP = COE + GOS + GMI + T P & M – S P & M Compensation of employees (COE) measures the total remuneration to employees for work done. It includes wages and salaries, as well as employer contributions to social security and other such programs. Gross operating surplus (GOS) is the surplus due to owners of incorporated businesses. Often called profits , although only a subset of total costs are subtracted from gross output to calculate GOS. Gross mixed income (GMI) is the same measure as GOS, but for unincorporated businesses. This often includes most small businesses. The sum of COE , GOS and GMI is called total factor income; it is the income of all of the factors of production in society. It measures the value of GDP at factor (basic) prices. The difference between basic prices and final prices (those used in the expenditure calculation) is the total taxes and subsidies that the government has levied or paid on that production. So adding taxes less subsidies on production and imports converts GDP at factor cost to GDP(I). Total factor income is also sometimes expressed as: Total factor income = employee compensation + corporate profits + proprietor's income + rental income + net interest [ 9 ] Yet another formula for GDP by the income method is: [ citation needed ] where R : rents I : interests P : profits SA : statistical adjustments (corporate income taxes, dividends, undistributed corporate profits) W : wages. Expenditure approach [ edit ] The third way to estimate GDP is to calculate the sum of the final uses of goods and services (all uses except intermediate consumption) measured in purchasers' prices. [ 2 ] In economics, most things produced are produced for sale and then sold. Therefore, measuring the total expenditure of money used to buy things is a way of measuring production. This is known as the expenditure method of calculating GDP. Note that if you knit yourself a sweater, it is production but does not get counted as GDP because it is never sold. Sweater-knitting is a small part of the economy, but if one counts some major activities such as child-rearing (generally unpaid) as production, GDP ceases to be an accurate indicator of production. Similarly, if there is a long term shift from non-market provision of services (for example cooking, cleaning, child rearing, do-it yourself repairs) to market provision of services, then this trend toward increased market provision of services may mask a dramatic decrease in actual domestic production, resulting in overly optimistic and inflated reported GDP. This is particularly a problem for economies which have shifted from production economies to service economies . Components of GDP by expenditure [ edit ] Components of U.S. GDP GDP (Y) is the sum of consumption (C) , investment (I) , government spending (G) and net exports (X – M) . Y = C + I + G + (X − M) Here is a description of each GDP component: C (consumption) is normally the largest GDP component in the economy, consisting of private ( household final consumption expenditure ) in the economy. These personal expenditures fall under one of the following categories: durable goods , non-durable goods, and services. Examples include food, rent, jewelry, gasoline, and medical expenses but does not include the purchase of new housing. I (investment) includes, for instance, business investment in equipment, but does not include exchanges of existing assets. Examples include construction of a new mine , purchase of software, or purchase of machinery and equipment for a factory. Spending by households (not government) on new houses is also included in investment. In contrast to its colloquial meaning, "investment" in GDP does not mean purchases of financial products . Buying financial products is classed as ' saving ', as opposed to investment. This avoids double-counting: if one buys shares in a company, and the company uses the money received to buy plant, equipment, etc., the amount will be counted toward GDP when the company spends the money on those things; to also count it when one gives it to the company would be to count two times an amount that only corresponds to one group of products. Buying bonds or stocks is a swapping of deeds , a transfer of claims on future production, not directly an expenditure on products. G (government spending) is the sum of government expenditures on final goods and services. It includes salaries of public servants , purchases of weapons for the military and any investment expenditure by a government. It does not include any transfer payments , such as social security or unemployment benefits . X (exports) represents gross exports. GDP captures the amount a country produces, including goods and services produced for other nations' consumption, therefore exports are added. M (imports) represents gross imports. Imports are subtracted since imported goods will be included in the terms G , I , or C , and must be deducted to avoid counting foreign supply as domestic. A fully equivalent definition is that GDP (Y) is the sum of final consumption expenditure (FCE) , gross capital formation (GCF) , and net exports (X – M) . Y = FCE + GCF + (X − M) FCE can then be further broken down by three sectors (households, governments and non-profit institutions serving households) and GCF by five sectors (non-financial corporations, financial corporations, households, governments and non-profit institutions serving households ). The advantage of this second definition is that expenditure is systematically broken down, firstly, by type of final use (final consumption or capital formation) and, secondly, by sectors making the expenditure, whereas the first definition partly follows a mixed delimitation concept by type of final use and sector. Note that C , G , and I are expenditures on final goods and services; expenditures on intermediate goods and services do not count. (Intermediate goods and services are those used by businesses to produce other goods and services within the accounting year. [ 10 ] ) According to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, which is responsible for calculating the national accounts in the United States, "In general, the source data for the expenditures components are considered more reliable than those for the income components [see income method, below]." [ 11 ] Examples of GDP component variables [ edit ] C , I , G , and NX (net exports): If a person spends money to renovate a hotel to increase occupancy rates, the spending represents private investment, but if he buys shares in a consortium to execute the renovation, it is saving . The former is included when measuring GDP (in I ), the latter is not. However, when the consortium conducted its own expenditure on renovation, that expenditure would be included in GDP. If a hotel is a private home, spending for renovation would be measured as c onsumption, but if a government agency converts the hotel into an office for civil servants, the spending would be included in the public sector spending, or G . If the renovation involves the purchase of a chandelier from abroad, that spending would be counted as C , G , or I (depending on whether a private individual, the government, or a business is doing the renovation), but then counted again as an import and subtracted from the GDP so that GDP counts only goods produced within the country. If a domestic producer is paid to make the chandelier for a foreign hotel, the payment would not be counted as C , G , or I , but would be counted as an export. GDP real growth rates for 2010. A "production boundary" delimits what will be counted as GDP. "One of the fundamental questions that must be addressed in preparing the national economic accounts is how to define the production boundary–that is, what parts of the myriad human activities are to be included in or excluded from the measure of the economic production." [ 12 ] All output for market is at least in theory included within the boundary. Market output is defined as that which is sold for "economically significant" prices; economically significant prices are "prices which have a significant influence on the amounts producers are willing to supply and purchasers wish to buy." [ 13 ] An exception is that illegal goods and services are often excluded even if they are sold at economically significant prices (Australia and the United States exclude them). This leaves non-market output. It is partly excluded and partly included. First, "natural processes without human involvement or direction" are excluded. [ 14 ] Also, there must be a person or institution that owns or is entitled to compensation for the product. An example of what is included and excluded by these criteria is given by the United States' national accounts agency: "the growth of trees in an uncultivated forest is not included in production, but the harvesting of the trees from that forest is included." [ 15 ] Within the limits so far described, the boundary is further constricted by "functional considerations." [ 16 ] The Australian Bureau for Statistics explains this: "The national accounts are primarily constructed to assist governments and others to make market-based macroeconomic policy decisions, including analysis of markets and factors affecting market performance, such as inflation and unemployment." Consequently, production that is, according to them, "relatively independent and isolated from markets," or "difficult to value in an economically meaningful way" [i.e., difficult to put a price on] is excluded. [ 17 ] Thus excluded are services provided by people to members of their own families free of charge, such as child rearing, meal preparation, cleaning, transportation, entertainment of family members, emotional support, care of the elderly. [ 18 ] Most other production for own (or one's family's) use is also excluded, with two notable exceptions which are given in the list later in this section. Non-market outputs that are included within the boundary are listed below. Since, by definition, they do not have a market price, the compilers of GDP must impute a value to them, usually either the cost of the goods and services used to produce them, or the value of a similar item that is sold on the market. Goods and services provided by governments and non-profit organizations free of charge or for economically insignificant prices are included. The value of these goods and services is estimated as equal to their cost of production. This ignores the consumer surplus generated by an efficient and effective government supplied infrastructure. For example, government-provided clean water confers substantial benefits above its cost. Ironically, lack of such infrastructure which would result in higher water prices (and probably higher hospital and medication expenditures) would be reflected as a higher GDP. This may also cause a bias that mistakenly favors inefficient privatizations since some of the consumer surplus from privatized entities' sale of goods and services are indeed reflected in GDP. [ 19 ] Goods and services produced for own-use by businesses are attempted to be included. An example of this kind of production would be a machine constructed by an engineering firm for use in its own plant. Renovations and upkeep by an individual to a home that she owns and occupies are included. The value of the upkeep is estimated as the rent that she could charge for the home if she did not occupy it herself. This is the largest item of production for own use by an individual (as opposed to a business) that the compilers include in GDP. [ 19 ] If the measure uses historical or book prices for real estate, this will grossly underestimate the value of the rent in real estate markets which have experienced significant price increases (or economies with general inflation). Furthermore, depreciation schedules for houses often accelerate the accounted depreciation relative to actual depreciation (a well-built house can be lived in for several hundred years – a very long time after it has been fully depreciated). In summary, this is likely to grossly underestimate the value of existing housing stock on consumers' actual consumption or income. Agricultural production for consumption by oneself or one's household is included. Services (such as chequeing-account maintenance and services to borrowers) provided by banks and other financial institutions without charge or for a fee that does not reflect their full value have a value imputed to them by the compilers and are included. The financial institutions provide these services by giving the customer a less advantageous interest rate than they would if the services were absent; the value imputed to these services by the compilers is the difference between the interest rate of the account with the services and the interest rate of a similar account that does not have the services. According to the United States Bureau for Economic Analysis, this is one of the largest imputed items in the GDP. [ 20 ] GDP vs GNI [ edit ] GDP can be contrasted with gross national product (GNP) or, as it is now known, gross national income (GNI). The difference is that GDP defines its scope according to location, while GNI defines its scope according to ownership. In a global context, world GDP and world GNI are, therefore, equivalent terms. GDP is product produced within a country's borders; GNI is product produced by enterprises owned by a country's citizens. The two would be the same if all of the productive enterprises in a country were owned by its own citizens, and those citizens did not own productive enterprises in any other countries. In practice, however, foreign ownership makes GDP and GNI non-identical. Production within a country's borders, but by an enterprise owned by somebody outside the country, counts as part of its GDP but not its GNI; on the other hand, production by an enterprise located outside the country, but owned by one of its citizens, counts as part of its GNI but not its GDP. For example, the GNI of the USA is the value of output produced by American-owned firms, regardless of where the firms are located. Similarly, if a country becomes increasingly in debt, and spends large amounts of income servicing this debt this will be reflected in a decreased GNI but not a decreased GDP. Similarly, if a country sells off its resources to entities outside their country this will also be reflected over time in decreased GNI, but not decreased GDP. This would make the use of GDP more attractive for politicians in countries with increasing national debt and decreasing assets. Gross national income (GNI) equals GDP plus income receipts from the rest of the world minus income payments to the rest of the world. [ 21 ] In 1991, the United States switched from using GNP to using GDP as its primary measure of production. [ 22 ] The relationship between United States GDP and GNP is shown in table 1.7.5 of the National Income and Product Accounts . [ 23 ] International standards [ edit ] The international standard for measuring GDP is contained in the book System of National Accounts (1993), which was prepared by representatives of the International Monetary Fund , European Union , Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development , United Nations and World Bank . The publication is normally referred to as SNA93 to distinguish it from the previous edition published in 1968 (called SNA68) [ 24 ] SNA93 provides a set of rules and procedures for the measurement of national accounts. The standards are designed to be flexible, to allow for differences in local statistical needs and conditions. This section requires expansion . (August 2009) National measurement [ edit ] Within each country GDP is normally measured by a national government statistical agency, as private sector organizations normally do not have access to the information required (especially information on expenditure and production by governments). Main article: National agencies responsible for GDP measurement Interest rates [ edit ] Net interest expense is a transfer payment in all sectors except the financial sector. Net interest expenses in the financial sector are seen as production and value added and are added to GDP. Nominal GDP and adjustments to GDP [ edit