Assam Home » Assam   Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Silchar Jorhat Haflong Nagoan Guwahati Tezpur Dispur Sibsagar                          more... असम का नक्शा Districts of Assam Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map National Parks of Assam Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Economy & Development Society Travel to Assam Places to Visit in Assam Wildlife Sanctuaries Kamakhya Temple National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Education in Assam Universities in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info       Assam Brahmaputra River Accoland Water Park Aswaklanta Temple Botanical Garden Water Bodies Created by Flood Elephant Safari Kaziranga Guwahati Zoo Jorhat City Kaziranga National Park Spotted Deer Guwahati Zoo Assam Location map Assam map Assam Travel Map About Assam If you have ever dreamt of a pleasing holiday destination where you are sipping India's best tea in your hotel room, Assam is one such place you would never like to miss. The capital of the state is Dispur, which is situated in Guwahati. Assam is one of the Seven Sister states and is encircled by the remaining Sister states - Tripura, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh - and another state West Bengal. Moreover, the countries Bangladesh and Bhutan share the international borders with this state. The state is surrounded by land. The city is well-known for the Kaziranga National Park and the wildlife there. More importantly, the state still has managed to conserve the endangered Indian one-horned rhinoceros. The state is also known for one of its kind Assamese golden silk called muga which is produced only in Assam. Another aspect that brings Assam close to India's heart is its first and oldest petroleum resources. On 18th November 2013, the Chief Minister of Assam Tarun Gogoi announced that the song "O Mor Aponar Desh" (O' my beloved land) would be officially recognised as the anthem for the state,that is, the Asom Rajyik Jatiyo Sangeet. The song was composed by litterateur Sahityarathi Lakshminath Bezbaroa and is sung along with the national anthem at government functions and school events. Facts on Assam Official Website www.assam.gov.in Date of Formation 1912 (Assam Province - British India), 15 August 1947 Area 78,438 km sq Density 397/Km2 Population (2011) 31,205,576 Males Population (2011) 15,939,443 Females Population (2011) 15,266,133 No. of District 27 Capital Dispur Rivers Brahmaputra, Manas, Subansiri, Sonai Forests & National Park Kaziranga NP, Manas NP, Rajiv Gandhi Orang NP Languages Assamese, Bodo, Karbi, Bengali Neighbours State Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram West Bengal Official State Anthem O Mur Apunar Dex State Animal Gor State Bird White-winged duck State Flower Kopou phul Net State Domestic Product (2011) 30569 Literacy Rate (2011) 73.18% Females per 1000 males 954 Assembly constituency 126 Parliamentary constituency 14 Wildlife Important Places Travel Guide How to Reach City Guide Wildlife Sanctuaries Kaziranga National Park Manas National Park Dibru National Park Holy places Monuments and Museums Tourist Attractions Travel Map Hotels Geography History Getting There Railways Roads Location Map Silchar Jorhat Haflong Nagaon Guwahati Tezpur History During medieval times, Assam was ruled by two dynasties, Koch and Ahom. While Koch was of the Tibeto-Burmese origin, Ahom was Tai and ruled the north of Assam. India has faced many invasions this time, but Assam was never ruled by any western power till the British came in. The Mughals had also attempted seventeen times to invade Assam, but remained unsuccessful.In 1826, western Assam was taken over by the East India Company after the first Anglo-Burmese War. Then, eventually, upper Assam got its king Purandar Singha in 1833. After five years, the area was annexed by the British. More Details... Geography Geomorphologists indicate that the Brahmaputra River is Assam's antecedent river and functions as its lifeline too. The river enters the state from Arunachal Pradesh. After entering the state, the river gets very wide and forms many tributaries. The state is rich in a lot of resources such as petroleum, coal, limestone and natural gas. Apart from these, it is also known for many minor minerals like clay, magnetic quartzite, feldspar, sillimanites, kaolin, etc. The western districts of the states also have a meagre iron quantity. The north of the states has all its well known gas and petroleum reserves, which were discovered in 1889. More Details... Government and Politics Assam state has 27 administrative districts, which are further divided into 49 sub-divisions, which are also called as Mohkuma in Assamese. These districts are administered and monitored by the district magistrate, district panchayat office, deputy commissioner and the district court by their respective headquarters. Depending on the hills, rivers and forests in the state, the districts are demarcated. District Panchayat takes charge of the district's local governance and rural area. However, the cities and towns are looked after by the local urban bodies. The state currently has villages around 26,247. The local urban bodies are called as nagar-somiti (town-committee), pouro-sobha (municipal board) and pouro-nigom (Municipal Corporation). A couple of important cities in Assam are Guwahati, Nagaon, Jorhat, Dibrugarh, Jorhat and Silchar. To keep a tab on the revenue of the state, the 27 districts here are divided based on the area for development projects. More Details... Education Assam's literacy rate in the year 2011 around 73.18% with approximately 67.27% female literacy and 78.81% literacy in males. The students at most schools and universities are taught in English. However, a few of the schools also use Assamese as their medium of education. The school education of the state is just like any other state including pre-primary, primary, secondary and higher secondary. The students in Assam are given free compulsory education by the government till the age of 14. Assam has both state-run as well as privately run schools. Assam's Directorate of Elementary Education sets the primary school syllabus. However, the state has schools providing both schools with state board's affiliation (AHSEC) as well as Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) affiliation. More Detail... Economy Despite fulfilling 25% of the country's petroleum needs, the growth rate of the state has not been able to be at the same level as India's. Dibrugarh is country's second richest district for revenue generation after Mumbai in Maharashtra. Similar to the other states of the country, agriculture is the main occupation of the people. It ranks third in the income of Assam and around 69% are employed in the state due to this occupation. However, it contributes majorly to the world through its production of tea. Assam tea, also known as camellia assamica, is known for expensive tea leaves and its fine taste. Adding to the agricultural production, Assam also produces sweet potato, potato, turmeric, citrus fruits, rapeseed, spices, rice, herbs, jute, mustard seed, papaya, banana, areca nut, sugarcane, vegetables, leaf vegetables, etc. More Detail... Assam Society One of the most beautiful states of India, Assam is the gateway to the enchanting and unexploited northeastern part of the country. With the majestic Brahmaputra river, magnificent hills and its rich flora and fauna, the state is a tourist paradise. The vibrant life style, the all-smile people, presence of diverse tribes and cultures, are the main points of the wonderful Assam Society. The history of Assam dates back to the time of the Aryans and has got its mention in the epics, the Tantric, Vedic and Buddhist Literature. The land has been ruled my great rulers of many dynasties. The people of the state are friendly and they belong to different tribes and communities. More Detail... Wildlife Sanctuaries The wildlife sanctuaries in Assam are a heterogeneous mixture of a variety of landscapes, plants, birds and animals. The suitable climatic conditions, geographical location and vast forest reserves have made Assam a favorable destination for birds, animals and natural vegetation. Assam is home to several wildlife sanctuaries and national parks that are the breeding ground for some of the rarest global species. The many wildlife sanctuaries in Assam provide shelter to large number of wildlife right from the Golden Langur to the horned rhinoceros. Demographics Assam had a population of 31,169,272, according to the 2011 census. The state has observed around 16.93% growth in the population in the last ten years. For the years 2021 and 2026, it is expected that the state's population would reach to 34.18 million and 35.60 million, respectively. In 2011, the state's literacy was 73.18% and urbanisation was at 12.9%. As per the People of India project, around 115 ethnic groups are present in the state. Out of these groups, around 69% identify themselves as regional, 19% local and 3% as trans-national. Assam has a large population of scheduled tribes. The state currently has 23 notified tribes out of which Bodos contribute to 40.9% of the tribe's population and 13% to the state's population. Culture Assam's culture is widely influenced after the Ahom dynasty and Koch Kingdom established their roots in the state. One of the major contributions to cultural change is the Srimanta Shankardeva's (Sonkordeu's) Vaishnava Movement. This movement has greatly helped Assam's culture to grow in terms of fine arts, performing arts, language and literature. Assam's language also has the traces of Brajavali language, which was created after taking words from various Indian languages. The British and post-British era has also highly influenced the modern culture of Assam. One can see a blend of north India and the West in the state's literature and performing arts. Some famous dance and dramas include Ankia Naat, Bihu dance, Kushan nritra, Bagurumba, Bordoicikhla, Sattriya, Banjar Kekan, Mishing Bihu, etc. Music is also a tradition in the state with folk songs like Borgeet, etc. Language The official language of the state is Assamese and Bodo. Bengali also holds an official status and is a spoken language. Different communities in Assam speak different languages and the state has around 45 spoken languages. Ancient language Bodo was earlier neglected to a great extent, but is now slowly getting recognition. The widely spoken tribal language is Santhali. Western Assam people speak Rajbongshi, called as Goalpariya or Kamatapuri. A minority also speaks Bishnupriya Manipuri in Barak Valley. One can see people speaking in Nepali in some parts of Assam. Assam Tourism Assam is the land upon which Mother Nature has showered her blessings to the fullest. The gateway to the north eastern part of the country, the state of Assam is gifted with lush green meadows, fertile plains, the enormous Brahmaputra river, the beautiful hills, the blue mountains, the wonderful looking tea plantations, the rich flora and fauna. No wonder Assam Tourism has flourished over the years and still growing every day. A pleasing climate almost throughout the year and the presence of exciting wildlife resources in the dense forests is the added advantages for tourism in Assam. It is the home to the famed one horned rhinoceros and few other rare animal species. Thus along with the tourists, it has also emerged as the favorite destination for the wild life lovers. More Detail... Media The state of Assam is perhaps the most important northeastern state of the country. It is the most convenient gateway to Northeast India and has immense significance in terms of tourism, agriculture and industries. It is also a hot bed of political activities. The steady inflow of visitors and tourists throughout the year keep the state busy. Numerous people of diverse culture and community inhabit Assam. All these factors make the state a favorite with the media. No wonder the Assam Media with all its forms is working to serve the people with information, education and entertainment. More Detail... Transport The bus service in the state as well as in the adjoining states is managed by Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC). The state government had stated the service for the residents of the state. Initially, around four buses ran between Nagaon and Guwahati. Eventually, the network improved and ASTC had better connectivity. North east's only international airport is Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport, formerly called as Borjhar Airport in Guwahati. Currently, only seven airlines are operating. One can get nonstop flights from the airport to 12 cities. On an average, a minimum of 14 international and 315 domestic flights depart every week from the airport. Last Updated on : December 18, 2014 Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Travel to Assam Travel to Dispur Travel to Manas Travel to Haflong Places to visit in Assam Places to visit in Guwahati Travel to Guwahati   Places To Visit   Tea Gardens Arriving at Jorhat Kaziranga National Park Elephant Safari Accoland Water World Botanical garden Aswaklanta Temple             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule