Punjab Government and Ministries Home » Punjab » Government and Politics » Punjab Government and Ministries   Government and Politics Local Self Government Chief Minister Governor पंजाब का नक्शा Punjab Punjab Map Cities in Punjab Districts of Punjab Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Punjab Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Punjab Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Telephone Directory Travel to Punjab Places to visit in Punjab Wildlife Sanctuaries Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Geography and History Handicrafts People Culture and Festivals Pin Code Universities In Punjab       Punjab Government and Ministries The state of Punjab has been developed at a very fast pace after independence and is referred to as the "Granary of India". It is divided into 20 districts for the convenience of administration, Amritsar, Bhatinda, Faridkot, Fatehgarh, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Mansa, Moga, Muktsar, Nawanshahr, Patiala, Ropar, Mohali, Tarntaran, Sangrur and Barnala. The Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal heads the present Punjab government. Shivraj Vishwanath Patil is the ceremonial head of the state, who is the Governor of Punjab. Several portfolios of the ministers of Punjab government are as follows: Punjab Ministries & Departments Minister-in-Charge of Department of Agriculture Minister-in-Charge of Department Animal Husbandary, Fisheries and Dairy Development Minister-in-Charge of Department of Civil Aviation Minister-in-Charge of Department Cooperation Minister-in-Charge of Department Cultural Affairs, Archives& museums Minister-in-Charge of Department of Defence Services Welfare Minister Minister-in-Charge of Department Election Commission Minister of Forest and Wild Life Minister-in-Charge of Department Finance Minister-in-Charge of Department Food & Supplies Minister-in-Charge of Department Health & Family Welfare Minister for Jails Minister-in-Charge of Department of Industries and Commerce Minister Minister-in-Charge of Department of Information Minister-in-Charge of Department Irrigation Minister-in-Charge of Department Local Government Minister-in-Charge of Department Information & Public Relation Minister Minister-in-Charge of Department Parliamentary Affairs Minister-in-Charge of Department Printing & Stationary Minister-in-charge of Department Medical Education Minister-in-Charge of Department of Programme Implementation Minister-in-Charge of Department Revenue & Rehabilitation Minister-in-Charge of Department Rural Development Minister-in-Charge of Department School Education Minister-in-Charge of Department Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Minister-in-Charge of Department of Sports Minister-in-Charge of Department Technical Education and Industrial Training Minister-in-Charge Department of Tourism Minister-in-Charge of Department Transport Minister-in-Charge of Department Water Supply & Sanitation National Parties The political parties of Punjab are classified into two types: National Parties and State Parties. National parties are political parties which participate in the electoral polls all over India like Indian National Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party, Communist Party of India, Bahujan Samaj Party, Samajwadi Party, Communist Party of India (Marxist) etc. The national parties have a strong presence on the political scenario of Punjab. State parties or regional parties take part in the various polls but only in one state. Some of the national parties in Punjab are as follows: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was established by Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee. The party has been ruling the states of Gujarat, Jharkand, Goa, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Orissa, and Haryana. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has been constituted by Kanshi Ram in 1984. BSP has made its presence in the political scenario of India, because its objective was to safeguard the rights of Dalit people. Communist Party of India: On 26 December 1925, Communist Party of India was formed by a handful of young patriots. It differs from the CPM on ideologies and has made a strong presence in the states of West Bengal, Kerala and Tripura. Communist Party of India (Marxist) was established after splitting from the Communist Party of India in 1964. The Party follows the philosophies and ideologies of Marxism-Leninism. Indian National Congress is commonly known as the Congress Party is the oldest and the largest political party in India. It was founded in 1885 and it played a vital role in the Indian struggle of independence. Great leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Jawahar Lal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Netaji Subash Chandra Bose, Rajiv Gandhi etc. have been associated with the party. State Political Parties The Punjab state political parties or regional parties contest in different elections within a particular state. Few state political parties in Punjab are Shiromani Akali Dal and Shiromani Akali Dal (Simranjit Singh Mann). These political parties try to represent the problems of Punjab and work for the enrichment of the culture and language. Panchayats The administration system has 3 levels: village, block and district. Panchayats operate at the village level. The Panchayats of Punjab are the local bodies working for the welfare of the village. It constitutes of members ranging from 7 to 31. However, it can have more than 31 members but not less than 7. Panchayat is a form of Indian political system which combines five neighbouring villages known as panch. The primary units of administration in Panchayats are the gram panchayats. The members of the Panchayat are known as "panches", who take decisions regarding the disputes among the villagers and villages. According to the Indian Constitution, Panchayats have the authority to work as organizations of self-government. Panchayats play a vital role in the administration of the rural areas of Punjab. Panchayats have been vested with certain powers and responsibilities: Proper planning for economic development and social justice in the villages of Punjab. Enforcement of schemes related to economic development and social justice as mentioned in the Eleventh Schedule of the Constitution. Collection and levy of taxes, duties, tolls and fees. Apart from these responsibilities, the government of Punjab is also planning to strengthen facilities relating to health, education, drinking water, sewage, the telephone service, banking services and power supply through the panchayats. The income from market committees and cattle fairs are one of the sources of income of the panchayats, which has been based on the pattern of West Bengal, Kerala and Karnataka. Boards and Commissions Punjab is located in the northern part of India. The economy of the region is chiefly agrarian with very few industries. The economy of Punjab is one of the most developed among the states of India. The state has 1, 94,000 small scale industrial units and 586 large and medium units. To look after the requirements of the people and the industrial units the Punjab, government has established different boards and commissions. There a number of Punjab Boards and Commissions which provide important advisory, regulatory, policy-making services to the Government of Punjab. The various Punjab Boards are: Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) is engaged in strengthening the infrastructure of Punjab. Punjab State Agricultural Marketing Board was formed on 26 May 1961. The objective of the board is to ensure the proper operation and supervision of the marketing network of sale, purchase, storage and processing of various processed or non processed agricultural products. The Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training (PSBTE & IT) is an independent statutory body formed under the Punjab State Board of Technical Education & Industrial Training 1992 Act. Its objective is to ensure high standard of education by controlling the academic standards in Technical Education Institutes of Punjab. The Punjab State Electricity Board (PSEB) is a statutory organization established on 01.02.1959. The electricity board has been providing service to more than 60 lakh consumers The various Punjab Commissions are: The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has been formed by the Government of Punjab. It decides the tariff for the electricity used by the various customers under the category of wholesale, bulk, grid or retail. The State Information Commission, Punjab was formed on 11 October 2005. Municipal Administration Municipal Administration of Punjab looks after the developmental and administrative activities of the different cities and districts of Punjab. It has been delivering its duties diligently. It supervises and administers the urban areas of the state. The various responsibilities of the Municipal Administration are as follows: To supply clean and safe drinking water to the people. To provide and maintain proper drainage and sewage systems. To provide public street lighting. To maintain the sanitation and hygiene of public toilets. To construct and maintain bus terminals, roads, culverts and bridges To look after the maintenance of public parks and gardens. To make sure that there is a systematic and planned growth of cities. To regulation of building construction To issue licenses for various Trades. To issue Birth and Death certificates. Apart from these, Municipal Administration deals with some other responsibilities like education, health, community and recreational services. The main sources of income of the Municipal Administration of Punjab are: To collect taxes on building and lands To levy taxes on the usage of water To collect fee for issuing trade licenses To collect license fee from builders and promoters The Government of Punjab through Directorate of Municipal Administration administers the operation of the municipalities. The Directorate supervises the duties of the municipalities, and plans appropriate human resource policies. Punjab Government Departments The state of Punjab has a developing economy. It has the highest average growth rate of 10% among the states of India. There are a number of departments and institutions in the Punjab Government. These departments and institutions look after the different sections which form an important aspect of the administration of the state. Under the leadership of the Chief Minister and the Governor, they work efficiently towards the service of the people and the development of the state. The various Punjab Government Departments are as follows: Agriculture Architecture Culture, Archaeology & Museums Cane Commissioner Employment Department Food and Supplies & Consumer Affairs Department Removal of Grievances Health & Family Welfare Jails Department Labour Local Government Directorate of Pension & Welfare of Pensioners Planning Punjab Transport (Commercial Wing ) Punjab Transport (Non Commercial wing) Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA) Punjab Home Guards Public Works Department (PWD) (Bridge & Roads) Public Works Department (PWD) (Public Health) Rural Development Sainik Welfare Excise & Taxation Social Welfare Social Security and Women & Child Development Welfare Department for SCs & BCs Technical Education Finance Prosecution & Litigation Information of Language Department Punjab Legal Services Authority Irrigation Town & Country Planning Homeopathic Department Punjab Higher Education Department of Soil & Water Conservation Directorate of Disinvestment, Punjab Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Department Ayurvedic Department Department of Information Technology The various training and educational institutes of Punjab are as follows: Central Institute of Post Harvest Engineering and Technology (CIPHET) Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar Guru Nanak Dev University Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration, Punjab (MGSIPAP) National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) National Institute of Secondary Steel Technology (NISST) Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports (NSNIS) Panjab University Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training Punjabi University Pushpa Gujral Science City Sant Longowal Institute of Engineering and Technology (SLIET) Technical Educational and Industrial Training Department (DTE-IT), Punjab WBST091014 Last Updated on : October 14, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule