Mandate » Central Silk Board Loading... Screen Reader Access Who's who | Contact Us | Intranet Login Central Silk Board Ministry of Textiles - Govt of India Home About Us Vision & Mission Mandate Organization chart Composition of the Board Act & Rules Citizen's charter FAQ Silk-Sericulture Silk Sericulture Silks of India Services R & D Training Seed Production Consultancy Schemes Central Sector Centrally Sponsored MKSP Projects for Tasar MGNREGA with CDP NER Textile Promotion Statistics Silk Flash Silk Bulletin Silk Exports & Imports Publications Indian Silk Books Videos Annual Report Downloads RFD Note on sericulture Training Calendar Evaluation Reports Regd. Stake holders Silk Exporters Minutes of Meetings Gallery About Us Vision & Mission Mandate Organization chart Composition of the Board Act & Rules Citizen's charter FAQ   Mandate Promoting the development of Silk Industry by such measures as it thinks fit. To create greater opportunities for gainful employment and improved levels of income in sericulture through spread of scientific sericulture practices Undertaking ,assisting or encouraging scientific, technological and economic research. Devising means for improved methods of mulberry cultivation, silkworm rearing ,developing and distribution of healthy silkworm seeds, improved methods of silk reeling and spinning of the cocoons and silk-waste, improving the quality and production of raw silk, if necessary by making it compulsory, for all the raw silk to be marketed ,only after the same has been tested and graded in properly quipped raw Silk Testing and Conditioning Houses. Improving the marketing of raw silk. The collection of statistics . See India emerge as the leader in the world market for silk. To advise the Central Government on all matters relating to the development of silk industry including import and export of raw silk. To prepare and furnish such other reports relating to the silk industry as may be required by the Central Government from time to time. Sitemap Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2015 Central Silk Board. All Rights Reserved.   This is the official Website of Central Silk Board, a statutory body of Government of India under the Ministry of Textiles Last updated: 08/02/2015