Cities in Maharashtra Home » Maps » Maharashtra Map » Cities of Maharashtra   Cities in Maharashtra Mumbai Ahmednagar Akola Aurangabad Kolhapur Latur Nagpur Nashik Pune Solapur Shirdi                        more.. महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Regions Mumbai Central North Mumbai South Mumbai About Maharashtra History and Geography Maharashtra Climate Maharashtra Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Maharashtra Economy Industrial Map Maharashtra Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Maharashtra Education Universities in Maharashtra Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Cities of Maharashtra Maharashtra Cities Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing Major cities of Maharashtra state, India. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Ahmednagar City Map Akola City Map Alibag City Map Amravati City Map         Aurangabad City Map Beed City Map Bhiwandi City Map Chandrapur City Map         Chiplun City Map Greater Mumbai City Map Jalna City Map Khandala City Map         Kolhapur City Map Latur City Map Lavasa City Map Lonavala City Map         Mahabaleshwar City Map Malegaon City Map Matheran City Map Mumbai Central City Map         Mumbai City Map Mumbai North City Map Mumbai South City Map Nagpur City Map         Nanded City Map Nasik City Map Navi Mumbai City Map Pandharpur City Map         Panvel City Map Pune City Map Shirdi City Map Vajreshwari City Map         Sangli City Map Satara City Map Solapur City Map Washim City Map         Kalyan City Map Dombivli City Map Maharashtra is a vast state on the western part of India. With an area of 38,864 sq km and population of 33 million Maharashtra is one of the largest states in India. An array of diversification can be observed in all parts of the cities of Maharashtra. A cluster of cultures accumulated together forms the cities of Maharashtra. Mumbai is the capital of Maharashtra and the economic and film capital of India. It is one of the busiest cities of India too. With alluring streets and glamorous life style Mumbai will create a sensation every time you visit. With the largest film industry in the city, Mumbai is a hub of celebrities. Pune : 170km south of Mumbai, Pune is the education hub of western India. With Asia's largest film school, FTII and National Defense Academy and many other management and technical institutions Pune is the fastest growing city in India in the software industry. Nagpur is one of the chief industrial cities of Maharashtra and is most famous for its production of oranges. The third largest natural salt-water lake in the world is situated in Nagpur. The other important cities of Maharashtra are Amravati, Aurangabad, Chandrapur, Jalgaon, Khandala, Kolhlapur, Nashik, Solapur, and Thane. The cities of Maharashtra are filled with numerous historical monuments, wild life parks, temples, beaches and many more, every tourist would love to explore. Name of the cities Weather Population Tourist Attractions Amravati Summer-up to 47 degrees, Winter-6degreesRainfall-adequate amount. 2,607,160( 2001 census) Ambadevi Temple, Chatri Talao, , Melghat Tiger Reserve, Wan Sanctuary and Chikhaldara. Aurangabad Summer-up to 40degrees,Winter-below 5degrees. 2,897,103 ( 2001 census) Bibi-Ka-Maqbara, Aurangabad Caves, Daulatabad Fort, Khuldabad, Shirdi, Grihneshwar Temple, Ajanata and Ellora Caves Khandala Pleasant summer, cool winter and very heavy southwestern rain. 21043 Khandala Lake and Bhushi Lake, Karla, The Bhaja Caves, Shiva temple, Tiger's Leap Mumbai Mumbai Climate Humid summer and dry winter 11914398 Gateway of India, Marine Drive, Juhu Beach, Essel World, Jehangir Art Gallery, Siddhivinayak Temple, Bollywood. Nagpur Dry and mildly humid. Temperature ranges between 10 to 40 degrees. 2420000 Gavilgad Fort, Forts of Balapur, Lonar Lake, Markandeya Temple, Naranala Fort Pune Very hot summers and very cold winters. 4485000 Osho Ashram, Raja Dinkar Kelkar Museum, Tribal Museum, Aga Khan Palace, Vishrambaug Wada Last Updated on : January 12, 2015   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule