ï»¿ AED     Gallery Links Site Map FAQ           Home Schemes Central Sector Demonstration of Agricultural Machinery and Implements Training to Farmers on operation and maintenance of Agrl. Machinery State Sector Rain water harvesting and Run off management programme Master plan - Artificial Recharge to Ground Water SWC in Tribal areas under Integrated Tribal Development Programme Pulses Villages in Rain fed Areas - NADP Scheme to Revive Agriculture In Fallow Land - NADP SWC under Hill Area Development Programme Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project Soil Conservations in the Catchment of River Valley Project - NADP SWC under Western Ghats Development Programme Agricultural Mechanization under NADP Training on operation and maintenance of farm machinery Training rural youth on agricultural machinery and implements Diesel Engine Pump set with Rain gun / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation. Solar Powered Pumping system with Micro Irrigation Solar Chilli Drier Onion Storage structures TN IAMWARM Project Centre and State Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Command Area Development and Water Management Programme Services Land Development Minor Irrigation Mandate Downloads RTI Contacts                                 Schemes State Sector   Soil and Water Conservation under Hill Area Development Programme       Objectives     To maintain and restore the ecology of the Nilgiris district To control soil erosion, soil loss and sedimentation. To improve the socio economic condition of the local people. To create public awareness on the benefits of the soil conservation works Prevention of landslides.     Funding Pattern     State Plan Scheme implemented with special Central Assistance from Union Planning Commission     Project Area     The Nilgiris District.     Details of Works     Gabion Check Dam Drainage line treatment works Water Harvesting Structures. Community Irrigation Wells. Channel Alignment and Widening works Drying Yard with Rain Shelters Major Check Dams with pipelines Aligning and Providing lining to Irrigation Channels Landslide treatment works     Eligibility     All the farmers whose lands are covered in the selected watersheds are eligible.     Subsidy     Works are takenup with 90% grant ( 95% in case of SC/ST ) The beneficiaries are required to contribute 10% of the cost of works taken up in their patta lands and it is 5% in case of SC/ST beneficiaries. Community works and the landslide treatment measures are executed with 100% grant .     Officer to be approached      Assistant Executive Engineer (AE), IGBP Complex, Botanical Garden Road, Udagamandalam- 643001, The Nilgiris District. Assistant Executive Engineer (AE) Mysore Road, Selvipettai, Gudalur-643312, The Nilgiris District. Assistant Executive Engineer (AE) Land Slide Project, HADP, 117. Brindavan School Road, Wellington Bazaar, Wellington, Coonoor-643102, The Nilgiris District. Executive Engineer (AE) Joint Director of Horticulture Office Complex, Vijayanagaram,Near Rose Garden, Udagamandalam-643001, The Nilgiris District. Superintending Engineer AE Grace Hill road,Sims Park, Coonoor-643101, The Nilgiris District.     Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department,487, Anna Salai, Nandanam, Chennai-35 Phone - 24352686, 24352622                    