Beaches in Karnataka Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Karnataka Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Places to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan Palace Cubbon Park Raja's Seat Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary Lalitha Mahal Karanji Lake Murudeshwara Temple Mysore Palace Group of Monuments at Pattadakal Bangalore Fort Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Cities to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Travel Belur Travel Coorg Travel Halebid Travel Hampi Travel Mangalore Travel Mysore Travel Badami Travel Belgaum Travel Sringeri Travel Karnataka Hotels Bangalore Hotels Coorg Hotels Udupu Hotels Mysore Hotels Hubli Hotels Mangalore Hotels About Karnataka Geography & History Fairs & Festivals Food Quick Facts Home »» Karnataka » Tourism » Beaches in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka The 320 kilometer coastline of Karnataka is mushroomed with beautiful palm-fringed beaches. The picturesque beauty and charm of Karnataka beaches make them must-visit destinations of the state. Most Renowned Beaches in Karnataka Karwar Beach Karwar Beach of Karnataka is one of the most popular beaches in South India. This beach is one of the most famous tourist hang out in Karnataka . The calm atmosphere and lavish surrounding are the star attractions of Karwar Beach in Karnataka. Karwar is the district headquarters of Uttara Kannad and has some mesmerizing beaches. The Karwar Beach of Karnataka is an ideal retreat for the urban public to stay away from the hustle and bustle of the crowded city. Karwar Beach in Karnataka is encircled by palm trees and sea water. The golden sand of the Karwar Beach is a perfect retire. Karwar Beach of Karnataka provides its visitors with some scintillating view of hills, landscapes and sea. The beach is favorable for organizing picnics. You can relish amidst the sea waves while swimming or go out for fishing. Moreover, the Karwar Beach is a perfect spot for water sports. You can also take a sun bath or explore the nearby woods of Karwar Beach in Karnataka. Do check out the spicy sea food garnished with coconut at the food stalls on the Karwar Beach. Malpe Beach Malpe Beach of Karnataka is one of the ideal tourist destinations in South India. Malpe is an exotic beach that offers a serene environment to all its visitors to relax in. It is inhabited by visitors who come there with their family or friends on picnic. Malpe Beach of Karnataka is well known for its sandy land circled with palm trees that are a delight to every eyes and the sea water full of mild waves. You can entertain yourself at Malpe Beach in Karnataka by swimming in the waters or retiring on the warm sand or taking a sun bath. While you do all these, do not forget to pamper your taste buds with some mouth watering local food at the stalls that stand on the Malpe Beach. Malpe Beach at Karnataka is easily accessible from Udipi and Manipal which are only 6 kilometers away or Mangalore which is just 66 kilometers away through some rented cab or taxi. At Malpe in Karnataka you can reside in some lodges nearby or check out hotels in Mangalore, Manipal or Udipi. Marwanthe Beach Marawanthe beach of Karnataka is one of the most beautiful beach in the whole of South India. Marawanthe beach at Karnataka is the perfect retreat for tourists from the noisy and crowded city life. arawanthe beach of Karnataka is surrounded by Kodachari Hills and lies between Arabian Sea and Sauparnika river. Marawanthe beach is 50 kilometers away from Udupi, 110 kilometers from Mangalore and 450 kilometers away from Bangalore. Marawanthe beach in Karnataka is a sandy beach circled by palm trees that create an enchanting environment all around the beach. At Marawanthe beach of Karnataka you can relish amidst the gentle waves of the river while swimming or try different river sports or water sports. You can also go out for fishing or take a sun bath or stroll around the Marawanthe beach along with some eatables from the small stalls on the beach. Bhatkal Beach Bhatkal Beach is located 16 kilometers away from Bhatkal. Bounded by the sea and the hills, this place is known for the gorgeous temple perched on a hillock near the shore. The best time to visit it is August to March. Murudeshwar Beach The Murudeshwar Beach of Karnataka is one of the finest beaches in South India that offers you an exhilarating experience of the sea beaches. The Murudeshwar Beach at Karnataka is an alien land that offers relief from the busy city life. Murudeshwar Beach of Karnataka has been perfect venue for organizing picnics amidst the nature. The Murudeshwar Beach at Karnataka is sited 16 kilometers away from Bhatkal, you can take up any local transport from there. The golden beach besieged with greenery all around has been the favorite picnic spot of the local people. At Murudeshwar Beach of Karnataka you can go out for fishing or swimming or take a sun bath and retire on the sandy land, meanwhile relish your self with some regional delicacies that are available in the beach stalls. Beaches in Gokarna Karnataka is every travelers delight and this is why it is a must visit place for all the tourists of South India. The place has four beaches named Kudle Beach, Om Beach, Half-moon and Paradise. Every Gokarna Beach has been attracting lots of people from all across the globe through its unmatchable beauty. Gokarna Beach has played host to many picnics and parties. The main attraction of Gokarna Beach at Karnataka is its splendid surrounding and serene and pure atmosphere. Gokarna Beach is easily reachable from Karwar which is just 56 kilometers away through some private car or rented cab. Accommodation is not a problem as you can reside in Hotel Gokarna International, Om Beach Resort, Nimmu House, Om Lodge, etc. Gokarna beaches are considered sacred as per Hindu Puranas. It is believed that who ever visits these beaches gets rid of their sins. Moreover, you can enjoy a session of swimming or fishing in the waters there. You can also take a sun bath as it is very soothing and relieves you of all physical and mental wear and tear. St Marys Island St. Mary's Island is a set of small islands in the Arabian Sea off the coast of Malpe in the Udippi district of the state of Karnataka. It is believed that Vasco Da Gama landed on one of these islands in 1498. The unique feature of the St. Mary's Island beaches is that these beaches are not available for swimming or strolling rather they offer you an unusual experience of watching the formation of volcanic rocks. St. Mary's Island of Karnataka is easily reachable from Mangalore which is just 58 kilometers away. You can travel by bus or hired cab. Do not miss to watch the sunset at St. Mary's Island at Karnataka as you cannot experience the same crimson sky anywhere else. The St. Mary's Island of Karnataka has been attracting lots of students and research philosophers who visit it to learn more about the volcanic rocks. Of late many visitors have been visiting it for its secluded atmosphere and tranquil environment. Kaup Beach Kaup beach of Karnataka is one of the highly populated beach in Karnataka. The beach is widely known for its serene environment and cool atmosphere. Kaup beach of Karnataka is covered from all sides by greenery. The cool breeze that blows across the white sandy Kaup beach at Karnataka refreshes you from your tiredness. Kaup beach in Karnataka is located on the coastal belt which passes through the West Coast National Highway and is only 12 kilometers away from Udupi. Kaup is the perfect venue for organizing picnics with family and friends. You can also enjoy some water sports or swimming in the sea water. Kaup beach of Karnataka is a perfect retreat for you to come and get rid of your weariness as you can take a relaxing sun bath or stroll across the white sand. The fragrance of the surrounding flora that blows across the whole beach alongwith the cool breeze from the waters has got a soothing effect. Last Updated on : 27 June 2013 Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Belgaum Hotels Bellary Hotels Bijapur Hotels Chikmagalur Hotels Coorg Hotels Davangere Hotels Dharwad Hotels Gangavathi Hotels Gulbarga Hotels Hassan Hotels Hospet Hotels Hubli Hotels Karwar Hotels Kolar Hotels Mangalore Hotels Manipal Hotels Murudeshwar Hotels Mysore Hotels Sandur Hotels Shimoga Hotels Udupi Hotels Travel to Karnataka Travel to Bangalore Travel to Belur Travel to Coorg Travel to Halebid Travel to Hampi Travel to Mangalore Travel to Mysore Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Belur Places to visit in Coorg Wildlife Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan Palace Cubbon Park Raja's Seat Places to visit in Halebid Places to visit in Hampi Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary Lalitha Mahal Karanji Lake Murudeshwara Temple Mysore Palace Group of Monuments at Pattadakal Bangalore Fort Places to visit in Mangalore Places to visit in Mysore Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule