Part II Scheme | Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home Part II Scheme Part II Scheme Part II scheme Horticulture is a fast growing industry in Tamilnadu. There is a change in the world scenario among the people in food consumption especially after the introduction of green revolution. Now people like to lead a quality life, and have a conscience of taking food which provides nutritional security to them. This change in the food attitude lays burden on Horticulture in the production of quality produce of fruits and vegetables which are the major source of nutrients, vitamins and minerals. During green revolution the government schemes were developed on the basis of area expansion of different crops. But in this period of "Second Green Revolution" the focus is on holistic development of the farm irrespective of its size so that there is doubling of farm income which will lead to food security, nutritional security and also social security due to improved quality of life. The agricultural area is shrinking day by day, because of urbanization and industrialization and hence major thrust is given for increasing the production and productivity per unit area by the introduction of various technologies. This is achieved by implementing various schemes as follows: 1. Integrated Horticulture Development Scheme 2. Integrated Tribal Development Programme 3. Western Ghat Development Programme 4. Hill Area Development Programme 5. City Vegetable Development Programme 6. National Agriculture Development Programme 7. National Agriculture Insurance Scheme 8. Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme 9. National Horticulture Mission< 10. National Mission on Micro Irrigation 11. National Bamboo Mission 12. National Mission on Medicinal Plants 13. TN-IAMWARM In order to build the capacity of the farmer to implement the above said schemes in block level, Part-II scheme is implemented for creating sufficient infrastructure for efficient running of the administrative machinery and proper implementation of the scheme components like Input Storage Godowns, Extension centres, Training Centres and various other infrastructures Visitor Counter: 843370 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015