Maharashtra Economy and Infrastructure Home » Maps » Maharashtra » Economy and Infrastructure   Maharashtra History and Geography Climate of Maharashtra Maharashtra Map महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Cities in Maharashtra Mumbai Pune Nashik Aurangabad Solapur Shirdi                        more.. Economy of Maharashtra Industrial Map Maharashtra Government Maharashtra Assembly Polls Maharashtra Lok Sabha Elections Maharashtra Assembly Election Results Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Education Universities in Maharashtra Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Maharashtra Economy and Infrastructure Maharashtra is one of the states of India which has a booming economy which has the support of a rock solid infrastructure. Out of all the state of the country, Maharashtra has the largest economy with a Net State Domestic Product (NSDP) of over US$ 35.29 billion in 2003-04. The state has contributed for 20% of the total investment made by the state. Out of all the Foreign Direct Investment received by the country Maharashtra accounts for 17%. The economy and infrastructure of the state has flourished considerably since the economic policies of the 1970s. Moreover the governments of the state have also contributed immensely by supporting the development and growth of the economy and infrastructure of the state. Since the agriculture is the mainstay of the state, it has been given the importance it deserves. The main food crops of Maharashtra are mangoes, grapes, bananas, oranges, wheat, rice, jowar, bajra, and pulses. Cash crops include groundnut, cotton, sugarcane, turmeric, and tobacco. The total irrigated area which ahs been used for crop cultivation is 33, 500 square kilometers. The economic infrastructure of the state includes the airports, roads, railways, power, telecom and ports. The social infrastructure includes education and training, health services and tourism. Industries Maharashtra is the most industrialized state in India with a contribution of 13% towards the national economy. Maharashtra has a booming economy with a Net State Domestic Product (NSDP) of over US$ 35.29 billion in 2003-04. The state has contributed for 20% of the total investment made by the country. Maharashtra accounts for 17% of the state's Foreign Direct Investment. More than 60% of the population of Maharashtra is involved in agriculture and other professions which are indirectly Related to agriculture. Chemical and allied products, electrical and non-electrical machinery, textiles, petroleum and allied products are the main industries in Maharashtra. Animal Husbandry Animal Husbandry plays a very important part of the agriculture in Maharashtra. Cattle rearing for milk and milk products, leather and flesh are an important occupation for most of the people living in the state. The agricultural activities in most of the states are still dependent on agriculture. Animal husbandry plays a very important part in the rural economy. Since animal husbandry is included in the state list, the responsibility of taking care of the cattle belongs to the state. The schemes are Related to sheep development, poultry, piggery, fodder development and livestock health. Financial Hub of the Country Mumbai, the capital city of Maharashtra, has been given the name of the financial capital of the country. The gross domestic product of the state is Rs2, 71, 406 crore for the year 2001 - 2002 which accounts for 13% of the national income. Maharashtra is a major industrial hub of the country with booming industries like the textiles, automobiles and chemicals. Mumbai has a concentration of industries like the chemical industry, the cotton industry, manufacturing, electricity, electrical machinery, transport equipment. Along with the large scale industries there are certain small scale industries like the handloom, power loom, dyeing and printing, blacksmithing, carpentry, pricks and tiles manufacturing, soap making. Chemical Industries The chemical industry in Maharashtra is among the main industries which has an important contribution to the economy of the state. There are many categories of the chemical industries in Maharashtra. They are: Agrochemicals: agrochemicals include fertilizers which are used for better cultivation of crops. The companies which manufacture agrochemicals are United Phosphorus Limited, Intertrade Exim Aarti Industries Limited Sai Group India and so on . Inorganic chemicals: the companies which manufacture inorganic chemicals are basically involved in the production of expanded perlite, silica, expanded verm, mica-phlogophite/ muscovite, zeolite and dry pigments, feldspar potash & soda, chemicals, phosphates, acetates, perfumery chemicals and other industrial chemicals. Some of the companies which are involved in manufacturing these chemicals are Highland International, Westman Chemicals Pvt. Ltd., Mangalam Drugs & Organics Limited. Petrochemicals: this sector involves the production of emulsifying wax, petroleum jelly, bees wax, liquid paraffin, emulsifying wax and microcrystalline wax. Indian Commercial Co. Ltd., Wax India Musk & Fragrance. Other chemicals: companies like Spectrum Chemicals, Mumbai, K. K. Chemical Industries, Oceanic Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. produce other types of chemicals like calcium hydro chloride, tin based paper coating system, amino fabric softener, silicone grease etc. Polymers: polymers include rubber, alpha picolinic acid, rubber chemicals, organic pigments and fillers and the companies which produce such chemicals are K K Chemical Industries Oceanic Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. Last Updated on 21 May 2013 Maharashtra Government Assembly Elections Elections Result 2009 Elections Results 2004 Maharashtra Economy Thermal Power Plant Industrial Areas Maharashtra Parliamentary Constituencies Ahmednagar Akola Amravati Amravati Aurangabad Baramati Beed Bhandara Bhiwandi Buldhana Chandrapur Chimur Dahanu Dhule Dindori Erandol Gadchiroli Hatkanangle Hingoli Ichalkaranji Jalgaon Jalna Karad Khed Kolaba Kolaba Kolhapur Kopargaon Latur Malegaon Mumbai North Central Mumbai North East Mumbai North West Mumbai North Mumbai South Central Mumbai South Nagpur Nanded Nandurbar Nashik Osmanabad Pandharpur Parbhani Pune-old Pune Rajapur Ramtek Ratnagiri Raver Sangli Satara Shirdi Shirur Solapur Thane Wardha Washim Yavatmal About Maharashtra History Geography Weather Topography Festivals Facts Rivers and Lakes Soil and vegetation District Fact Sheet             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule