MapsofIndia Blog | Menu Home India States Cities Travel Culture Sports Education Modi’s Foreign Visits May 23, 2015 mapsofindia1 Leave a comment This week content was updated on eight pages such as Tirur city in Kerala, Delhi University admission cut-off list page, Arvind Kejriwal’s biography and others. 11 maps were also updated this week; map of Rajasthan, Uttaranchal and Punjab, map of seven wonder of India and the map of neighbouring countries of India. Seven new pages were also created including the […Read More]               Uncategorized Highest Record Traffic on MyIndia May 16, 2015 mapsofindia1 Leave a comment This week content and tabular data was updated on 36 pages including areas affected by earthquake in India, historical places in India, places of interest in different cities and on google maps. Besides these updations, five new pages were also created on commerce colleges in Faridabad, Agra, Gwalior and Jalandhar, and also on Accoland Amusement Park in Assam. Ten maps […Read More]               Uncategorized Tourism in Maharashtra May 9, 2015 mapsofindia1 Leave a comment This week several maps were updated in travel section for tourism in Maharashtra including maps for beaches, caves, forts, museums, temples and jyotirlingas in Maharashtra. Three new pages were also created for commerce colleges in Thane and engineering colleges in Telangana and Uttarakhand. Tabular data was updated on many different pages including agriculture in India, engineering colleges in Goa, Bihar, […Read More]               Uncategorized Nepal and India Affected by Earthquake May 2, 2015 mapsofindia1 Leave a comment This week content was updated on three pages- Delhi Metro, Bangalore Metro and Kochi Metro. Maps were updated on 13 pages focusing on the tourism section of Maharashtra. Other updated maps were on neighbouring countries of India. Two new pages were also created on areas affected by earthquake in India and seven wonders in India. Tabular data was also updated […Read More]               Uncategorized Number 1 Ranking for Keyword Mudra Bank April 25, 2015 mapsofindia1 Leave a comment This week we continued to be at number one position in Quantcast rank. Besides updating content on eight pages in the education section, content was also updated forKochiandBangaloremetro and biography of J B Patnaik. Nine maps including the neighbouring countries map forIndia-China,India-Pakistan, India-Srilanka India-Bangladesh and India-Nepal were also updated. SEO of 125 pages of Maharashtra andPunjabwas also done. Issues related […Read More]               Uncategorized Sania Mirza becomes World No.1 in Doubles Rankings April 18, 2015 mapsofindia1 Leave a comment This week, a major update was made in the Education section. Content was updated about the various colleges and universities of India along with the Daily Current Events. Meta was updated for 40 MBA colleges and 10 Medical colleges. A total number of 9 maps were updated including the states of Haryana, West Bengal and Chennai. Interlinking of the page […Read More]               Uncategorized India Political Map April 11, 2015 mapsofindia1 Leave a comment This week three new pages have been created and content was updated for four pages in the education section (about engineering colleges). Nine maps were updated in total including the India political map. Meta updation and interlinking of top-ten section pages was done and 10 duplicate pages were removed. Not found (404) page error was fixed for 25 pages. In […Read More]               Uncategorized Smart Cities: What’s the Way Ahead? April 7, 2015 mapsofindia1 Leave a comment Of late, we have been hearing more about Smart Cities than ever before. The Indian government has proposed to set up about 100 smart cities in the country. What has happened to the terms like megacities and metro cities, which were earlier used for referring to bigger cities with a huge population? Is Smart City a new trending word in […Read More]               India Educational Institutions in India April 4, 2015 mapsofindia1 Leave a comment This week, besides updating content on two pages, we created two new pages in the education section. Nine maps on the education section and Andhra Pradesh were also updated. Focusing on the education section, interlinking of university pages, updation of maps, addition of lists of engineering colleges and creation of new pages for engineering colleges in Karnataka and Maharashtra along […Read More]               Uncategorized Top MBA and Medical Colleges in India March 28, 2015 mapsofindia1 Leave a comment This week, we added four new pages, apart from updating content on 11 pages. New pages were created for AIIMS and IIM colleges of India. SEO of engineering college section was done. Also,  added images on four pages of travel section. Image SEO of 10 travel map images was executed. ICC World Cup 2015 Points table, schedule and results page […Read More]               Uncategorized 1 2 3 … 112 » Recent Posts Modi’s Foreign Visits Highest Record Traffic on MyIndia Tourism in Maharashtra Nepal and India Affected by Earthquake Number 1 Ranking for Keyword Mudra Bank Sania Mirza becomes World No.1 in Doubles Rankings India Political Map Smart Cities: What’s the Way Ahead? Educational Institutions in India Top MBA and Medical Colleges in India My India Recent Post 15 Bollywood Dialogues Fit for Real-Life Situations Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies The What and How of RuPay Card Subscribe2 Your email:   Copyright © mapsofindia.com . all rights reserved. 