Home: The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd., Government of India Skip to main content Text Size: Contrast Scheme: Home Submit Query Feedback Related Links Faq Contact Us Search: The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. Our Operation Extending necessary marketing support to the cotton growers in selling their kapas produce at most competitive prices in the various market yards in all cotton growing States through timely intervention – beginning from day one of the kapas arrivals till the end of season, procurement operations spread over more than 225 market yards in the country. Mission Helping cotton farmers by ensuring them remunerative price for their produce and thereby protect their interest. More on Mission Vision Achieving the twin visions of (a) rendering help to the cotton farmers by way of social services and (b) endeavouring to attain commercial gain by sustained growth of the Corporation. More on Vision About Us Hon'ble Minister of State Textiles (Independent Charge) CCI - An Organisation Board of Directors Highlights of Achievements Objectives Operations Network Procurement of Kapas Sale of Cotton Sale of Cotton Seed Financial Performance Developmental Activities National Cotton Scenario Current Cotton Scenario Press Releases CSR Statistics Vigilance Citizens Charter Right to Information Act Technology Mission on Cotton (TMC) Property Return Lokayukta Return Public Notices Tenders Auctions Awards Recruitment Notices Complaint Policy (101.71 KB) Centralized Public Grievance Redress And Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) Day's Sales Quotes E-Magzine / E-Journal Rajbhasha Rashmi Quarterly Report (140.12 KB) Toll-free hotline number to receive complaints against corruption: 1800-22-4647 CMD's Message B.K. Mishra , Chairman and Managing Director Over the years, technology up-gradations and innovations have always had a profound effect on society and organizations. Read more on CMD's Message What's New If you are a Screen reader user click on the Stop link to stop the scroll and read the News items. Start News Stop News The Cotton Corporation of India intends to invite the interest of Foreign Mills/ traders/exporters to participate in Export tender through e-Auction Appeal to Textile Mill Buyers for participating in e‐Auction List of Defaulting Buyers Notice regarding conducting the e-auction of Cotton Seed Notice regarding Prime Minister's National Relief Fund Revised Security Deposit for Registration in e-Auction w.e.f. 01/07/2014 Annexure-I Registration Form Procedure of Re-Registration for participating in e-Auction of FP Cotton Bales Revised Terms and conditions for sale of FP Cotton Bales through e-Auction to Institutional Buyer and Private Mill Buyer w.e.f. 23/04/2015 (152 KB) Revised Terms and Condition for Sale of FP Cotton Bales through e-Auction to Cotton Traders w.e.f. 23/04/2015 (244 KB) Revised Terms & Conditions for Sale of FP Bales through e-Auction against ‘H’ form (For Export Of Cotton) w.e.f. 23/04/2015 (279 KB) INCENTIVE SCHEME FOR REGISTERED BUYERS IN E-AUCTION Procedure for Registration for participating in e-Auction of FP Cotton Bales (217.24 KB) Tender for Purchase of A.C. (117.09 KB) Tender notice for supply of STEEL ANGLE RACKS (17.89 KB) Sealed Tenders in two bid system are invited for disposal of two old Maruti Esteem (91.78 KB) Branch wise Varieties available for sale through e Auction To Be Held on 29.5.2015 PROVISIONAL 112.69 KB Auction 128.15 KB Auction Notice for sale of Coyyon Seed for 2014-15 season BO Indore 127.94 KB No Recruitment Available. Launching of ERP Application by Hon'ble Union Minister of Textiles, Government of India on 31st January, 2014 at Navi Mumbai (340.22 KB) Achievements If you are a screen reader user, click on the Pause Slide and access the information. Click on Previous and Next slide to navigate between different slides. Have brought about qualitative improvements in Indian cotton; more than 50% of the kapas stocks being processed in most modern ginning and pressing factories. Have assumed the role of leadership as a dependable supplier of quality cotton on most competitive terms, to the domestic textile industry including EOUs. As Implementing Agency, striving for all around development in cotton production, productivity, quality and development of market infrastructure under Mini Missions III & IV of the ambitious "Technology Mission on Cotton" launched by Government of India in February 2000. An MOU signing company with Ministry of Textiles, Government of India since 1992. Site visited by: 5280916 (w.e.f 10.01.2012) Sitemap Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Disclaimer Help Accessibility Statement Website designed and developed by: Barrierbreak Technologies | © 2011 The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. All Rights Reserved.