Maharashtra Geography and History Home » Maps » Maharashtra Map » Geography and History of Maharashtra   Maharashtra History and Geography Climate of Maharashtra Maharashtra Map महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Cities in Maharashtra Mumbai Pune Nashik Aurangabad Solapur Shirdi                        more.. Economy of Maharashtra Industrial Map Maharashtra Government Maharashtra Assembly Polls Maharashtra Lok Sabha Elections Maharashtra Assembly Election Results Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Education Universities in Maharashtra Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Geography and History of Maharashtra Maharashtra or the Great Nation is the third largest state in the country and covers a geographical area of 308, 000 square km. the great nation has a glorious history behind the doors of the past. The history can be traced to 3rd century BC. Maharashtra has been ruled by several emperors, all of whom have left their indelible mark on the land. The rulers include Ashoka, the Vakatakas, and the Delhi Sultanates, the Marathas, the Peshwas and then the British rule. The historical period of the state can be divided into the following categories: Topography Rivers & Lakes Soil & Vegetation Climate Maharashtra History The British Rule Post Independence (1947) With a population of over 78,937,000 inhabitants, the land is still capable of holding more people. The Sahyadri Range forms the backbone of the state. Apart from that the topography includes hills and plateaus, the most dominating of them being, the Western Ghats which forms the coastal belt, and the Deccan Plateau. The soil which dominates the state is the black soil, also known as the black cotton soil. The vegetation of the state mainly includes open scrub jungles which form the most important feature of the Deccan region. The forests region of Maharashtra comprises 17% of the total area which are present in the eastern part of the state and the Sahyadri range. There is diversity in the vegetation of the state, due to its climatic and topographical variations. Evergreen deciduous type of forests dominates the landscape. The main rivers of the state include Krishna, Bhima, Godavari, Tapi-Purna and Wardha-Wainganga. The Western ghats form the drainage area for most of the rivers flowing in the coastal region. The climate of Maharashtra is of a tropical monsoon type with a searing heat in the summer months, and cold winter. The monsoons have varied influence over different regions, causing heavy rain at some places and mild rainfall in others. Last Updated on : 21 May 2013 About Maharashtra History Geography Weather Topography Festivals Facts Rivers and Lakes Soil and vegetation District Fact Sheet Maharashtra Region Map Mumbai Central Map North Mumbai Map South Mumbai Map Maharashtra Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Rail Map Road Map Tehsil Map River Map Maharashtra Thematic Maps Forest Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Sex Ratio Map Handicrafts Map Industrial Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule