Crop Residues Management Unit Inaugurated at IIVR, Varanasi | Department of Agricultural Research and Education Skip to main content Department of Agricultural Research and Education Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India Search form Search Home About us From Secretary's Desk RTI Tenders Contact Us English हिन्दी What's New Agriculture Minister Addresses G-20 Agriculture Ministers Meet Crop Residues Management Unit Inaugurated at IIVR, Varanasi Annual Group Meeting of AICRP - National Seed Project (Crops) DG, ICAR Inaugurates Meat Processing Unit of ICAR-NRC on Meat, Hyderabad Union Minster for Agriculture Appriciated ICAR-NBAIR Admin Setup Telephone Directory RFD Parliament Questions Lok Sabha Rajya Sabha Publications Annual Reports Circulars Events Public Grivances DARE Organizations ICAR Central Agricultural University Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University Agrinnovate India International Cooperation Bilateral Multilateral CGIAR Important links Citizen's / Client's Charter Interact with Hon’ble PM What's New Crop Residues Management Unit Inaugurated at IIVR, Varanasi 2 nd April, 2015, Varanasi Dr. S. Ayyappan,Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR inaugurated the Crop Residues Management Unit at the ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi. In his address he emphasized on the ill-effects of residue burning in the field and stressed on the adoption of organic farming for vegetable cultivation. He urges for enhanced focus on ‘Per Drop, More Crop’, ‘Farmers First’, ‘Mera Gaon, Mera Gaurav’ and ‘Attracting Rural Youth in Agriculture.’ A ‘Krishi Paricharcha’ on ‘Crop Waste Management: Role of Women’ was also organized on the occasion. More than 300 women farmers from Varanasi, Mirzapur, Bhadoi, Sonbhadra, and Chandauli districts of Uttar Pradesh participated in the programme. Smt. Durgawati Devi, Gram Pradhan, Jayapur (village adopted by Hon’ble Prime Minister) Varanasi presided over the function. Dr. B. Singh, Director, ICAR-IIVR enlightened the farmers about the importance of residue management in sustainable agricultural production. Vegetable seedlings of bottle gourd, pumpkin, cucumber & sponge gourd alongwith Trichoderma powder for kitchen garden were also distributed to the farm households. On this occasion, 35 extension folders, a technical bulletin on sabjiyon me keetnashakon ke prayog kee vivaranika and 1st issue of ‘Vegetable e-Newsletter’ were also released. (Source: ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi) What's new Home | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Linking Policy Copyright © 2012 Department of Agricultural Research And Education Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India New Delhi-110 001. INDIA Site hosted by NIC Developed and Maintained by vivekdubey [at] gmail [dot] com (Vivek Dubey) Content updation by mitaligr [at] icar [dot] org [dot] in (Mitali Ghosh Roy) , DKMA , ICAR