Privacy Policy : The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. Skip to main content Text Size: Contrast Scheme: Home Submit Query Feedback Related Links Faq Contact Us Search: You are here: Home Privacy Policy Print (Opens in a new window) Large Print (Opens in a new window) Privacy Policy As a general rule, this website does not collect Personal Information about you when you visit the site automatically. You can generally visit the site without revealing Personal Information, unless you choose to provide such information. If the CCI requests you to provide personal information, adequate security measures will be taken to protect your personal information. Site visit data: This website records your visit and logs the following information for statistical purposes your server's address; the name of the top-level domain from which you access the Internet (for example, .gov, .com, .in, etc.); the type of browser you use; the date and time you access the site; the pages you have accessed and the documents downloaded and the previous Internet address from which you linked directly to the site. We will not identify users or their browsing activities, except when a law enforcement agency may exercise a warrant to inspect the service provider's logs. Cookies: When you visit some websites, they may download small pieces of software on your computer/browsing device known as cookies. Some cookies collect personal information to recognize your computer in the future. We only use non-persistent cookies or "per-session cookies". Per-session cookies serve technical purposes, like providing seamless navigation through this website. These cookies do not collect personal information on users and they are deleted as soon as you leave our website. The cookies do not permanently record data and they are not stored on your computer's hard drive. The cookies are stored in memory and are only available during an active browser session. Again, once you close your browser, the cookie disappears. Email management - collection of Personal Information: Your email address will only be recorded if you choose to send a message. (For example, your feedback for the website) It will only be used for the purpose for which you have provided it and will not be added to a mailing list. Your email address will not be used for any other purpose, and will not be disclosed, without your consent. If CCI requests you for any other Personal Information you will be informed how it will be used if you choose to give it. If at any time you believe the principles referred to in this privacy statement have not been followed, or have any other comments on these principles, please notify the webmaster through the contact us page. Note: The use of the term "Personal Information" in this privacy statement refers to any information from which your identity is apparent or can be reasonably ascertained. Quick Links About Us Open List Hon'ble Minister of State Textiles (Independent Charge) CCI - An Organisation Board of Directors Highlights of Achievements Objectives Operations Network Procurement of Kapas Sale of Cotton Financial Performance Brief note on Financial Performance Ten Year Financial Result Annual Report Developmental Activities National Cotton Scenario Current Cotton Scenario Press Releases CSR Statistics Vigilance Citizens Charter Right to Information Act Technology Mission on Cotton (TMC) Property Return (Immovable) Lokayukta Return Public Notices Open List Tenders Auctions Awards Recruitment Notices Complaint Policy (101.71 KB) Centralized Public Grievance Redress And Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) E-Magzine / E-Journal Open List Rajbhasha Rashmi Quarterly Report (140.12 KB) Day's Sales Quotes Export Sitemap Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Disclaimer Help Accessibility Statement Website designed and developed by: Barrierbreak Technologies | © 2011 The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. All Rights Reserved.