Munnar City Map Home » Maps » Kerala » Munnar City Map   Cities in Kerala Kochi Thiruvananthapuram Ernakulam Munnar Thrissur Kannur Kottayam Alleppey Kollam केरल का नक्शा About Kerala History of Kerala Geography of Kerala Kerala Weather Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Districts of Kerala Road Map Railway Map Rivers of Kerala Tehsils of Kerala Regions Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Forest Map Economy of Kerala Industries in Kerala Kerala Government Kerala Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Kerala Places to visit in Kerala Kerala Backwaters Beaches in Kerala Kerala Wildlife Sanctuaries Hill Stations in Kerala Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya Hotels in Kerala Kochi Hotels Kumarakom Hotels Munnar Hotels Trivandrum Hotels Thiruvananthapuram Hotels Guruvayur Hotels Thekkady Hotels Wayanad Hotels Kerala Ayurveda Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Utilities Distance Chart Kerala Pin code Kerala STD code Education Universities in Kerala Karten von Kerala Ubersichtskarte von Kerala       Munnar City Map City Map of Munnar Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Munnar city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Kerala   Thiruvananthapuram City Map Kumarakom City Map Ernakulam City Map Palakkad City Map         Thekkady City Map Kochi City Map Alleppey City Map Munnar City Map       other cities of Kerala  >> The best antidote to the sweltering summer months is to head towards the cooler climes. Every year between September and May, tourists in droves make a beeline for the exotic Munnar, the hill station in the district of Idukki. Munnar also grabs the headlines for being the prime producer of tea, the beverage of the Empire, in Kerala . Nomenclature This holiday resort derives its name from 'moon' and 'aar', which according to the Tamil dictionary means 'three rivers'. Munnar is situated at the meeting point of Kundale and Nallthanni that commingles with the Muthirapuzha which flows into the Periyar and finally merges with the Arabian Sea. History Munnar is steeped in colonial history. It was the popular haunt for the officers of the British Raj during the summer season. It is no wonder then that tea, the popular English beverage, makes Munnar famous. Connectivity Tourists can avail the aerial route to Munnar. The hill destination is at a distance of 4 kilometers from the Cochin International Airport. A taxi drive is priced between Rs.1300 and Rs.2500. You can also opt for the rail journey. A taxi ride from the Ernakulam Junction will cost Rs.1500. Traveling by road is another feasible option. NH49 connects Munnar and Kochi . You can also enjoy a rollicking KSRTC bus ride to the hill station. Places of Interest Munnar is a treasure trove of lovely locales and the tourists are sure to be bitten by the wanderlust bug when visiting Munnar. The visit to the verdant tea growing fields must be on your itinerary. Team this up with a visit to the unique Tea Museum, fuelled by Tata tea. This will bolster your knowledge about the ubiquitous beverage. The evolution of the plant that is an integral part of our every day lives comes alive in the numerous souvenirs of the bygone era. The rich vegetation of Munnar also harbors the famous Eravikulam National Park. The majestic Nilgiri Tahr, a fast disappearing species of goat, a symbol of Munnar, attracts a large number of tourists. A visit to this paradise will remain incomplete without a glimpse of the towering 8841 high Anaimudi peak of the Southern Himalayas. The magnificent Munnar is dotted with gushing falls. The breath taking view of the Athukud falls, that assumes voluminous proportions during the monsoon will surely leave you hankering for more. The Valara and The Cheeyapara falls also scores brownie points with the visitors. Sailing down the Madupatty Dam and catching a rare glimpse of the elephants and sambars is a heavenly experience. The alluring Sethuparvathipuram Dam with a treasure trove natural bounty is another major landmark of Munnar. The wild life enthusiasts can go on a safari tour to the Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary, situated on the confluence of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Special Attractions The mauve hued Neelakurunji that blossoms once in twelve years is the cynosure of attention. It is considered auspicious to view this wondrous creation of nature. Fishing of trouts is another major attraction of Munnar. The Devikulam Lake and the Gravel Banks are the places to visit for all those fishing freaks. If you want to take a break from sight-seeing and a golf enthusiast, then head towards the Kundale Club and High Range Club. The church of Munnar show case architectural brilliance and are the symbols of the colonial era. They are steeped in history and are have a lot of stories to narrate. Co-existing with the church is a temple and a mosque, a powerful statement about the secular fabric of Munnar. Shopping freaks can stack their bags with pouches of fragrant tea leaves, for they alone can be the best memento from Munnar. You can also take your pick from a wide array of scented oils like the lemon grass and eucalyptus. Juicy strawberries and freshly crushed spices are also the top picks from Munnar. The dream-like Munnar has something to suit to tingle every taste bud. Sample vegetarian, non-vegetarian, pure Kerala dining pleasure at Munnar. Team it up with, what else, but cups of garam chai. Last Updated on : 23/07/2013 Kerala City Map Alappuzha Alwaye Bekal Fort Kochi Kollam Thrissur Kottayam Kovalam Kozikode Kumarakom Malampuzha Pathanamthitta Thoppumpaddy Ponnani Punalur Thalassery Thrippunithura Tirur Varkala Perinthalamanna Travel to Kerala Travel to Alleppey Travel to Kumarakom Travel to Kannur Travel to Kozhikode Travel to Mallapuram Travel to Palakkad Travel to Pathanamthitta Travel to Thekkady Travel to Wayanad Travel to Kochi Travel to Kovalam Travel to Munnar Travel to Trivandrum Travel to Varkala Travel to Thrissur Places to Visit in Kerala Places to visit in Alleppey Places to visit in Kochi Places to visit in Kovalam Places to visit in Kozhikode Places to visit in Kumarakoram Places to visit in Munnar Places to visit in Thekkady Places to visit in Thrissur Places to visit in Trivandrum Places to visit in Varkala   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule