NAIP - A Value Chain on Industrial Agroforestry in Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Agricultural University NAIP á –alue Chain on Industrial Agroforestry in Tamil Nadu Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam - 641 301 Home Project Profile Sub Project Profile Rationale Project Objectives Detailed Programme Project Location and Jurisdiction List of Innovations Role of Consortium Partners Monitoring Indicators Project Impact Work Plan Consortium Advisory Committee Consortium Implementation Committee Consortium Monitoring Unit Base Line Study Project Team FC & RI Lead Institute IFGTB TNPL SPB Vasan Match Works Technologies NAIP Technologies Crop Technology Casuarina Eucalyptus Ailanthus Melia Dubia Anthocephalus Cadamba Leucaena Leucocephala Value Addition Technology Briquetting Technology Agar Technology Value Chain Farmers and Area Demonstration Plot Horizontal Expansion Captive Plantations Other Plantations MIS Market Supply & Demand Pattern Market Price Current Prices Historical Prices Forecasted Prices Contract Farming Value Addtion Products Markets Supply & Demand Price Traders Eucalyptus Casuarina Subabul Fire Wood Pole Others Media Gallery Launch Meet Farmers Training Cluster Demonstration Plot Research Trials Value Addition Mechanization CIC & CAC Review Team Baseline Study Audio Video News and Events News Events Institute Departments and Faculties Education Research Schemes/Projects Extension Contact Us Contact Address Location Map   CULTIVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF MELIA DUBIA Other names Mar – kuriaput , GuJ – Kadukajar;  Tel. – Munnatikaraks ; Tam – Malai vembu ; Kan -  Hebbevtl, Karibvam ; Mal – Malavembu ; Oriya - Batra. TRADE – Malabar Nim Wood General characteristics A height of 20.m with a spreading crown and a cylindrical straight bole of 9 m length and 1.2 – 1.5 m girth. The bark is dark brown, exfoliating in thin, narrow strips with broad, shallow, longitudinal cracks. Leaves bi-pinnate or occasionally tri-pinnate. Leaflets ovate – Lanceolate to ovate round, entire or crenulate; flowers greenish white, fragrant, intense panicles; fruit an ovoid or ellipsoid drupe with 5 or less seeds. Distribution It occurs in tropical moist deciduous forests, and yields a useful timber. It occurs in Sikkim Himalayas, North Bengal and upper Assam, Khasi hills of Orissa, N.Circars, Deccan and Western Ghats at altitudes of 1,500 – 1,800 m. It is occasionally planted for ornament and makes a handsome avenue tree and a shade tree in plantations.  It grows rapidly and is used for afforestation purposes Environmental requirements It grows on variety of soils .However deep fertile sandy loam soils shows optimum growth, while shallow gravelly soils shows stunt growth. The tree is a light demander, the seedling are suppressed under shade. Seedlings tolerate some frost but severe frost kills them. It is susceptible to damage by fires and sapling suffers from browsing. Silvicultural characteristics Natural propagation Natural propagation is mostly through seeds and the germinability is less. It coppices well and produce root suckers when the roots are injured. It pollards well and clusters of new shoots are thrown out from dormant buds on stems and branches. Artificial propagation: It can be raised either by direct sowing or planting in nursery for raising seedlings or stumps.  Direct sowing is recorded to give poorer results than planting of samplings or stumps; the latter is considered the best. Seed treatment: Seeds are collected from ripened fruits (Jan – Feb) by rubbing, washing and drying and are stored in sealed tins. The germinability of the seed is less than 25%. In nursery, the seeds are sown in raised nursery beds. The best seed treatment is treating the seeds with cowdung solution for one day. Then the treated seeds are sown over the raised nursery bed.  It takes one or two months for the seeds to germinate. Irrigation should be done regularly. The seedling takes 6 months to complete its nursery stage. Espacement Six to nine months old seedlings can be planted at an espacement of 3 X 3m or 3 X 4m. Annual pruning is done to get the straight cylindrical boles. Irrigation The tree responds well to irrigation at once in every 10 – 15 days during non rainy season. Fertilizer requirements Application of N, P, K mixture of 25 -50 g per tree, two times in a year help to augment the growth. The fertilizer requirements can be scheduled on need basis depending on the growth and development of the tree. Insects and Pest: Defoliators, leaf miners and sap suckers are recorded along with several wood borers. Ganoderma lucidum causes root rot in high rainfall areas and Corticium salmonicolor causes stem and twig canker Wood characteristics The sapwood is greyish white; heartwood light pink to light red turning pale russet brown on ageing.  It is lustrous with dry feel, very light (spl gr- 0.33; wt - 21 Ib. /cu ft.) straight grained and coarse and somewhat uneven – textured.  The timber is not durable in exposed positions but moderately so under cover. It is not so strong and durable as neem.  It seasons well if logs are converted in a green state.  If left long, the log is liable to develop end – splitting and discolouration.  The best method of dealing with the timber is to convert the logs immediately after felling and to open – stack sawn material, preferably under cover, to avoid grey stain. Uses The wood is used for packing cases, cigar boxes, ceiling planks, building purposes, agricultural implements, pencils, match boxes, splints and Kattamarams.  In Ceylon, it is employed for outriggers of boats.  It is suitable for musical instruments, tea boxes and plyboard.  It is a good fuel wood (Calorific value, 5.043 - 5,176 cal.) The fruit of the plant is bitter.  It is considered anthelmintic.  It gives positive tests with alkaloid reagents. Market and trade The wood can be sold for match and veneer industry. The tree with the minimum size of 16inches girth is saleable at the minimum rate of Rs 2000 per tonne for match industry and for veneer industry, the market rate is little higher. SEEDS DEPULPED SEEDS SEEDLINGS PLANTATION Trees Project Profile Project Team Technologies Value Chain Farmers and Area MIS Media News and Events Institute Contact Us Website Developed by Samantha Technologies No.of Visits