NERFMTTI Home Page »  Programmes »  Calender »  Facilities »  List of machineries for training »  Application Procedure »  List of selected Candidates »  Application for Utilisation Course (U-Series) »  Application for Other than U-Series Course »  Objectives »  Types of Test »  Application for Testing Machinery »  Testing Charges »  Facilities »  Regulations »  Testing Logistic »  Detail of machine tested »  Trainees Trained Since Inception - Coursewise »   Trainees Trained Year wise - Categorywise »  Machines Tested Year wise - Catgorywise »  About RTI Act »  A.O. Order »  C.P.I.O. Order »  Contact Address »  Obtain Institute's Information from »  P.I.O. Particulars »  Organisational Chart »  Directory of Officers & Staff »  Functions of NERFMT&TI »  Power & duties »  Procedure followed in decision making »  Rules & Regulations »  Remuneration »  Service details »  History »  Location & Climate »  Organisation Chart »  Guest House & Housing for Staff Disclaimer: The content of these websites are owned by the respective organizations and they may be contacted for any further information or suggestion. Maintained & Updated by North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, B.Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam Site Designed & Hosted by: National Informatics Centre   North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute Home हिंदी   Training Facility Laboratory The training section of this Institute is outfitted with following laboratories to impart the practical training to the trainees under various training programmes.  Laboratories already developed Laboratories under developing stage Tractor cut model & demonstration Lab. Plant Protection Lab. Manual and bullock drawn implement/equipments Lab. Auto Electric Lab. Appropriate Mechanization and Technology. Value addition and Post-Harvest Technology Lab. Irrigation Lab. Gender friendly Equipment Lab. Library   A  Library with reasonable collections of about 2741 nos. Text and Technical books, 270 nos. Reference Books, 1438 nos. Test Report, 414 nos. BIS Codes, 60 nos. Parts Catalogue, about 30 nos. of Periodicals, Journals and Newsletters on various Technical Fields and Mechanized farming and related subject, Magazine on English & Hindi Literatures besides 10 National, Regional and Local Newspapers (daily) are being procured in the Institute Library for use by the Trainees and Employees . The Existing library is shifted from Testing Building to a new Library room attached to the Administrative wing on 01-01-2010, to give easy access and   utilization of Library /information services for its users/readers. Audio-visual The Audio Visual section is operational with TV, DVD, VCR, LCD projector and about 123 technical films in shape of VCDs and Cassettes, charts paintings, posters etc. to supplement “On-the-job” training under different training program. The institute is planning to upgrade the existing lab with modern equipments, sound systems, etc. Lodging and Boarding facility The Institute Hostel is set up with reasonable amenities to accommodate 80 trainees at a time. A four bedded rest/ guest house with moderate facilities for the visitors has also been made in Hostel. Stipend and Traveling charges As per restructured training program, the stipend of the trainees, selected under User level course has increased to Rs.300 per week. Besides this, the trainees selected under user level course are paid “to and fro” traveling expenses by sleeper class of rail or by ordinary bus from their home-town or the applicant actually residing to Biswanath Chariali at the end of training program.    