Hardik Bhatt talks on medicinal and horticulture crops cultivation - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Hardik Bhatt talks on medicinal and horticulture crops cultivation Home Hardik Bhatt talks on medicinal and horticulture crops cultivation Rajkot, Gujarat based agri consultant offers services for medicinal and horticulture crops cultivation Mr. Hardik Bhatt of Earth Consultancy provides an insight into pomegranate cultivation. In the Indian scenario Maharashtra States leads the pomegranate cultivation with the total area of 66% followed by Karnataka and Gujarat. “Pomegranate cultivation is quite beneficial for the farmers because of its high demand across Asia countries. In India there are 3-4 varieties of pomegranates grown namely Ganesh, Ruby, Arakta, and Bhagwa. Amongst these four, Ganesh is the most preferred variety by the farmers because of its high yield and quality,” informs Mr. Bhatt. Minimum one acre of land is required to start the cultivation of pomegranate. It should be planted in light soils i.e. up to 45 cm depth at the distance of 4.5 x 3.0 m distance (i.e. 740 trees/ hectare). Harvesting of pomegranate is done almost round the year. The Excerpts: What is the average return on pomegranate cultivation? According to NABARD project the approximate ratio for per acre the average return is 1: 2.5 for example, if a farmer invest Rs. 10,000 per year then he will get the return of Rs. 25,000 per year. What type of soil condition is required for the pomegranate cultivation? Pomegranates are able to adapt to a variety of soils, ranging from acidic sandy loam to alkaline calcareous soils. In India, they have been known to grow in rocky gravel. The only soil that will not support pomegranates is heavy clay. What are the parameters to be checked in the soil for having profitable pomegranate farming? There are two major parameters – one is water holding capacity and pH. What should be the irrigation schedule? Drip irrigation is very important in pomegranate farming. If the drip irrigation facility is not available, then full grown trees of pomegranate are to be irrigated with flow irrigation at an interval of 8-10 days in summer, 13-14 days in rainy (in the absence of rains) and 17-18 days in winter seasons. Which are the fertilizers suitable for pomegranate? In the case of pomegranates only vermin compost and any organic fertilizer can be used. It is best not to use chemical fertilizers because it reduces the soil porosity and for any horticultural crop if soil porosity is good then the yield will be better else vice versa. Can tissue culture plants be used? Tissue culture plants for pomegranate should not be used, as in a tissue culture variety accommodation is the main phenomenon and it is not suitable for pomegranate because the survival ratio is very low and it is highly susceptible to Anar Butterfly disease. When does a pomegranate plant start giving good yield? Once pomegranate sapling is planted it takes 4-5 years and needs toning every year. Which are the short duration crops that can be inter-cropped with pomegranate? Vegetables with 6 to 8 months life cycle can be grown as an inter-crop because the distance of pomegranate cultivation recommended by the national horticulture board is approximately 8/ 8 feet. Except okra all vegetables can be grown along with pomegranate. Any complementary crop can be grown with pomegranate cultivation? Marigold, the flowering crop and Indian basil (Tulsi) are recommended as complementary crops for pomegranate. What are the commonly found diseases and how to control it? The main problem in pomegranate cultivation is pests and diseases. The common disease is Anar butterfly, also called as fruit fly. In this the fruit gets black spots. The best method to control the disease is developed by the Pomegranate Growers Research Association, Pune. In this method, cap the fruit in its initial stage and once the fruit is fully developed this particular disease cannot damage the fruit, the reason being, the fruit is protected by its hard cover and thereby it becomes resistant to the pests. What is the market range of pomegranate? According to Agmark standard the harvested fruits are of three grades, first one is extra class, second one is class one , third one is class 2 which are of export quality. As per the market, the range varies from state to state. In Maharashtra and Gujarat the farmers are exporting these types of pomegranates and in the domestic market also the price of one pomegranate is Rs 20-25 in extra class and class one variety. How to export pomegranate? In Pune city, the government has established the pomegranate grower’s research association and an embassy. Through these associations farmers can easily export their fruits without any trouble. The only criterion is to become the member of these associations to export pomegranates. Completed discussion available at – http://bit.ly/1by36jY Our Correspondent Contact Details:  Mr.Hardik Bhatt, Earth Consultancy, 6- ShivajiPark Behind Amrapali Cinema, Raiya Road, Rajkot. Mobile: +91-98796-97756 E-mail: hardikrbhatt@hotmail.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Hardik Bhatt talks on medicinal and horticulture crops cultivation Related – articles, consultants, downloads Hardik Bhatt (M.Sc. Agri.) – Medicinal & Aromatic Plantation Dilip Deshmukh talks on Green House Cultivation Dr. N Barathi talks on Plant Tissue Culture Technology Mr. Ashok Kammath – Contract Cultivation of Medicinal Plants You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water