KISSAN-Kerala   Sitemap | Contact Us | Feedback         Search | About KISSAN | Kerala @ Glance | What's New | Events | FAQs | The Team | Institutions | Home   OTHERS (RESEARCH) Central Water Resources Development and Management Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) Peechi Centre for Earth Sciences Studies (CESS) Thiruvananthapuram Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (TBGRI) Agency for Non-conventional Energy and Rural Technology (ANERT) Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Development of Education, Science and Technology Central Water Resources Development and management (CWRDM) The Centre originally established at Thiruvananthapuram was shifted to the present 35 ha-campus at Calicut in 1979. The main building at the headquarters, completed in 1988, has 7000 sq m plinth area. In addition to this, there are separate buildings to house the isotope hydrology lab, hostels for trainees, guest house and canteen. Today, around 50 families of the staff are residing in the quarters constructed in the campus. Dr C M Jacob, the former Vice-Chancellor of the Kerala Agricultural University, was the founder Director of the Centre. The Centre initially had six scientific divisions, dealing with surface water, ground water, water management-agriculture, water quality and environment, education and extension, and library and documentation. After a decade, scientific divisions to deal with computer applications and isotope hydrology have been added to the earlier list. In order to cater to the requirements of main areas of research, certain central facilities like water analysis laboratory, cartography, reprography, manned observation stations, remote sensing cell and a museum have also been established. To take care of the special R&D needs of different hydro-ecologic regions of Kerala, five regional centres are also in operation since 1990. The Centre has substantially contributed to the scientific hydrologic studies and water management in the region. The projects of CWRDM were funded by different departments and agencies of the Central and State Governments in addition to the international agencies like UNDP, UNEP, World Bank, USAID, NAS (US), JBIC, ICEF, etc. Starting with the establishment of a data management system for the region, the Centre tackled different problems pertaining to forest and urban hydrology, estuarine management, groundwater development, water quality management, water-related environmental issues, wetland management, watershed development, agriculture water management, irrigation and drainage issues, etc. Several tools like mathematical modeling, systems approach, isotope hydrology and remote sensing techniques were made use of in the studies during the 1990s. More than 2000 scientific papers and 500 research reports were brought out based on these studies. The hydrologic data generated by CWRDM are expected to be of immense use to the water managers of Kerala. CWRDM has played a key role in supporting the Kerala Government in sorting out several water management issues. The draft water policy of Kerala, adopted in 1992, was prepared by CWRDM. The government sought the advice of the Centre on several inter-State water issues. The basic proposal leading to the Dutch-funded KCIP project and EC-funded KMIP project were drawn up by CWRDM. A few of the water resources projects of the State were made environment-friendly by CWRDM. The Centre initiated the JBIC-funded eco-restoration project of Attappady and ICEF-funded drinking water project in Lakshadweep, and carried out consultancy works for the Kerala Forestry Project and Kerala Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project funded by the World Bank, and the Dutch-funded water supply project utilising the water of Bharathapuzha. The CWRDM is one among the Water and Land Management Institutes (WALMIs) started in 1990 by the Ministry of Water Resources, Government of India under the WRMTP, funded by USAID. Around 3000 government officials and thousands of farmers were trained in the Centre. Training on watershed management was also conducted at CWRDM for the Panchayats of northern Kerala. Several national level training programs on irrigation management, watershed development, and wetland management were conducted in CWRDM, in addition to providing training and research opportunities for students and research scholars. The Centre had academic and research linkages with Universities of Srathyclyde, Birmingham, Koyota, Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (UK), Hydraulic Research Station (UK), Danish Institute, etc; in addition, it had common programmes with IITs, NITs and Universities in India. The Centre was amalgamated with the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment in its Silver Jubilee Year-2003. Dr E J James, present Executive Director, took charge in February 2003. More... Top... Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) Peechi The Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) is established under the Science and Technology policy adopted by the Government of Kerala as an autonomous institution to undertake research in areas like forestry, biodiversity etc., that are vital to the development of Kerala State. The Institute was registered as a society on 3rd July 1975 under the Travancore-Cochin Literary, Scientific and Charitable Societies Act, 1955. The institution fulfills number of economic, social and environmental objectives set by the Government Location KFRI is strategically located in the midst of a tropical forest at Peechi about 20km East of Trichur, in Central Kerala, India. The main campus extends over an area of 28 ha., part of the picturesque reserve forest of the Peechi Forest Range. The Institute has two sub-Centres- one at Nilambur in North Kerala and the other at Velupadam, Palapilly in Trichur District. a Forest Training School at Arippa, near Kulathupuzha. Top... Centre for Earth Sciences Studies (CESS) Thiruvananthapuram. CESS implements a wide spectrum of projects in conformity with the institutional objectives, the state's development needs and in keeping with the expertise of the scientists. In the present day situation of interactive and synergic studies, this is perhaps the strength of the institution. Address: Centre for Earth Science Studies, Environment Department, Government of Kerala, P.B.No. 7250. Akkulam. Thiruvananthapuram- 695 031. Phone : 0471-2442280. Grams: ERTHSIENS e-mail: cess@hub.nic.in Top... Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (TBGRI) Palode, Thiruvananthapuram. Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute established in 1979 is engaged in the conservation and sustainable utilization of plant resources of the tropics. The year 1995-96 has been an eventful year in the history of the Institute. With the help of Government of Kerala, National and International funding agencies have made a quantum leap in the development of the State.   Top... Agency for Non-conventional Energy and Rural Technology (ANERT) Thiruvananthapuram. Agency for Non-conventional Energy and Rural Technology (ANERT) is an autonomous body established by the Government of Kerala with its Head Quarters at Trivandrum. The objective of the Agency is to gather and disseminate useful knowledge in various fields of Non-conventional energy, Energy conservation and Rural Technology; conduct studies, demonstrate, implement and support implementation of schemes and projects in these fields, thereby deal with the problems arising out of the rapid depletion of Non-conventional Energy Sources; update the technologies used in rural areas as well as introduce appropriate new technologies with an aim to reduce drudgery, increase production and improve the quality of life. The Agency is better known by its acronym "ANERT" and has become a synonym for Renewable Sources of Energy and Energy conservation in the state. Field of activities include. 1. Solar Thermal, 2. Solar Photovoltaic, 3. Wind Energy, 4. Biomass Energy, 5. Energy Conservation, 6. Energy Audit, 7. Electronic R & D. IREP (Integrated Rural Energy Program) and NPIC (National Program for Improved Chulha) also comes under this Agency. ANERT is also the Nodal agency for the Ministry of Non-conventional Energy Sources (MINES).   Top... Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Development of Education, Science and Technology (RGC-DEST) Thiruvananthapuram. In tune with the policy decision of developing RGC-DEST as a Centre of Excellence with Biotechnology as the focus, several things have been achieved during the year under report (1995-96). In terms of priority, the most important task was the establishment of a modern laboratory with all the essential facilities to carry out advanced research in molecular biology and biotechnology. All the basic equipments such as ultracentrifuges, liquid scintillation counter, table tap centrifuges, peptide synthesiser, PCR machine, gel documentation system, nucleic aid sequencing already installed and research work has also commenced. The laboratory has also clean room facilities with laminar flow hood for tissue culture work and also cold room facilities. A research library with selected journals has also been established Top...     Extension Dept of Agriculture Dept of Animal Husbandry Dept of Dairy Development Dept of Fisheries FIB Research KAU ICAR Others Others Others   Farmer Database | Applications Download | Research | Soil & Water | Related Links   KISSAN Kerala Operations Centre, IIITM-K, NILA, Techno park Campus, Thiruvananthapuram Private Policy | Disclaimer  