Farm Labour in near Hyderabad - Page 2 AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Job Vacancies Farm Labour in near Hyderabad Page 2 of 2 First 1 2 Jump to page: Results 11 to 14 of 14 Thread: Farm Labour in near Hyderabad LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… April 10th, 2015 #11 makprasad Join Date Apr 2015 Posts 1 Originally Posted by nostradamus Contract Farm-Workers(V supply agricultural labours for farm,farm house,landscape,plantation&Dairy in South India) Contract workers are sourced from Dindigul,Palani(Tamilnadu). Selected applicants are thoroughly screened by us and selected for suitable farm vacancies. We maintain ongoing contact with our employees and our clients in order to ensure satisfaction among all concerned parties. Farm Solutions Offer: • Selective recruitment of worker including; reference verification by Farm Solutions staff. • Induction training prior to arrival on your farm. • Problem solving: If you have a problem with a worker, we will endeavor to sort it out and will replace/remove worker if a serious problem arises. • Our rates include all statutory contributions in accordance with labour law thus eliminating the need for a farmer to operate their own payroll system. We take great care in selecting our workforce. This involves interviewing, reference checking and appropriate induction training to each person prior to commencing work. Our farmer clients are also carefully assessed. We visit your farm, see the working and living conditions, and discuss your needs on a one to one basis. Knowing your real needs is the essential ingredient required in order to place the most suitable person on your farm. A combination of these factors ensures that problems are kept to a minimum. Good communication is the key to maintaining good working relationships; however, a personality clash or a wrong decision sometimes may mean that a worker is replaced or removed. With more than 20 years experience in placing workers on a wide range of farm enterprises, we have the knowledge and expertise to look after your labour needs. To discuss your needs, call us for a friendly and confidential chat __________________ I need honest labour for my dairy farm. Reply With Quote 2 Days Ago #12 hemanth84 Join Date May 2015 Posts 3 I am looking for a farm supervisor for an 100 Acer farm. If you know some one please call me 9866012034 Reply With Quote 2 Days Ago #13 hemanth84 Join Date May 2015 Posts 3 This farm is located in outskirts of Hyderabad Reply With Quote 2 Days Ago #14 hemanth84 Join Date May 2015 Posts 3 I need a farm labour and supervisor for our farm at outskirts of hyderabad. We grow maize crop... Please let me know if any one is interested. 9866012034 Reply With Quote Page 2 of 2 First 1 2 Jump to page: « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 12:23 PM .