Bioprocessing and Biotechnology | Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering University Home About OSU Academics Faculty and Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Growing Oklahoma Search... Division Home Calendar Campus Map OSU Quicklinks Local Weather Menu           Division Home People Faculty (All) Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Resources CEAT Giving Page DASNR Giving Page CASNR Alumni Page OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation Hire OSU Grads BAE Newsletters OSU Job Search Employment Opportunities Student Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Degree Options Degree Sheets and Flowcharts Recruitment and Application Process Scholarships and Financial Aid Senior Design Projects Study Abroad Student Projects Student Links Graduate Student Welcome Graduate Programs Biomechanical Systems Bioprocessing and Biotechnology Environment and Natural Resrouces Food Processing BAE Graduate School Application Process Assistantships BAE Graduate Courses BAE Research Labs Graduate Student Links Accreditation Research BAE Research Labs Advanced Technology Research Center BioEnergy BioEnvironmental BioTechnology BioPhysical Properties Bioprocessing Lab Environmental Preperation FAPC Ground Water Machine Testing Machine Vision Research Shop Sensors Lab SPREC Welding and Engines class Wind Tunnel BAE Research Shop Bio Products and Energy Hydraulic Engineering OK-FIRE EPSCoR Extension Extension News Agriculture Machinery Systems AgWeather Applications Engineers BAE Fact Sheet Biobased Products and Energy Center OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Stored Products Research and Education Center (SPREC) Stormwater and Low Impact Development SUNUP Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Program News and Events News Events BAE Newsletters Publications and Outreach Impact Statements – April 2014 Archive Links Professional organizations American Society of Agriculturaland Biological Engineers North American Benthological Society American Society of Civil Engineers Energy Management Institute American Meteorological Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Automotive Engineers Collegiate organizations Alpha Epsilon ASABE student club ASABE Facebook page Cowboy Motorsports BAE Sites AGMACH$ Agricultural Machinery Systems Agweather BAE Extension fact sheets BAE Labs OSU Biobased Products and Energy Center Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit OK EPSCoR BREOI Oklahoma Mesonet OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Poultry Waste Management Stormwater and Low Impact Development Sun Grant Initiative – South Central Region Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Programs DASNR Sites DASNR OCES county office directory Robert M. KerrFood & Agricultural Products Center SUNUP CEAT OSU Sites OSU Home Hire OSU Grads News OSU Athletics Stillwater Resrouces Oklahoma Resources Oklahoma Departmentof Agriculture, Food, and Forestry Oklahoma Bioenergy Center Oklahoma Departmentof Environmental Quality Federal Resources Agriculture Research Service ARSGrazinglands Research Laboratory ARS, Conservationand Production Laboratory USDA U.S. Departmentof Energy – Bioenergy U.S. National Science Foundation U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency, Region 6 Other Resources Worldwide Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Directory The Environmental Working Group Microsoft Research Maps (formerly Microsoft Terra Server – satellite photos) Ground Water Protection Council, GWPC Center for Advanced Spatial Technologies, CAST Contact Us BAE Links BAE Home About BAE Archive People Undergraduate Resources Graduate Students Resources Research Extension News and Events Links and Resources Alumni Resources Contact Us Bioprocessing and Biotechnology Master’s and doctoral programs are available in Bioprocessing and Biotechnology within the BAE department. The program is designed to train students with a background in engineering or the life sciences. Students will have an option to choose courses from several departments including biochemistry, microbiology, biosystems & agricultural engineering and chemical engineering. The Bioprocessing and Biotechnology program encompasses thermal and chemical processing together with aerobic and anaerobic fermentation. The option emphasizes the engineering aspects of biological and biochemical processes, which may involve plant systems, mammalian systems, bioenvironmental systems or industrial biological processes. Developing biobased technologies is a component of the Bioprocessing and Biotechnology option. The purpose of this program is to provide students with skills necessary for developing a biobased economy in the United States. The lack of an educational infrastructure is a major barrier to the successful development of a biobased products industry. The program is designed to provide students with a multidisciplinary graduate education and to integrate knowledge from science and engineering fields. Students with training in the life sciences and engineering will enroll into a degree program via their home department. Participating departments include biochemistry, chemical engineering, civil engineering, biosystems and agricultural engineering, microbiology and plant and soil sciences. DEGREE REQUIREMENTS All plans of study are tailored to individual students based on their interests and the guidance of the advisory committee. Master’s students must complete 24 credit hours of course work and 6 hours of research, including a thesis. A minimum of 60 credit hours of research beyond the M.S. degree is required for each Ph.D. student. The student’s plan of study will include BAE courses with additional courses in engineering, biochemistry, microbiology, mathematics, computer science, statistics, agriculture and related science. These advanced level courses taught by BAE and other faculty and supported by well-equipped laboratories provide students with a strong background for addressing problems in developing biobased technologies. Students commonly start by taking three classes per semester. Master’s students generally take one and a half years to two years to complete their programs. Ph.D. students with a M.S. degree are expected to complete their programs within three years with course work usually completed by the end of the second year. Upon completion of the majority of courses and preparation of a research proposal, Ph.D. students take a written and oral qualifying examination covering the entire area of the student’s graduate study. In addition, M.S. thesis and Ph.D. dissertations must be successfully defended before the advisory committee at the completion of the research program. A non-thesis degree option is available for M.S. students, which require a creative component, including a written and oral report. AREAS OF RESEARCH Aerobic fermentation Anaerobic digestion Biomass collection and storage Fermenter design and system optimization Gasification Process economics Process modeling Waste minimization and utilization CORE COURSES CHE 5123: Advanced Chemical Reaction Engineering BAE 5413: Instrumentation in Biological Process Control System STAT 5303: Experimental Design CHE 5283: Bioengineering MICR 3224: Advanced Microbiology BIOC 3653: Biochemistry BAE 5500/CHE 5990: Biobased Seminar / Lab FACULTY Hasan Atiyeh , Associate Professor Bioconversion and fermentation Danielle Bellmer , Associate Professor Gasification and fermentation Timothy Bowser , Associate Professor Food processing and Engineering Michael Buser , Associate Professor Design and evaluation of pneumatic and mechanical processing systems; product traceability and system logistics Nurhan Dunford , Professor Food, oil/oilseed, and bioprocessing Doug Hamilton , Associate Professor Waste management Raymond L. Huhnke , Professor and Director of the Biobased Products and Energy Center Carol Jones , Associate Professor Stored product engineering, packaging, storage, transportation, and logistics of biofeedstocks and physical properties of feedstock Ajay Kumar , Assistant Professor Biofeedstock processing and gasification Jessie Mao , Assistant Professor Biosensor technology and nanomaterials Mark Wilkins , Associate Professor Gasification and fermentation In addition to the above faculty in Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering, collaborative faculty from other departments participating in the bioprocessing and biotechnology option includes the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, the School of Chemical Engineering, the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering and the Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics. FACILITIES The main BAE lab is a 28,000 sq. ft. facility, equipped with electronic, electric and machine shops. An addition, an outlying research facility has been dedicated to research on gasification and the syngas cooling and conditioning system. Equipment at this site includes a gasifier capable of 75 lb./hr. biomass feed rate, mass spectrometer for real-time syngas analysis, gas chromatograph capable of analyzing both liquid and gas samples, oxygen probe, spectrophotometer, centrifuge, and data acquisition software. A 320-sq. ft. laboratory houses the bench-scale bioreactor. Three newest laboratories of 18,000 sq. ft. will contain state-of-the art equipment dedicated to biotechnology research. Equipment in this facility includes the bioreactor with pH control, bioreactor equipment (pumps, etc.), two gas chromatographs, ion chromatographs, high performance liquid chromatograph, two anaerobic glove boxes, warm and cold rooms, steam sterilizer, spectrophotometer, computers, and supporting non-perishable items Click here to learn more about BAE’s lab facilities. Oklahoma State University - Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Home Accessibility