Project Report on Cattle Feed AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Consultancy Services Project Report on Cattle Feed Results 1 to 5 of 5 Thread: Project Report on Cattle Feed LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… July 5th, 2012 #1 scsindia Join Date Apr 2010 Posts 849 Project Report on Cattle Feed Cattle Feed Feeds are used as edible materials, which are consumed by cattle and contribute energy and/or nutrients to the cattle diet. Feeds is needed to produce cattle, which are substantial parts of the food industry. India has the largest cattle, buffalo and goat population according to latest census. About one sixth of the cattles, half of buffalo, and one fifth of goat population in world are in India. With animal feed plant coming up in high class cities especially in Chennai, Kolkata and Mumbai who are producing top quality of poultry and cattle feeds with the resource available to these units, it is certain that animal feeds produced in India will find an instant market in the neighbouring countries. It is expected that in the next few years the animal feed industry would rank among the major industries of India and will be able to help the animal production programme in various countries around the world. Few Indian Major Players are as under: Advanced Enzyme Technologies Ltd. Agro Tech India Ltd. Alchemist Ltd. Allana Cold Storage Ltd. Amrit Feeds Ltd. Andhra Sugars Ltd. Anirudh Foods Ltd. Annam Feeds Ltd. Anupam Extractions Ltd. Arambagh Hatcheries Ltd. Aries Agro Ltd. Aries Marketing Ltd. B C L Industries & Infrastructures Ltd. Balaji Foods & Feeds Ltd. Baramati Agro Ltd. Brooke Bond Lipton India Ltd. C & M Farming Ltd. C P Aquaculture (India) Pvt. Ltd. Chambal Fertilisers & Chemicals Ltd. Damania Pharma Ltd. Gajanan Extraction Ltd. Genomics Biotech Ltd. Godrej Agrovet Ltd. Goldmohur Foods & Feeds Ltd. Gpsij Hi-Tech Agro Foods & Farms Ltd. Graintec India Ltd. Hanuman Minor Oils Ltd. Haryana Agro Inds. Corpn. Ltd. Hatsun Agro Products Ltd. Indian Potash Ltd. Induss Food Products & Equipment Ltd. Intercorp Biotech Ltd. Jagat Industries Ltd. Japfa Comfeed India Pvt. Ltd. Jupiter Biotech Ltd. K R M Marine Exports Ltd. K S E Ltd. Kapila Krishi Udyog Ltd. Karnataka State Agro Corn Products Ltd. Kirti Dal Mills Ltd. Kumar Food Inds. Ltd. Kwality Feeds Ltd. Lakshmi Energy & Foods Ltd. Laxmi Starch Ltd. Lipton India Ltd. Maharashtra Agro-Inds. Devp. Corpn. Ltd. Modern India Ltd. Nova Chemie (India) Ltd. Pioneer Feeds & Poultry Products Pvt. Ltd. Pranav Agro Inds. Ltd. Prima Agro Ltd. Puri Oil Mills Ltd. Rainbow Agri Inds. Ltd. Rasdhara Agro Exports Ltd. Rinku Polychem Ltd. S K M Animal Feeds & Foods (India) Ltd. S O L Ltd. Sakthi Beverages Ltd. Schreiber Dynamix Dairies Ltd. Shalimar Pellet Feeds Ltd. Sharat Industries Ltd. Snam Vijaya Feeds Ltd. Somkan Marine Foods Ltd. Sona Oil & Chemical Inds. Ltd. Sonitpur Solvex Ltd. Suguna Poultry Farm Ltd. Suguna Poultry Products Ltd. Super Farm Products Ltd. Superhouse Ltd. Swastika Feeds Ltd. Tara Health Foods Ltd. Tata Oil Mills Co. Ltd. Tinna Oils & Chemicals Ltd. Unique Agro Processors (India) Ltd. Utkal Feeds Pvt. Ltd. Vegepro Foods & Feeds Ltd. Venco Research & Breeding Farm Pvt. Ltd. Venkateshwara Hatcheries Pvt. Ltd. Venky'S (India) Ltd. Venky'S (India) Ltd. [Erstwhile] Vijay Agro Products Pvt. Ltd. Waterbase Ltd. Zeus Biotech Ltd. Detailed Project Report contains 1. Introduction 2. Properties 3. BIS (Bureau of Indian Standard) Specifications & Requirements 4. Uses & Applications 5. Present Indian Market Position 6. Expected Future Demand 7. Process of Manufacturing 8. Names and Addresses of Existing Units (Present Manufactures) 9. List of Plant & Machineries 10. Miscellaneous Items and Accessories 11. Instruments 12. Laboratory Equipments and Accessories 13. Electrification 14. Electric Load and Water 15. Maintenance 16. Suppliers/Manufacturers of Plant and Machineries 17. Process of Manufacture 18. Flow Sheet Diagram 19. List of Raw Materials 20. Availability of Raw Materials 21. Cost/Rates of Raw Materials 22. Requirement of Staff & Labour 23. Personnel Management 24. Skilled & Unskilled Labour 25. Requirement of Land Area 26. Rates of the Land 27. Built up Area, 28. Cost of Raw Materials 29. Cost of Land & Building 30. Cost of Plant & Machineries 31. Fixed Capital Investment 32. Working Capital 33. Project Cost 34. Capital Formation 35. Cost of Production 36. Profitability Analysis 37. Break Even Point, 38. Cash Flow Statement for 5 to 10 Years 39. Depreciation Chart 40. Projected Balance Sheet 41. Land Man Ratio etc. Project Reports cover all the aspects of business, from analysing the market, confirming availability of various necessities such as plant & machinery, raw materials to forecasting the financial requirements. The scope of the report includes assessing market potential, negotiating with collaborators, investment decision making, corporate diversification planning etc. in a very planned manner by formulating detailed manufacturing techniques and forecasting financial aspects by estimating the cost of raw material, formulating the cash flow statement, projecting the balance sheet etc. For More Visit www.projectreportinfo.blogspot.in www.industrialinformationindia.blogspot.in Interested may ask for charges. Mail us Project Name, Contact Person Name, Phone no, Email address, Address at spacecsindia@gmail.com or SMS us Project Name, Contact Person Name, Phone no, Email on +919407566665 Last edited by scsindia; April 15th, 2015 at 06:24 PM . Reason: na Reply With Quote July 10th, 2012 #2 godepadmini Join Date Aug 2010 Posts 2 reqeusts for project report on cattle feed Dear Sir, Kinldy share a copy of report on the cattle feed! thanking you Last edited by moderator A; July 10th, 2012 at 11:17 AM . Reason: only business members are allowed to post contact info. please click My Account to upgrade Reply With Quote October 28th, 2014 #3 scsindia Join Date Apr 2010 Posts 849 please send us mail and contact no regarding the Cattle feed project Reply With Quote March 10th, 2015 #4 apiyush142 Join Date Nov 2014 Posts 10 Sir, apiyush142@gmail.com please send a sample project report Reply With Quote 3 Days Ago #5 scsindia Join Date Apr 2010 Posts 849 Please mail us in our mail id spacecsindia@gmail.com Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 12:51 PM .