Finance and taxation of company selling farm produce AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Agri Finance - Gogulamanda Ananadara Rao Finance and taxation of company selling farm produce Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Finance and taxation of company selling farm produce LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… March 3rd, 2015 #1 ramapurfarms Join Date Dec 2014 Posts 8 Finance and taxation of company selling farm produce hello, We are bunch of 4 friends have been doing farming since one year now. We want to form an LLP company to sell our produce to various direct institutions or to end users, without involving middle men. I want to know when sold from the company, is the company liable for income tax. whereas, if the agri produce is sold by an individual farmer, then it is not taxable. what are the advantages or disadvantages of forming a company like this? we would like to know whether company will be useful to secure finance from banks or private equity or VC/angel investing etc. Pls reply. rgds, Vinayak Ramapur Farms. Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread agri company , finanace for company , taxation View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 10:01 PM .