Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Programmes/themes >> Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme DHAN Foundation responded immediately after the tsunami in 2004 and took up relief works. After the relief phase, DHAN took up the task of enabling the restoration of livelihood activities in the affected regions. It has now evolved into a full-fledged and area-based programme. The programme follows an integrated and holistic approach to address the issues in livelihoods and conservation of coastal ecosystem named as, 'Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme (CALL)'. Without upsetting the social fabric and cultural identities, the following programme components have been designed. Promoting people's organisations among the most vulnerable communities, marginalized fishing communities, affected coastal farmers, affected women and families involved in allied activities. Access to savings, credit and insurance services are made possible, in addition to support for their livelihoods activities Conserving coastal natural resources such as coastal eco-system, marine bio-system, water bodies and coastal farm system to reduce poverty and vulnerability, and thereby to make fisheries and coastal agriculture sustainable. Building business-based people’s organisations and their networks to strengthen their existing livelihoods and encourage them to take up alternative livelihoods. Establishing disaster mitigation strategies through disaster management committees (DMCs), early warning systems (EWS) through networked VICs, and also creating corpus funds at the people’s organisations for facing future disasters. Working in partnership with the panchayat and district level mainstream agencies to coordinate effectively under any emergency situations. ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved