Childrens corner — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Education / Childrens corner Share Views View State: Open for Edit Info Childrens corner This sections has a range of topics that would cater to a child's interest! Science Section Children science section teaches children in an interactive, easy, visual way to help them in learn science about scientific phenomena, encourages creative thinking and active participation in learning process Important Dates in Indian History History offers a lot of information about how people and societies behave and it provides opportunity to learn from examples of the past. One writer has said, ‘those who cannot remember history are condemned to repeat it’. This is true of more true about our Indian History. National Symbols This section talks about the National Identity Elements of India. National & State level Scholarships and Awards for students The topic provides information on various National & State level Scholarships and Awards for students by the Government of India through its Ministries, Departments and autonomous institutions and by the state governments. New Official 7 Wonders of the World The topic briefs about the new Official Seven Wonders of the World. National Olympiads The Olympiads signify excellence in education and an undoubted knowledge base. India has the following Olympiads to appreciate such talent in students. Admission to Various Institutions in India Educational institutions adopt different admission procedures for students in different classes. Since these procedures changes from time to time, it is better to visit their websites for any updates. Local festivals of India This topic provides information about local festivals of India. National Portal for Museums Famous Temples in India This topic provides in information about famous festivals in India. How to prepare for board exams Tips for preparing for board exams Places to visit This section covers interesting places that are worth visiting. Navigation Child Rights Policies and Schemes Childrens corner Science Section Important Dates in Indian History National Symbols National & State level Scholarships and Awards for students New Official 7 Wonders of the World National Olympiads Admission to Various Institutions in India Local festivals of India National Portal for Museums Famous Temples in India How to prepare for board exams Places to visit Teachers corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance Digital Litercy Digital Learning Resources Resource Links Discussion Forum - Education Related Items Schemes for Elementary,Secondary & Higher Education National & State level Scholarships and Awards for students Places to visit in Agra National Scholarships for Persons with Disabilities more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development