Joint Venture Opportunities for Indian Companies | Invest India Invest India Home About India Doing Business in India Investment Policies Contact Us About Us Useful Links Menu Home Invest India Brochure Investment Guides Our Partners Events JV Opportunities Studies & Surveys DMIC E Biz Australia-India CEO Forum – Investment Champions Joint Venture Opportunities for Indian Companies Invest India, as a part of its investment facilitation service to foreign investors, also assists them in finding partners based in India on the basis of requests received. Projects currently on offer are: Corjanta LLC is a company based in USA and is in the business of evaluating an organizations Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability standing. They provide the most innovative and comprehensive CSR Self-Assessment tool available for companies. Their copyright, purpose built Visionary Enterprise Survey and 3 'S' Roadmap to Sustainability helps organizations assess their CSR Strengths, weaknesses across 7 key areas. The self-evaluation is followed by comprehensive feedback and includes best practices; benchmarks as well as value added practical recommendations. Website-( http://www.corjanta.com/home ). Once the Companies Bill passes and becomes the law, CSR spend will become mandatory for certain class of companies and they need to have a good understanding in order to comply with the law. Corjanta is interested in joining hands with an Indian company that understands the tremendous opportunity there is in the CSR knowledge, practice and implementation space. They would like to establish partnership with a company that complements their business model and provides robust marketing & sales capability to make this venture successful and mutually beneficial. Interested companies may include auditing/accounting, tax firms, consulting or marketing companies on a revenue sharing model via providing their product and services. Please click here to submit your interest in the project. Invest India Copyright 2012