Forestry Compendium Cookies on Forestry Compendium Like most websites we use cookies. This is to ensure that we give you the best experience possible. Continuing to use www.cabi.org/fc means you agree to our use of cookies. If you would like to, you can learn more about the cookies we use. Close Find out more Forestry Compendium The world’s most comprehensive site for Forestry Information Other CABI sites AgBiotechNet Animal Health & Production Compendium Animal Science Database Aquaculture Compendium CAB Direct CAB eBooks CAB Reviews CAB Thesaurus CABI Bookshop CABI.org Crop Protection Compendium Descriptions of Fungi and Bacteria Distribution Maps of Plant Diseases Distribution Maps of Plant Pests Environmental Impact Forest Science Forestry Compendium InfoTree Invasive Species Compendium Japanese Knotweed Alliance Leisure Tourism Nutrition and Food Sciences Plantwise VetMed Resource Home Overview About Help Contact Mobile Subscribe Sign in Sign in Username Password Sign in Remember me Forgotten password? Institutional sign in Choose institution Sign in using my IP Not yet subscribed? Subscribe here Datasheets Abstracts Full Text Library Glossary More Resources Search Forestry Compendium Smart searches Search over 20,000 Datasheets and over 300,000 Abstracts Enter keyword or phrase Search Search within topic Limit to selected topics Filter by type Limit to selected content types Abstract Datasheet Datasheet (Basic) Datasheet (Full) Full Text Glossary Library Forestry Compendium smart searches are based on commonly researched topics, and your own requests Request a search Forest health Forest management Forest pests Forest products Forest resources Forest trees Forestry Forestry development Invasive species Silviculture Temperate forestry Timbers Tropical forestry Latest content Recent Datasheet (Full) Brontispa longissima (coconut hispine beetle) Brontispa attacks palms of all ages, although it is most damaging to young palms in nurseries and for the first 4-5 years after... Datasheet (Full) Bursaphelenchus xylophilus (pine wilt nematode) B. xylophilus on its natural hosts behaves like other members of the genus, living a mycophagous life cycle on trees weakened or... Datasheet (Full) Xiphinema americanum (dagger nematode) Direct damage to strawberries, fruit trees, forage legumes and forest trees has occurred in the USA. X. americanum is thought to be a major... Datasheet (Full) Megaplatypus mutatus M. mutatus is native to South America and in 2000 it was reported from Italy where it was damaging poplars and several fruit tree... Datasheet (Full) Ceratocystis fimbriata (Ceratocystis blight) The literature suggests that introduced populations of C. fimbriata have thus far remained restricted to particular cultivated hosts. This is... Datasheet (Full) Dryocosmus kuriphilus (Oriental chestnut gall wasp) By attacking the vegetative buds and forming a gall, D. kuriphilus disrupts twig growth and reduces fruiting. Commercial growers may expect yield... Datasheet (Full) Peach latent mosaic viroid (American mosaic of peach) The incidence of the disease is high and PLMVd can be considered to be a dangerous pathogen of peach (Flores et al.,... Datasheet (Full) Glomerella cingulata (anthracnose) Pre- and post-harvest losses of many high-value crops are substantial in the tropics because of various diseases caused by C. gloeosporioides.... Datasheet (Full) Ceroplastes rusci (fig wax scale) C. rusci is a pest of cultivated fig and citrus in the Mediterranean Basin and is occasionally a serious pest of citrus in Israel (Ben-Dov, 1988).... Datasheet (Full) Colletotrichum dematium (leaf spot) Colletotrichum dematium has a wide host range (Agarwal et al., 2004). See Seedborne... Not all content could be returned, please refresh the page. If you continue to see this message please report the issue, thank you. My FC Account Create and export short lists Create bibliography Save content Articles, books, reviews and more… Save searches Monitor the latest content Subscribe to the Forestry Compendium If you are interested in the Forestry Compendium, p lease contact our Sales Team at  sales@cabi.org  to find out more. Content types Abstract Datasheet Datasheet (Basic) Datasheet (Full) Full Text Glossary Library Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Cookies Accessibility Feedback Copyright © 2015 CABI. CABI is a registered EU trademark Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email