Places to Visit in Uttarakhand, Tourist Destinations near Uttarakhand Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Uttarakhand Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Flights to Dehradun Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Tapkeshawar Temple Har-Ki-Pauri Bharat Mata Temple Mussoorie Lake Naina Devi Temple Lakshman Jhula Badrinath Yatra Char Dham Yatra Uttarakhand Temples Jim Corbett National Park Cities to Visit in Uttarakhand Auli Travel Dehradun Travel Kedarnath Travel Mussoorie Travel Haridwar Travel Gangotri Travel Nainital Travel Ranikhet Travel Rishikesh Travel Uttarkashi Travel Chamoli Travel Pithoragarh Travel Dhanaulti Travel Bhimtal Travel Uttarakhand Hotels Almora Hotels Rishikesh Hotels Dehradun Hotels Haridwar Hotels Nainital Hotels About Uttarakhand History Geography Climate Home » Uttarakhand » Travel » Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Uttarakhand, the land of gods, is the home of Himalayas. It allures tourists from all over the world. There are many tourist destinations in Uttarakhand, largely because of its scenic and religious significance. The state is divided into two zones, Kumaon and Garhwal; these zones have lots of tourist destination. Places to See in uttarakhand Mussoorie Mussoorie is located 34 kilometer away from Dehradun at an altitude of 2003 meter in the Garhwal hills above sea-level. Mussoorie is a fascinating hill station in India. Major Hindu pilgrimage spots like Kedarnath, Gangotri, Badrinath, Haridwar, Yamunotri and Rishikesh are not far away from this place. The important destinations of Mussoorie are given below: Gun Hill: It is the second highest peak of Mussoorie. Gun Hill offers a beautiful view of the Himalayan ranges namely Bunderpunch, Pithwara Srikantha and Gangotri group. It also offers a bird's eye view of Mussoorie town and Doon Valley. Municipal Garden : It is a wonderful picnic spot with a beautiful garden and an artificial lake, which has boating facilities. Childer's Lodge: It is the highest peak of Mussoorie near Lal Tibba. It is located at a distance of about 5 kilometer from the tourist office. One can get an exhilarating snow view at this spot. Camel's Back Road: This road covers a total distance of about 3 kilometer starting from Kulri Bazar near Rink Hall and ending at Library Bazar. The main attraction of this place is horse riding. The fascinating sunset view of the Himalayas should not be missed. Jharipani Fall : It is located 8.5 kilometer away from Mussoorie on Mussoorie- Jharipani Road. Visitors can travel 7 kilometer to Jharipani by bus or by car from where the fall is about 1.5 km away Bhatta Fall: It is situated at a distance of 7 kilometer from Mussoorie on Mussoorie-Dehradun road. One can reach Balta village by car or bus from where the fall is 3 kilometer away. Ranikhet Ranikhet of Uttarakhand won the heart of the queen of Raja Sudhardev, Rani Padmini and she chose this scenic spot to be her home. Therefore, it is named so (the queen's field). It offers its visitors the best of the Himalayas including the snowcapped Nanda Devi (7817 meter) and lush green forests and varied wildlife. Important Destinations at Ranikhet: Jhoola Devi Temple: This is a secluded temple dedicated to Durga. It has beautiful bells. A temple of Lord Rama is located nearby. Chaubatia: Chaubatia is a wonderful spot set amidst gardens. It is located at a distance of 10 kilometer from Ranikhet on a motorable road. The Government Fruit Research center is situated here. A 300-kilometer-wide view of the snow-clad Himalayan peaks can be viewed clearly from Chaubatia on a clear morning. The Nanda Devi, Nanda Ghunti, Trisul and Nilkanth peaks can be clearly viewed from here. Bhaludam, situated at a distance of 3 kilometer from here, has an artificial lake. Upat and Kalika: Upat is situated on the road to Almora. It has a 9 hole golf course. Kalika is known for its Kali Temple and forest nursery. Kumaon Kumaon in Uttarakhand is a popular tourist destination with snow-capped mountains, valleys, glaciers, Alpine meadows, lakes, and forests. Along with Garhwal, it is one of the two divisions of the state. Kumaon is made up of the six Himalayan districts, namely Almora, Champawat, Bageshwar, Pithoragarh, Nainital, and Udham Singh Nagar. Nainital in Kumaon: It is located at a height of 1938 meter. Its major attractions are: Dorothy's Seat China Peak Hanuman temple Nanda Devi In India, Nanda Devi is the second highest mountain. It is a portion of the Garhwal Himalaya. It is situated between Goriganga valley in the east and Rishiganga valley in the west within the state of Uttarakhand. The mountain peak is considered the patron-goddess of Uttarakhand Himalaya.The major attraction of Nanda Devi in Uttarakhand is trekking and Nanda Devi National Park. Binsar Binsar is located 26 kilometer away from Almora. Binsar was the Chand Rajas' summer capital during the period 7th-8th centuries. Binsar is a scenic spot of the Kumaon Himalayas and a popular hill destination.Binsar Hills has a height of 2412 meter. A spectacular view of the Kumaon hills, the Almora town, and the greater Himalayas are the major attractions of the place. The natural wealth of ferns, alpine flora, wild flowers, and hanging moss add to the beauty of Binsar. The most important attraction of Binsar is a wonderful 300-kilometer view of the Himalayas, which include the well known peaks of Chaukhamba, Kedarnath, Nanda Devi, Trishul, Panchchuli, and Nanda Kot. Rudrapur The headquarters of the district of Udham Singh Nagar is Rudrapur. Udham Singh Nagar, the 'gateway to Kumaon Hiils' has three main subdivisions, which are Kashipur, Rudrapur, and Khatima. Rudrapur is a prosperous town. A tour to Uttaranchal is incomplete without visiting Rudrapur. According to a few historians, many years ago, Rudra, probably a Lord Rudra devotee or a tribal chief established the village of Rudrapur. Trijuginarayan Trijuginarayan in Uttarakhand is a retreat to the adventurers as well as the pilgrims who love to visit the far and wide places in the Himalayas. The place is situated amidst the breathtaking beauty of the nature. Those who take the troubles to visit the picturesque holy places in the state of Uttarakhand make a stop over at this serene site and usually spend their night here. Trijuginarayan has notable temples and holy shrines which are visited by the devotees from all the corners of the earth. The most wonderful experience that you will have in Trijuginarayan of Uttarakhand is the participation in the evening aarti and prayers in the temple. It is such a great delight to the soul that you never can forget it. The aarti at the temple reflects the deep rooted faith and love of the people here towards religion and the deity. Even those who are not much inclined towards the religious rituals can feel the pulse of 'Bhakti' or devotion. Panch Dharas The panch dharas of Uttarakhand are considered to be the one of the most sought-after destinations of the state, positioned in Badripuri that is frequently visited by eager pilgrims. The panch dharas in Uttarakhand represent an assemblage of five spectacular streams dowered with emerald blue waters. They are popular by the designations of Prahlad, Kurma, Bhrigu, Urvashi and Indira Dhara respectively. Although the individual streams that comprise Uttarakhand's panch dharas possess their own charms, Indira Dhara is undoubtedly the most coveted and renowned. The Indira Dhara stretches across the northern periphery of the town known as Badaripuri. The clear and pristine waters that constitute the Indira Dhara is viewed as a source that can free an individual from all his sins. The Bhrigudhara, another important stream of the panch dharas at Uttarakhand spans across a few exquisitely carved caves that will captivate you in a state of trance. There are many legendary mythological stories that are carefully sealed inside the walls of the stupendous caves. These majestic caves are indeed so delectable that you will not be able to take your eyes of them. Dehradun Dehradun nestled in the Doon Valley is a picturesque city with mild climate. It is the capital of Uttaranchal, and is located at a height of 2200 feet above sea level. It is a popular tourist destination in Uttarakhand. Dehradun in Uttarakhand probably derives its name from Guru Dronacharya in the Mahabharat. The famous religious town of Rishikesh, the queen of hills Mussoorie, the renowned sulphur springs at Sahastradhara and a part of Rajaji National Park, the Chakrata hills all lie in this region. Lansdowne It is located at an altitude of 1,706 meters. It is situated at a distance of about 81 kilometer from Pauri. It is one of the quietest hill stations in India. Lansdowne was founded by Lord Lansdowne in 1887 AD. Lansdowne was originally a popular hill station during the British rule. The war memorial located at the Parade Ground of the Garhwal Rifles Center attracts the visitors. It is surrounded by thick Oak and blue Pine forests. The major attractions of the city are Tip-n-Top, Church Point and Santoshi Mata Temple. Tarkeshwar Mahadev temple and Bhairav Garhi temple can be visited on excursion from the city. Kausani It is situated 53 kilometer to the north of Almora. The spectacular 300 kilometer-wide view of the Himalayas makes Kausani a picturesque hill station. Kausani of Uttarkhand is located above a narrow ridge at a height of 6075 feet above sea level. Kausani is often compared with Switzerland for its scenic beauty. Haridwar Haridwar in Uttarakhand, 294.70 meters above sea level, is situated along the right bank of the sacred Ganga and comprises one of the most popular Hindu pilgrimage sites. Haridwar or the 'Gateway to Gods' is termed Mayapuri, Kapila and Gangadwar. The Ganga enters the North Indian plains here. Hindu pilgrims and devotees assemble at Haridwar of Uttarakhand to offer prayers on religious occasions. Haridwar at Uttarakhand also serves as a venue for the Kumbh Mela (every twelfth year) and Ardh Kumbh ( every sixth year). However, it is not only the haunt of ascetics and saints, it is also a focus of arts, science and culture. It holds industrial importance as it contains one of the biggest industrial clusters of Uttaranchal- SIDCUL. A trip to Haridwar is like venturing into a completely different world, where the sparkling waters of the Ganga, the calm environment, steep mountains, saints offering prayers in ashrams, all form a wondrous panorama. Several temples and ashrams dot this town. Janakichatti If you plan to visit the picturesque locale of Yamunotri be sure to pay a brief sojourn to Janakichatti in Uttarakhand. Its pristine and serene ambiance will surely free you from all sorts of vexations and rejuvenate your mind and soul. The reason for which you cannot afford to give it a miss is that it is bestowed with luscious green fields, magniloquent knolls and most importantly a beautiful temple by an equally enchanting waterfall. Janakichatti of Uttarakhand is the spot from where the vast trek across a stretch of approximately 8 kilometers to the pilgrim's spot of Yamunotri commences. Janakichatti is also bestowed with an ancient shrine that is designated as the Laxminarayan Temple. This medieval temple is exquisitely carved and is an absolute treat for the eyes. Indeed , if you desire to get drenched in the holy spirit and embrace truth, Janakichatti is the most suitable spot for you. Vasuki Tal One of the many less frequented but charming tourist spots in the state of Uttarakhand, situated at a distance of about 8 kilometers from the religiously significant pilgrimage center of Kedarnath. Standing at an altitude of almost 4135 meters (that is about 14,200 feet) above the sea level, the lake of Vasuki Tal is surrounded by the imposing and magnificent Himalayan mountain ranges and offers a spectacular view of the Chaukhamba peaks nearby. The best time to visit this delightful spot are the months of June to October, when the weather is mild and pleasant. In the winter months of December and January, the climate is usually too extreme and harsh to make even a short trip to the region. Chamba Chamba is a mountainous district with an altitude of 2000 to 21000 feet. Chamba offers its tourists snow-capped mountains, valleys, gorges, rivers, meadows, lakes, monasteries, and temples. Raja Sahil Varma founded Chamba in 920 AD, who named it after Champavati, his daughter. Chamba is known for extraordinary temples, miniatures, and handicraft. Uttarkashi Uttarkashi is a hill district in the state of Uttarakhand. The rivers Ganga and Yamuna have their origin in this district. Uttarkashi at Uttarakhand is also known as 'Devbhumi' (the land of gods) as it houses two famous Hindu pilgrimages namely 'Gangotri' and 'Yamunotri'. Enchanting valleys, gorges, natural lakes and scenic landscapes, brooks, streams, rivers, rocky ridges and mountains with snow-capped peaks add to the glory of the place. The district is an utmost attraction for the pilgrims, the tourists and for those having a zeal for trekking and mountaineering. The district is named after its headquarter Uttarkashi, an ancient place with rich cultural heritage. Kashi of north (Uttara) is considered almost as holy as Kashi of the plain (Varanasi). Both the Kashi of north and the Kashi of the plain (Varanasi) are situated on the banks of the river Ganga (Bhagirathi). The area considered sacred and known as Uttarkashi lies between the rivers Syalam Gad also called Varuna and Kaligad also called Asi. One of the holiest ghats of Uttarkashi of Uttarakhand is Manikarnika. It has temples dedicated to Vishwanath. Chorabari If you go to Kedarnath, make it a point to visit Chorabari (Gandhi Sarovar), a lake having floating - ice on the crystal clear waters. Along with Vasuki Tal, they comprise the most fascinating sites around Kedarnath. Both of these lakes lie at an altitude of 4,150 meters. The scenic beauty in Chorabari of Uttarkhand is beyond description. The unparalleled aesthetic beauty adorned with the marvelous panoramic views of countless snow-capped peaks, the rhododendron forests and the Alpine meadows that spot the area around the lake can never ever be forgotten in one's life. Chorabari in Uttarkhand is a place of delight to the devotees of religion as well as to those who have a passion for the wealth of nature. There is really a blend of pilgrimage and nature tourism. Bhim Pul Bhim Pul is located on one side of Mana village, opposite to the rock cave Vyas Gufa. Bhim Pul is a huge rock, which forms a natural bridge across the unruly Saraswati River. Bhim Pul offers an extraordinary view of Saraswati River forcing its way under the rock through a narrow passage. According to Hindu mythology, one of the five Pandava brothers Bhim has placed it there. Divya Shila Divya Shila is a pillar made of rock. It is located close to the Surya Kund, near the Yamunotri temple in Yamunotri. This slab of stone is also called 'slab of divine light'. Devotees crowd the place to pray in front of Divya Shila before stepping into the Yamunotri temple and offering puja to Yamuna. Pantnagar Pantnagar is presently famous for housing the first agricultural university of India. Initially, it was called Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University, but its current name is Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture & Technology. Pantnagar is situated in the district of Udham Singh Nagar. It stands at a height of 243.8 meter above the sea level. Rishikesh Rishikesh is located about 43 kilometer away from Dehradun and 245 kilometer away from Delhi. Rishikesh stands at a height of 365 meter above the sea level. The Shivalik range of the Himalayas borders Rishikesh on three sides, which adds to the scenic beauty of this sacred place. It is the beginning point of Char Dham Pilgrimage ( Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath, and Badrinath). Nainital Nainital in Uttarakhand is a beautiful hill station amidst the Kumaon hills, which once served as the summer capital of the former United Province. Studded with lakes, it was termed the 'City of 60 Lakes' or 'Chakta'. The weather is clement throughout the year except winter, when it is quite cold and subject to snowfall. The climate of Nainital depends on the lake here, which causes rain nearly every afternoon. The most suitable time visit the place is April to June and September October. Agastyamuni Agastyamuni is a tourist destination about 20 kilometers from Rudraprayag, at a height of 1000 meters, along the bank of the beautiful river Mandakini. The place is so named after the ascetic Agastya who is believed to have meditated here for one full year. A temple known locally as Agasteshwar mahadev is consecrated to sage Agastya and it also happens to have some archaeological significance. Images of Hindu deities have been carved out on the stones of the walls at the place. These stand witness to the architectural finesse and unparalleled craftsmanship of the past. During the festival of Baisakhi, a large fair takes place and many devotees assemble here to celebrate the occasion while they worship and pay their obeisance to the deity. Gaumukh Gangotri glacier protrudes into the Gaumukh. The Bhagirathi River, which is a major tributary of River Ganga, has originated from Gaumukh. Hindu pilgrims consider a dip into the ice-cold water of Gaumukh very holy. Hence it has developed into one of the traditional Hindu pilgrim spots. The Gangotri glacier is 2 - 4 kilometer wide and 30 kilometer long. Gaumukh rresembles a cow's mouth and hence this place is called Gaumukh ('gou' means cow and 'mukh' means face). Gaumukh is located close to the base of Shivling Mountain. In recent times, the glacier has been retreating at avery fast pace. The distance of 18 kilometer to Gaumukh from Gangotri is to be covered with the help of ponies or on foot. The trek from from Gangotri to Gaumukh is quite easy and one can return the same day to Gangotri. Ponies and porters can be availed at Gangotri. Auli Auli in Uttarakhand is situated on the peaks of Garhwal Himalayas and close to the Badrinath religious shrine. It is situated at an altitude of 2,500 to 3,050 meters above sea level. Auli's slopes are covered by coniferous and oak forests, which offer a spectacular view of the Himalayas. The snowy and rugged terrain of Auli of Uttarakhand is a famous ski-resort and winter resort. Almora The Almora town is located at a distance of 63 kilometer from Nainital and 380 kilometer from Delhi. It is the headquarter of Almora district. Almora district is located in the beautiful Kumaun region of Uttarakhand state in India. For its easy accessibility, Almora promises its tourists a pleasant visit. Almora is known a 'town of temples'. At the center of the town, is the temple of Goddess Nanda Devi. Almora, unlike Shimla, Nainital and Ranikhet, which were developed by the English, is a hill station totally developed by the Indians. Almora has many fruit orchards like peaches, apricots, apples, plums, etc. Satopnath One of the toughest trekking destination in the state of Uttarakhand in India is the Satopnath Lake or the Satopnath Tal. The place is a heaven on the earth. No single word can describe its sheer beauty and serenity. Satopnath in Uttarkhand is located at a height of 14, 300 feet. It is an amazing glacial lake of triangular shape nestled in the Garhwal Himalayas. Whenever you go to the Satopnath at Uttarakhand you will have to go through the steep rugged roads with sharp edges. The mountain here is very rugged. It is really a challenge to a person who has a passion for mountains to go for a trek to Satopnath. There is the Garhwal Himalayas at the backdrop of the wonderful Satopnath lake. Deoria Tal Deoria Tal is a beautiful lake in Uttarakhand, which is one among the many attractions of the state. The place is located within close proximity of Sari village. This village is the last bus stop along the Chopta-Ukhimath road. A trek of 2 kilometers, undertaken from this village, will take the tourist to the much eulogized Deoria Tal. This delightful lake, to be found at the height of 2,438 meters, will arrest your attention by offering a splendid reflection of snow bound peaks in the lake water. The place is considered to be a perfect spot for angling and bird watching. The sparkling deep green waters of the Deoria Tal are surrounded by dense vegetation almost amounting to forests all around. On a sunny day,you may be lucky enough to catch the reflection of the mighty Chaukhamba range in the lake. This range contains the imposing and magnificent Badrinath, Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath and Neelkanth peaks. The sight of the snow bound peaks in the calm and placid lake waters is magical and will transport you to a different world altogether. Surya Kund There are some hot water springs or thermal springs near the Yamunotri temple in Yamunotri and they flow into many pools. Surya Kund is the most important of them. Surya Kund near the Yamunotri temple is called so, because Yamuna is the mythological offspring of Surya or Sun. Many pilgrims visit this spring to get refreshed and prepare prasada for the offering to the temple. A few potatoes or rice are mixed with salt and tied up with a muslin cloth. It is then dipped into the Surya Kund for some time, after which the contents get boiled. After offering it to the temple deity, it is taken back home as prasada. The temperature of Surya Kund is 88 degrees. The presence of this thermal spring bordered by snow-covered mountain peaks adds to the divine ambience of the place. Sayanachatti Sayanachatti in Uttarakhand relishes the recognition of being one of the most sought-after locales sited at a close proximity from Yamunotri. The fact that Sayanachatti is proudly positioned on the brink of the sprawling rivulet known as the Yamuna. Sayanachatti of Uttarakhand serves to be a spectacular treat for the eager holiday-makers who assemble here form all over the planet as it is bequeathed with a vast array of marvelous knolls silhouetted against the backdrop of luscious green fields. Another advantage possessed by Sayanachatti at Uttarakhand is that it is aptly positioned at the acme of a rocky hammock that stands at a staggering 1982 meters. The view of the entire region from the apex of Sayanachatti is indeed mesmerizing. Last Updated on : 25/09/2013   Hotels in Uttarakhand   Almora Hotels Badrinath Hotels Bhimtal Hotels Corbett Hotels Dehradun Hotels Dist. Almora Hotels Garjia Hotels Haldwani Hotels Haridwar Hotels Kausani Hotels Mussoorie Hotels Nainital Hotels Naukuchiatal Hotels Ramgarh Hotels Ramnagar Hotels Ranikhet Hotels Rishikesh Hotels Rudra Prayag Hotels Rudrapur Hotels Srinagar Hotels Tehri Garhwal Hotels Travel to Uttarakhand Travel to Auli Travel to Dehradun Travel to Haridwar Travel to Gangotri Travel to Bhimtal Travel to Kedarnath Travel to Mussoorie Travel to Nainital Travel to Ranikhet Travel to Dhanaulti Travel to Almora Travel to Rishikesh Travel to Uttarakashi Travel to Chamoli Travel to Pithoragarh Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Places to visit in Auli Places to visit in corbett Places to visit in Dehradun Places to visit in kedarnath Places to visit in Mussorie Places to visit in Nainital Places to visit in Rishikesh Places to visit in Uttarkashi Places to visit in Haridwar Travel Agents Dehradun Haldwani Haridwar Nainital About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census