Caves in Andhra Pradesh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andhra Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Mosques & Shrines in Andhra Pradesh Parks in Andhra Pradesh Caves in Andhra Pradesh Churches in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Temples in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Museums in Andhra Pradesh Cities to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Travel to Srisailam Travel to Tirupati Travel to Visakhapatnam Travel to Vijayawada Travel to Hyderabad Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Srikakulam Hotels in Kurnool Hotels in Tirupati Hotels in Vijayawada Hotels in Nellore About Andhra Pradesh History Climate Home » Andhra Pradesh » Tourism &raquo Caves in Andhra Pradesh Caves in Andhra Pradesh Depicting the historical saga of Andhra Pradesh , the Caves are spread in all over the area of the state. Housing the rock-cut statues of Lord Buddha, some of the Caves date back to the oldest of centuries. Today, these natural Caves are some of the exquisite tourist appeals of Andhra Pradesh. The past archives of Andhra Pradesh suggest that the Caves were present in the place from a very old time. While the Belum Caves of the state are the natural underground passageways that are well-known for being second to the Meghalaya Caves with respect to their length, Borra Caves established near the river of Gosthani are built of the inherent limestone deposits. Undavalli Caves are yet another natural splendor of Andhra Pradesh. Found by the side of Krishna River, these Caves are believed to be discovered in the early periods of fourth and fifth centuries. A magnificent statue of God Vishnu dons the entire area of these Caves. Encompassing the Sanka Cave, Venkateswara cave, rokalla Cave and Veera Brahman Cave, the Yaganti Caves of Andhra Pradesh represents a beautiful conglomeration of pristine natural subterranean channels. Guthikonda Caves near Narasaropet of Andhra Pradesh were once inhabited by the oldest ancestors of mankind. During the extensive excavation work, a sword holder was found from these Caves that was believed to belong to the primeval times. Evolved over a period of several centuries, the various Caves of Andhra Pradesh have become a prime subject of interest for the archeological department of India and some other foreign counties too. The list of links to various Caves of Andhra Pradesh is listed below: Belum Caves Found in the Belum district of Andhra Pradesh, the Belum Caves were facilitated by three natural opening points that are in the shape of a well. The interiors of the Caves are an enticing view of splashing fresh water corners, wide compartments and stretched out passageways. One of the unique touristy attractions of the state, the entire area inside the Caves covers a total of 3229 meters. The visitors have to cover a sloping passage of 20 meters to reach to the main cavity of the Caves. To discover the unexplored treasures of the Belum Caves, the archeology and museum department along with the European Cave researchers, have carried out extensive exploration works in the place. Proofs of ancient civilization are found in these natural Caves that have eventually helped in making the place one of the prime spots of historical importance and tourist attraction. Borra Caves The limestone deposit of the local River of Gosthani is known to be the prime source of the origin of Borra Caves, Kirinrandal. One of the oldest natural spots of attraction of Andhra Pradesh, the Borra Caves bears a past of around one million years and are visited by tourists from all over the globe. Explored by H. B. Foote in 1854, the Borra Caves later became a subject of immense importance for the European and Indian archeologists. The historic records of Kirinrandal show that Gosthani was once a famous river of the place which was characterized by huge deposits of limestone. With the passage of time, the minerals of the place started to suspend due to the continuous flow of water. This in turn led to the formation of the famous Caves. Undavalli Caves The Undavalli Caves, Undavalli are the best of architectural evidences of the past era of Andhra Pradesh. Found on the bank of River Krishna, Undavalli Caves possess a sculpture of Lord Buddha in sitting posture that is believed to be built between fourth and fifth century AD. Manifesting the excellent art of cutting the rocks to make statues of Lord Buddha in various positions, the Caves are formed in four layers. Set in the Undavalli village, the Caves have a special recognition worldwide for a statue of God Vishnu which is five meter long. Made up of only one block of granite, this sculpture reminds the visitors of the superb craftsmanship of the people of the bygone era of Andhra Pradesh. The rock on which the Undavalli Caves are found, is a popular attraction of Undavalli as from here travelers can get an incredible view of the other equally enthralling rock-cut structures. Yaganti Caves The Yaganti Caves, Yaganti expresses the charismatic splendor of nature which has shaped these sources of eternal beauty of Andhra Pradesh Tourism. Found at Yaganti, the Caves are a splendid assemblage of subterranean passageways evolved due to various actions and reactions of nature over a considerable span of time. The main attraction of Yaganti Caves is visible in the form of Venkateswara Cave, Sanka Cave, Rokalla Cave and Veera Brahman Cave. The brilliant internal chambers and the natural cavities that exist in all these Caves surely capture the imagination of the visitors in no time. The traditional fables of Yaganti shows that the Caves were the very place where Kalagnanam - the famous literary wonder scripted by Potuluri Veera Brahman has took a practical shape. Known as one of the great figures of Andhra Pradesh's literature world, Potuluri chose the quaint and calm place of Yaganti Caves to work on one of his fabulous scripts. A major place of tourist appeal, Yaganti Caves receives huge number of visitors every year. The place has well-developed infrastructure of roads. The railway station is located at Kurnool which is 100 km away from Yaganti. Banaganapalle, an adjoining city of the place, is at a distance of only 13 km and from here one can avail bus services. The nearest air port is situated in Hyderabad. With individual historical past, the Yaganti Caves of Andhra Pradesh truly depict an all-encompassing heritage of Yaganti. Last Updated on 29 March 2013 Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Adoni Hotels Eluru Hotels Hyderabad Hotels Kakinada Hotels Kurnool Hotels Nellore Hotels Ongole Hotels Puttaparthy Hotels Puttaparti Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Srikakulam Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Vizianagaram Hotels Andhra Pradesh Tourism Beaches Buddhist Centres Caves Churches Hill Stations Hotels Monuments Mosques Museums Parks Shopping Temples Andhra Pradesh Handicrafts Wildlife Sanctuaries Travel Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Handicrafts Map Tourist Places in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Tirupati Vijayawada Vishakhapatnam Warangal Puttaparthi Rajahmundry How to Reach Andhra Pradesh Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table People, Culture and Festivals of Andhra Pradesh Art and Craft Fairs Festivals Performing Arts About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule