People and Lifestyle | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > India at a Glance > People and Lifestyle People and Lifestyle This section links Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents People and Lifestyle   Information on fairs and festivals of Rajasthan Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find information about different fair and festivals in Rajasthan. Users can get details about various fairs and festivals such as Baneshwar Fair, Braj Mahotsav, Camel Festival, Marwar Festival, Pushkar Fair, Jaipur Literature Festival, Khatu Shyamji Fair, etc. Information on Surajkund Mela by Haryana Tourism Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Information on Surajkund Mela organised by Haryana tourism is given. Users can get details related to the fair, its objectives, how to reach and past melas. Information about organizing agency and highlights of the fair is also available. List of fairs and festivals celebrated in Varanasi Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get detailed information on fairs and festivals celebrated in Varanasi city of Uttar Pradesh. Users can find information about the significance of various festivals such as Buddha Purnima (Sarnath), Ramleela (Ramnagar), Ganga Mahotsav, Mahashivratri, etc. List of various fairs and festivals like Kachchap Jainti, Narsingh Chaturdashi, Sarnath-Fair, Durga Ji-Fair, etc. is also available. Information on textiles and handicrafts of Arunachal Pradesh Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about wood carvings, ornaments, wangcho bags and other traditional textile and handicraft products of Arunachal Pradesh. Information related to various products such as carpets, paintings, cane and bamboo products and handlooms is also provided. Information on festivals celebrated in Sikkim Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get details about various festivals celebrated in Sikkim. Users can find information on festivals like Sakewa, Mha Puja, Tamu Lachar, Sonam Lachar, Namsoong, Tyohar, Sonam Losoong, Maghey Sakkranti etc. Details about celebration days, celebration moods, customs, traditions, mythology of the festival, etc. are available. Search state wise approved restaurants by Ministry of Tourism Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Search for approved restaurants in various states approved by Ministry of Tourism. Users can search for details about restaurants by selecting name of the state. Information related to the restaurants name, address, email, web address, phone, total no. of rooms, etc. is given. Information on fairs and festivals of Puducherry Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Information on fairs and festivals of Puducherry given by the Department of Tourism of Puducherry. Users can obtain details about festivals like Fete De Puducherry, International yoga festival, Pongal Festival etc. Get information on Masi Magam Festival, Villianur Temple Car Festival and Veerampattinam Car Festival. Details of New Year Day, Chitrai kalai Vizha, Ayudha Puja, Ka