Rajasthan Home » Rajasthan   Rajasthan History and Geography Weather राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar                         more.. Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Rajasthan Sati Mata temple Hawa Mahal Amber Fort Jaigarh Fort Jaisalmer Fort Junagarh Fort Mehrangarh Fort Nahargarh Fort     Rajasthan Location Map Rajasthan Map Jaipur Metro Map About Rajasthan Rajasthan is located in the northwestern part of the subcontinent. It is bordered on its west and northwest by Pakistan, on its north and northeast by the states of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh , on its east and southeast by the states of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, and on its southwest by the state of Gujarat. The Tropic of Cancer passes through its southern tip in the Banswara district. The state has an area of 3,42,239 square kilometers. The capital city is Jaipur. Facts on Rajasthan Official Website www.rajasthan.gov.in Date of Formation Nov 1, 1956 Area 342,239 sq km Density 201/Km2 Total Population (2011) 68,548,437 Males Population (2011) 35,550,997 Females Population (2011) 32,997,440 No. of District 33 Capital Jaipur Rivers Luni, Banas, Kali Sindh, Chambal, Jawal etc. Forests & National Park Keoladeo NP, Ranthambore NP, Bassi WS, Tal Chhapar WS, National Chambal WS etc. Languages Rajasthani, Marwari, Mewari, Dhundhari, Mewati and Harauti, Hindi, Punjabi Neighbours State Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab State Animal Camel State Bird Great Indian Bustard State Tree Khejri State Flower Rohida Net State Domestic Product (2011) 42434 Literacy Rate (2011) 80.33% Females per 1000 males 926 Assembly constituency 200 Parliamentary constituency 25 Places of Interest Travel Guide Festivals & Culture Famous Places Forts & Palaces Wildlife Sanctuaries Temples and Shrines Heritage Destinations Pilgrimage Destinations Jaipur Metro Map Travel Map Road Map Railway Map Arts and Dance Dresses Fairs and Festivals Albert Hall Museum Ajmer Sharif Dargah Amer Fort Jaigarh Fort Mehrangarh Fort Nahargarh Fort City Palace Kumbhalgarh Fort Geography and Climate of Rajasthan Western Rajasthan is relatively dry and infertile; this area includes some of the parts of Thar Desert, also known as the Great Indian Desert. In the Southwestern part of the state, the land is wetter, hilly, and more fertile. The climate varies throughout Rajasthan. On average, winter temperatures range from 8° to 28° C (46° to 82° F) and summer temperatures from 25° to 46° C (77° to 115° F). Average rainfall also varies; the western deserts accumulate about 100 mm (about 4 in) annually, while the southeastern part of the state receives 650 mm (26 in) annually, most of which falls from July through September during the monsoon season. History of Rajasthan Archaeological and historical evidence shows a continuous human habitation of the area dating back to 100,000 years. Between the 7th and the 11th century AD, several dynasties arose, with Rajput strength reaching its peak at the beginning of the 16th century. Emperor Akbar brought the Rajput states into the Mughal Empire; by early 19th century they allied with the Marathas. With the decline of the Mughals, the Rajputs gradually clawed back their independence through a series of spectacular victories, but, by then a new force to reckon with, had emerged on the scene in the form of the British. Most Rajput states entered into alliances with the British, which allowed them to continue as independent states, each with its own maharaja, subject to certain economic and political constraints. These alliances proved to be the beginning of the end of the Rajputs, and soon the extravagance and indulgence of the rulers led to the disintegration of the Rajput kingdoms. The present form of Rajasthan came into being after the Independence. More Detail... Demographics of Rajasthan Rajasthan has a population of 6,85,48,437 as per the 2011 census. The population growth over the last ten years has been around 21.44%. The sex ratio of Rajasthan is 926 per 1000 males. The literacy rate in the state is 67.06%. The largest cities of Rajasthan are Jaipur , Jodhpur and Kota. The state of Rajasthan has 33 districts. Government and Politics of Rajasthan Rajasthan has a single-chamber legislative assembly with 200 seats. The state sends 35 members to the Indian Parliament: 10 to the Rajya Sabha (Upper House) and 25 to the Lok Sabha (Lower House). Local government is based on 30 administrative districts. In politics, Rajasthan is dominated by two major parties: the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Indian National Congress (INC). Economy and Infrastructure of Rajasthan Rajasthan's economy is mainly agricultural; millet, wheat, maize (corn), and cotton are grown. Though parts of the state are extremely dry, and are covered by the Thar Desert, the total cultivable area in the state is 27,465 thousand hectares, and the sown area, 20,167 thousand hectares. Tourism is also an important part of the economy. Primarily an agricultural and pastoral economy, Rajasthan has good reserve of mineral resources. The state accounts for India's entire output of zinc concentrates, and also produces emeralds and garnets, gypsum, silver ore, asbestos, feldspar and mica. It has rich salt deposits at Sambhar and elsewhere and copper mines at Khetri and Dariba. The white marble is mined at Markana near Jodhpur. The main industries are of textiles, rugs and woolen goods, vegetable oils and dyes. Heavy industries include the construction of railway rolling stock, copper and zinc smelting. The chemical industry also produces caustic soda, calcium carbide and sulphuric acid, fertilizer, pesticides and insecticides. The principal industrial complexes are at Jaipur, Kota, Udaipur and Bhilwara. Having acres of arid land, Rajasthan needs extensive irrigation. It receives water from the Punjab rivers and also from the Western Yamuna (Haryana) and Agra canals (Uttar Pradesh) and from the Sabarmati and Narmada Sagar projects to the south. There are thousands of tanks (village ponds or lakes), but they suffer from drought and silt. Rajasthan shares the Bhakra Nangal project with the Punjab and the Chambal Valley project with Madhya Pradesh; both are used to supply water for irrigation and for drinking purposes. The Rajasthan Canal, renamed the Indira Gandhi Canal in the mid-1980s in the memory of the late Prime Minister, carries water from the Beas and Sutlej rivers in Punjab some 400 miles to irrigate desert land in northwestern and western Rajasthan. More Detail... Society and Culture of Rajasthan The Rajputs though representing only a small percentage of the population are the most important section of the population in Rajasthan. They are proud of their warlike reputation and of their ancestry. The Brahman class is subdivided into many Gotras, while the Mahajans (the trading class) are subdivided into a bewildering number of groups. Some of these groups are Jainas, while others are Hindus. In the north and west the Jats and Gujjars are among the largest agricultural communities. Aboriginal peoples in the Alwar, Jaipur, Bharatpur and Dholpur areas include the Minas (Mewatis); the Banjaras, who are travelling tradesmen and artisans; and the Gadia Lohars, another itinerant tribe, who make and repair agricultural and household implements. The Bhils, one of the oldest peoples in India, inhabit the districts of Bhilwara, Chittaurgarh, Dungarpur, Banswara, Udaipur and Sirohi and are famous for their skill in archery. The Grasias and nomadic Kathodis live in the Mewar region. Sahariyas are found in the Kota district, and the Rabaris of the Marwar region are cattle breeders. More Detail... Festivals of Rajasthan The spring festival Gangaur during late March to early April and the Teej festival between early and late August is important in Rajasthan. The Teej welcomes the monsoon, when the state's many lakes become full. The Pushkar camel and cattle fair during mid-November, the Nagaur festival during late January to early February and the Koolyat Fair at Bikaner during mid to late November are well known fairs. The Desert Festival at Jaisalmer during early to mid-February is a famous modern fair. More Detail... Language of Rajasthan The principal language of the state is Rajasthani, comprising a group of Indo-Aryan dialects derived from Dingal, a tongue in which bards once sang of the glories of their masters. The four main dialects are Marwari (in western Rajasthan), Jaipuri or Dhundhari (in the east and southeast), Malvi (Malwi; in the southeast), and, in Alwar, Mewati, which shades off into Braj Bhasa in Bharatpur district. The use of Rajasthani is declining with the spread of modern education, and its place is being taken by Hindi (the official state language of Rajasthan). Education in Rajasthan In the recent years, the state of Rajasthan has made a significant growth in the area of education. As per census 2011, the literacy rate in the state was recorded at 67.06%. The school level education in the state is either affiliated to the Board of Secondary Education, Rajasthan (BSER) or the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). There are about nine universities in the state with more than 250 colleges. There are about 23 polytechnic colleges and more than 150 Industrial Training Institutes (ITI). There are three major and popular education institutes in the state - IIT Jodhpur, Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani and IIM Udaipur. Religion in Rajasthan Hinduism, the religion of most of the population, is generally practiced through the worship of Brahma, Shiva, Shakti, Vishnu (Visnu), and other gods and goddesses. Nathdwara is an important religious centre for the Vallabhacharya sect of Krishna followers. There are also followers of the Arya Samaj, a reforming sect of modern Hinduism, as well as other forms of that religion. Jainism is also important; it has not been the religion of the rulers of Rajasthan but has followers among the trading class and the wealthy section of society. Mahavirji, Ranakpur, Dhulev, and Karera are the chief centres of Jaina pilgrimage. Another important religious sect is formed by the Dadupanthis, the followers of Dadu (d. 1603), who preached the equality of all men, strict vegetarianism, total abstinence from intoxicating liquor, and lifelong celibacy. Tourism of Rajasthan Endowed with natural beauty, Rajasthan attracts thousands of tourists in India. Tourism makes up of eight percent of the state's domestic product. Rajasthan is famous for the forts, temples and decorated Havelis. Many old and neglected forts and palaces have been converted into heritage hotels. Due to this, employment in the hospitality sector has increased. Rajasthan has several tourist sights, especially in ancient and medieval architecture. Places of interest are Mount Abu, Ajmer, Alwar (Sariska tiger sanctuary), Bharatpur (Keoladeo bird sanctuary), Bikaner , Jaipur (the Pink City), Jodhpur, Udaipur, Pali, Jaisalmer and Chittorgarh. Tourism was given industry status in 1992. More Detail... Cities to visit in Rajasthan Ajmer Bikaner Alwar Udaipur Jaipur Jodhpur Pushkar Bharatpur Chittaurgarh Jaisalmer Kota Bundi Transportation The state is connected to many national highways, most popular being NH 8. There are three airports in Rajasthan which connect the state with other major cities of the country. Most of the cities of the state are connected through railways. The Kota City is the Electrified section which is served by three Rajdhani Expresses and other trains to all other major cities. It also has an international railway, the Thar Express which runs from Jodhpur to Karachi. The state is well connected to other cities through state and national highways. Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation (RSRTC) and many private operators operate bus services within the state. WBST111114ET EBAKB121114 Blogs about Rajasthan Top 5 Medieval Forts in Eastern Rajasthan     : Every fort has a story behind it. How about exploring some of the unique forts of Eastern Rajasthan and chasing the stories yourself? I had similar thoughts on my mind during the last road trip across Rajasthan. I often see hordes of tourists clicking pictures of forts one after another without knowing the story behind them. You might have heard of these forts, but I bring forth some unique aspects to make your journey even… read more... Gaitore Royal Cenotaphs: Stone Monuments in Jaipur : Is death bitter? or, is it a way to say goodbye to the mundane world? This is a matter of individual perception. But loss is the essence in both the cases. How different people try to offset the feeling of loss depends on the outllook of those who had once lived and people in their relations. The royal families used to build beautiful and durable crematoriums and memorials. One such memorial is Gaitore, which is… read more... Night Tour of Amber Fort in Jaipur : As dusk descended on the pink city, the yellow bulbs assisted by the moonlight came to the rescue of the Amber Fort, which otherwise slips into darkness. A night trip to the fort is four times costlier than the day trip. While an entry ticket during the day costs just INR 25 per Indian visitor, at night it becomes INR 100. In 2013, Amber Fort (also known as Amer Fort), the hill fort in Jaipur,… read more... Kiradu: Expressions in Sandstone : There was no fragrance of flowers and incense. There were no bell chimes or columns of devotees awaiting their turn to seek blessings. It was still a temple complex. This Shaiva and Vaishnava temple complex is without the deities. It was an empty nest of aging sculptures in Kiradu (Hatama in Rajasthan), near Indo-Pak border. The sand and wind have disfigured faces of many of these masterpieces created in Solanki style. Some of the faces,… read more... Pushkar Camel Fair in Rajasthan: An Event of Many Hues : Heat was not a hindrance. Dust was not a deterrent. The photography fee was not an obstacle either. Photographers of all sorts from India and other countries flocked to the pilgrim town - Pushkar during Oct-Nov 2014 for only one reason: to make beautiful frames of the rural world. Pushkar draws in people across all ages and profiles for reasons more than one. Cattle owners with their animals arrived in the town to do business… read more... Last Updated on : December 19, 2014 About Rajasthan Geography History Weather Area Languages Population Desert Quick Facts Soil and Vegetation Art Dress Fairs and Festivals Food Culture Rajasthan Factsheet Rajasthan Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map District Map in Hindi Jaipur Metro Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Location Map Mineral Map Physical Map Raiway Map Road Map Tehsil Map Travel to Rajasthan Ajmer Travel Barmer Travel Bharatpur Travel Bikaner Travel Bundi Travel Chittaurgarh Travel Fatehpur Travel Jaipur Travel Jaisalmer Travel Jodhpur Travel Kota Travel Kumbhalgarh Travel Mandawa Travel Mount Abu Travel Mukundgarh Travel Nawalgarh Travel Pushkar Travel Ranakpur Travel Samode Travel Sawai Madhopur Travel Shekhawati Travel Udaipur Travel Neemrana Travel Places to Visit in Rajasthan Places to Visit in Ajmer Places to Visit in Barmer Places to Visit in Bharatpur Places to Visit in Bikaner Places to Visit in Bundi Places to Visit in Chittaurgarh Places to Visit in Jaipur Places to Visit in Jaisalmer Places to Visit in Jodhpur Places to Visit in Kota Places to Visit in Kumbhalgarh Places to Visit in Mandawa Places to Visit in Mount Abu Places to Visit in Mukundgarh Places to Visit in Nawalgarh Places to Visit in Ranakpur Places to Visit in Samode Places to Visit in Pushkar Places to Visit in Udaipur             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule <