World Continents Map, Continents of the World Home » World Map » World Continents Map   World Map World Lat Long Map World Climate Map World Elevation Map Large World Map World Map 2012 World Continents Map Blank World Map /a> World Earthquakes Map Large Outline Map of the World World Map From Space Large World Physical Map World Tectonic Plates Map World Map Printable World Continents Outline Map World Desert Map World Poorest Countries Map World Satellite Map World Physical Map World Map for Kids Clickable World Map World Map Oceans islands in Indian Ocean World Map Outline World Language Map World Time Zone Map World Religion Map World Map 2013 World Population Map Large Map of World Continents विश्व का मानचित्र World Language Map World Map in Different   Languages World Map in Russian World Map in Chinese World Map in Arabic World Map in German World Map inHebrew World Map inUrdu World Map inFrench World Map inSpanish World Map inPersian World Map inDutch World Map inHindi World Map inTelugu World Map inGujarati World Map inTamil       World Continents Map Click on the Map for Bigger Map Map of World Continents Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map highlights the names and locations of World Continents. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. How to use this map The world map displays all the continents of the world as well as all the oceans. In addition, the map has a compass which shows the direction and the position of the North Pole. Latitudes and Longitudes are marked across to accurately find the position of any place on the map. This map is a useful resource for school children who wish to learn about the various aspects of world geography. Moreover, this map is a useful aid for teachers and parents as well. Continents Land makes up 30% of the Earth's surface. This land mass on earth is divided into continents of varying shapes and sizes. The continents, all differently colored in this map are: North America, South America, Africa, Europe, Asia, Australia, and Antarctica. The largest continent is Asia and the smallest Australia. Australia is the only continent which is also a country and Antarctica is the only continent which is uninhabited. Asia and Africa are joined by narrow strips of land, and so are North and South America. Europe and Asia are actually one continuous land mass as there is no water body which separates them. Sometimes, North and South Americas are jointly referred to as the Americas, and Europe and Asia as Eurasia. Oceans Oceans are large bodies of water which cover two thirds of the Earth's surface. Actually these are part of just one continuous body of water which is divided by the continental landmasses. The largest and the deepest ocean is the Pacific which separates Asia from America. The other oceans are Indian, Southern, Atlantic and Arctic. The Pacific Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean are further sub divided at the equator into northern and southern parts. Atlantic separates North and South America from Europe and Africa. Indian Ocean named after India is bounded by Southern and Western Asia, Africa and Australia. Southern ocean encircles Antarctica, and Arctic Ocean-located in the Arctic polar region- is surrounded by Europe, Asia and North America. Arctic Ocean is the smallest and the shallowest of all the oceans. Latitude and Longitude Two imaginary sets of lines-the longitudes and latitudes- drawn around the world to make a grid, give us the geographical co-ordinates of any place. We can find out how far north, east, west and south that place is on Earth by referring to these co-ordinates. Latitudes are horizontal lines running from east to west. The Equator which cuts the world at the center is given the value 0°. All other lines of latitudes run parallel to the Equator and are numbered in degrees north or south of the Equator. Longitudes are vertical lines running from north to south. The Prime Meridian passing through Greenwich, London is given the value 0°. All other lines of longitude are numbered in degrees east or west of the Prime Meridian. Last Updated on : November 26, 2014 World Map World Map 2012 World Outline Map World Map in Hindi World Map Printable World Map in Spanish World Map in Russian World Population Density Map World Religion Map World Map in Telugu World Map From Space World Physical Map World Continent Map World Map with Latitude and Longitude World Map in French World Map in German World Map of Major Earthquakes World Desert Map World Map in Urdu World Map in Chinese World River Map World Map in Tamil World Continent Outline Map World Climate Map World Map in Dutch World Map in Persian World Map in Arabic World Map in Gujarati World Language Map World Map in Hebrew World Most Powerful Countries               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule