Chetna Organic Agriculture - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Chetna Organic Agriculture Home Chetna Organic Agriculture Secunderabad, Andhra Pradesh based NGO facilitates farmer families to grow organic cotton Established in 2004, Chetna Organic helps smallholder farmer families, dependent on rainfed agriculture, make their farming more profitable and sustainable. Chetna mainly operates in Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Odisha. NGO Model of Functioning : The Company mainly functions like a cooperative. Specifically, it is a Producer Company established in 2009, Chetna Organic Agriculture Producer Company Ltd (COAPCL) is a farmer owned Company, professionally managed and backed by venture philanthropy so as to empower farmers by engaging them to build an ethical supply chain. The enterprise is driven by its triple bottom-line objectives, which believes in principles of ecological (viz. Organic), Social (viz. Fair Trade) and Corporate (by making nominal, non-exploitative profits) sustainability. “We have built societies for them, so we have our own cooperative societies. We have 9 registered cooperative societies, plus 4 are under registration, so in total we have 13 cooperative societies in these 3 states. These cooperative societies promote the apex level producer company which was formed in 2009. Before 2009, the project was run under the NGO, COFA. From 2009, it started working as a commercial entity for business,” says Mr. Almalik Rajpari, manager-corporate finance & markets. Funding : Most of the funding comes from nonbanking financial institutions. “The producers are small and marginal farmers. They cannot put in their money to fund the company. We mostly get funding from NABARD Financial Services Ltd. under their group lending programme. Financiers including banks are more oriented to group lending ,the self-help groups. guaranteed by the producer company. Farmer does not repay the loan the producer company does against the procurement of the cotton. This is how funding works with the producer company. The procured cotton is then marketed by the Producer Company,” maintains Mr. Rajpari. Cotton Production : The Producer Company is into marketing organic cotton. “We have our own technical staff for organic and fair-trade certification, institutional building experts and external third-party certifiers as well. We certify each and every farmer,” says Mr. Rajpari. A mere 0.5% of the total cotton that is grown in India is classified as organic cotton. Lasting spell of rains affected cotton production last year. “Generally rain stops by September. But last year it was rained till November first week. So, the moisture level in cotton was higher which has affected the quality of cotton. It might not have affected the production of cotton, but the quality of cotton has gone down,” he adds. Commenting on BT cotton, Mr. Rajpari says, “In our area of operations, e.g. in Odisha, we find no incremental yields of Bt. Bt unfortunately is quite rampant and we are engaging actively in advocacy against Bt and GMO produce. Not only do we work on cotton but also on food crops such as rice, pulses, millets etc. The organic standard is applicable to land and not the produce. Hence, it is imperative that the cotton grown in rotation with these crops is also non-Bt and GMO free.” Challenges : The company faces stiff competition from other farmers who produce Bt cotton. “Our farmers are supported with training on organic produce rigorously. They appreciate the significance of organic; they don’t feel the need to transition to Bt because the economics of Bt does not work out in the rainfed areas. The investment cost is low with the seed cost a third compared to Bt, investments in time are less (with challenges of labor) and infrastructure for watering etc. is not available. Further, the biofertilizers and biopesticides are much cheaper to produce. Cultivation costs come down drastically because they do not have to buy any chemical pesticides or fertilizers. Natural fertilizers like cow dung, or using cow urine as a disinfectant is in natural synergy with the farming practices. Finally, the organic farmers are given an “organic” premium by the buyers. The return on investment is much higher for the farmers. Our intervention makes them less prone to bankruptcy that drives them to suicides,” says Mr. Rajpari. The organic cotton is undergoing a huge challenge since there are many ingenuine suppliers who are engaged in certificate trading; however, our partner brands who are interested in traceability, transparency and ethical business have been a steady source of support. Marketing : “Once the company procures the cotton from the farmers, the 100% farmer owned company sells it to established buyers predominantly part of value chains in Europe, U.S.A., Japan and Australia. “Organic and fair-trade is still an international game. The domestic market has not awaken to organic produce. There is not a sufficient traction in Indian brands about being fair to farmers and a consumer demand for fair-trade emanating as a response to farmers plight and exploitation from middle-men is yet to see market based solutions. We have our dedicated buyers, and have long-term MoU for securing their cotton requirements,” informs Mr. Rajpari. The company procures about 20,000 quintals per year of organic cotton approximately. A Post Graduate in Management, Mr. Rajpari has worked with Kotak Mahindra Bank in agribusiness sector, before joining Chetna Organic Agriculture Producer Company Ltd. (COAPCL) Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Chetna Organic Agriculture Producer Company Ltd. (COAPCL), 12-13-677/66, Plot No 187, Sree Sai Durga Niwas, Adj Ashish Enclave, Street No 1, Tarnaka, Secunderabad – 500017; Andhra Pradesh, Contact No.: +91-40-64639944 Email – almalik@chetnaorganic.org.in Website – www.chetnaorganic.org.in Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Chetna Organic Agriculture Related – articles, consultants, downloads Chetna Organic Agriculture Plantrich – organic agri-inputs Indian Organic Farmers Producer Company Indian Organic Farmers Producer Company You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water