Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Centres >> Centre for Development Communication Centre for Development Communication DHAN Foundation strongly believes that community provides a powerful learning opportunity and it views communication as a human factor in development. It believes that media, print, audio and visual can be used as a means for education, andmotivation in the spheres of development action. Centre for Development Communication (CDC) facilitates documentation and dissemination of field learning within and outside the organisation by promoting the application of the traditional and modern media in development action. The Centre documents and publishes the field experiences of the programmes and institutions of the DHAN Collective in both print and audio visual formats for information sharing and advocacy. The Centre supports the people’s organisations to setup and run community media centres like community radio, video and web based technologies. It has also promoted a forum for Development Journalists to discuss and write on the development issues and initiatives that would reflect grassroots realities. The Centre undertakes thematic campaigns combining digital and folk media for fostering Behavioural Change Communication(BCC). The Development Film Festival is an exciting feature organised annually in promoting films and film-makers on social change and development. Read more on Centre for Development Communication ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved