People of Amritsar Home »» Amritsar » People   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       People of Amritsar The people of Amritsar have a tradition of a rich culture. The people are proud of the rich heritage of their city. Amritsar people mainly follow the religion of Sikhism. They have a very eventful history and they have fought many battles in the past against the foreign races. The people have been very brave while the many struggles that they have gone through. These battles have left strong impact on the people of Amritsar. The people in the city of Amritsar are very brave by nature. The whole of India respects the gallantry and valor of the citizens of Amritsar City. The public of Punjab and especially the natives of Amritsar have displayed extreme courageousness in fighting the foreign people like the Mughals, Pathans and the then British. They have encouraged and inspired the whole of the nation to stand up and fight for a cause. The Sikhs are well known for their stalwart stature and strong athletic build. They are by nature hardy and hard working people and they gain the best even from an unfavorable condition. The region in and around the city of Amritsar is known as Majha and it is aptly called Mukut Mani, which means the most precious stone in the crown. The people of Amritsar are patriotic and many of the military people of the Indian Army are from Amritsar. They have played a very important role in the National Freedom Movement and some of their landmark steps are the Kooka Movement and the Akali Movement. Amritsar Information Municipal Corporation Population Location Restaurant & Bar Shopping Cuisine Living SGPC Transportation Nightlife Banks About Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Tourist Attractions Baba Atal Rai Tower Govind Garh Fort Amritsar Massacre Memorial Durgiana Temple Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Golden Temple Harmandir Sahib Ram Bagh Faridkot Fort Ram Tirath Temple Tarn Taran Mata Mandir Temple Bathinda Fort             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule