Dharamshala City Map Home » Maps » Himachal Pradesh Map » Dharamshala City Map   Himachal Pradesh Cities Map Manali Shimla Dharamshala Dalhousie Kasauli Chamba Kullu                        more.. हिमाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                 (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel to Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Himachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Subhash Baoli Shivkul Sankat Mochan Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una Hotels in Kangra              more... Assembly Polls HP Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities in Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh Colleges       Dharamshala City Map City Map of Dharamshala Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Map showing roads, rivers and places of interest in the City. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Himachal Pradesh   Chamba City Map Dalhousie City Map Dharamshala City Map Solan City Map         Kasauli City Map Kullu City Map Manali City Map Shimla City Map     other cities of Himachal Pradesh  >>   Travel Map of Himachal Pradesh   Manali Travel Map Shimla Travel Map         Dharamshala is a city in the northern Indian state of Himachal Pradsesh and is the winter seat of the government of the state and the district headquarters of the Kangra district. McLeod Ganj, a village within the Dharamsala municipality is the current home to the Dalai Lama and the current Tibetan government in exile. Dharamsala is located in the upper reaches of the Kangra valley and is surrounded by dense forests. The suburbs of the town are some popular tourist destinations, namely McLeod Ganj, Forsyth Ganj, Naddi, Kotwali Bazaar and many more. The tiny village of McLeod Ganj is world renowned for the presence of the 14th Dalai Lama Tenzing Gyatso. Dharamsala is now the seat of the Tibetan exile world in India. On April 29th 1959 the 14th Dalai Lama established the Tibetan exile administration in Mussoorie in Uttrakhand, later in May 1960 The Central Tibetan Administration was moved to Dharamsala. After the Tibetan uprising in 1959 there was a huge inflow of Tibetan refugees who followed the 14th Dalai Lama into India. The presence of the Dalai Lama and a large Tibetan population has put Dharamsala on the world map and it is visited by both foreign and international tourists, including students doing research on Tibet. Being a popular tourist destination, especially in the summer time, there are many popular tourist destinations in Dharamsala, the most well know being Triund Hill. Known as the "Jewel of Dharamsala", the hill is located 9 kms from McLeod Ganj and is located in its upper reaches. Apart from Triund Hill there are many other places that are worth visiting in Dharamsala. Places to Visit Dharamshala City : Masrur ( 15 beautiful monolithic rock temples that go back to the 8th century) Bhagsu Waterfall Dal Lake Naddi Bhagsunag Temple Apart from this Dharamsala is also a popular place for trekking and rock climbing enthusiast. Dharamshala is located in the beautiful slopes of Kangra Valley. The beautiful surrounding gives the place its serene and calm appeal. This hill resort of exotic beauty is situated against the backdrop of the Dhauladhar Mountains. This town is now dominated by the resident Tibetian community. Despite of this the British flavor of Dharamshala, Himachal Pradesh still exists. This gives the place an unique atmosphere which is the combination of the Tibetian and the remnants of the colonial lifestyle. The Pine and Deodar forests are a major attraction of the town. The visible snow line just behind the the lush greenery adds a refreshing ambiance to the beauty of the hill town of Dharamshala. The unique appeal of this place draws many tourists form all corners of India every year. The town is divided into two widely separated sectors. They are popularly referred to as the Upper Dharamshala and the Lower Dharamshala. This is also a reason behind the distinct appeal of this small town. Some of the major attractions of Dharamshala are Kangra Art Museum: All the arts and crafts of the people of the Kangra Valley are stored here. Some of the most famous miniature paintings of Kangra are also treasured here. War Memorial: This memorial is built to honor all the war heroes of Himachal Pradesh. Andretta:there is an art gallery that stores all the works of artist S. Sobha Singh. The hilly town of Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh is best for the visitors during the summer months when the weather remains really pleasing. Last Updated on : 19/04/2013 Cities in Himachal Pradesh Chamba Dalhousie Dharamshala Kangra Kasauli Kullu Manali Shimla Solan             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule