Webcast Services of ERNET India, DIT, Govt. of India The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is an autonomous organisation under the Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India Project Established and Operated by ERNET India, an autonomous society of Department of Information Technology, Govt. of India                                                                   Network Feature & Facilities Home Network Features:  - Krishi Vigyan Kendras VSAT network operates in C-band  using transponder space segment on INSAT-3C satellite subleased from ERNET India. - The network has one outbound (13Mbps) and 18 Inbound (416Kbps) channels. - The network is based on state-of-the-art technology and guarantees Hub uptime of 99.9% and VSAT uptime of 99%. - The entire network is being managed and controlled through a Network Management System (NMS) deployed at the Hub. - The network is   secured through Access List, Firewall and Intrusion Prevention System. - The network provides e-connectivity to 200 Krishi Vigyan Kendras and Zonal Project Directorates spread across the country. - The VSATs installed at KVKs and ZPDs are connected through the Hub in a Star Topology. Facilities at the   KVKs/ZPDs: - Access to Internet related applications to the KVKs/ ZPDs on a 24x365 basis. - Voice calls (VOIP) and Fax messaging facility between KVKs/ ZPDs/ Hub. - Access to Video channel being broadcast and webcast on 24 hours basis from Hub through   the web portal http://kvkhub.ernet.in - Video Channel, Web portal, VOIP and Internet can facilitate creation of awareness   among the farmers and youths of the country about   improvements in   agriculture technologies. - KVKs/ZPDs are equipped with a   Server, five desktop PCs, LAN, scanner, printer, and computer furniture to   act as information hub for   storing and disseminating information on agriculture and also providing online and offline guidance to the farmers. - The network has connected KVKs/ZPDs with the technology   institutions of the ICAR and thus will provide immense benefits to the farmers