SGPC Amritsar, Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee Home » Amritsar » SGPC   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       SGPC Amritsar The full form of S.G.P.C. in Amritsar is Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. In 1920, the committee elected 175 members and named it as Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee . The Committee was established with an aim to look after the Golden Temple Complex and other historical gurdwaras of India. It is also known as Parliament of the Sikh Nation. Under the Sikh Gurdwara Act 1925, the registered Sikh male and female who were more than 18 years of age, have the right to vote for the committee. After every five years election is held to choose the committee. The organisation is responsible for the maintenance of gurdwaras in three states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. SGPC in Amritsar also looks after the Golden Temple or Harmandir Sahib in Amritsar. The committee constitutes the elected members of the sikh community. The election is held in open conclaves at the Golden Temple. SGPC in Amritsar functions under the guidance of a chairman, a treasurer and a general secretary. The committee looks after the security of the temple, financial transactions, maintenance and religious functions of Gurdwaras. The committee is also responsible for the preservation of archaeologically precious artifacts, including weapons, clothes, books and literature of the Sikh Gurus. The Committee is involved in various social works by sponsoring and managing a number of educational institutions, medical coolleges, hospitals and charitable institutions. In September 2004, Bibi Jagir Kaur was elected as the president of SGPC. She was the first woman to be elected as the President of SGPC, Amritsar. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee is a committee that looks after the social and religious matters of the Sikh community. In the year 1920, the Gurdwara committee elected 175 members and named it as Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee. The main aim of the Committee was to look into the maintenance and administration of the Golden Temple Complex and the other gurdwaras of India. The Committee enjoys a historical importance among the sikhs. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee is popularly known as the Parliament of the Sikh Nation. The abbreviated form of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee is SGPC, which is most commonly used to refer the committee. Under the Sikh Gurdwara Act 1925, the registered Sikh male and female who are 18 years of age are eligible to vote and select the committee. After a gap of five years election is held to select the committee. The administration of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee is carried on by an elected chairman, a treasurer and a general secretary. It has other responsibilities like maintaining the security of the temple, financial transactions, organizing religious functions of Gurdwaras. It is the also the responsibility of the committee to preserve the rare artifacts, including books, weapons, clothes, and literature of the Sikh Gurus. The Committee engages itself in various social services by sponsoring and managing a number of educational institutions, medical colleges, hospitals and charitable institutions. In the elections of 2004, Bibi Jagir Kaur was elected as the president of SGPC, who has the honor of becoming the first woman to be elected as the President of SGPC, Amritsar. Last Updated on 07/25/2013 Amritsar Information People Population Location Restaurant & Bar Shopping Cuisine Living Municipal Corporation Transportation Nightlife Banks About Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Tourist Attractions Baba Atal Rai Tower Govind Garh Fort Amritsar Massacre Memorial Durgiana Temple Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Golden Temple Harmandir Sahib Ram Bagh Faridkot Fort Ram Tirath Temple Tarn Taran Mata Mandir Temple Bathinda Fort             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule