International Programs College of Agriculture and Life Sciences at Cornell University SEARCH: Pages People more options Home Welcome to International Programs Teaching, research and outreach with world-class faculty Developing leaders and improving lives globally Meeting the fundamental challenges of development and food security About Us Events News Videos Administrative Staff Site Map Graduate Master of Professional Studies MPS in Agriculture and Life Sciences Overview APPLY NOW Admission Requirements Degree Requirements Contact Us Graduate School Field Faculty MPS in International Development Overview APPLY NOW Admission Requirements Degree Requirements Contact Us Graduate School Field Faculty MPS in Agriculture with Peace Corps Option Other MPS Handbook [PDF] IARD Minor Courses of Study (IARD) Frequently Asked Questions + More Resources Funding & Opportunities G. Burke Wright Scholarship Fund Cornell Assistantship for Horticulture in Africa First Presbyterian International Hunger Student-Aid Program Rice: Research to Production Course Undergraduate Bachelor of Science or Minor BS - International Agriculture and Rural Development Overview APPLY NOW Degree Requirements Contact Us College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) International Experience Requirement Study Abroad Student Experiences Study Abroad Programs Resources & Funding Sources Learning Outcomes Other International Dev Minor Courses of Study (IARD) IARD 4010 IARD 6010 Professional Development Fellowships Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship Frosty Hill Fellowship Borlaug Fellowship Other Short Courses Rice: Research to Production Course + More Resources Scholarships, Awards & Assistantships G. Burke Wright Scholarship Fund Cornell Assistantship for Horticulture in Africa First Presbyterian International Hunger Student-Aid Program New York Youth Institute Projects Funded Projects Memoranda of Understanding People International Professors Staff Gender AWARE Advancing Women in Agriculture through Research and Education (AWARE) AWARE is an initiative to ensure that gender is considered in all IP-CALS activities, including our sponsored and academic programs. We believe that focusing on women in agriculture as an underserved group holds the greatest potential to make significant impact in rural development. AWARE What is AWARE? Projects Resources Events Videos (past events) CALS AWARE Grant Visting Fellows IP-CALS projects with AWARE dimension Durable Rust Resistance in Wheat (DRRW) Next Generation Cassava Breeding (NEXTGEN) Agriculture Innovation Partnership (AIP) Obama-Singh 21st Century Knowledge Initiative System of Rice Intensification (SRI-Rice) Internationalizing the Cornell experience Developing leaders Improving lives In the News Symposium explores broadening Cornell's global curriculum - May 21 Cornell humanitarians honored in Anabel Taylor exhibit - May 13 Symposium to look at internationalizing curriculum May 13 - May 07 + More Global Cornell News More posts from Peace Corp’s Anne-Marie Number 5 - May 21 Marriage Proposals “L’eau est glace; il faut boire”* are the exact words she said to me. Yes, she, a female neighbor of mine who was petitioning her husband for me to marry. To read Newsletter 5 Anne-Marie click here + More + More IP-CALS News Opportunities Learn more about Peace Corps opportunites, including the Master's International program. + More Program Manager II Rice-Based Rainfed Agricultural Systems Project - The Program Manager (PM) will lead and oversee the Improved Rice-Based Rainfed Agricultural Systems (IRRAS) project, responsible for ensuring quality implementation of the project, supervising the project team based in Patna, and guiding partners and the project team at all stages of the project. + More IP-CALS Events + All IP-CALS Events AWARE - Advancing Women in Agriculture through Research and Education - is an initiative to ensure that gender is considered in all IP-CALS activities, including our sponsored and academic programs. + More Professors Meet Max Pfeffer : MAX J. PFEFFER is International Professor of Development Sociology and Senior Associate Dean of the Cornell University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. His teaching concentrates on environmental sociology and sociological theory. His research spans sever... + More Projects The Durable Rust Resistance in Wheat (DRRW) Project is a global collaborative effort begun in April 2008 by seventeen research institutions and led by Cornell University. The DRRW Project seeks to mitigate ... + More Students Students write about their experiences from around the world. + More Peace Corps Recruiter/Coordinator Main Function:   Recruit students for Peace Corps, serve as liaison between Cornell and Peace Corps. Duties and Responsibilities: Organize Peace Corps information sessions throughout the semester Interview interested applicants for Peace Corps Organize Peace Corps information tables on campus throughout the semester Publicize the Peace Corps on campus through postering and chalking Contact professors and keep them informed about opportunities in the Peace Corps for their students Give class and organizational group talks about Peace Corps Provide recruitment support for Ithaca College and surrounding areas including IC career fairs Plant various RPCV events throughout the local community Help promote Peace Corps Masters International program at Cornell Attend Cornell job fairs Keep career offices informed about Peace Corps activities Coordinate with the New York Peace Corps office on Peace Corps events   Appointment Period: Four academic semesters beginning (preferably) August 2014. Minimum two semester appointment. 20 hours per week paid position, including health insurance and activity fee. Requirements: Must be a returned Peace Corps Volunteer, registered in a Cornell Graduate Program with a minimum of two semesters remaining, preferably four, and in good academic standing. If interested, please send your resume and cover letter via email to Denise Percey at dmp3@cornell.edu by April 11 th . If you qualify, you will be contacted for an interview. Food & Agribusiness Management Program Building on the success of past programs, Cornell University and Sathguru will be delivering the flagship agribusiness program from 22 July - 1 August, 2014 at Cornell University campus, Ithaca, New York, USA. This program facilitates the awareness of best practices in agriculture and food production through interactions with world renowned faculty, expert's resources drawn from corporate sector, policy makers and unique opportunity to acquire practical insight into the dynamics of innovation , planning , implementing & scaling up of enterprises that have excelled in the agricultural & food sectors through guided visits to farms, process ventures and organizations that have excelled in innovation. This executive program which brings together the industry experts, acclaimed academia and regulators across the globe is all about building competencies. It offers knowledge on formulating unique and innovative strategies through intensive analysis of critical elements like regulations, market strategies, food safety regulation and more, affecting the various elements related to the agribusiness industry. Participants will gain perspective on acquiring leadership capabilities to counter the adversities and lead the industry further. Understanding trends and positioning products thus require a combination of technological, environmental, entrepreneurial, regulatory and legal expertise to envisage innovative products and services to establish footprints in emerging markets. . Take part in intensive sessions that help to shape up your unique strategy specific to your business focus while getting to know how other players impact your business. Please take a few moments to visit http://www.sathguru.com/amp/ for details of the course and register for the program in earnest. Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Forms Staff Directory Travel Advance Form [PDF] Travel Expense Worksheet [Excel] Mileage Reimbursement Form [PDF] Meals for Business Purpose Form [PDF] Procurement Card Purchase Form [Excel] Payment Request Form [Excel] Cornell Visitors & Students Cornell University and Ithaca Guide Cornell CUInfo Cornell ID Cards Courses of Study Life in Ithaca Housing Housing at Cornell (Campus Life) Ithaca Craigslist Healthcare Gannett Health Services Student Health Insurance Transportation TCAT Bus - within Ithaca Area Coach USA Shortline Bus Cornell Campus to Campus Bus Tompkins County Regional Airport Maps Cornell Campus Maps Google Maps - Ithaca News The Ithaca Journal Ithaca Times The Cornell Daily Sun Cornell CALS News Entertainment Visit Ithaca Ithaca Events Cornell Cinema + More Resources International Travelers Resources for a Safe Trip Study Abroad Cornell Abroad Cornell International Gateway Gannett Health Services Travel Clinic + More Resources International Students at Cornell International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) Cornell International Gateway Gannett Health Services for International Cornellians © 2013 Cornell University ipcals@cornell.edu 607.255.3035 © 2013 Cornell University ipcals@cornell.edu 607.255.3035