Travel to Andaman & Nicobar Islands - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andaman and Nicobar Travel Shopping How to Reach Andaman and Nicobar Hotels Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar Long Island Cellular Jail Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park Anthropological Museum Islands Beaches in Andaman & Nicobar Andaman & Nicobar Monuments Museums in Andaman & Nicobar Picnic Sports Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Activities Honeymoon Places to See in Nicobar Port Blair Indira Point Car Nicobar Katchal Great Nicobar Island About Andaman Nicobar History Climate Home » Andaman & Nicobar Islands » Travel to Andaman & Nicobar Islands Travel to Andaman & Nicobar Islands Andaman and Nicobar Islands Tourism The islands of Andaman and Nicobar are affectionately dowered with the designation of 'emerald islands' owing to their unparalleled charm and breath-taking flora and fauna. Thus, state tourism in Andaman and Nicobar islands have flourished and expanded its network. Indeed, the exotic locales, the sun-kissed beaches, the alluring picnic spots and the various other marvels have truly taken the state tourism to another level. The state tourism of the islands of Andaman and Nicobar Islands y virtue of the various tourist spots which include the gorgeous islands like Jolly Buoy, Havelock, Cinque, Chatham, Viper, Ross, Barren and Red Skin which are bestowed with mesmerizing features like primitive dungeons, an active volcano, a medieval saw mill, multicolor corals and many more. Then there are beaches bequeathed with vast stretches of pristine and golden sands that has the power to rejuvenate your soul and mind and free you from all kinds of vexations. The most prominent are Radhanagar, Karmatang, Ramnagar, Harminder Bay and Corbyn's Cove Tourism Complex. Next are the picnic spots like Chidiya Tapu, Mount Harriet and Corbyn's Cove Tourism Complex which cater delectable plots to unwind yourself and get experience the funnier and jollier facet of life. The museums and monuments have also contributed a great deal to the state tourism at Andaman and Nicobar islands. Renowned museums include Forest Museum, Samudrika of Naval Marine Museum, National Museum and Anthropological Museum. On the other hand, monuments like the Cellular Jail and gallows at the Viper Island attract a lot of tourists. Venues like Madhuban and the Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park in Port Blair and Car Nicobar and Katchal in Nicobar also constitute an important appendage of the state tourism across Andaman and Nicobar islands. The accommodation facilities are also quite outstanding as numerous star and deluxe hotels are found in these twin islands. There are many Government lodges and resorts that aim towards making your stay very memorable. The varieties of water sports are indeed fascinating and you will just love to try your hands at them. Best time to visit Andaman & Nicobar islands The best time to visit Andaman and Nicobar islands is the period in between the months of December and April. Places to Visit in Andaman Long Island Cellular Jail Anthropological Museum Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park Places to Visit in Nicobar Indira Point Car Nicobar Katchal Great Nicobar Island How to Reach Andaman and Nicobar Islands How to reach Andaman and Nicobar Islands should not be a matter of concern to a tourist. The union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is situated in the ocean of Bay of Bengal towards the south-east of the mainland of India. This secluded union territory of India is linked to the rest of India by both sea and air thus facilitating travel to Andaman and Nicobar Islands. By Air To travel to the Indian union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, it is most convenient to avail the airport located at the capital city called Port Blair. From this place, one can easily travel to the important cities of mainland India like Chennai and Kolkata. Flights are operated regularly between Chennai, Kolkata and Port Blair. A few major airlines that operate such flights are Jet Airways, Indian Airlines and Air Deccan. By Ship The Andaman and Nicobar Islands stand in the midst of the Bay of Bengal. Therefore, one should not miss the fascinating experience of reaching Andaman and Nicobar Islands by ship. Passenger ships connect Kolkata, Chennai and Vishakhapatnam, which are major cities of mainland India with Port Blair. These ships are available on a regular basis and help one to make a tour to Andaman and Nicobar Islands. On an average, in a month, 3 or 4 ships are available from Chennai and Kolkata to travel to Port Blair. From Vishakhapatnam, one ship is available per month to travel to Port Blair. It takes around three days to reach Port Blair by sea. A ship generally halts for around 2 days at the seaport before leaving it to start a reverse journey, that is, from Port Blair to Kolkata, Chennai and Vishakhapatnam. Shopping in Andaman and Nicobar Islands Although Andaman is more a place to swim, breathe the fresh air than shop, shopping in Andaman and Nicobar is a wonderful experience. The main market for shopping in Andaman and Nicobar is in Port Blair. Multi hued corals and seashell souvenirs in varying sizes abound in the shops. While shopping in Andaman and Nicobar, please look for popular artifacts such as : Shell jewellery like earrings, bracelets and objects d'art Mother of pearl jewellery and artifacts, Palm mats Coconut shell lamp-shed Woodcrafts like walking sticks, bowls and trays, ashtrays and furniture made of mostly local padauk wood Bamboo cane craft Nicobaree Mats The main commercial center at Port Blair is Aberdeen Bazar. A few Government Emporia as well as innumerable private shops along with food joints and pubs offer you a delightful experience while shopping in Andaman and Nicobar. Government Emporia include Cottage Industries Emporium and Gram Khadi Commission. Other shopping centres are located at Goalghar, Junglighat, Prem Nagar and Delanipur all of which are maximum 3-4 kms away from Aberdeen Bazar. Where to stay in Andaman and Nicobar islands? The Union territory has hotels of star and non star category catering to the needs of the tourists visiting the islands. Besides it has resorts, restaurants and cafes which cater to the needs of all segments of travelers. Some of the popular hotels in Andaman and Nicobar islands include Andaman Teal House, Hawabill Nest, Turtle Resort etc. The islands of Andaman and Nicobar, being a prominent tourist destination, house numerous hotels ranging from luxurious to budget hotels. Mostly located in Port Blair, these hotels will ensure you a comfortable stay. More Details... Famous places to dine there Andaman and Nicobar, being an island area, are mainly famous for varied sea food like crabs, fish, lobsters and prawns. Besides that vegetarian and non-vegetarian cuisine from India and China are even available. The renowned restaurants of these islands serve mouth watering continental cuisine as well. To explore the taste of Andaman and Nicobar, a food lover needs to visit some of the popular restaurants of the place, which are mentioned below: Mandalay Restaurant and Nico Bar: Indian, Chinese and continental cuisine Wild Grass Restaurant & Bar: Sea food Vishranti: Indian, continental and Chinese cuisine Corbyn's Delight Restaurant and Bar: North Indian, continental and Chinese cuisine Last Updated on : November 17, 2014 Hotels in Andaman and Nicobar Portblair Hotels Havelock Hotels Places to visit in Andaman-nicobar-islands Places to visit in Port Blair Travel to Port Blair Travel to Andaman & Nicobar Flights to Andaman and Nicobar Islands Flights to Port Blair About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule