Economy of Tamil Nadu Home » Tamil Nadu » Economy of Tamil Nadu   Tamil Nadu तमिलनाडु का नक्शा Tamil Nadu Map Cities in Tamilnadu Chennai Coimbatore Ooty Tiruchchirapalli Madurai Salem Thanjavur Kanyakumari Vellore Districts of Tamilnadu Roads Tamilnadu Railways Rivers of Tamilnadu Tehsils of Tamilnadu Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Tamilnadu Facts History of Tamilnadu Festivals in Tamilnadu Government and Politics Travel to Tamilnadu Travel to Chennai Travel to Coimbatore Travel to Ooty Travel to Kanyakumari Travel to Tiruchirappalli Places to visit in Tamilnadu Beaches in Tamilnadu Wildlife Sanctuaries Temples in Tamilnadu Victory War Memorial Ooty Botanical Garden Ooty Lake Temples in Kanyakumari Shore Temple Government Museum in Chennai Vivekananda House Hotels in Tamil Nadu Chennai Hotels Ooty Hotels Salem Hotels Kodaikanal Hotels Coimbatore Hotels Madurai Hotels             more... Tamil Nadu Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Tamil Nadu Pincode Tamil Nadu Std Code Art and Crafts Tamil Nadu Economy Tamil Nadu Ministries How to Reach Local Government Music and Dance Road Transport Tamil Nadu People Tamil Nadu Thematic Map Factsheet Universities In Tamil Nadu       Tamil Nadu Economy The Economy of Tamil Nadu is one of the most dependable, consistent and developing of our country. The state of Tamil Nadu offers one with very bright picture of a progressive economy. The state is well equipped with all the needed infrastructural support to boast economic growth and enhance industrial development of the state. Tamil Nadu has maintained a perfect balance between agricultural production and industrial development. The state is well equipped with all needed infrastructure that will boast of further development in the state. Transportation in Tamil Nadu is easy and comfortable. The state is well accessible by air, road and railways. The Tamil Nadu Road transport looks after the proper maintenance of the roads. Tamil Nadu is probably the only state with a surplus of electricity generation which is possible because of the vast reserve of Energy and Power that is harnessed for further development of the state. The telecommunication system of Tamil Nadu is a highly developed one which enables the people to communicate with anybody and everybody with ease and convenience. Most of the people of Tamil Nadu depend on agriculture. The farmers use technologically aided methods to boost up agricultural productivity and improve the quality of crops. Industries Tamil Nadu has many industries that strengthen the economic structure of the state. Tamil Nadu is one of the leading industrial state of India. The state of Tamil Nadu earns lots of revenue from the industrial products. With its skilled and highly educated man power, and an excellent infrastructural support, the state of Tamil Nadu is the fifth largest economy of India. The Government of Tamil Nadu has taken several steps in the recent years to boast up the industrial development in the state. Apart from large scale industrial units, the state has many medium and small units that form the backbone of the economy of the state. Agriculture Agriculture continues to be one of the main occupation of the people of Tamil Nadu. Tamil Nadu is blessed with a fertile land that has helped in the agricultural growth of the state and the establishment of many agriculture related industries. Tamil nadu has many perennial rivers that makes the region suitable to grow multiple crops. The state is one of the leading producer of cash crops of India that helps the state to earn lots of revenue. Banking and Finance Banks & Financial Institutions of Tamil Nadu strives to provide the best of monetary services to the people of the region. With a wide network of active branches, the Banking and Financial industry of the place conveniently meets the transactional and non-transactional demands of individuals and companies. From Government-owned Banks to privately run Financial Institutions, Tamil Nadu has all kinds of banking sectors. The well-known and age-old State Bank of India has its operational branches in every city of Tamil Nadu. Also, the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. is a significant Financial Institution in the region that is involved in providing monetary support to various industrial sectors of the place. Tourism Tamilnadu Tourism holds a special place in India’s tour landscape. Known to be the land of serene beaches and panoramic valleys, Tamilnadu welcomes all with its infinite reserve of natural beauty. Situated on the southern corner of the country, the place is visited by large number of foreign tourists. The endless special appeals of Tamilnadu not only make it an obvious choice of holiday destination but also extend its aesthetic credibility to the outer world. The sandy beaches, the tranquil sheds of coconut and date palm tress, the jubilant people, all these collectively make Tamilnadu the perfect paradise of enjoyment and relaxation. Last Updated on 1/17/2011             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule