National Agro Foundation | | Agriculture | Livestock | Social | Training | Watershed | R&D | Farm school Welcome to National Agro Foundation NAF, a Public Charitable Trust, was founded in 2000 by Shri C Subramaniam (CS), Architect of India's Green Revolution and recipient of India's highest civilian award the "Bharat Ratna", with an integrated mission mode approach for creating sustainable livelihoods for the poor rural communities with primary focus on agricultural and animal husbandry productivity improvement. Dr A P J Abdul Kalam became the Chairman of NAF Governing Council after CS, the post he relinquished on becoming the President of India. SHGs NAF is educating and facilitating the community to organize themselves into Self Help Groups (SHGs). NAF is a pioneer in forming men SHGs as it promoted the saving habits among the rural men folk. Any activity or welfare scheme of NAF is routed through SHGs. National Agro Foundation – Laboratory Services Division has received accreditation as per ISO/IEC 17025: 2005 Standard from NABL, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India for Soil, food and water analysis. Agro Foundation hails move to set up 100 soil testing labs Focus on soil health, farmers producer organisations, credit for joint farming groups, technology-driven second green revolution with focus on higher productivity are some of the positives of Union Budget 2014–15, hailed S.S. Rajsekar, managing trustee of Chennai- based NGO, National Agro Foundation. "I am happy that these areas attracted the attention of the government which NAF has successfully demonstrated and has been advocating over a decade." He said the government's move to establish 100 soil testing laboratories was a clear direction in improving the farm productivity which would help trigger 4 per cent growth in agriculture sector. >> Read More Training for Nepal Government Officials on "Agriculture Commercialization and Trade" NAF and TNAU join hands for rural upliftment Spicejet article on NAF National Agro Foundation hails move to setup 100 soil testing labs-TheHindu Home    Press Release    Supporters    Album    Feedback    Contact All rights reserved 2009 © National Agro Foundation Powered by ICREADO