Anil Ambani Biography, Anil Ambani Business Profile Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Top Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Kumar Mangalam Birla Dhirajlal Hirachand Ambani Gautam Adani Indu Jain Jamsedji Tata Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Ratan Naval Tata Shiv Nadar Sunil Bharti Mittal Adi Godrej Anil Agarwal Chandru Raheja Yusuf Hamied Cyrus Ponawalla Grandhi Mallikarjuna Rao Naresh Goyal JRD Tata KP Singh Senapathy Kris Gopalkrishnan Kalanithi Maran Narayan Murthy Pankaj Ramanbhai Patel Rahul Bajaj Ramesh Chandra Subhash Chandra Subroto Roy Gautam Thapar Uday Kotak Top Leaders You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Business-leaders » Anil Ambani Anil Ambani Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  15  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 Name Anil Ambani Born on 4th June 1959 Place of Birth Mumbai, Maharashtra Educated from University of Mumbai,University of Pennsylvania Works for Dhirubhai Ambani Group Personal Wealth $8.8 billion Position Chairman Married to Tina Ambani Family He is the younger son to Dhirubhai Ambani and Kokilaben. He has an elder brother, Mukesh Ambani and two sisters, Nina Kothari and Deepti Salgaonkar. His father, Dhirubhai Ambani was an Indian Business magnate and entrepreneur who founded Reliance industries, petrochemicals, communications, power and textiles, a conglomerate company. Growing Up The environment in which he had spent his childhood was that of a stereotypical Indian joint family. Even though he is well educated, he had been brought up to pay more attention on non-academical activities, rather on academical ones, by his father. By the time Anil grew up into an adult, his father had set up the first office of Reliance Commercial Cooperation and Reliance Textiles. Early in the 1970’s the Ambani family lived in a two bedroom apartment in Bhuleshwar, Mumbai. Later, Dhirubhai Ambani purchased a 14-floor apartment in Colaba, for the family, where until recently, the two Ambani brothers lived with their families on separate floors. Anil Ambani is a highly educated billionaire, unlike many billionaires around the world who are drop outs. His educational qualifications are excellent. He pursued his Bachelors degree in Science from the University of Mumbai, and later went up to USA for his Masters in Business Administration at The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. Endeavors In 1983, Anil Ambani joined Reliance, a conglomerate company founded by his late father, as the Co-Chief Executive Officer. He has also pioneered in initiating many financial innovations in the Indian capital market, some of which were leading India's first forays into overseas capital markets with international public offerings of global depositary receipts, convertibles and bonds. ? Under his leadership Reliance has been raising around US$2 billion from the overseas financial markets, since 1991. ? The 100-year Yankee bond was launched under his leadership. The two Ambani brothers took Reliance Group to great heights and due to their effort and intelligence it enjoys its current status as India's leading textiles, petroleum, petrochemicals, power and telecommunication company. ? Anil Ambani was also elected as the Independent Member of the Rajya Sabha- Upper Sabha, Parliament of India with the support of the Samajwadi Party, in June 2004. ? The Beginning It all started when Anil Ambani was said to be embroiled in a dispute with his brother, Mukesh Ambani, over the supply of gas which led to the split of the Reliance Group and after which Anil Ambani founded the “Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group”. Anil Ambani is the Chairman of Reliance Communications, Reliance Capital, Reliance Energy, and Reliance Natural Resources Limited. Conjugal Relationship Anil Ambani is married to Indian Bollywood Actress, Tina Munim and has two sons, Anmol and Anshul. Tina Ambani, wife of this powerful scion of the Corporate India, is also the Managing Director of Reliance Industries. She has worked in the film industry for about 10 years. Man of Substance Anil Ambani, is the Chairman of Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group, with a net worth of $8.8 billion. Being the fourth richest Indian, he was voted the 3rd most powerful person in India in 2009(March) India Today Power List. He has a long list of awards, laurels and recognitions. Anil Ambani has been constantly grabbing headlines almost everyday due to his activities or achievements. In 2006, he was voted as the Businessman of the Year in Times of India poll. Earlier in 2004, he was adjudged as the CEO of the year at the Platts Global Energy Awards. Not only is he a well-known personality in the corporate world, he's equally famous among the youth as well, which is evident from, him being voted the “Mtv Youth Icon of the Year” for the year 2003. Company Profile The Reliance Group is among India’s top three private sector business houses on all major financial parameters, with a market capitalization of ` 325,000 crores (US$ 81 billion), net assets in excess of ` 115,000 crores (US$ 29 billion), and net worth to the tune of ` 55,000 crores (US$ 14 billion) Across different companies, the group has a customer base of over 100 million, the largest in India, and a shareholder base of over 12 million, among the largest in the world. Through its products and services, the Reliance Group touches the life of 1 in 10 Indians every single day. It has a business presence that extends to over 20000 towns and 4.5 lakhs villages in India, and 5 continents across the world. The interests of the Group range from communications (Reliance Communications) and financial services (Reliance Capital Ltd), to generation, transmission and distribution of power (Reliance Energy), infrastructure and entertainment. This group follows the philosophy- Vision To build a global enterprise for all our stakeholders and a great future for our country, to give millions of young Indians the power to shape their destiny and the means to realize their full potential. Value Shareholder Interest People care Consumer Focus Excellence In Execution Team Work Proactive Innovation Leadership by Empowerment Social Responsibility Respect for Competition Mission “To attract, nurture, grow and retain the best leadership talent in every sector and industry they operate in”. Obstacles Faced In the late 2000s Anil, Business sheet's “World's biggest loser” list of business leaders losing $32.5 billion in 2008, due to which he lost his position in the top ten list and came down to number 34 in 2009. He was even interrogated by the Central Bureau of Investigation, and is allegedly a suspect in the 2G spectrum scam. Virtues Throughout his life and career, he has been in linked with several Bollywood personalities like Amitabh Bachchan and Subrata Roy who are close friends. His major achievement in the entertainment industry has been the takeover of Adlabs. Though his professional life leaves him almost no time to rejuvenate, he makes a point to stay fit, physically and mentally. He's an active participant in various marathons. He is a vegetarian and abstains from alcohol. He wakes up early and goes for a run everyday. More Indian Leaders Top Business Leaders About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED