ï»¿ AED     Gallery Links Site Map FAQ           Home Schemes Central Sector Demonstration of Agricultural Machinery and Implements Training to Farmers on operation and maintenance of Agrl. Machinery State Sector Rain water harvesting and Run off management programme Master plan - Artificial Recharge to Ground Water SWC in Tribal areas under Integrated Tribal Development Programme Pulses Villages in Rain fed Areas - NADP Scheme to Revive Agriculture In Fallow Land - NADP SWC under Hill Area Development Programme Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project Soil Conservations in the Catchment of River Valley Project - NADP SWC under Western Ghats Development Programme Agricultural Mechanization under NADP Training on operation and maintenance of farm machinery Training rural youth on agricultural machinery and implements Diesel Engine Pump set with Rain gun / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation. Solar Powered Pumping system with Micro Irrigation Solar Chilli Drier Onion Storage structures TN IAMWARM Project Centre and State Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Command Area Development and Water Management Programme Services Land Development Minor Irrigation Mandate Downloads RTI Contacts                                 Schemes State Sector   Provision of Solar Powered Pumping system linked with appropriate Micro Irrigation system (Drip / Micro / Mini Sprinklers) under NADP in various places of Tamil Nadu:       Objectives     To provide energy security to the farmers for irrigating the crops with no recurring expenditure. To promote the use of Green Energy ( non-conventional energy) in Agriculture sector. To improve the water use efficiency using Micro irrigation techniques. To improve the Agricultural Production and Productivity.     Funding Pattern     State Plan Scheme     Details of Works     Provision of 5 Hp AC Solar pumpsets with 4800 Wp capacity with tracking system linked with appropriate Micro irrigation system to the farmers in all districts of the state with 80% subsidy assistance to the farmers. ( 50% assistance from National Agricultural Development Programme and 30% subsidy assistance from Ministry of New and Renewable Energy - Government of India).     Eligibility     All the farmers with assured water source (viz., Bore well, open well or other surface storage structure) suitable for erection of 5 Hp AC Solar pump set, for irrigating the crops through Micro irrigation system viz., Drip / Sprinklers.     Subsidy     80% subsidy assistance on the total cost of the Solar Powered pumping system will be provided to the eligible farmers. Micro irrigation system will be given under ongoing scheme as per existing norms.     Officer to be approached     Assistant Executive Engineer (A.E) in the Revenue Division Executive Engineer (A.E) in the District. Superintending Engineer (A.E) in the Region. Chief Engineer(AE), Agricultural Engineering Department, 487, Anna Salai, Nandanam, Chennai-600 035. Phone - 24352686, 24352622                      