Welcome to Department of Agricultural Research and Education | Department of Agricultural Research and Education Skip to main content Department of Agricultural Research and Education Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India Search form Search Home About us From Secretary's Desk RTI Tenders Contact Us English हिन्दी What's New Agriculture Minister Addresses G-20 Agriculture Ministers Meet Crop Residues Management Unit Inaugurated at IIVR, Varanasi Annual Group Meeting of AICRP - National Seed Project (Crops) DG, ICAR Inaugurates Meat Processing Unit of ICAR-NRC on Meat, Hyderabad Union Minster for Agriculture Appriciated ICAR-NBAIR Admin Setup Telephone Directory RFD Parliament Questions Lok Sabha Rajya Sabha Publications Annual Reports Circulars Events Public Grivances DARE Organizations ICAR Central Agricultural University Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University Agrinnovate India International Cooperation Bilateral Multilateral CGIAR Important links Citizen's / Client's Charter Interact with Hon’ble PM What's New Welcome to Department of Agricultural Research and Education The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was established in the Ministry of Agriculture in December, 1973. The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) coordinates and promotes agricultural research & education in the country. DARE provides the necessary government linkages for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the premier research organisation for co-ordinating, guiding and managing research and education in agriculture including horticulture, fisheries and animal sciences in the entire country. With 100 ICAR institutes and 71 agricultural universities spread across the country this is one of the largest national agricultural research systems in the world. Shri Radha Mohan Singh took over the charge of Union Minister of Agriculture on 28 th May 2014. Read more.... Agriculture Minister Addresses G-20 Agriculture Ministers Meet 8 th May, 2015, Istanbul, Turkey Shri Radha Mohan Singh, Union Agriculture Minister today addressed the G-20 Agriculture Ministers Meeting at Istanbul, Turkey. Addressing the meet Shri Singh said that there is need to direct itself more towards the accountability and monitoring of the ongoing initiatives rather adding more. Minister emphasized the need of research in agriculture sector to enhance the production and productivity which also address to contain the price volatility. Minister also focused on the various issues like food security, price volatility, reducing food waste and losses. Shri Singh apprised of the initiatives of the Government for the benefit of the farmers.  Read more....   Home | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Linking Policy Copyright © 2012 Department of Agricultural Research And Education Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India New Delhi-110 001. INDIA Site hosted by NIC Developed and Maintained by vivekdubey [at] gmail [dot] com (Vivek Dubey) Content updation by mitaligr [at] icar [dot] org [dot] in (Mitali Ghosh Roy) , DKMA , ICAR