Bihar Railway Map Home » Maps » Bihar Map » Bihar Railway Map   Bihar Railways Luckeesarai Paschim Champaran Nalanda Sheikhpura Samastipur Siwan Rohtas                    more.. बिहार का नक्शा Bihar Bihar Map Bihar at a Glance Bihar Cities Districts Roads Rivers Tehsils Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Education Universities In Bihar Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Government and Politics Travel to Bihar Places to Visit in Bihar Wildlife Sanctuaries Nalanda Archaeological Museum Ashokan Pillar Buddha Stupa Hotels in Bihar Bhagalpur Hotels Bodhgaya Hotels Gaya Hotels Forbesganj Hotels Katihar Hotels Patna Hotels Purnia Hotels Rajgir Hotels People, Culture and Festivals Handicrafts Agricultural Map Geography and history New Course of Kosi river District Map in Hindi STD code Pin code       Railway Map of Bihar Click any District/City on the map and get the Detailed District/City Railway Map Bihar Railway Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   * Map showing the entire rail network of Bihar. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Bihar is well connected with the rest of the country by its railways. The important places of Bihar are linked by rail services regulated by Indian Railways. Important super fast trains like Rajdhani Express and Shatabdi Express facilitate communication to Bihar from the rest of India. Some quick facts about the railways of important destinations of Bihar is given below: Railways for Patna: It is linked with Ranchi, Mumbai, Varanasi, Kolkata and Guwahati. Railways for Vaishali: The nearest railheads are situated at Hajipur and Muzaffarpur. Railways for Baidyanath Dham (Deoghar): Baidyanath Dham (Deoghar) is the closest railway station. It is a terminal station of a branch line originating from Jasidih Junction. Railways for Gaya: Gaya has a significant railway junction. Railways for Pawapuri: The nearest railway station is located at Patna at a distance of 90 kilometer. Railways for Nalanda: The nearest railhead is Bakhtiyarpur, which is at a distance of 38 km away from Nalanda. It lies on the Delhi-Howrah (Kolkata) main line. Many trains connect this railway station to several important places in India. Railways for Bodh Gaya: The nearest railway station is at Gaya at a distance of 12 kilometer. Trains from all important cities of India stop here. Buddha Parikrama, a new train introduced by Indian Railways, links all the places associated with Buddha and Buddhism. Railways for Rajgir: Rajgir has a railway station, which links it to Gaya. Many important trains from all parts of India, in turn, stop at Gaya. Therefore, for boarding trains to various parts of the country, one has to come to Gaya first and thereafter avail the trains from Gaya. Gaya is situated at a distance of 78 kilometer from Rajgir. Last Updated on : January 20, 2015             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule