Khilji Dynasty Map, Khilji Empire Home » History » Khilji Dynasty Map   Indian Dynasties Chola Dynasty Chalukya Dynasty Pallava Dynasty Chera Dynasty Pandyan Dynasty                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Khilji Dynasty Map Map of Khilji Dynasty Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing major cities and current country boundaries during the Khilji period.. Khilji empires existed from 1290 to 1320. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. The Khilji Dynasty ruled over parts of South Asia and originated from the Turko-Afghan Khalaj. The Khilji Dynasty was founded by Jalal-ud-din Khilji who had overthrown Balban's successors. Initially Jalal did not get enough support from the nobles and people of Delhi ; he was to face tough tasks ahead. His rule settled down only due to his impeccable character, his generosity, devotion and his just judgment. He was an aged man of seventy and was mild and weak. As a trend he being the Sultan faced many revolts and attacks within his empire. Unfortunately great rebellions were encouraged and given birth due to his lenient temperament and so the throne of Delhi was seen to diminish in authority over again. With such a character its natural that Jalal-ud-din did not pursue any conquest and the ones that were attempted by him, failed. Since he was a peaceful man he allowed many invaders to peacefully settle down in the country. But to much of our surprise he suffered a violent death. He was murdered by his nephew Ala-ud-din in 1296. Since Ala-ud-din was the disputed king at the throne he had a lot to face and settle but he successfully came over the anger and rage of his relatives as well as the political matters of the rule. He successfully repelled a series of Mongol attacks and raids and then sought to re-establish the empire. He brought about changes in policies and reforms. He re-organized revenue administration, banned alcohol and private parties of courtiers, re-organized the market to set affordable prices and also entered the business of transportation for smooth movement of goods etc. He is well known for his conquests in Gujarat and in around 1301 AD he also conquered Ranthambore by murdering Rajput Hamir Deva. He also murdered Rana Rattan Singh and captured Chittor. Territories like Malwa, Ujjain, Mandu, Dhar and Chanderi had been conquered by him by the end of 1305 except for West Bengal . Almost the whole of North India had been incorporated by him in his empire by the end of 1311. Ala-ud-din was killed by his lieutenant Malik Kafur who was admired and considered as close by him (just as Jalal-ud-din was killed by his dear nephew) in 1316. Kafur's attempts for usurpation lead to his death. The last ruler of the Khilji Dynasty in the country was Qutb-ud-din Mubarak Shah. Out of all the three major rulers of the Khilji Dynasty he was the weakest. It was during his reign that all taxes and penalties were abolished. The Khilji dynasty saw many intriguing brutal battles. Qutb-ud-din released all prisoners of the gruesome wars. The Khilji dynasty in India finally ended with his murder by Khusru Khan. Last Updated on : 6/29/2012               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule