Department of Industries : Official Website of Government of Jharkhand Click for Archive Website Skip to Main Content Skip to Navigation Sign In A A A- A A+ Department of Industries Government of Jharkhand Home About Directory Photo Gallery e Services You are here : Home State Department and Agencies Industries About The Department Banking Scenario in the State of Jharkhand There are about 1500 bank branches of Scheduled Commercial Banks, Private Banks and Regional Rural Banks working in the state of Jharkhand. About 1000 branches are situated in rural areas and about 250 branches in semi-urban areas. Allahabad Bank is the convener of State level Banker's Committee with its office situated at Lalpur Chowk, Ranchi ( Telefax No. 2560364). Of the 22 districts in the state, Lead Responsibility is vested with Bank of India in 13 districts, with SBI in 7 districts and 2 with Allahabad Bank. In a bid to improve the customer service, majority of the banks have computerized their bank branches particularly in urban and semi-urban centers, extended/modified their banking hours and have installed ATMs at prominent centers.   View More... Acts & Rules Advertisements Allotment Orders Announcement Assembly Matters Circulars Citizen Charter Corrigendum Downloads Media Gallery Mobile Applications MoM News Notices Notifications Office Order Others Policies Press Release Publications Recruitments Resolutions RTI Sanction Orders Sankalp Schemes Tenders Videos Who's Who News & Headlines JHARKHAND EXPORT POLICY- 2014 (Draft) View more Schemes & Tenders Memorandum of Understanding between Department of Industries and CIDC for Skill Development of Human Resources and Placement of Youth in the Construction Sector Employment Oriented Vocational Training for the Youth of Jharkhand by CIDC, New Delhi   Mission Vision   Downloads Who's Who Featured Links Please update the featured links for your department. Useful Links Please update the featured links for your department. jharkhandindustry.gov.in Photo in News State Department and Agencies Agriculture Animal Husbandry Art & Culture Board of Revenue Disaster Management Forest & Environment Department of Excise Finance Food & Public Distribution Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Human Resources Industries Information & Public Relations Information Technology Labour & Employment Law (Justice) Power & Energy Rural Development Science & Technology Social Development Transport Tourism Department Water Resources Know More... Know Your District Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka East Singhbhum Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan About Us About the Portal Terms of use Policies & Disclaimer Contact us Site Map Accessibility Statement Help Feedback Screen Reader Access FAQ's Weather For Jharkhand --Select-- Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka Jamshedpur Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan Supported By External website that opens in a new window. External website that opens in a new window. This page was last modified on:Thu May 28 12:31:18 UTC 2015 All Rights Reserved by Government of Jharkhand, India. Designed & Maintained by TCSL   in cooperation with NIC and JAPIT Validation HTML5 , CSS3   Back to Top