Need labor and supervisor for farm and dairy AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Job Vacancies Need labor and supervisor for farm and dairy Results 1 to 3 of 3 Thread: Need labor and supervisor for farm and dairy LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… April 17th, 2015 #1 pradeept1 Join Date Apr 2015 Posts 2 Need labor and supervisor for farm and dairy Hi all, Good afternoon. Just joined this forum. I am agripreneur. We're developing a farm (vegetable, fruit, dairy) in about 100 acres of land in the outskirts of Hyderabad. I am looking forward to making some good connections and participating in a vibrant agri-community here. This post is regarding some immediate resource requirements that we have at our farm. We need farm labor for our fruit and vegetable farm. Need 7-8 pairs of farm labor. We need 2 pairs of labor for our dairy farm. We are also looking for a good supervisor, preferably with good background in organic farming. Last but not least, I'd appreciate any good leads on an experienced, reliable organic farming consultant for the long term farm development. All facilities are already in place for the farm labor and supervisor to stay comfortably at the farm - rooms, water, electricity, etc. You can reach me at +91 9849803882. Thanks, Pradeep Reply With Quote April 18th, 2015 #2 dpsorganicagro Join Date Mar 2015 Posts 7 D P SINGH M Sc (Ag) Agronomy Expert Organic Farming +91-7534082988 dpsorganicagro@yahoo.co.in dpsorganicagro@gmail.com Reply With Quote 4 Weeks Ago #3 pradeept1 Join Date Apr 2015 Posts 2 Originally Posted by pradeept1 Hi all, Good afternoon. Just joined this forum. I am agripreneur. We're developing a farm (vegetable, fruit, dairy) in about 100 acres of land in the outskirts of Hyderabad. I am looking forward to making some good connections and participating in a vibrant agri-community here. This post is regarding some immediate resource requirements that we have at our farm. We need farm labor for our fruit and vegetable farm. Need 7-8 pairs of farm labor. We need 2 pairs of labor for our dairy farm. We are also looking for a good supervisor, preferably with good background in organic farming. Last but not least, I'd appreciate any good leads on an experienced, reliable organic farming consultant for the long term farm development. All facilities are already in place for the farm labor and supervisor to stay comfortably at the farm - rooms, water, electricity, etc. You can reach me at +91 9849803882. Thanks, Pradeep Resumes can be sent to pradeep@curiousgroup.in . Thx, Pradeep Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread consultant , dairy , farm , labor , supervisor View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 08:15 PM .