Assam Government and Politics Home » Assam » Assam Government And Politics   Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Silchar Jorhat Haflong Nagoan Guwahati Tezpur Dispur Sibsagar                          more... असम का नक्शा Districts of Assam Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map National Parks of Assam Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Economy & Development Society Travel to Assam Places to Visit in Assam Wildlife Sanctuaries Kamakhya Temple National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Education in Assam Universities in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info       Assam Government and Politics Assam government and politics involves the various political parties that rule the state and function as opposition in the legislative assembly. There are many political parties in the Indian state of Assam such as Indian National Congress (INC), Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Communist Party of India (CPI). Government of Assam The Government of Assam is the regional ruling authority of the state of Assam, Republic of India. The head of the state is the Governor of Assam. At present, the Governor of the state is His Excellency Mr. Janaki Ballabh Patnaik. The Chief Minister of the state functions as the head of the government. He is also the leader of the legislative party sitting in the treasury bench. Presently, Shri Tarun Gogoi is the Chief Minister of Assam. The Assam Legislative Assembly consists of 126 elected members or legislators. Assembly elections take place in the state after every five years unless it is stated otherwise. The Chief Minister of the state is helped in running the government by a council of ministers, which is nominated by the chief minister himself. National Parties in Assam Assam, an important state located in the northeastern part of India, is known for its significant presence in Indian politics. As far as politics in India is concerned, the state always stays at the front position and it is significantly plagued by the ULFA strikes and other radical activities carried out by this separatist organisation. Following the most recent ULFA attacks in the state, the national level political parties in Assam have consented on one viewpoint that they should gain courage and attempt to stop terrorism at any cost. The most important national level political parties that dictate the political state of affairs in the state are as follows: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Indian National Congress (INC) Communist Party of India (CPI) Communist Party of India (Marxist), also known as CPI (M) Scenario of National Level Political Parties in Assam The political system of the state is overseen by the Governor of the state. Currently, the Governor of the state is Janaki Ballabh Patnaik, a former Congress leader. He is helped in his functioning by the Chief Minister together with his ministry, who are elected to the legislative assembly of the state. The present Chief Minister of the state is Tarun Gogoi. The Indian National Congress has been dominant in the state since the country gained its independence from British dominion in 1947. The party ruled the state till 1978. In 1978, a Janata Party Government took over the control of Assam. Nevertheless, the government had a short stint and the Indian National Congress returned to power once again in 1980. They ruled the state till 1985. In 1985, the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), a party which backed the Assam Agitation, was elected by the people of the state to rule the state for the next five years. After 1985, the Asom Gana Parishad and the Indian National Congress governed the state alternatively till 2001. Since 2001, the Indian National Congress again came to power and since then the party has been ruling the state in an uninterrupted manner. They became successful in winning the assembly elections held in 2006 and 2011 successively. Tarun Gogoi is the only Chief Minister in the chronicles of the state to be chosen as the CM for the third successive time. Council of Ministers The Council of Ministers of Assam is headed by the Chief Minister of the state and aids the head of the state in governance. The ministers are assigned various departments. The Chief Minister, generally himself looks after the Home ministry and other departments like political, finance, public works and departments not specified or allotted to ministers. The chief minister works with the help of the Assam council of Ministers for the welfare of the state of Assam. A list of the ministries of Assam is stated below: Ministry of Revenue, relief and rehabilitation, Implementation of Assam Accord and Administrative Reforms and Training Ministry of Agriculture and Welfare of Plains Tribes and Backward Classes Ministry of Urban development and housing Ministry of Hill Areas, Mines & Minerals and Veterinary Ministry of Water Resources and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Co-operation and Cultural Affairs Ministry of Excise and Border Areas Ministry of Food and Civil Supplies, Minorities Welfare and Development and Haj Affairs Ministry of Elementary Education, Secondary Education and Higher Education Ministry of Panchayat and Rural Development and Transport Ministry of Environment and Forests, Tourism, Printing and Stationary and Information and Public Relations Ministry of Planning and Development, Labour and Employment, and Tea Tribes Welfare Ministry of Social Welfare and Jails Ministry of Irrigation, Soil Conservation and Fishery Ministry of Industries & Commerce, Power (Electricity), Public Enterprises Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Guwahati Development, Information Technology, and Science & Technology Ministry of Textile and Sericulture, Judicial and Legislative Current Governor of Assam At present, His Excellency Janaki Ballabh Patnaik is the Governor of Assam. He took charge of the state on November 27, 2009. Departments under the Assam Government Following is the list of various departments under the government of Assam: Agriculture Department Animal Husbandry & Veterinary Department Assam Accord Department Civil Works Department Border Areas Department Cultural Affairs Department Cooperation Department Directorate of Financial Inspections, Assam Directorate of Technical Education, Assam Education Department Directorate of Financial Inspections, Assam Excise Department Election Department Revenue Department Finance Department Electricity Department Fishery Department Forest Department Food & Civil Supplies Department Guwahati Development Department General Administration Department Information Technology Department Social Welfare Department Hill Areas Department Handloom Textiles & Sericulture Department Welfare of Plains Tribes and Backward Classes Department Science and Technology Department Transport Department Registration Department Tribes Welfare Department Public Works Department Public Health Engineering Department Irrigation Department Soil Conservation Department Judicial Department Panchayat and Rural Development Department Passport Department Personnel Department Planning and Development Department Relief and Rehabilitation Department Assembly Constituencies in Assam In 1937, there were 108 assembly constituencies in the state. The number came down to 105 in 1957. Since 1962, the number of assembly seats was increased to 114. Since 1972, the number of assembly constituencies has become 126. Among these seats, sixteen seats have been reserved for scheduled tribe candidates and eight have been reserved for scheduled caste candidates. WBST160914 Last Updated on : September 16, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule