Pathankot Ajmer Expressway, Map of Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway » Pathankot Ajmer Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Map of Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Pathankot Ajmer expressway is a proposed eight - lane expressway to be built across the states of Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan. The Punjab government lead by Chief Minister Prakash Singh Badal had proposed the project in 2008. Reliance Energy limited have proposed to construct the expressway at a cost of Rs 8000 crore. The 600 kilometer long expressway would connect Pathankot to Ajmer via Jalandhar. At present the 1526 kilometer long national highway no 15 which passes through Gandhinagar in Gujarat is the main highway in western and north western India. It connects Pathankot with Kandla port in Gujarat. The Pathankot Ajmer expressway would begin at Pathankot and go via Jalandhar up to Mansa on the Punjab border with Rajasthan. About 325 kilometers of the expressway would fall in Punjab and the rest would go through Haryana and Rajasthan. Pathankot is located at the meeting point of three north Indian states- Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. Because of its geographical location, it is the travel hub for these states with a huge interstate bus terminus and four railway stations in the city itself. Jalandhar is an industrial city, one of the biggest manufacturers of sports goods in the world. Ajmer, in Rajasthan is midway between Mumbai and Delhi and lies on the route of the NH 8 connecting Mumbai to Delhi. Ajmer is close to the port town of Kandla in Gujarat. With the development of a shorter and faster access on the expressway from Pathankot to the south of India via Ajmer, the trade and commerce between the northern and central states will get a boost. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule