Arpan Seva Sansthan, Rajasthan NGO, Agriculture NGO India   Home     Background     Profile     Board Directors     Foreword     Strategy     Programmes     Publications     Research     People's Org.     News     Achievements     Exposure     Gallery     Annual Reports   Audit Reports     Contact us   :: Mission ::         Arpan Seva Sansthan - Signifies to deliver     Natural Resource   Management Horticulture Poverty alleviation ClusterDevelopment Health & hygiene Vermicomposting Capacity building Health - HIV / AIDS SUPPORT US --------------------- PROJECTS Terra Cotta Siyava Stone Cluster Pindwara   ARPAN SEVA SANSTHAN , is a non profit organization dedicated to develop an optimal mechanism for Rural Society, mainly the disadvantaged sections. Arpan has been founded and managed by a team of young Agricultural Engineering professionals with commitment to improve the quality of life by sustainable development. Arpan aims to achieve the goal through effective implementation of the rural developmental programmes utilizing the local resources with people centric approach. Arpan Seva Sansthan is registered under Rajasthan Societies Registration Act, 1958 on March 29, 1996. As the name signifies, 'Arpan' means to deliver; deliver the services to the society. Arpan is conceding its endeavors for improving socio-economic condition by undertaking the issues like Natural Resource Management, Watershed Resource Development, Agriculture Development, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Health and Hygiene, Poverty, Capacity Building, environmental protection and other developmental concerns. Arpan is also committed to conserve the heritage, art and culture. Initially, Arpan Seva Sansthan started working on only a couple of areas and over a span of 14 years we are now playing a decisive role in mainstream social issues across the working area. We are able to achieve the milestones with the help of a devoted and expert team. By casting local tribal communities with our team, our efforts are now successful and reflected in the visible positive changes, channeled through our organization. Our organization plays role of a catalyst in institutional development. Our strategies are focused and well planned to achieve the desired objectives. Team of Arpan Seva Sansthan ventured into interior backward tribal belt of Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara and Sirohi districts to develop alliances with rural societies and to meet out the basic developmental issues. Implementation process has been executed through a series of meetings and awareness campaigns involving the target community to render better results. It therefore enabled to ameliorate living standards of more than 3000 tribal families directly in these districts. Now we are in process to discover new horizons to achieve our ultimate goal that is to bring the deprived classes in the mainstream by improving the socioeconomic condition of rural community.   Website designed and hosted by NGOs India