Ambala Chandigarh Expressway, Map of Ambala Chandigarh Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway » Ambala Chandigarh Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Ambala Chandigarh Expressway Map of Ambala Chandigarh Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing route of Ambala Chandigarh Expressway. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Ambala Chandigarh expressway is a part of the NH 22 passing through the state of Punjab. The NH 22 starts at Ambala in Haryana and then goes on through the hilly state of Himachal Pradesh to join Khab at the Chinese border. The expressway was inaugurated in 2009 and covers a 35 kilometer stretch on the NH 22. A small part of it goes through the NH 21 also. The National Highway Authority of India developed this stretch as part of its national highways development project. The GMR group which has constructed the expressway is the concessionaire for the collection of toll and the maintenance of the expressway. Earlier the Ambala Chandigarh section of the highway was a two lane stretch, but with one of the highest traffic densities in the country with traffic coming in from the adjoining states of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal and Delhi, it was always very crowded. The construction of the modern four lane expressway over several bridges and flyovers has reduced the travelling time considerably. As it connects the industrial cities the commerce in the area has also received a boost. The expressway is at the beginning stretch of the NH 22 which connects the town of Ambala in Haryana and Chandigarh. Chandigarh is the capital of Punjab and Haryana and the most important industrial hub of the region. Ambala is on the border of Punjab and Haryana and has one of the main railway junctions of the northern railway zone. Due to its geographical location the town is an important transit for traffic coming from the capital Delhi and bound for the popular tourist hill towns of Himachal such as Shimla, Chail and Kasauni. The roadways are the lifeline for the hilly and mountainous state of Himachal and NH 22 and NH 21, which connects Chandigarh to Manali, are the major roads which connect the state to the plains. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule