Directorate of Agriculture - Govt. of Goa, India - ABOUT US   Sitemap          Help Skip to navigation | Skip to main content   HOME ABOUT US MAJOR CROPS FAQ DOWNLOADS NEWS & EVENTS PUBLICATIONS ACTS & RULES GALLERY CONTACT US   DIRECTORS NOTE ORGANISATION CHART SCHEMES STATISTICS AWARDS RTI BUDGET 2010-2011 TENDERS DEALERS SUCCESS STORIES NEWSPAPER CLIPS USEFUL LINKS TERMS OF USE VACANCIES ABOUT US Agriculture is the primary occupation of State of Goa and is the main stay of rural economy. The promotion of agriculture, Horticulture and all related activities are planned, executed and monitored by Government of Goa through the Department of Agriculture which has its head office at Krishi Bhavan, Tonca Caranzalem Goa. Department is having Zonal Agriculture Offices at all Taluka headquarters except Mormugao Taluka and these Offices are headed by Zonal Agriculture Officers. The department has also Mechanical Cultivation wing attached to all the Zonal Agricultural Offices and monitored from five centers at Tonca, Mapusa, Margao, Valpoi and Curchorem. Apart from that, there are some Zonal Agriculture Offices attached with the farms where they undertake the cultivation of vegetables, paddy, fruit bearing trees and ornamentals. They are also producing the grafts and seedlings of various fruit bearing trees such as mango, coconut, cashew, oil palm, etc. Department has undertaken various schemes for development of agriculture and horticulture in this State, and is also motivating farmers for commercial cultivation in their land by giving them the  technical and financial support to undertake cultivation of crops such as sugarcane, pulses and groundnuts, besides paddy. Over a period of time, department has laid emphasis to improve the economic viability of the farmers. On horticulture side, department is taking up various schemes for the promotion of cashew, mango, coconut and vegetable with special support from the Government of India. Department is gradually promoting switching over from traditional cultivation to mechanized cultivation system by introducing various equipment meant for the farming sector. In order to increase the easy access of machinery among the farmers, department has been subsidizing the equipment to the extent of 75% of standard costs. Apart from the above, department runs a Farmer’s Training Centre at Old Goa and Krishi Vigyan Kendra for South Goa at Margao where the training of the farmers and departmental staff of this State are undertaken. Besides this, there are two departmental farms at Kalay and Codar where the production of the grafts and seedlings of ornamental, fruit bearing plants, etc. are taken up for sale and distribution to the public. Department is having a wing of Soil Conservation Division which takes up, maintenance of protective bunds, sluice gates for the protection of the Khazan land from inundation. Assistance is provided to farmers associations for maintenance of these bunds. Department is having two modern laboratories for the soil testing work at Ela and Margao.   Back This is the official website of Directorate of Agriculture, Government of Goa, India. Last Reviewed / Updated on: 09th May, 2014. Copyright © 2015 Directorate of Agriculture - Govt. of Goa, India. All Rights Reserved.