eCourses Home Objective SAUs Reports Farmer's Portal Feedback Contact Us Admin Username: Password: All online eCourses are operational and for improved access the courses are updated on the Linux platform Agricultural Education Division of ICAR                                             New User Registration   Education Division undertakes planning, development, coordination and quality assurance in higher agricultural education in the country and, thus, strives for maintaining and upgrading quality and relevance of higher agricultural education through partnership and efforts of the components of the ICAR-Agricultural Universities (AUs) System comprising State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), Deemed to be universities (DUs), Central Agricultural University (CAU) and Central Universities (CUs) with Agriculture Faculty. >> More information Under financial support of NAIP, all the e-Course Contents available on this website have been developed by subject matter specialist of the respective disciplines at State Agricultural Universities in India and Deemed Universities of ICAR, New Delhi. The courses material is prepared as per ICAR approved syllabus for the benefit of under-graduate students already enrolled in Indian Agricultural Universities.                     To Access Online e-Courseware            HelpGuide Word Pdf                   To Downloads Offline e-Courseware            HelpGuide Word Pdf Video SNo Online e-Courses To Download Offline e-Courses 1 B.Sc.(Agriculture) B.Sc.(Agriculture) 2 B.V.Sc.(Veterinary & AH) B.V.Sc.(Venerinary & AH) 3 B.F.Sc.(Fisheries Science) B.F.Sc.(Fisheries Science) 4 B.Tech. (Dairy Technology) B.Tech. (Dairy Technology) 5 B.Sc.(Home Science) B.Sc.(Home Science) 6 B.Tech.(Agricultural Engineering) B.Tech.(Agricultural Engineering) 7 B. Sc. (Horticulture) B. Sc. (Horticulture) Joint Venture on e-Learning                                                                           Additional Links for further Reading/ References TNAU, Coimbatore TANUVAS, Chennai KVAFSU, Mangalore AAU Anand ANGRAU, Hyderabad NDRI, Karnal Dr.YSPUH&F, Nauni-Solan Agricultural Education Division Website Developed & Maintained by   Dr. R.C. Goyal under Emeritus Scientist Scheme of ICAR  Hosted from IASRI,  New Delhi ©2013 Site has been visited 630426 times since 19, July 2013. Disclaimer : The information on this website does not warrant or assume any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or usefulness of the courseware contents. The contents are provided free for noncommercial purpose such as teaching, training, research, extension and self learning.