General Motors (GM) India – history, plants, car models and more Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Automobile Industry Top Automobile Companies Tata Finance Ltd. Automobile Jobs India Heavy Vehicle Companies New Car Launches- 2010 Mercedes SUV to be launched Tata Nano-launched in Europe Automobile Fuel News Automobile-Budget 2008 Suzuki Motor Corporation HDFC Auto Loan Saraswat Co-operative Bank Latest Launches Automobile Market Auto Industry News Automobile Showrooms India Automobile Finance Car Manufacturers Indian Automobile Market Two Wheeler Manufac. Heavy Vehicle Industry Automobile Insurance Home » Automobile » Car-manufacturers » General Motors India General Motors India Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  12  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 General Motors India is totally owned by one of the largest automobile manufacturing companies of the world, the General Motors Corporation. It is ranked in the top five manufacturing companies in India, after Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Tata Motors and Mahindra. History of General Motors The Company was founded in the year 1908. It is one of the largest manufacturers of cars and trucks globally. General Motors initiated its operations in India in the year 1928, but in 1954, the corporation closed down its assembly operations. Although GM continued its association with Hindustan Motors and manufacturing of Bedford trucks, Vauxhall cars, Allison Transmissions and off-road equipment were carried on. GMIPL was created as a joint venture in 1994.Hindustan Motors shared equal percentage of ownership along with General Motors, to manufacture and sell Opel branded automobiles. Till 2003, GMIPL continued manufacturing Opel cars at the Halol facility in Gujarat and then it switched to producing Chevrolet cars. GMIPL shifted its headquarters to Gurgaon in 2000. In 2003, the company launched its technical center in Bangalore. The technical center included research and development facilities, vehicle engineering activities. The technical center also provided purchasing and financial support services for smooth operations of General Motor offices outside India. A vehicle design studio was set up by the company in 2007. A second vehicle manufacturing plant was set up in Talegaon in 2006, which started producing vehicles of the brand Chevrolet in September 2008. General Motors in 2009, General Motors declared a new 50-50 partnership with Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation of China, the partner of GM's main venture in China for carrying out its operations in India. General Motors Manufacturing Plants in India GMIPL has manufacturing facilities in various places in India as Halol in Gujarat, Talegaon Dabhade in Maharashtra. Its headquarters are in Halol and Gurgaon and the company's technical centre is in Bangalore. The Halol and Talegaon Dabhade units of the General Motors have a combined annual production of around 385,000 vehicles. GM Models in India Find the list of the models along with their features, manufactured by General Motors India. It manufactures all its cars under its subsidiary Chevrolet.The features enlisted will help you choose and buy your dream vehicle Chevrolet Car. Chevrolet Spark Exteriors: A stylish and compact aerodynamic design. The front headlights have a unique quotation style and the tail lights show a jewel effect. Interiors Beige Interiors- This feature further adds to its style quotient and gives it an attractive appeal. Optimax Cabin- This gives the car a spacious headroom and legroom both for the passengers seating in the front and back. Technology- Spark is equipped with a SMARTTECH engine with features like Sequential MPFI, Dual Distributor Less Ignition System (DDLI), Motorized Throttle Intake System (MTIS) and Advanced Optical Sensor which makes operation of the engine smoother and powerful. Chevrolet Beat Exteriors: A dynamic grille design with aggressive front headlights, recessed rear door handles and alloy wheels make the exteriors look stylish. Interiors Unique Instrument Cluster: The steering has a LED backlit analogue peedometer. Spacious Interior: It has a spacious interior with ample legroom and many storage Compartments. Technology: It has the advanced SMARTTECH II technology features. Chevrolet Aveo U-VA Exteriors: It carries a youthful and sporty design and has jeweled-element headlamps Interiors: The car has an extremely spacious interior and can easily accommodate five adults. Technology: The Aveo U-VA gives extraordinary fuel efficiency. By recalibrating the Engine Management system and gear ratio combination for Indian fuel, the world class features have been incorporated into the engine. Chevrolet Aveo Exteriors: The famous Italdesign Giugiaro Design Studio in Italy has designed the Chevrolet Aveo. The looks are extremely aerodynamic and rocking. Interiors: The interiors are as stunning as the exteriors. The cabin's gorgeous design with features like the two tone scheme, satin chrome accents makes its more eye appealing. The sporty element to the car's interior is given by the chrome accented 3 pod instrument to the interior .The "tall car" design gives an excellent interior space. Technology: The engine is a robust 1.4 L one. 4 valves per cylinder with DOHC (Dual Overhead Camshafts) configuration have been combined to deliver unmatched performance. Chevrolet Optra Magnum Exteriors: The Optra has stylish almond shaped head lamps, with dual post Chevrolet Grill with iconic boot eye, door handles with a chrome grip and last but not the least stylish alloy wheels. Interiors: The interiors are awesomely designed with Plush Beige and leather upholstery, the Steering Wheel wrapped in 4 spoke leather wrapped , an over all metallic finish. Technology: TCDi Engine or known as Turbo Charged Engine gives the engine better fuel efficiency. EGR Cooler or Exhaust Gas Recirculation Cooler gives an improved combustion of fuel and lower emissions. Chevrolet Cruze Exteriors: The Cruze has the following exterior features Dynamic design with a wide track, long wheelbase and crisp sculpted shoulder lines Dual Bezel Design Headlamps, Split-Design Tail Lamps, Large 6.5J x 40.64 cm Alloy wheels Interiors: The interiors of the Cruze have a sophisticated touch to it with an ergonomically designed steering wheel and an ice-blue illuminated dashboard. Three-Gauge Instrument Cluster: This Centre-positioned Driver Information Display gives out digital text information as for instance odometer, average fuel, fuel consumption and average speed. In addition to it, its ice-blue dash illumination intensifies cabin sophistication and improves instrumentation and easy reading. Integrated Centre Stack: Advanced integrated centre panel with graphic infotainment display, radio, a 6-CD changer with MP3 compatibility, and HVAC controls add to its features. Technology: Next Generation Variable Geometry Turbo Common Rail Direct Injection (VCDi) Diesel Engine is its main feature. Chevrolet Tavera Neo2 Exteriors: Features right from the Instrument Panel to the Dashboard, Door Trims and Velour Upholstery gives an elegant look to the car. Interiors: The Tavera Neo 2's interiors has been thoughtfully designed right from enough leg room, adequate space for your luggage to the Vanity Mirror, it gives a comfortable ride. Technology: The 2.5L Direct Injection Insta-Torque Turbo Engine gives superior fuel efficiency and better power. It ensures there is lower power loss. Chevrolet Captiva Exteriors: The Captiva has a stylish outlook, with a body contoured engine and dynamic crease line. Interiors: Luxury Features: The enormously crafted all beige seats with genuine leather gives an extremely luxury feeling. Technology: Variable Geometry Turbo Common Rail Direct injection (VCDi) Diesel engine is its prime feature. Business Facts of General Motors India Sales grow by 61%, General Motors India: As of 2010, a 61% growth has been recorded in the sales of General Motors India, compared to the sales figures of 2009. 8,225 units were sold in May 2010 against 5,109 units in May of 2009. GM India plans to hire manpower, expand output by 80%: By 2012, GM India has plans of hiring about a 1000 people which is in accordance with its current output expansion target. It has a target to reach 80% expansion by over 4.1 lakh units per annum at its two manufacturing units in India. General Motors is planning to invest $500 million (over Rs 2,200 crore) in its two production units at Halol, Gujarat and Talegaon, Maharashtra by the end of next year, to increase its production capacity and merge R&D activities. General Motors have a target to achieve overall sales of about 3 lakh units in 2013 and over 2lakh units in 2012. General Motors India's (GM) Halol plant has plans to start trial production of its forthcoming light commercial vehicles (LCVs). They have set a target of starting the trials after Diwali this October. By the first quarter of 2012, the LCVs from the GM and Shanghai Automotive Industries Corporation (SAIC) joint venture are possibly to hit the markets. General Motors India website http://careers.gm.com/worldwide-locations/asiamiddle-east/india.html General Motors Social Media presence https://www.facebook.com/generalmotors https://twitter.com/GM https://plus.google.com/u/0/+GeneralMotors/posts Car Manufacturers In India Hindustan Motors Maruti Udyog Reva Electric Car Co Daimler Chrysler India Fiat India Private Ltd Ford India Ltd General Motors India Honda Siel Cars India Ltd Hyundai Motors India Ltd Toyota Kirloskar Motor Ltd Skoda Auto India Private Ltd AUDI AG BMW CHEVROLET FORCE MOTORS NISSAN MOTOR CO. LTD PORSCHE ROLLS-ROYCE MOTOR San Motors TATA MOTORS Daewoo Motors Small Car Market in India Mid Size Car Market in India Premium Car Market in India Luxury Car Market in India Sport Utility Vehicle Market in India More in Automobiles FDI Inflows to Automobile    Industry Bajaj Auto Ltd. Instant Auto Loans Top Auto Finance Comp. Delhi Auto Expo 2010 Auto Repair Shops Office Automation    Equipment Auto Parts Centers Role of Automobile Ind.    - GDP 2010 Budget Automobiles    Industry Expectations Applications in Automobile    industry Petrochemicals in    Automobiles Car Insurance India Automotive Grade Urea Union Budget 2010 Impact    on Automobiles sector Automobile Sale &    Purchase Cheapest Automobile Loans Automotive Axles Honeywell Automation ANG Auto About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED