Places to Visit in Coorg, Tourist Destinations near Coorg Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Karnataka Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Places to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan Palace Cubbon Park Raja's Seat Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary Lalitha Mahal Karanji Lake Murudeshwara Temple Mysore Palace Group of Monuments at Pattadakal Bangalore Fort Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Cities to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Travel Belur Travel Coorg Travel Halebid Travel Hampi Travel Mangalore Travel Mysore Travel Badami Travel Belgaum Travel Sringeri Travel Karnataka Hotels Bangalore Hotels Coorg Hotels Udupu Hotels Mysore Hotels Hubli Hotels Mangalore Hotels About Karnataka Geography & History Fairs & Festivals Food Quick Facts Home » Karnataka » Tourism » Places to Visit in Coorg Places to Visit in Coorg Coorg - the Scotland of India is famous for its lush green valleys, misty hills, sprawling coffee & tea plantations, orange groves, fast flowing streams and dazzling waterfalls. As a popular weekend getaway, Coorg offers a magnificent old world charm with a laidback experience and a relaxing ambience. One can enjoy the picturesque surroundings which offer spectacular views of the Western Ghats. There are a lot of tourist attractions in Coorg which are frequented visited. They widely range from historical forts and monuments to ancient temples, ecological parks, waterfalls and wildlife sanctuaries. Excellent opportunities for adventure activities like trekking, angling and river rafting can also be done here. Places to See in Coorg Raja's Seat Raja's Seat is located in the town of Madikeri. It is the place where the kings used to sit along with their consorts and watch the sunsets. The view is spectacular from here as one can gaze upon the beautiful hills and valleys. The government has set up a garden around the Raja's Seat and it has become an ideal place for tourist to come and enjoy themselves. Omkareshwara Temple Established in 1820, the Omkareshwara Temple was built by Lingarajendra II with a Mohammedan style of architecture. The temple highlighted a center dome with four corner turrets. The temple is similar to a Muslim Dargah and has a Linga by the entrance door. The temple's history was inscribed by the king on a copper plate. It can be seen hanging on the door frame at the temple entrance. Madikeri Fort The Madikeri Fort was originally built as a mud fort by Mudduraja in the 17th century. It was rebuilt by Tipu Sultan in stone. Built of brick and mortar, the fort had witnessed many fierce battles. The palace in the fort was renovated in 1812-1814 by Lingarajendra Wodeyar II. Two life size masonry elephants are present in the north-east corner and a church is also located in the south-east corner. The fort is of archaeological value and offers stunning views of the city from its walls. Within the Fort's walls there is a prison, small museum, chapel, temple and various government offices. Abbey Falls Abbey Falls is a popular waterfall just about 8 km from the main town of Madikeri. Here the River Kaveri cascades down from a height of 70 feet. A hanging bridge is built across the gorge offering an excellent view of the falls. The place offers a splendid backdrop for picnics. Gaddige Gaddige is a historical structure of Indo-Sarcenic architecture style and holds the mortal remains of the royal kings and the court dignitaries. The tomb of Lingarajendra was built here in 1820 and the tomb of the Royal priest Rudrappa was built in 1834. The tomb of two royal officials, Biddanda Bopu and his son Biddanda Somaiah who died fighting with Tipu Sultan are also located here. Bylekuppe Bylekuppe is one of the largest Tibetan settlements in southern India. It is located near Kushalanagar and has several monasteries. The Great Gompa of Sera Je and Sera Mey and the Namdroling monastery are among the prominent ones in the area. The Buddhist statues in the monastery reflect the affluent cultural heritage of the Tibetans. Talacauvery It is the place from where the River Kaveri originates. The place is considered as one of the most sacred places in Karnataka. The place has a small spring or pond from where the river emerges as a perennial spring, but again flows underground to emerge a short distance away. Devotees as well as tourists come here in great numbers. The entire area is surrounded with wonderful sceneries. Barapole River The river offers the exciting opportunities for white river rafting lovers. The Barapole River has some thrilling stretches to raft through rapids. The months of August and September are the best for river rafting in Coorg. Somwarpet The town has beautiful sprawling coffee plantations with beautiful landscapes and several enchanting places. The place is considered holy and special puja is being offered every year on Gowri festival. The Pushpagiri Wildlife Sanctuary in also located in Somwarpet, it is an ideal spot for tourist who like to experience the wilderness. Last Updated on : 5/09/2013 Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Belgaum Hotels Bellary Hotels Bijapur Hotels Chikmagalur Hotels Coorg Hotels Davangere Hotels Dharwad Hotels Gangavathi Hotels Gulbarga Hotels Hassan Hotels Hospet Hotels Hubli Hotels Karwar Hotels Kolar Hotels Mangalore Hotels Manipal Hotels Murudeshwar Hotels Mysore Hotels Sandur Hotels Shimoga Hotels Udupi Hotels Travel to Karnataka Travel to Bangalore Travel to Belagavi Travel to Belur Travel to Coorg Travel to Halebid Travel to Hampi Travel to Mangalore Travel to Mysore Travel to Sringeri Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Belur Places to visit in Coorg Places to visit in Halebid Places to visit in Hampi Places to visit in Mangalore Places to visit in Mysore About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule