Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI India GDP    India GDP 2010-2011 India GDP History Calculating India GDP GDP India 2007 GDP India 2006 India Real GDP Growth India GDP Statistics India GDP Growth Rate India Per Capita GDP India GDP Composition Sector Wise Role of Major Industries-GDP You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home   » India-gdp » Sectorwise » Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  16  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP had been growing earlier but in the last few years it is constantly declining. Still, the Growth Rate of Agriculture in India GDP in the share of the country's GDP remains the biggest economic sector in the country. India GDP means the total value of all the services and goods that are produced within the territory of the nation within the specified time period. The country has the GDP of around US$ 1.09 trillion in 2007 and this makes the Indian economy the twelfth biggest in the whole world. The growth rate of India GDP is 9.4% in 2006- 2007. The agricultural sector has always been an important contributor to the India GDP. This is due to the fact that the country is mainly based on the agriculture sector and employs around 60% of the total workforce in India. The agricultural sector contributed around 18.6% to India GDP in 2005. Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP in spite of its decline in the share of the country's GDP plays a very important role in the all round economic and social development of the country. The Growth Rate of the Agriculture Sector in India GDP grew after independence for the government of India placed special emphasis on the sector in its five-year plans. Further the Green revolution took place in India and this gave a major boost to the agricultural sector for irrigation facilities, provision of agriculture subsidies and credits, and improved technology. This in turn helped to increase the Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP. The agricultural yield increased in India after independence but in the last few years it has decreased. This in its turn has declined the Growth Rate of the Agricultural Sector in India GDP. The total production of food grain was 212 million tonnes in 2001- 2002 and the next year it declined to 174.2 million tonnes. Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP declined by 5.2% in 2002- 2003. The Growth Rate of the Agriculture Sector in India GDP grew at the rate of 1.7% each year between 2001- 2002 and 2003- 2004. This shows that Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP has grown very slowly in the last few years. Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP has slowed down for the production in this sector has reduced over the years. The agricultural sector has had low production due to a number of factors such as illiteracy, insufficient finance, and inadequate marketing of agricultural products. Further the reasons for the decline in Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP are that in the sector the average size of the farms is very small which in turn has resulted in low productivity. Also the Growth Rate of the Agricultural Sector in India GDP has declined due to the fact that the sector has not adopted modern technology and agricultural practices. Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP has also decreased due to the fact that the sector has insufficient irrigation facilities. As a result of this the farmers are dependent on rainfall, which is however very unpredictable. Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP has declined over the years. The Indian government must take steps to boost the agricultural sector for this in its turn will lead to the growth of Agriculture Growth Rate in India GDP. India GDP Composition Sector Wise Agriculture Growth Rate-GDP Industry Growth Rate- GDP Infrastructure Sector Growth Rate- GDP Services Sector Growth Rate- GDP Business Expectations Index Surveys on India GDP India GDP and Standard of Living Limitations of GDP per Capita in Measuring Growth GDP India vs. GDP China India GDP Forecast 2008 World Bank India GDP About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED