kabaddi Home IPL 2015 IPL 2015 Schedule IPL 2015 Points Table Cricket Schedule 2015 Sachin Records Awards Live Cricke Score Top Six IPL Controversies  |    Top 10 Bowlers in World Cricket  |    Top 10 Batsmen in World Cricket India Sports IPL 2015 IPL 2015 Schedule IPL 2015 Auctions IPL 2015 Team Squad IPL 2015 Points Table IPL 2015 Venues IPL 8 2015 Match Results IPL 2015 Highest Run Scorers IPL 2015 Highest Wicket Takers IPL 2015 Most Expensive Players IPL 2015 Opening Ceremony Delhi Daredevils Team Sunrisers Hyderabad Team Kings XI Punjab Team Royal Challengers Team Rajasthan Royals Team Kolkata Knight Riders Team Mumbai Indians Team Chennai Super Kings Team Cricket Cricket Schedule 2015 India Cricket Schedule 2015 Cricket Teams Cricket World Cup 2015 Cricket World Cup 2015 Schedule Cricket World Cup 2015 Points Table Cricket World Cup 2015 Venues Cricket World Cup 2015 Match Results Incheon 2014 Asian Games Schedule T20 World Cup 2014 Asia Cup 2014 Under 19 World Cup 2014 Rankings ODI Team Rankings T20 Team Rankings Test Team Rankings ODI Batsman ODI Bowlers ODI All Rounders T20 Batsman T20 Bowlers T20 All Rounders Test Batsman Test Bowlers Test All Rounders Awards National Sports Day Buddh International Circuit Sports News Football Hockey Badminton Table Tennis Super Fight League Kabaddi London Olympics 2012 Home  » kabaddi kabaddi Kabaddi is a South Asian team sport. In Tamil, Kannada and Malayalam, the word "Kai" means hand and the word "Pidi" means catch, put together the words can be translated into "holding hands". How kabaddi is played : Two teams occupy opposite halves of a field and take turns sending a "raider" into the other half in order to win points by tackling members of the opposite team. The raider then attempts to return to his own half holding his breath and chanting "Kabbadi, kabbadi, kabbadi" during the whole raid. kabaddi is the national game of Iran, Pakistan and Bangladesh and the state game of the Indian states of Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh. Gameplay: In the international team version of kabaddi, two teams of seven members each occupy opposite halves of a field of 10m by 13 m (for men) and 8m by 11m (for women). Each team has three supplementary players held in reserve. The game is played with 20 minute halves and a five minute halftime break during which the teams exchange sides. Teams take turns sending a "raider" to the opposite team half where the goal is to tag or wrestle (confine) members of the opposite team before returning to the home half. Tagged members are "out" and are temporarily sent off the field. Meanwhile defenders must make a chain, by linking hands; if the chain is broken a member of the defending team is sent off. The goal of the defender is to stop the raider from returning to the home side before taking a breath. Forms of kabaddi : kabaddi is played in different forms; here are few of the popular forms of kabaddi: Amar: In this form of kabaddi, whenever any player is touched (out), he does not go out of the court, but stays inside and one point is awarded to the team that touched him. This game is also played on a time basis. The Amar form of kabaddi team consists of 5-6 stops and 4-5 raiders. This form of kabaddi is played in Punjab, Canada, England, New Zealand, U.S.A, and Australia. Sanjeevni: In this form of the game, one player is revived against one player of the opposite team who is out, one out, one in. The duration, number of players, dimensions of the court etc have been fixed by the kabaddi Federation of India. This from of kabaddi is the closest to the present game. There are nine players on each side. The team that puts out all the players on the opposite side scores four extra points for a "lona". The winning team is the one that scores more points after 40 minutes. Gaminee: This form of the game involves nine players on each side in a field that has no specific measurement. The characteristic of this form of the game is that when a player is put out he has to remain out until all his team members are out. The team that is successful in putting out all the players of the opponent's side secures a point. After all the players are put out the team is revived and the game continues. This form of kabaddi has no fixed time and the main disadvantage of this form is that a player is unlikely to put in his best since his chances of remaining out of the game are higher. Key Skills Required for playing kabaddi : The sport kabaddi calls for a number of skills for successfully playing the sport. Here is a list of some of the skills required: Raids Holding one's breath Dodging Formation Movement of hands and feet Holding Safe Raids Offensive skills Starting a Raid Body position during raid Defensive Skills Taunting Touching with the hands kabaddi 3rd kabaddi World Cup 2012 Points Table kabaddi World Cup 2012 Winner kabaddi World Cup 2012 Schedule kabaddi World Cup 2012 Final Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. comments powered by Disqus About US | Contact US | Feedback | XML site Map | HTML site Map | Disclaimer | FAQs Copyright 2008 Mapsofindia.com ALL RIGHTS RESERVED An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company