Agriculture :: Home | Home | Seasons & Varieties | Tillage | Nutrient Management | Irrigation Management | Weed Management | Crop Protection | Cost of Cultivation |   Crop Production :: Oil Seeds:: Gingelly   Soil Water       9. SOWING Use Kovai seed drill/gorru to sow the seeds in lines. Put one seed in each hole. Protect the seeds from crows and squirrels.   10. INTERCROPPING Raise one row of cowpea for every five rows of groundnut wherever red hairy caterpillar is endemic. Raise intercrops like redgram, blackgram, sunflower, gingelly or other pulses. Cumbu can be raised as intercrop. Groundnut + Gingelly or Groundnut + Blackgram in the ratio of 4:1 or Groundnut + Cowpea at 6:1 ratio and Groundnut + Sunflower at 6:2 ratio may be raised. 11. WEED MANAGEMENT Pre-sowing : Fluchloralin at 2.0 l/ha soil applied and incorporated. Pre-emergence : Fluchloralin 2.0 l/ha applied through flat fan nozzle with 900 l of water/ha followed by irrigation. After 35 - 40 days one hand weeding may be given. If no herbicide is applied two hand weeding and hoeing are given on 20th and 40th day after sowing. 12. EARTHING UP Accomplish earthing up during second hand weeding/late hand weeding (in herbicide application). NOTE: i) Earthing up provides medium for the peg development  ii) Use the improved hoe with long handle which can be worked more efficiently in a standing position. iii) Do not disturb the soil after 45th day of sowing as it will affect pod formation adversely. 13. APPLICATION OF CALCIUM SULPHATE (GYPSUM) Apply gypsum @ 400 kg/ha by the side of the plants on 40th to 70th day depending upon soil moisture. Apply gypsum, hoe and incorporate it in the soil and then earth up. Avoid gypsum in calciferous soils. Gypsum is effective in soils deficient in calcium and sulphur. NOTE: Application of gypsum encourages pod formation and better filling up of the pods. Application of gypsum at the rate of 50 % basal both in rainfed and irrigated condition reduces Khadhasty malady and pod scab nematode Combined nutrient spray                 Pod filling is a major problem especially in the bold seed varieties. To improve pod filling spraying of nutrient solution is to be given. This can be prepared by soaking DAP 2.5 kg, Ammonium sulphate 1 kg and borax 0.5 kg in 37 lit of water overnight. The next day morning it can be filtered and about 32 litre of mixture can be obtained and it may be diluted with 468 lit of water so as to made up to 500 litre to spray for one ha. Plano fix at the rate of 350 ml. can also be mixed while spraying. This can be sprayed on 25th and 35th day after sowing. 14. HARVESTING Observe the crop, considering its average duration. Drying and falling of older leaves and yellowing of the top leaves indicate maturity. Pull out a few plants at random and shell the pods. If the inner shell is brownish black and not white, then the crop has matured. Irrigate prior to harvest, if the soil is dry, as this will facilitate easy harvesting. If there is enough moisture in the soil, there is no need for irrigation for harvesting. If water is not available for irrigating the field prior to harvest, work a mould board plough or work a country plough, so that the plants are uprooted. Engage labour to search pods left out in the soil, if necessary. NOTE: Do not keep the pulled out plants in heaps when they are wet, especially the bunch varieties, as the pods will start sprouting. v)     Strip off the pods from the plants. Groundnut stripper developed by TNAU can be used. vi)    Dry the pods in the sun for 4 or 5 days. Repeat drying for 2 or 3 more days after an interval of 2 or 3 days to ensure complete drying. When temperature is very high, avoid direct sun drying. Collect the pods in gunnies and store on the ground over a layer of sand to avoid any moisture coming in contact with dry pods. I. Rainfed 1. FIELD PREPARATION i)       Plough with tractor using a disc followed by harrow, once or twice with iron plough or 3 - 4 times with country plough till all the clods are broken and a fine tilth is obtained. ii)      Chiselling for soils with hard pan : Chisel the soils having hard pan formation at shallow depth with chisel plough first at 0.5 m interval in one direction and then in the direction perpendicular to the previous one, once in three years. Apply 12.5 t/ha of FYM or composted coir pith besides chiselling. Amendments for soil surface crusting :  a) To tide over the surface crusting, apply lime @ 2 t/ha along with FYM or composted coir pith @ 12.5 t/ha. b) Coir pith at 12.5 t/ha  converted to compost by inoculating with Pleurotus and applied serves as a good source of nutrients. 2. APPLICATION OF FERTILIZERS Apply NPK fertilizers as per soil test recommendation. If soil test is not done, follow the blanket recommendation.   N P K     10 10 45 kg/ha   3. FORMING BEDS Form beds of size 10 m2 to 20 m2 depending upon the slope of the land and type of soil.  Wherever tractor is engaged, bed former may be used. 4. APPLICATION OF MICRONUTRIENTS Mix 12.5 kg/ha of micronutrient mixture developed by Department of Agriculture with enough dry sand to make a total quantity of 50 kg/ha. Broadcast evenly on the soil surface immediately after sowing. Do not incorporate micronutrient mixture in to the soil. 5. NUTRITIONAL DISORDER Zinc deficiency : Apply 25 kg ZnSO4/ha as basal. If soil analysis shows less than 1.3 ppm of zinc, soil application of 25 kg ZnSo44 is recommended. For the standing crop, less than 39.4 ppm of zinc in leaves, foliar spray of 0.5% ZnSo44 is recommended. Iron deficiency : spray 1% FeSo4 on 30, 40 and 50 days after sowing. Boron deficiency : Apply Borax 10 kg + Gypsum 400 kg/ha at 45th day after sowing. 6. SEED RATE Use 120 kg/ha of kernels. Increase the seed rate by 15% in the case of bold seeded varieties. 7. SPACING Adopt a spacing of 30 cm between rows and 10 cm between plants. Wherever groundnut ring mosaic (bud necrosis) is prevalent, adopt a spacing of 15cm x 15 cm. 8. SEED TREATMENT i) Treat the seeds with talc formulation of Trichoderma viride @ 4 g/kg seed or Pseudomonas fluorescens @ 10 g/kg seed.     Biocontrol agents are compatible with biofertilizers.     Treat the seeds with biocontrol agents first and then with Rhizobium .     Fungicides and biocontrol agents are incompatible. ii) Treat the seeds with Trichoderma @ 4g/kg. This can be done just before sowing. It is compatible with biofertilizers. SUCH SEEDS SHOULD NOT BE TREATED WITH FUNGICIDES (or) iii) Treat the seeds with Thiram or Mancozeb @ 4 g/kg of seed or Carboxin or Carbendazim at 2 g/kg of seed.   iv) Treat the seeds with 3 packets (600 g)/ha of Rhizobialculture TNAU14 + 3 packets of Azospirillum (600 g/ha) and 3 packets(600 g/ha)  of Phosphobacteria or 6 packets of Azophos(1200 g/ha)developed at TNAU using rice kanji as binder. If the seed treatment is not carried out apply 10packets of Rhizobium (2000g/ha) + 10 packets of Azospirillum (2000 g/ha) and 10 packets(2000 g)  of Phosphobacteria with 25 kg of FYM and 25 kg of soil before sowing. 9. SOWING Use Kovai seed drill/gorru to sow the seeds in lines. Put one seed in each hole. Protect the seeds from crows and squirrels. 10. INTERCROPPING Raise one row of cowpea for every five rows of groundnut wherever red hairy caterpillar is endemic. Raise intercrops like redgram, blackgram, sunflower, gingelly or other pulses. Cumbu can be raised as intercrop. Groundnut + Gingelly or Groundnut + Blackgram in the ratio of 4:1 or Groundnut + Cowpea at 6:1 ratio and Groundnut + Sunflower at 6:2 ratio may be raised. 11. WEED MANAGEMENT Pre-sowing : Fluchloralin at 2.0 l/ha soil applied and incorporated. Pre-emergence : Fluchloralin 2.0 l/ha applied through flat fan nozzle with 900 l of water/ha followed by irrigation. After 35 - 40 days one hand weeding may be given. If no herbicide is applied two hand weeding and hoeing are given on 20th and 40th day after sowing. 12. EARTHING UP Accomplish earthing up during second hand weeding/late hand weeding (in herbicide application). NOTE: i) Earthing up provides medium for the peg development  ii) Use the improved hoe with long handle which can be worked more efficiently in a standing position. iii) Do not disturb the soil after 45th day of sowing as it will affect pod formation adversely. 13. APPLICATION OF CALCIUM SULPHATE (GYPSUM) Apply gypsum @ 400 kg/ha by the side of the plants on 40th to 70th day depending upon soil moisture. Apply gypsum, hoe and incorporate it in the soil and then earth up. Avoid gypsum in calciferous soils. Gypsum is effective in soils deficient in calcium and sulphur. NOTE: Application of gypsum encourages pod formation and better filling up of the pods. Application of gypsum at the rate of 50 % basal both in rainfed and irrigated condition reduces Khadhasty malady and pod scab nematode Combined nutrient spray                 Pod filling is a major problem especially in the bold seed varieties. To improve pod filling spraying of nutrient solution is to be given. This can be prepared by soaking DAP 2.5 kg, Ammonium sulphate 1 kg and borax 0.5 kg in 37 lit of water overnight. The next day morning it can be filtered and about 32 litre of mixture can be obtained and it may be diluted with 468 lit of water so as to made up to 500 litre to spray for one ha. Plano fix at the rate of 350 ml. can also be mixed while spraying. This can be sprayed on 25th and 35th day after sowing. 14. HARVESTING Observe the crop, considering its average duration. Drying and falling of older leaves and yellowing of the top leaves indicate maturity. Pull out a few plants at random and shell the pods. If the inner shell is brownish black and not white, then the crop has matured. Irrigate prior to harvest, if the soil is dry, as this will facilitate easy harvesting. If there is enough moisture in the soil, there is no need for irrigation for harvesting. If water is not available for irrigating the field prior to harvest, work a mould board plough or work a country plough, so that the plants are uprooted. Engage labour to search pods left out in the soil, if necessary. NOTE: Do not keep the pulled out plants in heaps when they are wet, especially the bunch varieties, as the pods will start sprouting. v)     Strip off the pods from the plants. Groundnut stripper developed by TNAU can be used. vi)    Dry the pods in the sun for 4 or 5 days. Repeat drying for 2 or 3 more days after an interval of 2 or 3 days to ensure complete drying. When temperature is very high, avoid direct sun drying. Collect the pods in gunnies and store on the ground over a layer of sand to avoid any moisture coming in contact with dry pods.     Mineral Nutrition Plant Growth Regulators Yield Improvement Tips Dryland Agriculture Watershed Management Disaster Management Integrated Farming Organic Farming Green Manuring   Drought Flood Salinity Temperature Crop Planning Cropping Pattern Microclimate Temperature Wind Rainfall Solar Radiation Relative Humidity Agriculture Policy Notes Agriculture Schemes IAMWARM Project Application Forms     Farmers Association Publications FAQs Glossary Important Links Gallery Contacts       | Home | Seasons & Varieties | Tillage | Nutrient Management | Irrigation Management | Weed Management | Crop Protection | Cost of Cultivation | Gallery | FAQs | Contact | © All Rights Reserved. TNAU-2013.