Work allocation in Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance, Government of India Skip to Main Content | Skip to Navigation Text Size A A A A A A A Hindi Home Functions New Initiatives Financial Inclusion Documents & Publications RTI Who's Who Contact Us Dept. of Financial Services Ministry of Finance, Government of India Finance Minister Minister for State Allocation of Business Citizen's Charter Acts & Rules Work Allocation Banking Insurance Pension Reforms Notifications Circulars Appointments Press Releases Data & Statistics Vacancy Circulars Tenders/Auctions The National Portal of India National E-Governance Plan Public Grievances Invest India Tenders You are here : Home Banking Division Public Grievances Redressal Mechanism Print (Opens in a new window) Large Print (Opens in a new window) Public Grievances Redressal Mechanism Public Grievances Redressal Mechanism: Public grievance redressal in a time bound manner and improving public service delivery in banking and insurance sectors is one of the key priorities of the Department of Financial Services. 2. All the Public Sector Banks (PSBs), Financial Institutions (FIs) and Public Sector Insurance Companies (PSICs) have policies and mechanisms for redressal of public grievances/customer complaints through their Customer Service Departments. For prompt redressal of public grievances, petitioners are advised to first approach the concerned organizations for resolution of their grievances (3-tier complaint resolution system - Branch Manager- Zonal Manager and – GM Customer Service). 3. In case the complainants are not fully satisfied with the redressal/ disposal of complaints, they may approach the concerned Banking Ombudsman and Insurance Ombudsman for settlement of their grievances through mediation and passing of awards in a time frame. The contact and other relevant details/ information regarding grievance redressal are available in the website links of PSBs/FIs, PSICs, RBI, IRDA and PFRDA are given below. 4. The grievances received in the Department online or by post / manually in the Department are processed and forwarded through CPGRAMS (Centralized Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System) to concerned organizations for resolution/disposal, monitored and periodically reviewed. As per guidelines/instructions of DARPG the maximum time limit of resolution of a grievance is 60 days. The Portal is accessible at www.pgportal.gov.in. 5. The contact details and information on grievance redressal are available in the website links given on Next Page Page: 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | Next Home Sitemap Accessibility Options Terms of Use Policies Disclaimer Accessibilty Statement EBook Feedback Site is designed and hosted by National Informatics Centre Contents on this website is published and managed by The Department of Financial Services, Govt. of India.