Modes of Travel | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > Topics > Travel & Tourism > Modes of Travel Modes of Travel Places Accommodation Approved Agents Modes of Travel   Website of Ministry of Tourism Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get detailed information on the Ministry of Tourism. Users can find information on tourism infrastructure development, approved hotels and restaurants, overseas promotion, international corporation etc. Details related to the travel trade division, approved travel agents, tour operators, training programmes for the human resource development, schemes etc. are given. Information related to the national tourism awards, national tourism policy, NABH Accreditation, India Tourism Development Corporation, Hospitality Development and Promotion Board etc. is also available. Book train tickets with Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Ltd (IRCTC) provides facility to book train tickets and other related services online. Registered users can avail services like train ticket booking, enquiry for PNR, seat availability, train/fare accommodation, ticket cancellation, ticket refund, SMS, etc. Information related to concessions, rules, policies, FAQs, etc. are available. Agents’ details and schemes for the agents are also provided. Links of Mobile Application, flight booking, hotel booking, IRCTC tour packages are given. Official website of Air India Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about facilities provided by Air India. Users can access information on special offers, travel information, flight schedule of the airlines. Online ticket booking, cancellation and rescheduling facilities are also available. Details of frequent flyer programme Flying Returns are provided. Links to partner sites of Air India related to hotels, holidays, cars etc. are given. Online registration for frequent flyers is also available. Information about railway and bus services in Kollam district of Kerala Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find information on railway and bus services in Kollam district of Kerala. Users can get information on distance covered by the railway line and number of railway stations with break down on broad gauge and metre gauge in the district. Information about total distance covered by roads, state and national highway is available. Contact details of railway and bus stations in the district are also provided. Information on luxury and mountain trains of India Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about the luxurious and mountain train services provided to various tourist destinations in India. Users can get details related to mountain trains to various destinations such as Ooty, Shimla, Darjeeling, etc. Access to information about various luxurious trains such as The Deccan Odyssey,The Fairy Queen, The Palace on Wheels, Golden Chariot and Royal Rajasthan on Wheels is also available. Information on how to reach Puducherry