Travel to Mizoram - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Mizoram Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to reach Places to Visit in Mizoram Museums of Mizoram Caves Wildlife Sanctuaries Tomb of Vanhimailian Mangkahia Lung Vantawng Falls Phawngui Activities Tourist Destinations Near Mizoram Aizawl Travel About Mizoram History & Geography Climate Home » Maps » Mizoram » Travel to Mizoram Travel to Mizoram Travel Map of Mizoram Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Mizoram Tourism The idyllic state of Mizoram is perched on the tip of the northeastern border of India. Legend has it that, the Mizos emerged from a large rock known as Chhinlung. Two of the Ralte clan made a great noise while coming out. This annoyed "Pathian", the Mizo God, who felt that too many have been allowed to step out, so closed the door with a large rock. This way, the entire land of Mizoram lingers in myths and mystery. Anthropologically the mongoloid people of Mizoram trace their ancestry in China and Myanmar. In 1986, the region became a full-fledged state of Indian Union. The land promises you unbroken solitude as you travel to Mizoram. Mist clad peaks, lush green valleys, gushing streams and quaint tribal villages combine into Mizoram to offer you a perfect holiday retreat. Demographics Location Southernmost outpost of North Eastern India Surrounded by Myanmar, Bangladesh and the states of Tripura, Assam and Manipur Latitude Between 21° 58' and 24° 35' north Longitude Between 92° 15' & 93° 29' east Area 21,087SqKms Climate Max Temperature 30°C Min Temperature 10°C Average Annual Rainfall 250 cm Capital Aizawl Population 8,91,058 Languages English, Lushai, Zahao, Lakher, Hmar, Paite, Lai and Ralte and other tribal languages Religion Christian Best Time to Visit September to May Clothing Cottons throughout the year How to Reach Mizoram The state of Mizoram lies sandwiched between Myanmar, Bangladesh and the states of Tripura, Assam and Manipur. With its steep mountains, verdant valleys, cascading waterfalls, placid lakes and of course myriad wild lives, the land of Mizoram is bound in unmatched tranquility. It is hard to ignore the invitation to Mizoram. Although Mizoram lies in a corner of North Eastern India, reaching Mizoram is not a worry at all. By Air Mizoram has its airport in the capital city of Aizawl. Several airlines operate regular flights to and from Aizawl. Important cities in the rest of India like Kolkata, Imphal are linked to Aizawl by air. By Road The road network in Mizoram is quite convenient. National Highway 54 connects the capital city Aizawl with the rest of the country through Silchar. Aizawl is also accessible from other important northeastern cities in India like Shillong (450kms) and Guwahati (506kms). By Rail Mizoram does not have any Railway Station in its boundary. The most convenient Railway Station is Silchar, which is a 6/8 hours drive from Aizawl. Silchar is serviced by important trains and is linked to the rest of India with convenient Railway network. Shopping in Mizoram Like the entire northeastern region of India, Mizoram has also a rich tradition of handicrafts, which make for wonderful shopping in Mizoram. The handicrafts of Mizoram have a distinct identity, which is hard to conceptualize unless you see them. And seeing would definitely lead you to shopping in Mizoram. The Mizos are great weavers. The tradition is deeply rooted in their tribal consciousness. They prefer to stick to a certain pattern of designs and motifs, which has become a part of their heritage. Along with that, Mizoram boasts of plenty of bamboo productions. Naturally the Mizo artisans are traditionally skilled in making fantastic items made of bamboo, such as: baskets, utensils, hats, flower vases and furniture. Be it an objet d'art or a utility article, shopping in Mizoram must include an item or two made of Bamboo. While shopping in Mizoram, check out: Hand-woven fabric Bamboo crafts Cane products There a number of shopping joints in Mizoram. Some are run by the government and others are private ones, while most of them are located in and around the capital city Aizawl. Bara Bazaar is the main shopping area in the city. Ritz Market, Burma Lane, Bazaar Bungkawn, Thakthing Bazaar, New market and Solomon cave are also good places for shopping in Mizoram. Places to Visit in Mizoram Tualchang Sibuta Lung Tomb of Vanhimailian Phawngui Mangkahia Lung Lungvandawt Tadmil Vantawng Falls Dampa Sanctuary Places to visit in Mizoram Places to visit in Mizoram Flights to Mizoram Flights to Aizawl About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule