Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andhra Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Mosques & Shrines in Andhra Pradesh Parks in Andhra Pradesh Caves in Andhra Pradesh Churches in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Temples in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Museums in Andhra Pradesh Cities to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Travel to Srisailam Travel to Tirupati Travel to Visakhapatnam Travel to Vijayawada Travel to Hyderabad Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Srikakulam Hotels in Kurnool Hotels in Tirupati Hotels in Vijayawada Hotels in Nellore About Andhra Pradesh History Climate Home » Hotels » Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Andhra Pradesh HOTEL SEARCH Search by Location Search by Places Select State Select City Location of Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing the location of hotels in Andhra Pradesh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Andhra Pradesh, the "Kohinoor of India" is located in the south east of India. The state is a famous pilgrim centre drawing people from all over India. Interspersed with two rivers, Krishna and Godavari, this state has a rich historical background. Besides the temples, the golden beaches, interesting caves, mesmerizing hills, monuments, wildlife parks etc makes the state one of the sought after tourist destinations. The hotels in Andhra Pradesh are its backbone. They add beautifully to the tourism of Andhra Pradesh. The state has some topnotch hotels catering to the needs of the tourists. The hotels of Andhra Pradesh are comparable to the best hotels in India. The people of the state are known for their down to earth and kind nature. This is reflected in the warm hospitality offered at the Andhra Pradesh Hotels. Besides the hotels are also a perfect example of luxury and comfort. Some of the Luxury hotels in Andhra Pradesh are listed below. Taj Krishna Hotel, Hyderabad (now in Telanagana) Belonging to the Taj group of hotels, this hotel is located in Hyderabad. It is located in the heart of the city, being at a distance of 7kms from the airport and 10kms from the railway station. The hotel is replete with 260 well furbished rooms with all the modern facilities like AC, internet connectivity, TV, direct dial facility etc. the rooms can be classified into superior rooms, deluxe rooms, suites and Taj club rooms. If you want to dine in the finest restaurants then come down to the Taj Krishna hotel in Hyderabad. Be it multi cuisine resorts, lounge or bars, the hotel has it all. The other facilities include broadband Internet access, secretarial services, computers, fully equipped conference halls, grand ballroom fitness center, swimming pool, shopping arcade, souvenir shop, discotheque etc. Hotel Taj Residency, Visakhapatnam The hotel is located in Visakhapatnam, in a panoramic view, surrounded by the ocean and beach. It is 15kms from the airport and just 4kms from the railway station. The unique feature of this particular hotel is the homely atmosphere that is presented to the guests. The hotel offers ample accommodation facility with 89 rooms and 4 suites and to top it all there is the beautiful view of the sea that can be enjoyed by the guests. The hotel has 3 top class restaurants to cater to the dining needs of the guests. Recreation facilities, swimming pool, souvenir shop, fitness center, Ayurvedic spa, business centre etc are some of the other amenities. Some of the boutique hotels in Andhra Pradesh are as below. Celebrity Boutique Hotel This boutique hotel in Hyderabad (in the state of Telangana), is strategically located within the city and is 1km from the Begumpet Airport and 5kms from the Railway Station. The hotel has some aesthetically designed rooms with facilities like TV, telephone, Internet etc. If you want to pamper your taste buds then check out the dishes offered by the multi cuisine restaurant of the hotel. Apart from these the guests also get to enjoy facilities like internet, business centre, secretarial services etc. Minerva Grand Banjara, Hyderabad (now in Telanagana) This boutique hotel is also a business hotel located in close proximity to the commercial and entertainment centres of the city. It is 9kms from the nearest rail station. The hotel has more than 40 rooms and suites which are beautifully designed. Blue Fox, the restaurant of the hotel looks after the dining of the guests, brilliantly well. The hotel is well known for its hospitality and other facilities. Besides these some of the other hotels in Andhra Pradesh are Hotel Green Park, Vishakapatnam The Park, Vishakapatnam Hotel Grand Bay Vishakapatnam Bhimas Residency, Tirupati Hotel Kalyan Residency Tirupati Hotel Guestline Tirupati Hotel Deccan Continental, Secundrabad (now in Telanagana) Quality Hotel DV Manor, Vijayawada Kalatiya Sheraton and Towers, Hyderabad (now in Telanagana) Hotel Green Park, Visakhapatnam Hotel Golkonda, Hyderabad (now in Telanagana) The Central Court Hotel, Hyderabad (now in Telanagana) Hotel Viceroy, Guntur Be it for business purpose or holidaying, Hotels in Andhra Pradesh have it all for you to make your trip memorable. Last Updated on : May 29, 2014   Hotels in Andhra Pradesh   Hotels in Indian States Hotels by City and Destination Hotels in Goa Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Mahabaleshwar Hotels in Ooty Hotels in Manali Hotels in Mysore Hotels in Puri Hotels in Nainital Hotels in Udaipur Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Pondicherry Hotels in Mount-abu Hotels in Aurangabad Hotels in Bhopal Hotels in Jodhpur Hotels in Kanpur Hotels in Mussoorie Hotels in Delhi Hotels in Jaipur Hotels in Bangalore Hotels in Mumbai Hotels in Hyderabad Hotels in Pune Hotels in Chennai Hotels in Agra Hotels in Chandigarh Hotels in Mangalore Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Mathura Hotels in Nashik Hotels in Noida Hotels in Raipur Hotels in Rishikesh Hotels in Bhubaneswar Hotels in Ahmedabad Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Amritsar Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Gurgaon Hotels in Dehradun Hotels in Haridwar Hotels in Lucknow Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Nagpur Hotels in Allahabad Hotels in Secunderabad Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Surat Hotels in Thane Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Shirdi About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule