Creative Commons — Navngivelse-IngenBearbejdelse 2.0 Generisk — CC BY-ND 2.0 Creative Commons Creative Commons License Deed Navngivelse-IngenBearbejdelse 2.0 Generisk ( CC BY-ND 2.0 ) Ansvarsfraskrivelse This deed highlights only some of the key features and terms of the actual license. It is not a license and has no legal value. You should carefully review all of the terms and conditions of the actual license before using the licensed material. Creative Commons is not a law firm and does not provide legal services. Distributing, displaying, or linking to this deed or the license that it summarizes does not create a lawyer-client or any other relationship. Dette er et menneske-læsbart sammendrag af (og ikke en erstatning for) licensen . Ansvarsfraskrivelse Du har frihed til: Share — copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format til alle formål, også kommercielle. The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you follow the license terms. På følgende vilkår: Navngivelse — Du skal give passende kreditering , lave et link til licensen, og fortælle om eventuelle forandringer af værket . Det må du gøre på enhver fornuftig måde, men ikke tage hensyn til om licensholderen kan godkende din anvendelse. Kildeangiv dette arbejde: Hvad betyder "kreditere dette værk" ? Den side, du kom fra, indeholdt indlejret licens metadata, herunder hvordan skaberen ønsker at blive anerkendt ved bearbejdninger af dennes værk. Du kan bruge HTML-koden her til at kreditere ophavsmanden og citere arbejdet. Hvis du gør det vil også omfatte metadata på din side, så andre også kan finde det originale arbejde. IngenBearbejdelse — If you remix, transform, or build upon the material, you may not distribute the modified material. Ingen yderligere begrænsninger — You may not apply legal terms or technological measures that legally restrict others from doing anything the license permits. Bemærkninger: You do not have to comply with the license for elements of the material in the public domain or where your use is permitted by an applicable exception or limitation . No warranties are given. The license may not give you all of the permissions necessary for your intended use. For example, other rights such as publicity, privacy, or moral rights may limit how you use the material. En ny version af denne licens står til rådighed. Du skal bruge den i forbindelse med nye værker, og du kan bruge den til at genlicensere eksisterende værker. Ingen værker placeres imidlertid automatisk under den nye licens.   The applicable mediation rules will be designated in the copyright notice published with the work, or if none then in the request for mediation. Unless otherwise designated in a copyright notice attached to the work, the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules apply to any arbitration. Mere info .   If supplied, you must provide the name of the creator and attribution parties, a copyright notice, a license notice, a disclaimer notice, and a link to the material. CC licenses prior to Version 4.0 also require you to provide the title of the material if supplied, and may have other slight differences. Mere info .   In 4.0, you must indicate if you modified the material and retain an indication of previous modifications. In 3.0 and earlier license versions, the indication of changes is only required if you create a derivative. Marking guide . Mere info .   You may also use a license listed as compatible at https://creativecommons.org/compatiblelicenses Mere info .   A commercial use is one primarily intended for commercial advantage or monetary compensation. Mere info .   Merely changing the format never creates a derivative. Mere info .   The license prohibits application of effective technological measures, defined with reference to Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty. Mere info .   The rights of users under exceptions and limitations, such as fair use and fair dealing, are not affected by the CC licenses. Mere info .   You may need to get additional permissions before using the material as you intend. Mere info . Learn more about CC licensing, or use the license for your own material. Denne side er tilgængelig på følgende sprog: Castellano Castellano (España) Català Dansk Deutsch English Esperanto français Galego hrvatski Indonesia Italiano Latviski Lietuvių Magyar Melayu Nederlands Norsk polski Português Português (BR) română Suomeksi svenska Türkçe íslenska česky Ελληνικά Беларуская русский українська العربية پارسی 日本語 華語 (台灣) 한국어