Meghalaya Map Home » Maps » Meghalaya Map   Meghalaya मेघालय का नक्शा Districts of Meghalaya West Khasi Hills East Garo Hills West Garo Hills South Garo Hills              more.. Meghalaya Map Cities in Meghalaya Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Shillong City Map Cherrapunji City Map Travel to Meghalaya Places to visit in Meghalaya Wildlife Sanctuaries Elephant Falls Cherrapunji Travel Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Agricultural Map Geography Media in Meghalaya Government Education Universities in Meghalaya History Mineral Map Society Information Hotels in Meghalaya Shillong Hotels Sex Ratio Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Polls Pincode STD Code       Meghalaya Map Map of Meghalaya Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map of Meghalaya with districts, railways, rivers and major road network. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Location Map District Map Cities Map Tehsil Map         Road Network Map Physical Map Railway Map Travel Map Meghalaya , a hilly strip in eastern India, covers a total area of just 22,429 sq km. It was originally part of Assam , but on 21st January 1972, the districts of Khasi, Garo and Jaintia hills became a part of this state. It is predominantly an agrarian economy. The important crops of the state are potato, rice, maize, pineapple, banana etc. The service sector comprises of Real estate and Insurance companies. Meghalaya's gross state domestic product for 2004 is estimated at $1.6 billion in current prices. Shillong the capital of the state is a popular hill station. There are several falls in and around Shillong. The Shillong peak is highest in the state and is good for trekking. It is also known as the 'abode of the gods' and has excellent views. If one is not in a mood for camping, the state also offers many good hotels and lodging facilities. Meghalaya State Information Capital Shillong Date of formation 2. Apr. 1970 Governor K. K. Paul Chief Minister Mukul Sangma Tourist attractions Cherrapunji Garo Hills, Tura, Butterfly Museum, Central Museum Festivals Wangala (Harvest Festival), Shad Nongkrem Major dance and music forms Shad Sukmynsiem, Shad Nongkrem and Doregata dances Arts and crafts Endi silk is used to make colourful wraps and hawls; baskets known as khokd thugis are commonly woven; cone shaped bamboo rain shields known as knup are also popular. Languages Khasi, Garo, Jaintia, Bengali, Assamese, English Size 22,429 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 2,966,889 Rivers Simsang, Manda, Darming, Ringge, Gamol, Bugi Forests and wildlife sanctuarie s Nokrek NP, Balpakram NP, Nongkhyllem WS, Nokrek Biosphere Reserve, Siju Bird Sanctuary State animal Clouded leopard State bird Hill myna State flower Lady slipper orchid State tree Gamhar Major crops Potato, cotton, pineapple, orange Factoids Nartiang in Jaintia Hills has a cluster of megaliths and monoliths. Garos celebrate a good harvest with Wangala, or the dance of Hundred Drums, in November. No. of District 11 Last Updated on : October 17, 2014 Famous Personalities of Meghalaya J Dringwell Rymbai Kailas Nath Katju Mukul M Sangma P A Sangma Meghalaya Tourism Cherrapunji Travel Mawsynram Travel Police Bazar Elephant Falls Meghalaya Cities National Parks             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule