Sugarcane - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Sugarcane From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search Saccharum officinarum Cut sugarcane Sugarcane and bowl of refined sugar Sugarcane is one of the several species of tall perennial true grasses of the genus Saccharum , tribe Andropogoneae , native to the warm temperate to tropical regions of South Asia , and used for sugar production. They have stout jointed fibrous stalks that are rich in sugar , and measure two to six metres (6 to 19 feet) tall. All sugar cane species interbreed and the major commercial cultivars are complex hybrids . Sugarcane belongs to the grass family (Poaceae), an economically important seed plant family that includes maize, wheat, rice, and sorghum and many forage crops. The main product of sugarcane is sucrose , which accumulates in the stalk internodes . Sucrose, extracted and purified in specialized mill factories, is used as raw material in human food industries or is fermented to produce ethanol . Ethanol is produced on a large scale by the Brazilian sugarcane industry. Sugarcane is the world's largest crop by production quantity. [ 1 ] In 2012, FAO estimates it was cultivated on about 26.0 million hectares, in more than 90 countries, with a worldwide harvest of 1.83 billion tons. Brazil was the largest producer of sugar cane in the world. The next five major producers, in decreasing amounts of production, were India, China, Thailand, Pakistan and Mexico. The world demand for sugar is the primary driver of sugarcane agriculture. Cane accounts for 80% of sugar produced; most of the rest is made from sugar beets . Sugarcane predominantly grows in the tropical and subtropical regions, and sugar beet predominantly grows in colder temperate regions of the world. Other than sugar, products derived from sugarcane include falernum , molasses , rum , cachaça (a traditional spirit from Brazil), bagasse and ethanol . In some regions, people use sugarcane reeds to make pens, mats, screens, and thatch. The young unexpanded inflorescence of tebu telor is eaten raw, steamed or toasted, and prepared in various ways in certain island communities of Indonesia. [ 2 ] In India, between the sixth and fourth centuries BC, the Persians, followed by the Greeks, discovered the famous "reeds that produce honey without bees". They adopted and then spread sugar and sugarcane agriculture. [ 3 ] A few merchants began to trade in sugar—a luxury and an expensive spice until the 18th century. Before the 18th century, cultivation of sugar cane was largely confined to India. Sugarcane plantations, like cotton farms, were a major driver of large human migrations in the 19th and early 20th century, influencing the ethnic mix, political conflicts and cultural evolution of various Caribbean, South American, Indian Ocean and Pacific island nations. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Contents 1 Description 2 History 2.1 Sugarcane plantations in the 19th century 3 Cultivation 3.1 Pests 3.2 Pathogens 3.3 Nitrogen fixation 3.4 Conditions for sugarcane workers 4 Processing 4.1 Milling 4.2 Refining 4.3 Ribbon cane syrup 4.4 Pollution from sugarcane processing 5 Production 6 Cane ethanol 7 Bagasse applications 7.1 Electricity production 7.2 Biogas production 8 Sugarcane as food 9 See also 10 References 11 External links Description [ edit ] Sugarcane is a tropical, perennial grass that forms lateral shoots at the base to produce multiple stems, typically three to four metres high and about five cm in diameter. The stems grow into cane stalk, which when mature constitutes approximately 75% of the entire plant. A mature stalk is typically composed of 11–16% fiber, 12–16% soluble sugars, 2–3% non-sugars, and 63–73% water. A sugarcane crop is sensitive to the climate, soil type, irrigation, fertilizers, insects, disease control, varieties, and the harvest period. The average yield of cane stalk is 60–70 tonnes per hectare per year. However, this figure can vary between 30 and 180 tonnes per hectare depending on knowledge and crop management approach used in sugarcane cultivation. Sugarcane is a cash crop , but it is also used as livestock fodder. [ 6 ] History [ edit ] See also: History of sugar The westward diffusion of sugarcane in pre-Islamic times (shown in red), in the medieval Arab world (green) and by Europeans in the 1400s (violet) [ 7 ] Sugarcane is indigenous to tropical South and Southeast Asia . [ 8 ] Different species likely originated in different locations, with Saccharum barberi originating in India and S. edule and S. officinarum in New Guinea . [ 8 ] Approximately 70% of the sugar produced globally comes from S. officinarum and hybrids using this species. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] It is theorized that sugarcane was first domesticated as a crop in New Guinea around 6000 BC. [ 10 ] New Guinean farmers and other early cultivators of sugarcane chewed the plant for its sweet juice. Early farmers in Southeast Asia, and elsewhere, may have also boiled the cane juice down to a viscous mass to facilitate transportation, but the earliest known production of crystalline sugar began in northern India. The exact date of the first cane sugar production is unclear. The earliest evidence of sugar production comes from ancient Sanskrit and Pali texts. [ 11 ] Around the eighth century AD, Arab traders introduced sugar from South Asia to the other parts of the Abbasid Caliphate in the Mediterranean , Mesopotamia , Egypt , North Africa , and Andalusia . By the 10th century, sources state that there was no village in Mesopotamia that did not grow sugarcane. [ 7 ] It was among the early crops brought to the Americas by the Andalusians from their fields in the Canary Islands , and the Portuguese from their fields in the Madeira Islands . Boiling houses in the 17th through 19th centuries converted sugarcane juice into raw sugar . These houses were attached to sugar plantations in the Western colonies. Slaves often ran the boiling process under very poor conditions. Rectangular boxes of brick or stone served as furnaces, with an opening at the bottom to stoke the fire and remove ashes. At the top of each furnace were up to seven copper kettles or boilers, each one smaller and hotter than the previous one. The cane juice began in the largest kettle. The juice was then heated and lime added to remove impurities. The juice was skimmed and then channelled to successively smaller kettles. The last kettle, the "teache", was where the cane juice became syrup. The next step was a cooling trough, where the sugar crystals hardened around a sticky core of molasses. This raw sugar was then shovelled from the cooling trough into hogsheads (wooden barrels), and from there into the curing house. A sugar plantation on the island of Réunion in the late 1800s Sugarcane is still extensively grown in the Caribbean . Christopher Columbus first brought it during his second voyage to the Americas ; initially to the island of Hispaniola (modern day Haiti and the Dominican Republic ). In colonial times, sugar formed one side of the triangle trade of New World raw materials, along with European manufactured goods, and African slaves . Sugar (often in the form of molasses) was shipped from the Caribbean to Europe or New England, where it was distilled into rum. The profits from the sale of sugar were then used to purchase manufactured goods, which were then shipped to West Africa, where they were bartered for slaves. The slaves were then brought back to the Caribbean to be sold to sugar planters. The profits from the sale of the slaves were then used to buy more sugar, which was shipped to Europe. France found its sugarcane islands so valuable that it effectively traded its portion of Canada , famously dubbed " a few acres of snow ", to Britain for their return of Guadeloupe , Martinique and St. Lucia at the end of the Seven Years' War . The Dutch similarly kept Suriname , a sugar colony in South America , instead of seeking the return of the New Netherlands (New York). Cuban sugar derived from sugarcane was exported to the USSR where it received price supports and was ensured a guaranteed market. The 1991 dissolution of the Soviet state forced the closure of most of Cuba's sugar industry. Sugarcane remains an important part of the economy of Guyana , Belize , Barbados and Haiti , along with the Dominican Republic , Guadeloupe , Jamaica , and other islands. Sugarcane plantations in the 19th century [ edit ] This section may stray from the topic of the article  into the topic of another article, Indentured servant . Please help improve this section or discuss this issue on the talk page . (September 2013) A 19th-century lithograph by Theodore Bray showing a sugarcane plantation. On right is "white officer", the European overseer. Slave workers toil during the harvest. To the left is a flat-bottomed vessel for cane transportation. Much like cotton , sugarcane plantations motivated large scale enslavement and migrations of human beings in the 19th and early 20th century. [ 12 ] In 1833 in the United Kingdom, many liberated Africans left their former masters. This created an economic chaos for British owners of sugar cane plantations. The hard work in hot, humid farms required a regular, docile and low waged labour force. The British looked for cheap labour. This they found in China, Portugal and especially in India. [ 13 ] [ 14 ] The British crafted a new legal system of forced labour, which in many ways resembled enslavement. [ 15 ] Instead of calling them slaves, they were called indentured labourers . Indians and southeast Asians began to replace Africans previously brought as slaves, under this indentured labour scheme to serve on sugarcane plantations across the British empire. The first ships carrying indentured labourers for sugarcane plantations left India in 1836. In the early decades of the sugarcane-driven migrations, indentured Indians were treated as inhumanely as the enslaved Africans had been. They were confined to their estates and paid a pitiful salary. Any breach of contract brought automatic criminal penalties and imprisonment. Many of these were brought away from their homelands deceptively. Many from inland regions over a thousand kilometers from seaports were promised jobs, were not told the work they were being hired for, or that they would leave their homeland and communities. They were hustled aboard the waiting ships, unprepared for the long and arduous four-month sea journey. Charles Anderson, a special magistrate investigating these sugarcane plantations, wrote to the British Colonial Secretary declaring that with few exceptions, the indentured labourers are treated with great and unjust severity; plantation owners enforced work in sugarcane farms so harshly, that the decaying remains of immigrants were frequently discovered in sugarcane fields. If labourers protested and refused to work, they were not paid or fed: they simply starved. [ 12 ] The sugarcane plantation-driven migrations led to a significant number of ethnic Indians, southeast Asians and Chinese settling in various parts of the world. [ 16 ] In some islands and countries, the South Asian migrants now constitute between 10 to 50 percent of the population. Sugarcane plantations and Asian ethnic groups continue to thrive in countries such as Fiji , Natal , Burma , Ceylon , Malaysia , British Guiana , Jamaica , Trinidad , Martinique , French Guiana , Guadeloupe , Grenada , St. Lucia , St. Vincent , St. Kitts , St. Croix , Suriname , Nevis , Mauritius . [ 12 ] [ 17 ] Sugarcane crops have thus played a role in molding the ethnic distribution of distant lands in recent human history. Old-fashioned Indian Sugarcane Press, c. 1905 The then British colony of Queensland , now a state of Australia , imported between 55,000 and 62,500 (estimates vary) people from the South Pacific Islands to work on sugarcane plantations between 1863 and 1900. [ 18 ] They were known at the time as Kanakas (now considered a pejorative and insulting term) and today they and their descendants are generally known as South Sea Islanders . Some were recruited legally but many were kidnapped or " blackbirded " into long-term indentured service. [ 19 ] The majority of the 10,000 remaining in 1901 were "repatriated" (deported) between 1906 and 1908 under the Pacific Island Labourers Act 1901 . [ 20 ] In addition to the British colonies, sugarcane production had an impact upon colonies controlled by the other pre-World War II powers. France, for example, negotiated with Britain leading to Act XLVI of 1860, whereby large numbers of Indian indentured labourers were brought for harsh sugarcane plantation work in French colonies all over the world. [ 5 ] Sugarcane plantations influenced many tropical Pacific Islands , including Okinawa and, most particularly, Hawai ʻ i and Fiji . In these islands, sugarcane came to dominate the economic and political landscape after the arrival of powerful European and American agricultural interests, which too promoted immigration of workers from Asian countries to tend and harvest the crop. Sugar was the dominant factor in diversifying the islands' ethnic make-up, profoundly affecting their politics and society. Cultivation [ edit ] Sugarcane plantation in Mauritius Sugarcane cultivation requires a tropical or temperate climate, with a minimum of 60 centimetres (24 in) of annual moisture. It is one of the most efficient photosynthesizers in the plant kingdom . It is a C 4 plant , able to convert up to one percent of incident solar energy into biomass. [ 21 ] In prime growing regions, such as Mauritius , Dominican Republic , Puerto Rico , India , Indonesia , Pakistan , Peru , Brazil , Bolivia , Colombia , Australia , Ecuador , Cuba , the Philippines , El Salvador and Hawaii , sugarcane crops can produce over 15 kilograms of cane per square meter of sunshine. Once a major crop of the southeastern region of the United States, sugarcane cultivation has declined there in recent decades, and is now primarily confined to Florida and Louisiana . Sugarcane is cultivated in the tropics and subtropics in areas with a plentiful supply of water, for a continuous period of more than six to seven months each year, either from natural rainfall or through irrigation. The crop does not tolerate severe frosts. Therefore, most of the world's sugarcane is grown between 22°N and 22°S , and some up to 33°N and 33°S . [ 22 ] When sugarcane crop is found outside this range, such as the Natal region of South Africa, it is normally due to anomalous climatic conditions in the region, such as warm ocean currents that sweep down the coast. In terms of altitude, sugarcane crop is found up to 1,600 m close to the equator in countries such as Colombia , Ecuador and Peru . [ 23 ] Sugarcane can be grown on many soils ranging from highly fertile well drained mollisols , through heavy cracking vertisols , infertile acid oxisols , peaty histosols to rocky andisols . Both plentiful sunshine and water supplies increase cane production. This has made desert countries with good irrigation facilities such as Egypt as some of the highest yielding sugarcane cultivating regions. Sugarcane flower in Dominica . Although sugarcanes produce seeds, modern stem cutting has become the most common reproduction method. Each cutting must contain at least one bud, and the cuttings are sometimes hand-planted. In more technologically advanced countries like the United States and Australia, billet planting is common. Billets harvested from a mechanical harvester are planted by a machine that opens and recloses the ground. Once planted, a stand can be harvested several times; after each harvest, the cane sends up new stalks, called ratoons . Successive harvests give decreasing yields, eventually justifying replanting. Two to 10 harvests are usually made depending on the type of culture. In a country with a mechanical agriculture looking for a high production of large fields, like in North America, sugar canes are replanted after two or three harvests to avoid a lowering in yields. In countries with a more traditional type of agriculture with smaller fields and hand harvesting, like in the French island la Réunion , sugar canes are often harvested up to 10 years before replanting. Sugar canes harvested by women in Hòa Bình province, Vietnam. Sugarcane mechanical harvest in Jaboticabal , São Paulo , Brazil Sugarcane is harvested by hand and mechanically. Hand harvesting accounts for more than half of production, and is dominant in the developing world. In hand harvesting, the field is first set on fire. The fire burns dry leaves, and chases away or kills any lurking venomous snakes, without harming the stalks and roots. Harvesters then cut the cane just above ground-level using cane knives or machetes . A skilled harvester can cut 500 kilograms (1,100 lb) of sugarcane per hour. [ citation needed ] Mechanical harvesting uses a combine , or sugarcane harvester . [ 24 ] The Austoft 7000 series, the original modern harvester design, has now been copied by other companies, including Cameco /  John Deere . The machine cuts the cane at the base of the stalk, strips the leaves, chops the cane into consistent lengths and deposits it into a transporter following alongside. The harvester then blows the trash back onto the field. Such machines can harvest 100 long tons (100 t) each hour; however, harvested cane must be rapidly processed. Once cut, sugarcane begins to lose its sugar content, and damage to the cane during mechanical harvesting accelerates this decline. This decline is offset because a modern chopper harvester can complete the harvest faster and more efficiently than hand cutting and loading. Austoft also developed a series of hydraulic high-lift infield transporters to work alongside their harvesters to allow even more rapid transfer of cane to, for example, the nearest railway siding. This mechanical harvesting doesn't require the field to be set on fire; the remains left in the field by the machine consist of the top of the sugar cane and the dead leaves, which act as mulch for the next round of planting. A panoramic view of sugarcane plantations in Brazil, the largest producer in the world. Pests [ edit ] The cane beetle (also known as cane grub) can substantially reduce crop yield by eating roots; it can be controlled with imidacloprid (Confidor) or chlorpyrifos (Lorsban). Other important pests are the larvae of some butterfly/moth species, including the turnip moth , the sugarcane borer ( Diatraea saccharalis ), the Mexican rice borer ( Eoreuma loftini ); leaf-cutting ants, termites , spittlebugs (especially Mahanarva fimbriolata and Deois flavopicta ), and the beetle Migdolus fryanus . The planthopper insect Eumetopina flavipes acts as a virus vector, which causes the sugarcane disease ramu stunt . [ 25 ] Pathogens [ edit ] Main article: List of sugarcane diseases Numerous pathogens infect sugarcane, such as sugarcane grassy shoot disease caused by Phytoplasma , whiptail disease or sugarcane smut , pokkah boeng caused by Fusarium moniliforme , Xanthomonas Axonopodis bacteria causes Gumming Disease , and red rot disease caused by Colletotrichum falcatum . Viral diseases affecting sugarcane include sugarcane mosaic virus , maize streak virus , and sugarcane yellow leaf virus . Nitrogen fixation [ edit ] Some sugarcane varieties are capable of fixing atmospheric nitrogen in association with the bacterium Glucoacetobacter diazotrophicus . [ 26 ] Unlike legumes and other nitrogen-fixing plants that form root nodules in the soil in association with bacteria, G. diazotrophicus lives within the intercellular spaces of the sugarcane's stem. [ 27 ] [ 28 ] Coating seeds with the bacteria is a newly developed technology that can enable every crop species to fix nitrogen for its own use. [ 29 ] Conditions for sugarcane workers [ edit ] At least 20,000 people are estimated to have died of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in Central America in the past two decades – most of them sugar cane workers along the Pacific coast. Many leading scholars mean that the predominating causes for this ongoing epidemy is due to bad work conditions with enormous heat and long workdays leading to disturbed fluid and salt balances. [ 30 ] Processing [ edit ] Traditionally, sugarcane processing requires two stages. Mills extract raw sugar from freshly harvested cane and "mill-white” sugar is sometimes produced immediately after the first stage at sugar-extraction mills, intended for local consumption. Sugar crystals appear naturally in white color during the crystallization process. Sulfur dioxide is added to inhibit the formation of color-inducing molecules as well as to stabilize the sugar juices during evaporation. [ 31 ] [ 32 ] Refineries, often located nearer to consumers in North America, Europe, and Japan, then produce refined white sugar, which is 99 percent sucrose. These two stages are slowly merging. Increasing affluence in the sugar-producing tropics increased demand for refined sugar products, driving a trend toward combined milling and refining. Milling [ edit ] Main article: Sugar cane mill Brown (top) and white sugar crystals. Manually extracting juice from sugarcane A truck hauls cane to a sugar mill in Florida Sugarcane processing produces cane sugar (sucrose) from sugarcane. Other products of the processing include bagasse, molasses, and filtercake. Bagasse , the residual dry fiber of the cane after cane juice has been extracted, is used for several purposes: [ 33 ] fuel for the boilers and kilns, production of paper, paperboard products, and reconstituted panelboard, agricultural mulch, and as a raw material for production of chemicals.