Policies The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Policies Written by Administrator on 11 May 2014 . Posted in Resources Twitter INDUSTRIAL AND INVESTMENT POLICY OF ASSAM, 2014 Assam is the second largest State of North East India by its geographical area having highest population in the region.The State is spread over a geographical area of 78.44 thousand sq km and shares boundary with the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Manipur in the East, West Bengal and Bangladesh in the west, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram in the south and Bhutan and Arunachal Pradesh in the North.The State has 27 districts, out of which four districts are under the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC). Topography of the major part of the state is plain except two districts namely Karbi-Anglong and Dima Hasao. Altitude of the State ranges between 50 mt to 1650 mt from MSL. Download Full Policy CENTRAL GOVERNMENT NORTH-EAST INDUSTRIAL AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION POLICY (NEIIPP), 2007 The North East Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2007 of the Government of India have laid down a number of fiscal incentives for investors in North East India. The new policy would be valid for 10 years .The provisions of the NEIIPP, 2007 would provide the requisite incentives as well as an enabling environment to speed up the industrialization of Assam. The highlights of the incentives for all industrial units, new as well as existing units on their substantial expansion, located anywhere in the North East are: Industrial Excise Duty Exemption. 100% Income Tax Exemption. Capital Investment subsidy in plant and machinery @ 30%. without any upper limit of investment. Transport Subsidy Scheme: 90% on raw materials coming from outside and 50% on finished goods inside the state. Interest subsidy @ 3% on working capital loan for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of commencement of production. Comprehensive insurance – reimbursement of 100% insurance premium. Incentives package also available for the service sector – hotels, nursing homes, vocational training institutes, etc. Incentives for bio-technological industry as applicable to other industries. Incentives for power generating industries – incentives under Sec. 81(A) of Income Tax Act to continue. Power generating plants (all types) up to 10 MW will be eligible for capital investment subsidy, interest subsidy and comprehensive insurance. Download Policy FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT Assam intends to attract maximum Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and will put in sustained efforts to that end. The State Government has constituted a separate cell – The Industrial Investment Secretariat Cell (IISC) to facilitate investment – and a High Level Committee to accord fast track clearance for investment proposals. The Cell will function as a single point of contact for all inquiries from investors including supplying of information pertaining to permissions/ procedures/ guidelines. STATE GOVERNMENT THE INDUSTRIAL POLICY OF ASSAM 2008 Announced w.e.f 01.-10-2008 will be valid for 5 (Five) years. The Highlights of the policy are: VAT Exemption – for 7 years with ceiling of maximum 200% of fixed capital for Micro, 150% for Small & 100% for medium & large new units and for same period with corresponding ceiling of maximum 150%, 100% & 90% for units undergoing substantial expansion. Interest subsidy on Term Loan provided to Micro Industrial Units @ 30% of the amount of interest paid on term loan for a period of 5 years from the date of commercial production subject to a ceiling of Rs. 1.00 lakh per unit/year. Subsidy on quality certification/technical know-how to the extent of 50% subject to a ceiling of Rs. 1.00 lakh per unit. Power subsidy - 30% subsidy on power tariff on actual units consumed for 5 years up to connected load of 1.00 MW subject to ceiling of Rs. 10.00 lakhs per annum & 25% for connected load above 1.00 MW subject of ceiling of Rs. 25.00 lakhs per annum. Subsidy on drawal of power line - 25% of the cost payable for drawal of power line including the cost of transformer will be subsidized to micro and small industrial units to a ceiling of Rs. 10.00 lakhs per unit. This subsidy shall be available only once to a unit. 100% reimbursement of Stamp Duty and Registration Fees to encourage setting up of industrial park/estate through purchase of private/government land. Special incentives for mega projects to encourage the establishment of projects with large capital investment of minimum of Rs. 100 crores or generating minimum 1000 regular employment. All incentives including priority land allotment, the ceiling amount of subsidy and/or the period of validity of tax concessions under this policy will be relaxable on case to case basis. Special incentives for revival of sick units in form of exemption upto 99% of tax payable under VAT for 3 years with ceiling of 100% of additional investment made for rehabilitation. Reimbursement of 50% rent and transport cost for participation in Trade Fairs both inside & outside of country. Download Full Policy MARKET LINKAGES AND ASSISTANCE Market linkage has been identified as one of the critical factors for development of Micro and Small Scale sectors. Government will actively encourage trade with neighboring countries and countries in South East Asia. Participation in trade fair. All Micro and Small Enterprises in commercial production irrespective of year of establishment will be eligible for the following financial support under marketing assistance scheme: Reimbursement of 50% of the rent/fee paid by the unit for participation in trade fair/ exhibition sponsored or recognized by Government within India subject to a ceiling of Rs.10,000. Reimbursement of 50% of the transport cost incurred on exhibits for participation in Government sponsored/ recognized trade fair/ exhibition in South East Asia subject to a ceiling of Rs.50,000.00 per exhibition. A unit can avail this benefit for a maximum three times. Units promoted by women and physically handicapped entrepreneurs (more than 50% ownership) will be given preference in selection for participation in trade fair. PREFERENTIAL PURCHASE For facilitating promotion and development of medium & large scale enterprises, the State Government will notify a separate preference policy in respect of procurement of goods produced by medium and large enterprises by its department or its aided institutions and State PSUs. THE TOURISM POLICY OF ASSAM 2008 Announced w.e.f 01.-10-2008 will be valid for 5 (Five) years. The Highlights of the policy are: THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY POLICY OF ASSAM 2008 Announced w.e.f 01.-10-2008 will be valid for 5 (Five) years. The Highlights of the policy are: Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Comments Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS No comments found Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Twitter Feeds Tweets by @fineroffice Home About Finer What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com