Assocham India :: Membership Thought Leadership The Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India "The Knowledge Chamber: Serving the Nation since 1920" Home About Mission History Structure Persons at the helm President Quotable Quote Vision Membership Membership Forms Services To Members At A Glance Online Registration Services Events Forthcoming Events Recent Events National Councils Gallery Publications Contact Us Membership Complain / Feedback Publication Management Physical Address with Map Overseas Branches Introduction ASSOCHAM represents the interest of more than 450 Chambers and Trade Associations from all over India, encompassing all sectors of India’s trade, industry and commerce. ASSOCHAM is the oldest Apex Chamber established in 1920 and caters directly and indirectly to over 4.5 Lac members from all over the country. ASSOCHAM has also been identified as the “ Knowledge Chamber ” and has been focusing on providing knowledge – based technologies and business opportunities to our members. ASSOCHAM has over 100 Expert Committees / National Councils on different business interests which regularly take up national and global issues of prime importance to the interests of its members. It continuously interacts with the Central and State Governments and play an important role in the shaping of India’s Economic, Trade, Fiscal and Social policies.    ASSOCHAM also provides a platform for its members to project their policies and programmes to the concerned authorities. It also organize important workshops/ seminars/ conferences and coordinate interactive sessions with the policy makers. ASSOCHAM also regularly mounts delegations to many important countries. ASSOCHAM has the honour of hosting Foreign Business Delegations, World leaders, renowned Industrialists, Economists, Scientists, Bankers, Social activists. It also provides networking opportunities for its constituents and also makes special efforts to emphasise its members view-points in policy formulations. ASSOCHAM strive to add a lot of value to its members.  Our eminent Members are from Public Sector Undertakings, Banks, Financial Institutions and Professionals and from every sectors of business such as Aditya Birla Group, Associated Cement Companies Ltd., DHL Worldwide Express (I) Pvt. Ltd., DLF Universal Ltd.,  Hindustan Lever Ltd., ITC Limited, Indian Aluminium Company Limited, Jet Airways (India) Pvt. Ltd., Reliance Industries Ltd, Kwality Ice Creams (India) Limited, Tata Sons Ltd.,      UTI Asset Management Company Pvt. Ltd., Lucent Technologies Hindustan Pvt. Ltd., Jindal Vijayanagar Steel Limited, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited, Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited, Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited, GMR Energy Ltd., Tally Solutions Pvt. Ltd., Bharti Airtel Limited, Cairn India,  Dell International, Essar Group, Ericsson India, GE India, IBM India, Indiabulls Financial Services, Intel Technology, Samsung India, Nokia India, JSW Steel Limited, Air India, Mahindra & Mahindra, Manappuram Finance, Manipal Health Enterprises, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., MCX Stock Exchange, Micromax Informatics, Monnet Ispat & Energy Limited,         SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd., Radico Khaitan Limited, Premia Group, Philips Electronics, Videocon Industries, Senco Gold, PC Jewellers, Paradip Port Ltd., SMC Global Securities, Star India, Trident Limited, United Spirits Ltd., Vodafone India Ltd., Welspun Energy Ltd., Canara Bank, Allahabad Bank, Yes Bank, Citi Bank, ICICI Bank Limited, HSBC Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Axis Bank, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of India, Infrastructure Development Finance Company Limited, Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited and KPMG to mention a few. In view of the win-win situation by getting associated with each other, may I invite you to become a member of ASSOCHAM, thereby contributing to the development of the country by voicing your views straight to the Government. Photo Gallery read More Publications read More Membership read More Events read More ASSOCHAM in News read More National Councils read More Blog read More Research Papers read More Tweets by @followassocham RSS Feed Widget ASSOCHAM Across the World India Japan London UAE USA            The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India ASSOCHAMM Corporate Office,5, Sardar Patel Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi - 110021 Phone: 46550555(Hunting Line) Fax: 01123017008/9 Email: assocham@nic.in Copyrights ©2014 assocham.org, All Rights Reserved.