Twenty Facts About the Taj Mahal | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Travel / Twenty Facts About the Taj Mahal Twenty Facts About the Taj Mahal January 4, 2013 by Maryann Taylor   Taj Mahal India’s most emblematic monument, the Taj Mahal , is probably one of the best known structures in the world. Built in white marble by Emperor Shah Jahan, in memory of his wife Mumtaz after her death, the Taj Mahal is famous world over as the monument of love. A UNESCO World Heritage Site, the Taj Mahal is shrouded in myth and there have been many legends which have cropped up over the years. Here are ten interesting facts about this world famous monument:  Facts About the Taj Mahal The construction of the Taj Mahal began in 1632 and was completed in 1653. It took a total of twenty two years to complete the construction of this monument. The architecture of the Taj Mahal is a combination of Indian, Persian and Islamic styles of architecture. The name of the architect of the Taj Mahal is Ahmed Lahauri. The Taj Mahal was Shah Jahan’s imagination of Mumtaz’s home in paradise. Around 20,000 people worked day and night for twenty two years to complete construction of the Taj Mahal. The cost of construction of the Taj Mahal was around Rs.320 million. The Taj Mahal was constructed using the best quality marble from Rajasthan, Tibet, Afghanistan and China. At different times of the day the Taj Mahal appears to be in a different colour. Some believe that these changing colours depict the changing moods of a woman. The Taj Mahal is one of the wonders of the world and is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site. There was a popular myth that Shah Jahan was planning to construct a black Taj Mahal across the Yamuna, this is not true. Another popular myth around the Taj Mahal is that after the construction of the Taj Mahal, Shah Jahan cut off the hands of all the workers so that such a structure could not be built again. Fortunately, this is not true. The Taj Mahal has a mosque in its premises, which is why the Taj Mahal is closed on Fridays and only those going for customary prayers are permitted inside the Taj Mahal. Shah Jahan approached the Taj Mahal on a boat which would sail down the River Yamuna which ran behind the Taj Mahal. By the late 19th century, the Taj Mahal had been defaced by the British soldiers who chiseled out precious stones from the walls of the monument. At the end of the 19th century, British Viceroy, Lord Curzon, ordered a restoration of the monument and also gifted a large lamp which hangs in the interior chambers of the Taj Mahal. In 2000, an Indian writer P.N. Oak claimed that the Taj Mahal was actually a ShivTemple and filed a petition with the Supreme Court of India to excavate the site of the Taj to look for proof. His petition was rejected by the Supreme Court. In 2001, the UNESCO documented more than two million visitors to the Taj Mahal. India’s’ Nobel Laureate, Rabindranath Tagore, referred to the Taj Mahal as a “tear drop on the cheek of time”. Calligraphy on the tomb of Mumtaz identifies and praises her. The four minarets of the Taj Mahal have been constructed slightly outside of the plinth so that in case the minarets fell, they would fall away and not on the main structure. After his death, Shah Jahan was laid to rest in the Taj Mahal besides the tomb of his wife Mumtaz. More about the Taj Mahal: Bibi-ka-Maqbara : The  Taj of Deccan Taj Mahal Taj Mahal Museum Agra Fort  Akbar Tomb Fatehpur Sikri Facts About the Taj Mahal Top 10 World Heritage Sites in India Top 10 Monuments of India Fun n Food Village in Delhi Worlds of Wonder Splash – The Water Park Bibi-ka-Maqbara : The Mini Taj Mahal Agra Monument Shah Jahan Uttar Pradesh Maryann Taylor Maryann Taylor, amongst other things is primarily a teller of anecdotes, devourer of books, compulsive writer, dog lover, daydreamer and traveller, who still takes delight in reading Enid Blyton and riding bicycles. More articles from Maryann Taylor : Karnataka Polls: A Sweeping Victory for the Congress, While an Embarrassing Defeat for the BJP Karnataka Exit Polls: Has the Time Come for the BJP To Leave? Roshnara Begum: The Forgotten Mughal Princess Some Lesser Known Facts about Sholay Isa Khan’s Tomb Reopens in Delhi Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Comments Showing 11 Comments : tazz January 17, 2015 at 3:43 pm I have plenty of interest in Taj Mahal. And I am very impressed knowing these key taj mahal facts Nice informative article. I will check out other articles on your site as well. Reply Babu P January 15, 2015 at 2:49 pm Tajmahal is not the seven wonders of the BUT first wonders of the world.Shah jahan the “LEGEND” Reply chetan sisodiya December 11, 2014 at 1:34 pm I like tajmahal I also see many times Reply mrchandru October 4, 2014 at 5:17 pm i like taj mahal but i am not see in really Reply samara June 28, 2014 at 5:05 pm interesting Reply kushagra March 3, 2014 at 12:35 am shah jahan was planning to build a black taj mahal on the opposite bank of the yamuna but due to the war of succesion between his sons he could not build it Reply SONU SHARMA December 28, 2013 at 6:59 pm The main fact is, Shahjahan had many black money, thats why he made Tajmahal. Now a days, is it possible to make a expensive palace like that? Mumtaj — bulshit!!!! Reply shreya saw August 3, 2013 at 4:59 pm Yes, even I also think that Taj Mahal was not build by Shah Jahan Reply My India March 6, 2013 at 5:35 pm The facts you mention are not a “convenient omission”. This is a user based portal where we encourage people to share articles on what they are passionate about or what they have opinions on. This is also a place where information is shared and we learn along the way. Thanks for the added information. Reply PK March 6, 2013 at 4:42 pm Whilst you correctly state that British soldiers looted the Taj, is it a convenient omission that Jats (1761) and Marathas (1770) did the same? Reply Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Baidyanath sah on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd omprakash on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd VIJAY MANGLIK on Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015