Welcome to Central Soil Testing Laboratories, Bihar Central Soil Testing Laboratory A division under Department of Agriculture, Govt. of Bihar Home Login Contact Us Welcome to Central Soil Testing Laboratory a Division under Department of Agriculture, Govt. Of BIHAR CSTL, a referal Soil Testing Laboratory for the state of Bihar under Directorate of Agriculture, Govt. of Bihar. It is well known that Soil Testing is agronomically sound, beneficial and environmentally responsive tool used for monitoring the nutrient as well as making precise fertilizer recommendations for various crops and cropping sequences ensuring no damage to the environment. Soil testing gives a measure of the availability of nutrients to crops. Soil fertility is important in determining crop yield. Scientific and balanced use of fertilizers for different soil fertility level is important for sustaining soil fertility and productivity in a particular region. Soil and fertilizer act in a complementary manner is making optimum requirement of nutrients. It was taken granted that increasing soil test values decreases he amount of fertilizer need for maximum response. Why test your Soil ? To get prescription for balanced use of fertilizers. To confirm nutrient status & warn of deficiencies. To identify the main reasons for poor plant performance. To predict likely response to fertilizer rate. To monitor changes in soil health in response to changes in land use & management. CSTL Mandate - Technical superintendence over soil testing labs in Bihar. Ensure timely & qualitative Soil testing. Design & develop soil analysis protocols. Provide hands on training to the Analysts. Plan and monitor soil testing programmes in the state. Plan and execute SOIL HEALTH CARD programmes. Popularize balanced use of fertilizer. Develop fertility maps for the state. Future Thurst Areas GPS tagging of soil samples. GPS based fertility mapping. News & Events Mitti Bihar Android App Click the Running Image to Download the Mitti Bihar Android App. (Trial Version - No Registration). Full Fledged Version with Registration Facility will be released on 19th April 2015.   Web Links GOI, Agriculture Krishi Bihar NFSM, Bihar Bihar Rajya Beej Nigam BAMETI Bihar Brand Jay B RAU, Pusa BSSCA Horticulture     © 2012 CSTL Website | Designed & Developed by Poddar SoftTech