Transportation in Amritsar Home »» Amritsar » Transportation   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Transportation in Amritsar Transportation in Amritsar is very easy and convenient. With the initiatives of Urban Planning Department transportation in Amritsar is getting better day by day. The city is very well connected with other destinations the various means of communication like rail, bus, plane etc. The condition of roads in Amritsar city are quite good and are still getting better by the initiative of the administration. Regular buses ply from some of the major neighboring cities like Ferozepur, Ambala, Delhi, Chandigarh, Jammu etc. Some of the road distances fromm Amritsar are as follows:- Ferozepur 160 km, Delhi 435 km, Jammu 216 km, Chandigarh 235 km, and Wagah 29 km. If you want to move in and around Amritsar, rickshaws, hired cars, autorickshaws and buses are the best options. The availability of various means of communication has made The railway netwok of Amritsar is also very well developed. Amritsar city is well linked by rail Calcutta, Wagah (Attari Border), Delhi, Bombay, Varanasi and other important cities of India. The Amritsar Railway Station has under gone extensive renovation and numerous facilities are provided to the passengers. Even the cleanliness and hygiene of the place is taken care of by the railway authorities. Transportation in Amritsar through air is also very good. Amritsar has both domestic and international airports. The regular flights flying from domestic airport connects it throughout India. The international airport is known as Raja Sansi International Airport from where daily flights fly to Asia, Europe and North America. Some of the airlines that operate from the airport are Jet Airways, Indian Airlines, Air Deccan, Kinhfisher Airlines etc. Amritsar Information People Population Location Restaurant & Bar Shopping Cuisine Living SGPC Nightlife Banks Municipal Corporation About Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Tourist Attractions Baba Atal Rai Tower Govind Garh Fort Amritsar Massacre Memorial Durgiana Temple Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Golden Temple Harmandir Sahib Ram Bagh Faridkot Fort Ram Tirath Temple Tarn Taran Mata Mandir Temple Bathinda Fort             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule