Official Website:: Indian Veterinary Research Institute A+   |   A   |   A- About IVRI Preface Milestone Mandate Past Directors IVRI Administration Research Milestone Organogram Link & Collaboration Honours & Awards Location Map Contact Directory Research Joint Directorate of Research Preface from Joint Director(Research) Mandate Activities Research Projects Patents Technologies Transfered Technologies for Transfer Contact Details Academic IVRI Deemed University Message from Joint Director(Academic) Deemed University Administration Academic Session Cources Offered MVSc PhD National Diploma Admission Procedure For Sponspred Candidate Fellowship Medals & Awards Facilities Available University News IVRI Alumini Divisions Animal Health Divisions Division of Animal Biotechnology Division of Bacteriology & Mycology Division of Biological Products Division of Epidemiology Immunology Section Division of Medicine Division of Parasitology Division of Pathology Divison of Pharmacology & Toxicology Division of Standardization Division of Surgery Division of Veterinary Public Health Division of Virology Animal Production Divisions Animal Genetics Div. Animal Nutrition Div Animal Reproduction Division Livestock Production & Management Section. Division Physiology & Climatology Divison of Temprate Animal Husbandray Basic & Social Sc. Divisions Biochemistry & Food Sc. Section BEMI Section Extension Education Div Liv. Eco., Statistics & IT Div. Liv. Products & Tech. Div Sections ARIS Cell Bioinformatics Centre Centre Data Cell Communication Centre Engineering Section Farm Section Farm Machinery and Power Workshop Institute Technology Management Unit (I.T.M.U.) Laboratory Animal Resources Feed Technology Unit Germ Plasm Centre Humal Hospital National Library for Vety. Science Wildlife Section Games & Sports Section राजभाषा अनुभाग Extension Joint Directorate (EE) Preface Objectives Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Infrastructure/Facilities Research Projects Scientific Staff Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - Single Delivery Window Kisaan Mela 2011 Training Programmes Contact Details Disease Diagnosis Joint Directorate (CADRAD) Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Scientific Staff Training Programme Contact Details Services Biological Products Diagnostics & Examination Vety. Polyclinic Livestock Products Disease Diagnosis Vermi Biocomposting Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - IVRI Single Window ITMU-Technology Transfer IVRI Publications Campuses Regional Campus Bangaluru Regional Station Kolkata Regional Station Mukteswar Regional Station Palampur Loading » About IVRI Mandate To conduct research, provide postgraduate education and transfer of the technology in all areas of animal sciences with emphasis on animal health and production. To act as national referral centre for veterinary type cultures, disease diagnosis, biologicals, immunodiagnostics, etc. Post Graduate Teaching at IVRI The priority of the Institute in organizing research activities is developing cutting-edge technologies that are effectively transferable and human resource development. The programmes encomno pass divisional boundaries to have inter-disciplinary approaches. Further emphasis is also given to developing partnetship linkages with sister organizations for addressingpriority problem-oriented collaborative research. For realization of the envisioned goals and objectives and translation into corresponding programmes of the institute, the major identified thrust areas of research are as under: Self-reliance in cutting–edge and frontier technologies in research and human resource development. Development of quick and precise methodologies including kits for diagnosis of diseases/ conditions, package of practices for optimum animal health. Surveillance, creation of data bank and forecasting system of animal diseases. IVRI Products Improvement of immunoprophylactics, use of biotechnological tools in evolving vaccines for important diseases of livestock and poultry. Pet animal health and disease management. Disaster management for livestock through multidisciplinary approach. Genetic studies on disease resistance in domestic species of livestock. Monitoring and surveillance of drugs, pesticides, mycotoxins and microbial residues in livestock and livestock products. Pharmacological evaluation of herbs/plant products and promotion of ethno-veterinary medicine. Harnessing techniques for in vitro fertilization, cloning of embryos and research on transgenic animals and stem cells. IVRI Products Development of economic diets and nutrition for health and wellbeing of farm animals and pets. Processing and preservation of meat and development of value-added meat products. Farming systems based research and extension activities for livestock-buffalo, cattle, goat, sheep and pigs. Evaluation, refinement and transfer of technologies. Livestock economics, creation of databases for livestock and related statistics, impact analysis and market intelligence Quick Links Preface Mandate Milestone Historical Background Past Directors IVRI Administration Research Milestone Organogram Honours & Awards Links & Collaboration Human Resources Location & Map Contact Directory Others Annual Report IVRI News Publication Research Training Staff Corner IVRI Mail HRMS Self Service Portal Important Circular Downloads ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute भा कृ अनु प-भारतीय पशु-चिकित्सा अनुसंधान संस्थान Visitor number: 1245010 Site Last Updated on: 07 April 2015 at 16:51:41 Disclaimer Privacy Policy Linking Policy Developed and Maintained by ARIS Cell, IVRI. © 2014 reserved with IVRI