Kerala Government and Politics Home » Maps » kerala » Government & Politics » Kerala Government & Politics   Kerala Government Kerala Assembly Polls Kerala Parliamentary Constituencies Kerala Panchayats Public Service Commission Government Departments About Kerala History of Kerala Geography of Kerala Kerala Weather Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Districts of Kerala Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Taluks of Kerala Regions Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Forest Map Cities in Kerala Kerala Economy Industries in Kerala Kerala Tourism Kerala Travel Map Kerala Backwaters Kerala Wildlife Sanctuaries Hotels in Kerala Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Kumarakom Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Trivandrum Hotels in Thiruvananthapuram Hotels in Guruvayur Hotels in Thekkady Hotels in Wayanad Kerala Ayurveda Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Utilities Distance Chart Kerala Pin code Kerala STD code Kerala Education Karten von Kerala Ubersichtskarte von Kerala       Kerala Government and Politics The Indian Republic is a parliamentary democracy and a federation. The representatives of the central and state governments are chosen through free and fair polls conducted on the principles of universal suffrage. The state of Kerala is unicameral i.e. has a single house of legislature. The Government of Kerala encompasses the 3 functions of legislature, executive and judiciary. The judiciary is free of the legislature and executive and is made up of a hierarchy of lower courts, tribunals and the High Court at Trivandrum. The highest official belonging to the judiciary of Kerala is the Chief Justice who administers the oath while swearing in the Governor. Besides the Chief Justice, twenty six permanent and two additional justices or pro tempore judges hold their offices in the High Court. The legislative assembly of the Kerala Government is composed of the people’s representatives, i.e. members who have been elected to the post of MLA. These members come from various political parties. Political parties represent the political ideologies and interests of a section of the citizens. The multi party system ensures that all factions have adequate representation in the legislature. Among these MLA s, the chief of the majority party or majority coalition is invited by the Governor, the de jure head of the state to form an executive council. This means that the executive powers of the state are vested in the Governor by the President of the nation. However the de facto head of the state is the Chief Minister, meaning that these executive functions though carried out in the name of the Governor are in fact carried out by the Chief Minister and his Council of Ministers. Once the Chief Minister is sworn in, he chooses a Council of Ministers and assigns them various ministries to distribute the administrative functions and thus accomplish increased efficiency. The Governor now appoints these Ministers and they are assigned their individual portfolios. The Executive of the state are answerable to the state legislature in matters of carrying out their executive functions. To meet the ideals of local self governance, panchyats and municipal councils exist and the members to these are chosen through regularly held polls. Present day Kerala politics is dominated by two major political alliances. The United Democratic Front (UDF - led by the Indian National Congress) is currently the ruling alliance and Left Democratic Front (LDF - led by the CPI(M)) is the Opposition. The Chief Minister, Mr. Oommen Chandy belongs to the Indian National Congress. The Malayalis are an extremely politically conscious race and take part actively in the political happenings of the state. Last Updated on : September 11, 2014 Kerala Government Government Departments Kerala Commissions Municipal Administration Secretariat Departments Local Government National Party Political Parties Public Service Commission State Party Welfare Fund Boards Governor Panchayats Elections in Kerala Parliamentary Constituencies Related Links Kerala Government Department    And Institutions Kerala Welfare Fund Boards Kerala Political Parties Kerala Municipal Administration National Parties Of Kerala Kerala Commissions Kerala Local Self-Government Kerala Public Service   Commission Kerala Government Kerala Secretariat Departments Panchayats in Kerala State Parties of Kerala             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule