Arunachal Pradesh Society Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Arunachal Pradesh Society   Society of Arunachal Pradesh Tribes Festivals and Events Dance Arts and Crafts Religions अरुणाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Map Tawang city map Itanagar city map Naharlagun city map Along Map Districts of Arunachal Pradesh Roads Rivers Tehsils Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Places to visit in Arunachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Sports in Arunachal Pradesh Ita Fort in Arunachal Pradesh Ganga Lake in Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Location Physical Map Arunachal Pradesh Forest Map Lat Long Geography Handicrafts Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels Government & Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Arunachal Pradesh History Arunachal Pradesh Mineral Map Information Economy Pin Code       Arunachal Pradesh Society Arunachal Pradesh society is a patriarchal society. The society in Arunachal Pradesh is a primogeniture society, where the laws of inheritance mostly support the male member of the family. An important feature of the society of Arunachal Pradesh is that the people in Arunachal Pradesh observe endogamy: clan exogamy can also be seen within the social set up of Arunachal Pradesh. Endogamy and exogamy are two distinct features of the society at Arunachal Pradesh. Another major feature of the society of Arunachal Pradesh is that the polygamy is allowed in the Arunachal Pradesh society. Although polygamy is an offense according to the laws of the Indian Constitution, yet the society has a social sanction for polygamy. Polygamy, unlike in other parts of India, is not considered as a taboo in Arunachal Pradesh. Moreover, the tribes and sub-tribes housed in Arunachal Pradesh form an inevitable part of the society of Arunachal Pradesh. Among the tribes and sub-tribes residing in Arunachal Pradesh are: Apatanis Khamptis Miris Sherdukpens Deoris Singpos Padmas Adis Nishis Akas Monpas Tangshas Sherdukpens Misaim, etc. Another constituent of the society of Arunachal Pradesh are the fairs and festivals. Some of the fairs and festivals that deserve special mention in this context are: Murung Yulo Jomu Chosker Mlokom Yulo Si-Dioni Boori Boot Dree Nyokum, etc. Besides, some of folk dances also seem to be an integral part of the society at Arunachal Pradesh. Among the important dances of Arunachal Pradesh are: Khampti Dance Ponung Dance Sadinuktso Digaru Mishmi Buiya Dance Idu Mishmi Ritual Dance Ka Fifai Dance-Drama, etc. Thus, we can see that the society of Arunachal Pradesh shows a distinctive pattern, with the different tribes and cultures housed within the territory. Boori Boot The pleasurable month of February proudly hosts the festival regarded as Boori Boot, which is principally celebrated by the Hill-Miris. This festival essentially involves the assemblage of mammoth fractions of people of virtually all the adjoining areas. Basically, the Boori Boot is such a festival, which does not lay any sort of stress on cast, creed, age and sex of the participating individuals. This unique quality of Boori Boot in Arunachal Pradesh makes it one of the most popular and cherished fiestas in the entire state. Thus, unlike other celebrations, Boori Boot of Arunachal Pradesh attracts a hefty lot of eager people who desire unadulterated fun and frolic. Another aspect of the festival of Boori Boot at Arunachal Pradesh is that the consecrated soul that belongs to Boori Boot is summoned who is known to sanctify people. The masses pray for prosperity and also effective shielding from even the cursed shadows of fatal ailments that sometimes ravage village after village in a killing spree. The young participants shoulder the responsibility of completing all the various works Related to the successful completion of this event. The elders however procure some indispensable tips to assist them. The high priest who is known by the name of 'Nibu' is the one who is bestowed with the duty of consummating the reverence and slaughtering the wild beasts. Another facet of Boori Boot is the custom in which the villagers apply 'etting' on the bodies of their contemporaries. This merry fiesta continues for a period of three days during which the people enjoy to their heart's content. Last Updated on 09 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule