Goa Map Home » Maps » Goa Map   Goa Weather History Culture गोवा का नक्शा Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Cities Panaji Calangute Vasco da Gama Margao Mapusa Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Goa Map Map of Goa Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map of Goa with districts, railways, rivers and major road network. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Goa Location Map Goa District Map Cities of Goa Goa Tehsil Map         Goa Road Map Goa Physical Map Goa Railway Map Goa Travel Map Click for Enlarge View Situated in the Konkan region, Goa is the smallest state in India. Synonymous with tourism in India, Goa remains one of the favorite tourist destination for millions across the globe. Bordered by the Arabian Sea on its west, Goa is blessed in terms of topographical beauty. The state of Goa is divided into two districts North Goa and South Goa The state of Goa is divided into two districts North Goa and South Goa .This tiny state is situated on the western coastal region of the Indian Peninsula. Geographically Goa bears a striking resemblance to its neighbouring states of Maharashtra and Karnataka. The state of Goa lies between 15°48'00" north to 14°53'54" north latitudes and 74° 20'13" east to 73° 40'33" east longitudes. The one unique feature about the geography of Goa is that it is a seamless concoction of Mountainous, Plateau Regions and coastal plains. Goa is also flooded with numerous historical monuments and eye catching sights. For the historically inclined Goa is just ethereal. There are several Churches in Goa which testify the rich historical past of the city. Some of the popular Churches in Goa are; Mary Immaculate Conception, Reis Magos Church, St. Anne Church, Church of St. Augustine, St. Paul Church etc. Goa is also home to numerous forts and museums that offer glimpses of a culturally rich state. Goa is situated on the South Western part of India. It is the smallest state in India spreading over an area of 3,702 sq km. A perfect blend of the colonial and modern charm Goa simply manages to take your heart away. Reputed for its infrastructure, cuisine, historical monuments and unique culture Goa has become a one stop tourist spot for millions of foreign and domestic travelers. Blessed in terms of natural beauty the beaches in Goa cover almost 83 percent of its total coastline. Goa is just not restricted to fun and enjoyment it is also a one stop pilgrimage center for millions of Christians across the globe. The weather in Goa is summed up in one word can be termed as moderate. Since Goa lies in the tropical zone and is also bordered by the Arabian Sea on the West it experiences hot and humid weather throughout the year. Although the climate is hot and humid the one good thing about the state is that the temperature in Goa is always under control. Neither do the summers get very hot nor do the winters get extremely cold. Apart from the winter months when most tourists flock Goa, another good timeto visit Goa would be during the Monsoons. Goa should be avoided in May as this is the hottest month with the mercury shooting up to 35 °C. Goa is one of the Indian states that remained under colonial rule for a period of 451 years. The history of Goa traces back to the 3rd century. According to history Goa was first ruled by the Mauryas, then the Satvahanas, Chalukyas and finally the Shilharas and Kadambas. Goa passed into the hands of the Mughals in 1312 and then lastly the Portuguese captured Goa in 1510. It was in 1962 that Goa attained freedom from the Portuguese and in 1987 it was pronounced an independent state in India. Goa by far is among the most frequented tourist's destinations in India. Considered as the hottest tourist destination in the country this beach island witnesses huge influx of travelers from Indian and abroad alike. In order to facilitate proper lodging Goa has numerous hotels that range from the luxury to the budget. The Goa hotels have managed to establish an unmatched reputation for themselves over the years. Most of the Goa hotels are situated close to the major beaches that offer panoramic views of the city. Some of the well known Goa hotels are; Park Hyatt Goa Resort and Spa Dona Alcina Resort Hotel Park Plaza, The Majestic Hotels Goa, Coconut Grove Hotel Goa etc. Goa is connected by a broad network of roads. Traveling to Goa is extremely easy as it is connected with a number of National and state highways. The roads in Goa are pretty decent which make traveling a lot easier. The best way to travel to Goa is by bus from Mumbai or Pune. The journey is very smooth and offers some of the most enthralling visual sights. In India Goa has become synonymous with beaches. Goa is home to some of the finest beaches in the world. One of the major reasons behind the charm of the city is its sun kissed beaches. The Goa beaches are just not restricted to clear waters and shimmering sands but flea markets, open shacks that sell mouthwatering Goan cuisine and a whole lot of music and dance. Since Goa is divided into North and South the beaches are also divided accordingly. The beaches in North Goa are meant for the party lovers whereas the South Goa beaches are more serene and tranquil and act as ideal spots for couples in search of privacy. Some of the most stunning beaches in Goa are Candolim Beach, Baga, Arambol, Vagator, Benaulim Beach and Palolem Beach. Panaji literally means Land that never floods. It is the capital and most popular city in Goa. Spanning across an area of 36 km sq Panaji is located on the Mandovi estuary of North Goa. It is the third largest city in Goa which is home to a population of about 65,000 people. A quaint little city that is built perfectly in Latin style Panaji City in Goa is for all those who enjoy an English charm and feel. Named after the famous explorer Vasco da Gama, Vasco is the largest city in Goa Lying on the western edge of the Mormugao peninsula, the Vasco da Gama City dates back to 1543. The distance between South Goa and Panaji is of almost 30 km. It is a major port in the state that serves as an important commercial point for numerous vessels to and from Goa. Goa is excellently connected to the other parts of the country by rail. Cities like Mumbai, Chennai and Pune share a strong railway network with Goa. There are numerous trains that travel to Goa almost daily from these cities. Some of the trains that travel frequently to Goa include; the Mas Vasco Express, Cstm Karwar Express, Cstm Karwar Spl and the Eranakulam Express. Trains from Mumbai generally take about 9 hours to Goa. Goa has two major railway stations situated at Margao and Vasco-da-gama. The best way to travel to Goa is by flight. Almost all the important cities in India share a good air network with Goa. Most of the domestic and international flights fly to and fro Goa. Some of the popular flights to Goa include; Kingfisher, Air India, Spicejet, Jet Airways, Indian Airlines, Indigo, Air Deccan, and GO Air. Goa State Information Capital Panaji Date of formation 30. May. 1987 Governor Mridula Sinha Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar Tourist attractions Anjuna, Arambol, Basilica of Born Jesus, Se Cathedral Festivals Carnival, Feast of St. Francis Xavier, Shigmotsav Major dance and music forms Shigmo dance, Manddo, Durpod Arts and crafts Terracotta or baked clay figurines, utensils etc; crochet tablecloths, curtains, covers, handkerchiefs; cane and bamboo fish traps, mats, baskets. Languages Konkani, Marathi Size 3,702 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 1,458,545 Rivers Mandovi, Zuari, Tereldiol, Chapora, Sal, Talpona Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Bondla WS, Modem NP, Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary, Cotigoa WS, Bhagwan Mahavir WS State animal Gaur State bird Black-crested bulbul State tree Asna Major crops Paddy, ragi, maize, cashew Factoids The Basilica of Born Jesus holds the tomb of St Francis Xavier. Goa, Daman and Diu were liberated in 1961 and officially became a part of India in 1962. No. of District 2 Blogs about Goa IFFI’s Permanent Venue Will Enrich Goa’s Culture : Goa is a perfect choice for events because of its accessibility and ecology. And no doubt the Union Information and Broadcasting Ministry has rightly chosen the world renowned beach resort as its permanent venue for hosting the International Film Festival of India. The Central Government-hosted IFFI is the most famous international film festival of Asia held annually. The festival acts as a common platform for world cinema to showcase the cinematic talents of various countries and… read more... Five Places for Family Vacations in India : Planning a family vacation is a bigger task than planning a solo trip. A lot many things need to be kept in mind while choosing the right kind of destination according to each and every member of the family. Bigger the family, wider the choices! Family holidays play a major role in maintaining family ties in this super-hectic city life. A vacation is the time when you can give all your attention and love to… read more... Ten Most Popular Shooting Locations of Bollywood : The Indian film industry has its audience spread all across the globe. Thousands of films make it up to the silver screen every year and the size of audience watching these films is just infinite. Bollywood is, therefore, one of the best mediums for promoting tourism in India. The stupendous topography of India makes it a charismatic location for shooting films. There are a lot many picturesque locations in India and films play a major… read more... Unexplored Beaches in India : The vivid topography of India is a true blessing from God. It introduces us to the boundless beauty of nature and gives us an opportunity to explore its vividness. This vividness makes India a home to a large number of beaches which have acquired a popular name owing to their mesmeric beauty and celestial environment. But due to the popularity of these places, a huge crowd is often seen to be hanging out here, thereby… read more... Morjim Beach: The Exotic Turtle Beach of Goa : The Morjim Beach, popularly known as the Turtle Beach, is located in Pernem, north Goa. The beach is bestowed with elegant vistas, including a blossoming, green environment. The Morjim Beach is special as it serves as a hatching and nesting habitat of the Olive Ridley turtles, which are an endangered species. The sight of the tiny hatchlings, turtles and crabs makes your experience at the beach an unforgettable one. Kite surfing is another activity popular… read more... Last Updated on: November 8, 2014 Goa Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Tehsil Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map About Goa Weather History Area Pincode STD code Facts Liberation of Goa Languages Culture Dance Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival Goa Travel Map Wildlife Map Beaches Map Forest Map Shopping Centres Places to Visit in Goa Anjuna Beach Candolim Beach Majorda Beach Miramar Beach Varca Beach Mobor Beach Colva Beach Goa Churches Goa Waterfalls Palolem Beach Goa Temples             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule