Chalukya Dynasty Home » History » Chalukya Dynasty   Indian Dynasties Chola Dynasty Chalukya Dynasty Pallava Dynasty Chera Dynasty Pandyan Dynasty                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Chalukya Dynasty Map of Chalukya Dynasty Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing Chalukya Dynasty with Boundaries and Cities where they ruled. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. A royal Indian dynasty, the Chalukya Dynasty ruled large parts of south and central India. Between the 6th and 8th century AD, the Chalukyas were the visibly dominant rulers in the Deccan. They ruled as three individual dynasties which were yet interrelated. The Western Chalukyas were the ones which ruled from Vatapi (modern Badami), the Later Western Chalukyas were the ones which ruled from Kalyani and the Eastern Chalukyas were the ones which ruled from Vengi. Though the origin of the Chalukyas iscontroversial as per the historians, it is believed that claimed descent from Pulakesin I, who established at Badami. Pulakesin I gained independence at the decline of Satavahana Empire. It is also said that in 6th century until 757, northern Karnataka was under the rule of the early Chalukyas who were rivals to the Pallavas. Western Chalukyas Chalukyas ruled from 535 to 566 AD. Jayasimha and his son Ranarga were the first modest rulers. The founder of the dynasty is believed to be Maharaja Pulakesin I, who was a scholar. His rule started from Badami (present day Bijapur). Kritivirman I succeeded his father Pulakesin I. The southern parts of the country were seen under the political influence of the Chalukyas. These areas were Maharashtra , Mysore and Tamil Nadu . He not only built a good number of temples in the town Vatapi but also defeated several rulers of Vanga, Anga, Kalinga, Magadha. In 598AD, his brother Mangalesa ascended the throne. The whole of central and northern Maratha country was brought into territory by Mangalesa. He even conquere the Kalachuris. Pulakesi II, his nephew took over the throne in 610AD after Mangalesa lost his life in an eventual civil with his nephew. Ruling had been difficult for him because of the internal tiffs that prevailed. Also the frequent invasions of Appayika and Govinda made it tough for him. He became friends with the Cholas, Keralas and Pandyas after defeating the Pallava king Mahendra Varman I. It is believed that Pulakesi II died in a battle. After his death, the Pallavs ruled over Badami and other Chalukya areas. The Chalukya throne was vacant until Vikramaditya I ascended the throne in 655AD. He recaptured Badami and other Chalukya areas which were under the Pallava control. The following successor was Vinayaditya, who ruled from 681 to 696 AD. His immediate successor was Vijayaditya who ruled for about forty years and his reign was said to be peaceful throughout. Vikramaditya II succeeded the throne and ruled from 734AD to 745AD. He defeated the Pallava rulers and took over musical instruments, banner, elephants, rubies which belonged to the Pallavas. For the next eleven year, Kirtivarman II succeeded the throne and was the last glorious ruler of the Chalukya Dynasty. Later Western Chalukyas Taila or Tailapa II was the founder of the later western Chalukyas with the help of the earlier Chalukya family and Kadmabas and recovered the lost Chalukya areas. His son Satyasraya succeeded him and defeated Raja Raja Chola who invaded his region. Dasavarman, Vikramaditya V, Jayasimha I and Jagadhekamalla were the following successors. Jayasimha handled the invasions in the southern parts by the Chola king, from the north. Jagadhakamalla defeated Bhoja, the ruler of the Malava confederacy. Vikramaditya independently ruled the southern part. Vikramaditya married Vira Rajendra Chola's daughter and soon the eastern ruler Jayasimha defeated him and took over the southern part as well. Eastern Chalukyas It can be said the the Eastern Chalukyas were a branch of the Badami Chalukyas. In 624AD, Pulakesin II conquered Vengi and placed his brother Kubja Vishnuvardhana on the throne. He ruled for nearly four centuries and his dynasty is known as the Eastern Chalukyas. His empire extended till Srikakulam in north and Nellore in south. Jayasimha I succeeded him later and ruled from 641 to 673AD. Vemulavada (presently in Karimnagar District) was the most important among the minor Chalukya parts. Last Updated on : 5/16/2012 Mauryan Empire Maps Chandragupta Maurya    Empire 300 BC Chandragupta Maurya     Empire 305 BCE Chandragupta Maurya    Empire 320 BCE Magadha 5th Century Maurya Empire during    Ashoka 265 BCE Nanda Empire 323 BCE               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule