Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh, Tourist Destinations near Himachal Pradesh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Travel to Himachal Pradesh Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Road map City Map District Map Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Subhash Baoli Shivkul Dal Lake Solang Valley Christ Church The Ridge Sankat Mochan Baba Balak Nath Temple Cities to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Dalhousie Travel Dharamshala Travel Kullu Travel Manali Travel Shimla Travel Mandi Travel Hamirpur Travel Lahaul Travel Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Kangra Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una About Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate Places to Visit in Kullu Manali Home » Himachal Pradesh » Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Tourist Attraction in Himachal Pradesh unending natural beauty, pleasing climate and friendly people is a paradise on earth. A tourist will find so many Himachal Pradesh Tourist Attractions that it will take a long time to visit all the destinations. Each and every district has several fine tourism sites in its kitty, which attract people all around the world. The most popular and frequently visited tourist areas in Himachal Pradesh are: Rohtang Pass Chamba Kangra Shimla Kullu Manali Dalhousie Places to See in Himachal Pradesh Rohtang Pass About fifty one Kilometers from Manali and at an altitude of four thousand one hundred and eleven Meters, the Rohtang Pass falls in the highway to Keylong. The majestic Himalayan Mountains welcomes you and make you feel that you are on top of the world. Chamba An enchanting Himalayan town and one of the best examples of the many Himachal Pradesh Attractions. The scenic town is a fifty Kilometers journey from Dalhousie. The town is not only gifted with unparallel landscapes but also some fine carved temples. Kangra A favorite destination for the religiously inclined people, Kangra is famous for its ancient temples. It is also a haven for the nature lovers and adventure sports freaks. Shimla The capital city and an evergreen name in the tourism scenario of the country. Shimla enjoys the popularity as a hill station right from the British period. The numerous old buildings are reminiscent of the British architectural excellence, which gives an old world flavor to the modern city of today Kullu One of the finest valleys that the Great Himalayas have presented us. The enchanting KulluValley sits pretty, spreading its wings to both sides of the Beas River. The sprawling Kullu Valley is two Kilometers wide and has a length of more than eighty Kilometers. Situated at an altitude of one thousand two hundred and thirty Meters, Kullu has a population of 381571. Dalhousie The months of March to June is the best time to visit the valley but if one desires to get a feel of the Himalayan winter, then December to February will be the best option. The mossy meadows, fast flowing streams, never before seen flowers and overall scenery makes Kullu - a heaven on earth. Situated at an altitude of six thousands to nine thousands feet, Dalhousie reflects the indigenous beauty of the Himalayas. The Dalhousie Hill Station in Himachal Pradesh is spread around five hills on the western border of the Dhauladhar mountain range. Dalhousie is an exceptional hill station with the prominence of Scottish and Victorian architectures. Last Updated on : 10/09/2013 Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Dalhousie Hotels Dharamshala Hotels Hamirpur Hotels Kangra Hotels Kasauli Hotels Kullu Manali Hotels Parwanoo Hotels Pragpur Hotels Sirmour Hotels Solan Hotels Taragarh Hotels Una Hotels Travel to Himachal Pradesh Travel to Dalhousie Places to visit in Dalhausi Places to visit in Dharamsala Subhash Baoli Shivkul Dal Lake Travel to Dharamshala Travel to Kullu Places to visit in Kullu Manali Solang Valley Christ Church The Ridge Travel to Manali Travel to Shimla Places to visit in Shimla Sankat Mochan Baba Balak Nath Temple Flights to Himachal Pradesh Flights to Dharamsala Flights to Dalhousie Flights to Shimla Flights to Manali Travel Agents Dharamsala Shimla Dalhousie About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule