Jharkhand Map Home » Maps » Jharkhand Map   Jharkhand झारखंड का नक्शा Jharkhand Map Capital of Jharkhand Jharkhand Cities Jamshedpur Ranchi Bokaro Dhanbad Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Reach by Train About Jharkhand Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Travel to Jharkhand Places to visit in Jharkhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Daasam Falls Sun Temple Population Sex Ratio Map Fact sheet education Universities In Jharkhand Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Lok Sabha Constituencies Business and Economy Ministers and MPs Government Agricultural Map Geography and History Mineral Map District Map in Hindi Hotels in Jharkhand Bokaro Hotels Deoghar Hotels Dhanbad Hotels Jamshedpur Hotels Kumardhubi Hotels Ranchi Hotels Language Jharkhand by Road Ranchi Airport Map Information Media People,Culture and Festivals Pin code STD code       Jharkhand Map झारखंड का नक्शा Map of Jharkhand Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing major roads, railways, rivers, national highways, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Location Map of Jharkand Jharkhand District Map Rivers Map of Jharkhand Jharkhand Road Map Jharkhand Rail Network Map Jharkhand, a Goldmine of Mineral Resources Introduction Jharkhand is a newly formed state of eastern India; it borders with Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in the west, Bihar in the North, Odisha in the south and Indian state of West Bengal in the east. It became an independent state in the year 2000, after splitting from Bihar. Ranchi, the capital is a well known industrial and academic city of Jharkhand. Geography Jharkhand is known as a mining and industrial heaven of India with Jamshedpur, Bokaro and Dhanbad as the highly industrialized cities of eastern India. Jharkhand is endowed with thick forest, mines and natural beauty. That is the reason, it is considered to be a wealthy state with skilled workforce, abandoned mineral wealth and forestry produces. Its cover of thick forests is the natural habitat of a big number of tigers and Indian elephants. The meteorological department calls it the Chhota Nagpur plateau. Jharkhand is the origin of various rivers such as Koel, Damoder, Brahamani, Kharkai and Subarnarekha. Known for its rich flora and fauna, it is home to various national parks and the zoological gardens. Demographics Jharkhand's population is 27 million with a good "male to female ratio." Around one third of its population is tribal. There are as many as 35 primitive tribal groups in Jharkhand. Jharkhand has seen a lot of migration from the neighboring states of West Bengal and Bihar majorly for employment. In this ancient state, tribal communities do not follow Hinduism; they have their own spirituals beliefs called as Sarna. Mineral Wealth As discussed earlier Jharkhand is the goldmine of minerals and ores such as iron ore, copper ore, mica, coal, bauxite, manganese, fireclay, china clay, lime stone, kainite, graphite, chromites, uranium, thorium, asbestos, gold, silver and yemenite. In the production of some of these minerals and ores, Jharkhand ranks among top three states of India. Politics Despite its huge industrial growth and minerals resources, the people are still poor and the civic infrastructure and amenities in the state are substandard. It is largely because of the poor governance and corruption in politics. Annual per capita income is also very low. Jharkhand has 22 districts and it is run by a state government based in Ranchi, which is assisted by a lobby of IAS officers. Religions and Language After sweeping colonization, followers of others religions such as Hinduism, Islam and Christianity also settled here, but tribal faith Sarna is still growing. Bhojpuri, Hindi, Bengali, and Urdu are the major languages spoken, whereas the tribal people also speak Kharia, Paharia, Bhumij, Mundari, Santhali and Ho. Some of the Dravidian languages such as Oraon and Korwa are also spoken here. Jharkhand State Information Capital Ranchi Date of formation 15. Nov. 2000 Governor Syed Ahmed Chief Minister Raghubar Das Tourist attractions Dassam Falls, Sun Temple, Birsa Zoological Park, Jamshedpur Industrial Area Festivals Basant Panchami, Chhat Puja Major dance and music forms Agni and Jhumar dances Arts and crafts Large colourful masks made from the dark clay taken from the banks of the River Khakai; Jadu Patua is a form of scroll painting. Languages Hindi, Urdu, Santhali Size 79,714 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 32,388,134 Rivers Aon, Kosi, Ghagra Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Betla (Palmau) NP, Hazaribagh Wildlife Sanctuary State animal Elephant State bird Asian koel State flower Palash State tree Sal Major crops Paddy, wheat, maize Factoids Dhanbad is also known as India's coal capital. Jharkhand's original inhabitants, the adivasis, revolted against British exploitation of their forests. No. of District Last Updated on : December 29, 2014 Travel to Jharkhand Travel to Ranchi Travel to Hazaribagh Places to visit in Jharkhand Places to visit in Ranchi             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule