Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Home » Maps » Wildlife » Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries   Andhra Pradesh History Geography Climate आंध्र प्रदेश का नक्शा Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Hyderabad Metro Stations Map Cities Amaravati: Andhra's New Capital Hyderabad Tirupati Vishakhapatnam Vijayawada Warangal                    more.. Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Andhra Pradesh Places to visit in Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels         more... How to reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education in Andhra Pradesh Universities in Andhra Pradesh       Wildlife Sanctuaries in Andhra Pradesh Map of Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the Wildlife Sanctuaries in Andhra Pradesh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. One of the chief attractions of the state of Andhra Pradesh is the wildlife of the region. The plethora of streams and hills facilitate the growth of the rich natural vegetations that abound the land in abundance. The chief attraction of the state is the wildlife and the state has several zoological centers. Some of the following are areas that are marked for the prevalence of wildlife: Alisagar Deer Park The Alisagar Deer Park, Nizamabad is situated in the state of Andhra Pradesh. The park is decorated with hillocks and flower gardens that increase the scenic beauty of the park and also create a haven for the huge variety of deers that take refuge here in the Alisagar Deer Park, Nizamabad. The rich and luxurious lifestyle of the Nizams of this region is reflected in the various parks and architectural structures built in Andhra Pradesh. The Alisagar Deer Park of the district of Nizamabad is also a result of the effort of the Nizams of the region. The lake or reservoir of Alisagar was built in the region by the Nizam in the year 1931. The beauty of the reservoir is enhanced by the hillocks that surround the lake. The gardens in the park are decorated with flowers of different colors. The reservoir is a part of the park. The color and hue enlighten the park and give a new spirit to the different species of deer that live there. The Alisagar Deer Park at Nizamabad is a cherished tourist spot of the Andhra Pradesh state. The park can be easily accessed from the other parts of the state. The district of Nizamabad is well connected by roads and railways to the capital city of Hyderabad that lies at a distance of 163 kilometers from Nizamabad. The nearest airport to the district lies in Hyderabad. Coringa Wild Life Sanctuary The Coringa Wild Life Sanctuary, Coringa is situated in the East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. The region covers an area of 235 square kilometers. It was declared a sanctuary in the year 1978. Situated at a distance of 20 kilometers from Kakinada and 70 kilometers from Rajahmundry, the Coringa Wild Life Sanctuary is easily accessible. The sanctuary is formed in the delta and estuary region of the River Godavari. The government declared the region a sanctuary to conserve the natural mangrove vegetation that grows in the region. The Coringa Wild Life Sanctuary is rich in flora and fauna. The mangrove plants have been categorized into thirty-five species that belong to a group of 24 families. The mangrove plants have adapted themselves to the environment in which it grows. The sanctuary also has a heavy growth of shrubs and herbs. A unique feature of the sanctuary is the nesting of the Olive Ridley-Sea Turtle in the months of January to March in the 18 kilometer long sand path in the sanctuary. The Coringa Wild Life Sanctuary also a collection of 125 species of birds that include the Crested Serpant Eagle, Scarlet Minivet, Indian Roller, Black capped Kingfisher, Oriental Dwarf Kingfisher and White bellied Woodpecker. Eturnagaram Sanctuary The region of the Eturnagaram Sanctuary in Eturnagaram is characterized by undulating land surface. A part of the region is covered with hills. The sanctuary is watered by the perennial river Dayyam Vagu. The region has a thick cover of natural vegetation. The superfluity of water in the sanctuary accounts the presence of reptiles like the Mugger crocodiles and snakes like the Python, Cobra and Kraite. The river separates the sanctuary into two parts. A part of the sanctuary is home to the carnivorous animals like the tiger, panther, leopard, wolf jackals and sloth bears. Other animals like the black buck, chousingha, nilgai, sambar, wild dogs, spotted deer and the chinkara live in the forest cover of the region. The Eturnagaram Sanctuary is also rich in fauna. The region falls in the tropical dry deciduous type of vegetation. The sanctuary is thus rich in the growth of teak, bamboo and other trees like madhuca and terminalia. Bus routes lead to the Eturnagaram Sanctuary from the city of Warangal located at a distance of 110 kilometers. The nearest airport is 250 kilometers away in the city of Hyderabad. The best time to visit the region is from October to April. A visit to the Eturnagaram Sanctuary will give the visitors a glimpse of the wildlife of Andhra Pradesh. Indira Gandhi Zoological park The Indira Gandhi Zoological Park, Visakhapatnam is the biggest zoo that is surrounded by natural reserve. The region covers an area of 625 acres and is placed between two hills and the Bay of Bengal on the east. The beauty of the natural surroundings and the presence of various kinds of animals and birds attract many tourists to the zoo. The zoo started on 19th May in the year 1977. The zoo has a collection of over 80 species animals who are placed in different sections of carnivores, lesser carnivores, primates, small mammals, reptiles, ungulates and aves. The section for carnivores contain ferocious animals like the lions, tigers, panthers, pumas, bears, and jaguars. Among the lesser mammals rest the wolves, jackals, hyenas, wild dogs and the hippopotamus. The zoo has a separate section for the crocodiles and reptiles. The zoological park preserves all three kinds of crocodiles in its premises. The visitors may glance through the pythons and water lizards in the reptile section. The primates section houses different species of monkeys. The zoo also has a rare collection of birds that are unknown to the region. The animals are placed under the strict supervision of the authorities and trainers who are particular about the rules and regulations which the visitors must abide. The zoo also offers an opportunity to the visitors to ride the elephant's back. Last Updated on 5/8/2012   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule