Development of Human Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Programmes/themes >> Information and Communication Technology for Poor Information and Communication Technology for Poor The digital divide in accessing and using information and communication technology (ICT) between urban and rural, rich and poor, for profits and charities is ever increasing. DHAN Foundation has taken up 'ICT for the poor' as a new theme to experiment, develop and implement socially-relevant ICT programmes through ICT based people’s organisations built at the grassroots. It has become a cross-cutting theme to complement the microfinance, water, rainfed farming themes of DHAN. The programme is involved in the following activities: Promoting Thagavalagam Groups to provide ICT-based livelihoods, Village Information Centres (VICs) in rural areas as well as urban slums, so to provide various e-services such as e-mail, e-Post, computer-aided school education, e-Governance, etc. Facilitating the rural poor to get connected with the resources and expertise located distantly through online consultations for health, education, agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries, and on legal issues. Enabling the aged and illiterate women and men to learn reading and writing through computer-aided adult literacy centres. Establishing community colleges to offer a number of ICT-related and job oriented courses to the poor youths and helping them to get employed in the nearby towns and cities. Developing content for educational use and developing software for agriculture and animal husbandry services, which are now being used by farmers in VICs. Promoting partnership with the other stakeholders such as ICT-based academic, research and business organisations to channelise resources and expertise to the grassroots. Read more on ICT for Poor ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved