Associated Press AP Images | AP Video Archive Home Company About History Relief Fund FAQs Brand News Values Annual Report Awards Pulitzers Photo Awards AP Leadership Board of Directors AP Management Committee Industry Leadership Freedom of Information Intellectual Property Video News Insights Careers Work for Us Search Jobs AP Explore Fall of Saigon Berlin Wall D-Day More Definitive Source - blog    Media Center Press Releases 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 AP in the News 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Elections AP by the Numbers How AP Calls Election Winners National Politics Team History of Elections FAQs US Nuclear Weapons Investigation US Nuclear Weapons Stories    Products & Services Business Products Audio Graphics/Interactives Multimedia Photos Text Video Other Services Business Customers New Media Newspapers Radio Television Consumer Products AP Mobile Photo Prints AP Stylebook AP Planner AP Books    Contact Us General Information Media Relations Sales Customer Support    Get more information on today's home page photo . Follow AP Images on Instagram AP photographer Nick Ut, whose "Napalm Girl" photo won a Pulitzer Prize and became one of the most famous images taken during the Vietnam War, will be posting to the new AP Images Instagram account Monday, June 8, while revisiting the place where he took the photo. Follow along on Instagram to see Vietnam, 40 years after the conflict, through his lens. More AP gears up for 2016 US elections As the 2016 U.S. election season heats up—eight Republicans have already declared they are running—AP's national politics team is on top of the latest developments. Learn more about how The Associated Press covers the vote count, calls the winners and provides comprehensive reporting and analysis of election results. More Place an order for the 2015 AP Stylebook Place your order now to get the fully revised, spiral-bound 2015 Associated Press Stylebook with an expanded sports chapter, a new back-of-book index and hundreds of new or revised entries. Learn more Company About Us AP Leadership History Industry Leadership Intellectual Property Branding FAQs Awards & Recognition News Values and Principles Freedom of Information Definitive Source - blog Associated Press Terms & Conditions Privacy About the Site AP Essentials Site Map Careers Media Center Media Center Press Releases AP in the News Contact Us Contact Us Customer Support Product Training Follow Us News, discussion and a behind-the-scenes look at the newsgathering process from The AP. All contents © copyright 2015 Associated Press. All rights reserved.