IIGF Recruitment Guidelines : The India Internet Governance Forum (IIGF) is the national forum constituted by the Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY), Government of India for multi-stakeholder dialogue between the government, private sector, technical community, academia and civil society organizations on public-policy issues related to Internet Governance. IIGF would be reviewing the global Internet policy landscape and provide guidelines for matters related to Internet Governance, taking into account the technical development and the dynamically changing societal needs in the country. Instrumental to furthering the aims of IIGF, NIXI would be providing the technical and administrative support, conducting research, training, and workshops and preparing white papers, technology reports etc. In particular, the following specific activities will be carried out: Organisation of the annual IIGF event in a purposeful and inclusive manner. Capacity building and awareness-raising on the public policy issues pertaining to Internet Governance. Regular and sustained engagement with all stakeholders. Making India a significant player in the global Internet Governance space. In order to achieve the above goals, NIXI will provide the requisite support functions through specialised personnel, recruited for this task. Accordingly, a group of approximately 8-10 analysts/ associates and support staff would be recruited who will perform the following functions: • Develop an annual work plan of the IIGF activities • Provide technical, research and administrative support to the IIGF keeping in view the rapid global developments • Promote the IIGF activities of the members (sub-regional and national IGFs including other stakeholders); • Act as a knowledge management hub of the IIGF experiences, best practices, knowledge, expertise, needs and resources among sub-regional and national IGFs • Help convene India IGF meetings and • Develop and maintain active e-mail lists and website to provide updated India IGF related information to sub-regional and national IGFs including other international stakeholders. Any other activity related to IG required from time to time would also be actively identified and pursued. General expectations from recruited personnel: Positive attitude, excellent qualities to work in a team, perform as per the needs of the organization and ensuring healthy work culture. Prior experience and good track record will be added advantages. Period of service : The selected candidates would initially be recruited for a contract period of 1 year which would be extended up to 3 years depending upon performance. Technology Analyst – 2-3 nos. (Full-time/ part-time) Qualifications : B.Tech/M.Tech Electronics & Communications/IT & Computer Science/MCA Experience : Knowledge of Internet technologies – resources, telecommunication policies, procedures of inter-ministerial coordination, regulations and procedures. Expectations : Ability to study, analyze and write national impact assessment reports taking into account global Internet Technology Standards and Processes from Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and other standards bodies; to bring out Technology Roadmap recommendation documents on global Internet Governance and Technology related issues; monitor and participate in RFC process. Remuneration : Rs. 50,000 -75000 per month. Policy Analyst – 2-3 nos. (Full-time/ part-time) Qualifications: Law or public policy graduate. Cyber-law knowledge would be an added advantage. Experience : Awareness and understanding of Public Policy issues pertaining to global Internet Governance, technology and governance related regulations, policies and procedures. Previous work-experience desirable. Expectations : Ability to Study, analyze and write policy documents of global Internet Governance and Technology related issues, summarize and analyze them and convert it into usable knowledge, assist in all aspects of the planning/organization of IIGF events. Remuneration : Rs. 50,000 -75000 per month. Research Associate – 2-3 nos. (Full-time/ part-time) Qualifications : Graduates/Post Graduates Computing and information system/ Information Technology/Computer applications/B.Tech/M.Tech Electronics/Communication/IT, or other relevant disciplines, preferably with work experience. Expectations : Aptitude to analyze problems and articulate solutions, undertake research on both policy and technical issues connected to IG, assist in all aspects of the planning/organization of the IIGF events. Remuneration : Rs. 30,000 -40000 per month. Executive Assistants – 1 no. Qualifications : Graduates in Computing and Information system, Information Technology, Computer Applications (MCA/BCA degree) preferably with 2 years work experience. Experience : Excellent drafting skills, sound knowledge of English, commitment and maintaining confidentiality and secrecy are the important requirements. Those with experience in similar area of work in Govt./PSU /private sector will be preferred. Expectations : Good communication skills, positive attitude, high commitment, maintaining confidentiality and secrecy, high commitments and spirit to excel at the main requirements. Prior working experience would be an added advantage. Remuneration : Rs. 20,000 - 30000 per month.