Live Spirulina culture for sale AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale Live Spirulina culture for sale Page 1 of 3 1 2 3 Last Jump to page: Results 1 to 10 of 23 Thread: Live Spirulina culture for sale LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… January 19th, 2013 #1 olari Join Date Jan 2013 Posts 2 Live Spirulina culture for sale Hello, I am growing Live Spirulina at home for drying and consuming it my self at the moment. I figured that there are also more people who would be interested in growing it at home but the prices are very high for getting starter culture. If you want to buy live Spirulina culture, please PM me. I would be glad to sell you some strains. All the best, Olari Last edited by olari; January 20th, 2013 at 03:36 AM . Reason: only premium members are allowed to post contact info. please click My Account to upgrade Reply With Quote January 22nd, 2013 #2 olari Join Date Jan 2013 Posts 2 Here is some extra information about the culture. These cultures are originaly bought from the Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. Locality : Chad, lake Bodon Orig. det. : Arthrospira sp. (‘platensis’) Reply With Quote January 22nd, 2013 #3 sprouted Join Date Jan 2013 Posts 1 Interesting Hi Olari! I was just searching the web for someone in europe that is growing spirulina themselves and that could help me get started. I would very much appreciate if you would like to share your method and experience with me and I would also like to buy some live Spirulina Culture so that I can get going. Would that be possible? I am very happy I found you in this forum, You are really the person I was looking for. Best Regards. Adam Sweden. Reply With Quote January 23rd, 2013 #4 hlokk Join Date Jan 2013 Posts 1 Hello Olari, I am interested in buying some spirulina starter culture from you, but I am confused about the genus and species you list. Most spirulina marketed for human consumption is listed as spirulina platensis or spirulina pacifica. What is your explanation of the genus and species discrepency? Reply With Quote January 29th, 2013 #5 srinid Join Date Jan 2013 Posts 1 Dear Olari I am interested to know more about the Spirulina as I am thinking to start growing it in a bigger level for commercial purpose. Could you pl share your views or guide me on this. Thanks. D. Srinivasulu Reply With Quote September 11th, 2013 #6 ycsan1 Join Date Sep 2013 Posts 2 I am looking for some live spirulina,please quote me your price. I am frm malaysia. I am looking for some live spirulina,please quote me your price. I am frm malaysia. Regards, cs.yong. Email: ycsan1@gmail.com Originally Posted by olari hello, i am growing live spirulina at home for drying and consuming it my self at the moment. I figured that there are also more people who would be interested in growing it at home but the prices are very high for getting starter culture. If you want to buy live spirulina culture, please pm me. I would be glad to sell you some strains. All the best, olari Reply With Quote September 11th, 2013 #7 richboy Join Date Sep 2013 Posts 1 please contact me zenpowerman -at- gmail Reply With Quote September 22nd, 2013 #8 emilea Join Date Sep 2013 Posts 1 hy Olari I want to buy live spirulina for growing. you can contact me on lnte.dncl at gmail.com Best Regards Emile A Canada Last edited by emilea; September 22nd, 2013 at 07:47 AM . Reply With Quote October 9th, 2013 #9 rxsloprime Join Date Oct 2013 Posts 1 I'd like to buy for growing! I'm looking for it online and i can't buy it anywhere! You're the first that actually sell it! If you're ready to sell it to me and send me to, write me mail (RXslo@slomail.si)! And I apologize for spelling mistakes am from Slovenia and I use google translator! Renato Reply With Quote October 27th, 2013 #10 banhua Join Date Oct 2013 Posts 1 Hi Olari, I interested to buy your live spirulina for growing at home. Please give a quote. Thanks My email: banhua.lau@gmail.com Reply With Quote Page 1 of 3 1 2 3 Last Jump to page: « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread arthrospira , live spirulina culture , spirulina cultivation , spirulina culture View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 06:02 PM .