Usana Chocolate Fusion Nutrition Bar Offered by Health Sciences Products Review | ID - 294561 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Health Sciences Products Review Member Since : 2008 | Country : United Kingdom Home Products Services Send Inquiry Contact us Pharmaceutical Products,food Vitamins,health Care Products Home » Product » Usana Chocolate Fusion Nutrition Bar Usana Chocolate Fusion Nutrition Bar We are a UK-based Usana Chocolate Fusion Nutrition Bar Manufacturer, Supplier and Exporter from UK. Our Usana Chocolate Fusion Nutrition Bar is formulated balancing the nutrition value and weight issues as well. The Usana Chocolate Fusion Nutrition Bar, offered by us, contains rich proteins and fibers to take proper care of your diet. Health Basics Healthy heart product* 12 g of protein g of fiber Low glycemic About Usana Chocolate Fusion Nutrition Bar It contains Soy protein which supports a healthy heart and cardiovascular system. It has the Irresistible taste of chocolate without a lot of calories and fat. It is a low-glycemic snack which raises blood-glucose levels slowly for sustained energy, which keeps you feeling satiated longer Nutrition Bar Difference A low-glycemic score provides a more sustainable source of energy compared to high sugar snacks.* Body Benefits Healthy Weight : It’s no secret that the key to effective weight loss is making positive changes in diet and exercise. However, making those healthy lifestyle changes can often seem like an insurmountable task. Our Healthy Weight Management products are designed to jumpstart healthy eating habits and help individuals begin to make a clean break from unhealthy food Healthy Liver Function : The liver is the body’s second largest organ and its largest gland. Our Liver Health products have been formulated to provide a unique blend of antioxidants and other ingredients to help support long-term healthy liver function Men's Health : While general nutrient needs are very similar between men and women, age can present unique gender-based health concerns. As men age, many are at risk for developing prostate problems. A healthy diet and exercise, combined with supplements specifically formulated for prostate health, can help minimize this risk. Our Men's Health products are designed to provide long-term support for prostate health Women's Health : While general nutrient needs are very similar between men and women, age can present unique gender-based health concerns. For women over the age of 40, symptoms associated with the onset of menopause may begin to occur. Our Women's Health products are designed to support menstrual health and help improve quality of life during the transition to menopause Nutrition Facts More Information . SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mohammed Elrayah Telephone : +44-1582876619 Mobile Phone : +44-7948258545 » More detail Hot Products » Dietary Supplement Kit » Usana Active Calcium » Usana Active Calcium Chewable » Usana Babycare Prenatal Essentials » Usana Biomega » Usana Biomega JR. » Usana Body Rox » Usana Booster C 600 » Usana Choco Chip » Usana Chocolate Fusion Nutrition Bar » Usana Chocolate Nutrimeal » Usana Chocolate Whey Nutrimeal™ » Usana CoQuinone » Usana Essentials » Usana Fibergy » Usana Fudge Delite » Usana Ginkgo-PS » Usana Go Nuts N Berries » Usana Healthpak » Usana Nutrimeal Free View more products SERVICES WE OFFER » Quality Assurance Services » Usana Business Opportunity Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com