Green Solutions Magazine is an on-line magazine designed to report information about environmental solutions and services, expert recommendations, best practices, products, tools and other solution-based news and resources to help economies, communities, businesses and individuals with alternative options that they can implement to create sustainability, prevent destructive impacts on or improve the quality of the environment. | Green Solutions Magazine Green Solutions Magazine  › Subscribe to Green Solutions Magazine About Advertise Contact Merchandise  → Subscribe Home Back to Nature Blog City & Community Features Global Frontier Home EnviroSense Life & Arts Books & More Eco Photo & Word Entertainment Green Leader Product Picks To Your Health Featured Article EPA Focuses on Food Waste for 15th Annual America Recycles Day On the 15th annual America Recycles Day, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) renewed its commitment to helping reduce wasted food by working with grocers, universities, stadiums and other venues through its Sustainable Materials Management… [more] What is YOUR Green Wish™ for the Planet? Can’t decide which environmental group should get your donation? Green Wish™ has done some of the work for you. What do the Algalita Marine Research Foundation, the Coalition for Clean Air, the Los Angeles Conservation Corps and Roots &… [more] Young Farmers: A Growing Trend? When you think of farmers it’s mostly like the sun-weathered face, graying hair and work-roughened hands of someone who’s been toiling the fields for years. But, these days, you may see something different. While the US Department of Agriculture… [more] Underwater Farming: Aquaculture 101 Remember the movie The Perfect Storm (2000), probably the most well-known true-story movie about fishermen, starring George Clooney, Mark Wahlberg, and Diane Lane? The audience is supportive of the protagonists in this film, who get caught in a life-threatening… [more] The Compressed Air Car, More Than Just Hot Air When we think of alternatives to the traditional fossil fuel run car, we now think of electric, hydrogen fuel cells, battery powered, solar powered and natural gas vehicles among several others. Now with new advancements, we have one more to add… [more] Awakening to the Spread of Pesticide Drift Nearly one billion pounds of pesticide are sprayed into fields and orchards around the country each year. Little do we know that the pesticide particles intended for crops don’t just stay in the area they are sprayed. Every time crop dusters spray… [more] Organic, Fair Trade Cotton: Look Good, Save Lives, Save the Environment Cotton has been cultivated for over 7,000 years and for good reason. It keeps us cool in the summer and warm in the winter, it is durable and it is easily died and woven. When compared with other processed fabrics, it is soft, pliable and natural.… [more] More Anchovies Please We’re always reminded that protein is a vital part of our diet, most of which come from animal sources such as meat and fish. However, we’re also warned to limit our intake of red meat since it also contains a high level of saturated fats, which… [more] Sustainable Solutions to Urban Future Imagine the sunrise in a garden city…eco homes, local plant, index greater than or equal to 0.7 Imagine an ecological valley meandering through time… Imagine blue skies over the horizon… fresh clean air, above benchmark or major Chinese… [more] Petroleum and Non-Toxic Alternatives Crude oil and petroleum are used to power cars, automobiles, boats and the like. But did you know the substances are actually used in an unbelievably high amount of household products too? Petroleum is used in anything from pantyhose to cough syrup.… [more] Save Water with Water Conservation Water conservation is one of the hot topics today, for good reason. Many parts of the world–even Europe and North America–has faced drought conditions and even water rationing at some time during the past decade. Water is the source of life… [more] Global Justice and Fair Trade Globalization. Advocates emphasize that it opens up the world market to producers everywhere. Activists shine a light on a facet of globalization that promotes the exploitation of the poor. Where can we find the middle ground? Enter Fair trade.… [more] Featured Articles Recent Posts Features » EPA Focuses on Food Waste for 15th Annual America Recycles Day Entertainment » What is YOUR Green Wish™ for the Planet? Life & Arts » April 2012 Product Picks Home EnviroSense » Trash to Treasure Features » Young Farmers: A Growing Trend? | | Home EnviroSense » Trash to Treasure April 5, 2012 In the mood for some arts and crafts? Why not avoid generating too much garbage after spring cleaning by reclaiming old materials. [...] › 10 Energy- and Water-Saving Laundry Tips › 5 Great Ways to Have a Green Weekend at Home › How to Make Eco Home Life More Interesting › How to Have a Green Christmas Green Leader » Nnimmo Bassey – Human Rights Activist November 10, 2011 A leading human rights and environmental activist in Africa, Nnimmo Bassey works tirelessly to stand up against the practices of [...] › Jody Williams: Outspoken Peace Activist › Sylvia Earle – “Her Deepness” the Oceanographer › Bruce Crowther – Founder, Fairtrade Town Movement and Fair Trade Activist › Denis Hayes – Environmental Activist and Proponent of Solar Power Back to Nature » Bringing Children Back to Nature October 10, 2011 While taking a stroll to the local store, I came upon a father and his child sitting and talking at a bus stop. During the [...] › Turning a Landfill into a Nature Preserve › Fair Trade’s Principle Ten: Respect for the Environment › Harnessing Nature’s Powers – Renewable Energies › Mimicking Natural Cycles to Reconnect Disruptive Ecological Cycles Entertainment » What is YOUR Green Wish™ for the Planet? May 6, 2012 Can’t decide which environmental group should get your donation? Green Wish™ has done some of the work for you. What do [...] › Sustainable Art › Saving the Environment is Fashionable › Jessica Alba Launches Honest.com › Gisele Bundchen, Greenest Celeb Books & More » Earth Days: The Seeds of a Revolution November 20, 2011 It is now all the rage, but can you remember when everyone in America was not “Going Green”? AMERICAN EXPERIENCE’s Earth Days [...] › 5 Sustainable Directories › 5 Amazing Groups for Nature › July 2011 Books & More for Thought › June 2011 Books & More for Thought City & Community » The Bay Area Restoration Council April 5, 2012 After two decades of cleaning up, the Bay Area Restoration Council (BARC) is still going strong. BARC, based in Hamilton, is a [...] › Twins Start Proseed2Green › Neighbour to Neighbour Energy Challenge › Green Communities Network › Healthy Neighborhoods: Protecting, Preserving and Improving the World Around Us Global Frontier » CITIES, Combating Illegal Wildlife and Plant Trade October 10, 2011 In an industry that profits from about $20 million per year (but estimated to be worth billions), wildlife trade is big business. The [...] › Tackling Famine in the Long Horn of Africa › Fair Trade and the Food Crisis › Developing Countries Show Strong Investment in Renewable Energy › New World Bank Environment Strategy Emerge from Controversial Past To Your Health » Boost Your Immune System March 10, 2012 Taking care of your immune system with pre- and probiotics and antioxidants Your body’s immune system is resilient and strong, [...] › Making Exercise Fun › Eat Your Way to Relaxation › 5 Underrated Herb Health Cure-Alls › 5 Surprising Green Ways to Reduce Stress Product Picks » April 2012 Product Picks April 5, 2012 1.  Transit Chair Handmade in the USA from recycled street signs, this unique chair has a story to tell. Priced at almost $2,000 [...] › March 2012 Product Picks › February 2012 Product Picks › January 2012 Product Picks › December 2011 Product Picks Eco Photo & Word » Bike Culture in Copenhagen November 10, 2011 Bike Culture in Copenhagen. Bicycle rush hour in Copenhagen, where 37% of the population ride their bikes each day. [caption [...] › Protests against Keystone XL Pipeline › GEM Corn › Iceland Sattelite Image › Kelp Forest Search the site: Search for: Follow Green Solutions Magazine: Recommend on Google Subscribe for Free! Get our updates in your Inbox Safe Email Newsletters Subscribe Eco Photo Gallery GEM Corn Twitter Updates Follow us on Twitter Latest Articles Stream left right Features » EPA Focuses on Food Waste for 15th Annual America Recycles Day Entertainment » What is YOUR Green Wish™ for the Planet? Home EnviroSense » Trash to Treasure