Maharashtra Forest Map Home » Maps » Maharashtra Map » Maharashtra Forest Map   Maharashtra History and Geography Climate of Maharashtra Maharashtra Map महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Cities in Maharashtra Mumbai Pune Nashik Aurangabad Solapur Shirdi                        more.. Economy of Maharashtra Industrial Map Maharashtra Government Maharashtra Assembly Polls Maharashtra Lok Sabha Elections Maharashtra Assembly Election Results Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Education Universities in Maharashtra Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Maharashtra Forest Map Forest Map of Maharashtra Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Map showing Open and Dense Forest in Maharashtra. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Western Ghats of India cover numerous highlands ranging from Bombay south to the southern tip of the peninsula. The states covered are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. These areas comprise important Tropical Evergreen Forests of India. For this reason, the region faces great conservation concern. Forests in Maharashtra are an important part of the western ghat plane. Maharashtra's western ghat is a land of eco-diversity. The state is known for dissimilar climatic conditions and dynamic topographic. It's rich flora and fauna perfectly reflects the diversity of climate and the geography. The topography of the region varies from arid desert and tropical rain forest to mountain range over 4000 feet in altitude. With changing circumstances the ecosystem of Maharashtra's Western Ghats face a threat from growing population and unabated development measures. Recent time has seen a major increase in open forest due to the degradation of dense forest. This increasing trend has been perpetually affecting the forests in a negative way for the past 25 years. Today, recorded forests cover approximately one fifth of Maharashtra's geographical area. This is about 20.1%. In 2009, India State of Forest Report stated, Maharashtra's recorded forest area is 61,939 km2. Of which, 79.47% constitute reserved forests while protected forest's make up13.23%. Unclassed Forests comprise 7.30 % of the total forest area. Trees cover an area of about 9,466 km2 which is 3.08%. Forests Types in Maharashtra: Extremely dense forests cover an area of 8,739 km2. Area covered by different forests types: Maharashtra's Forest Tropical Semi-Evergreen Forest covers 7.73%. Tropical Moist Deciduous Forest covers 29.84%. Littoral and Swamp Forest covers 0.08% Tropical Dry Deciduous Forest covers 57.41% Tropical Thorn Forest covers 1.02% Subtropical Broadleaved Hill Forest covers 1.54% A number of wildlife sanctuaries, national parks and project tiger reserves have been developed in the state to conserve its rich bio-diversity. Maharashtra's forests are a house to tigers, panthers, bison, deer and antelopes, wild boars, bears, blue bull, great Indian bustards. Herein is a list of Maharashtra's wildlife sanctuaries, national parks and project tiger reserves: Navegaon National Park near Gondia. Nagzira wildlife sanctuary in Tirora Range. Tadoba Andhari Tiger Project in Vidarbha. Pench National Park, in Nagpur district. Chandoli National Park in Sangli district. Gugamal National Park, also called Melghat Tiger Reserve in Amravati district. World's largest national park, Sanjay Gandhi National Park, also known as Borivali National Park in Mumbai. Sagareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary, located 30km from Sangli. In addition to these Maharashtra also has 35 wildlife sanctuaries. Forests in Maharashtra are a source of major products like timber, firewood. They even offer minor products like bamboo, Tendu leaves, gum etc. Maharashtra's forest production greatly contributes to the state's revenue. On a larger note, the forests are of great value to the countries GDP. Most importantly, these forests help in providing source of income to the localities. Last Updated on : 09 September 2011 Maharashtra Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Rail Map Road Map Tehsil Map River Map Maharashtra Thematic Maps Forest Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Sex Ratio Map Handicrafts Map Industrial Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel Map About Maharashtra History Geography Weather Topography Festivals Facts Rivers and Lakes Soil and vegetation District Fact Sheet             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule