The World Economic Forum About Media Contact Login 中文 日本語 Home Agenda Reports Events Projects Communities   Search: Why austerity is the only deal-breaker for Greece Greek Finance Minister Yanis Varoufakis says his government is eager to implement all of the economic reforms that its creditors expect. more How can women climb the leadership ladder? Women are setting a new standard of modern leadership as gender equality in the workplace makes striking business sense, writes Lindsay Pattison.  more 5 ways communities can counter violent extremism Local communities are best placed to understand what the drivers of violent extremism are, and how best to address them, writes Khalid Koser. more King Abdullah II’s MENA15 speech Opening speech to the World Economic Forum on the Middle East and North Africa 2015 by His Majesty Abdullah II Ibn Al Hussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. more Previous Next Why austerity is the only deal-breaker ... How can women climb the leadership ladder? 5 ways communities can counter violent ... King Abdullah II’s MENA15 speech The World Economic Forum is the international institution committed to improving the state of the world through public-private cooperation. News:   23.05.15 Leaders Call for International Help to Solve Syrian Refugee Crisis Read more 23.05.15 Public-Private Cooperation on Infrastructure Will Bring Stability to MENA Region Read more 23.05.15 Table For Two Supports Efforts to Improve Nutrition for Syrian Child Refugees Read more 22.05.15 Strategic Competition in Middle East and North Africa Requires Regional Solution Read more 23.05.15 Addressing Violent Extremism is a Global Challenge Requiring Action of all Stakeholders Read more 23.05.15 Leaders Call for International Help to Solve Syrian Refugee Crisis Read more 23.05.15 Public-Private Cooperation on Infrastructure Will Bring Stability to MENA Region Read more 23.05.15 Table For Two Supports Efforts to Improve Nutrition for Syrian Child Refugees Read more 22.05.15 Strategic Competition in Middle East and North Africa Requires Regional Solution Read more Previous Pause Next   Featured Infrastructure is key to a stable Middle East MENA will need to invest over $100 billion a year to maintain and create new infrastructure to serve the growing communities and cities, writes John Rice. Why humanitarian intervention in MENA must change A new approach to humanitarian aid and development is urgently needed in the Middle East and North Africa region, writes Mohamed Ashmawey. How can we address violent extremism? The World Economic Forum stands poised to help all sectors of society collaboratively fight the causes of extremism. Videos Development in the Middle East and North Africa Sir Suma Chakrabarti on how to unlock the potential of the Middle East and North Africa.  Education and Infrastructure in the Middle East and North Africa Gordon Brown on education and infrastructure in the region. The Geo-strategic Outlook How are current realignments shaping future geopolitics in the region? Latest reports The Role of Financial Services in Society: Statement in support of macroprudential policies Download PDF Fifteen CEOs, chairmen and senior executives of large financial institutions... more The Human Capital Report 2015 Read online Download PDF The Human Capital Index measures countries’ ability to maximize and leverage... more Events 03 - 05 Jun 15 World Economic Forum on Africa 2015 Cape Town, South Africa 09 - 11 Sep 15 Annual Meeting of the New Champions 2015 Dalian, People's Republic of China Committed to improving the state of the world Communities Strategic Partners Industry Partners Regional Partners Foundation Members Global Agenda Councils Global Growth Companies Global Leadership Fellows Technology Pioneers Schwab Foundation Young Global Leaders Global Shapers Women Leaders and Gender Parity Civil Society Academic Networks Reports Global Risks Report Global Competitiveness Report Global Gender Gap Report Events Annual Meeting 2015 Annual Meeting of the New Champions 2014 About us Our Mission Leadership and Governance Our Members History Klaus Schwab Careers Contact Us Open Forum World Economic Forum USA 中文 日本語 Privacy & Terms of Use Access IBC area IMC area Strategic Partners' area Partner Institutes' area Sitemap Home Agenda Reports Events Projects Communities Media News Videos Press Fictitious e-mail warning Subscribe