Nashik City Map Home » Maps » Maharashtra » Nashik City Map   Cities in Maharashtra Mumbai Ahmednagar Akola Aurangabad Kolhapur Latur Nagpur Nashik Pune Solapur Shirdi                        more.. महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Regions Mumbai Central North Mumbai South Mumbai About Maharashtra History and Geography Maharashtra Climate Maharashtra Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Maharashtra Economy Industrial Map Maharashtra Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Maharashtra Education Universities in Maharashtra Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Nashik City Map City Map of Nashik Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Nashik city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Maharashtra   Mumbai City Map Pune City Map Nashik City Map Nagpur City Map         Ahmednagar City Map Aurangabad City Map Mahabaleshwar City Map Shirdi City Map       other cities of Maharashtra >>   Travel Map of Maharashtra   Aurangabad Travel Map Mumbai Travel Map Pune Travel Map         Nasik City Map Nasik, which is also spelled and pronounced as Nashik, is a city in northwest Maharashtra, India. It is located at a distance of about 160 km from Mumbai and 210 km from Pune. The city is the administrative headquarters of Nasik district and has been nicknamed as the "Wine Capital of India". The Nasik city has a total area of 264.23 sq km. It is the third most industrialized city in Maharashtra after Mumbai and Pune. The city is situated at an elevation of 600m and the River Godavari flows through various parts of the city. The city is the third largest urban area of Maharashtra after Mumbai Metropolitan Region and the Pune. The city has a semi-arid climate with hot summers from March to mid-June, Monsoon Season from June to September and mild, dry winters from November to February. Occasional cold waves can dip temperatures. However increase in temperature and decrease in rainfall is noticed in recent years due to industrialization and hasty deforestation. The city is however a better city to live in as it is one of the least polluted cities in Maharashtra. As per the 2011 Census of India, Nasik has a population of 14,86,973 inhabitants. Out of which 54% are Males and 46% are females. The city has an average literacy rate of 74%. Over the years, Nasik has grown both in population and area, so the nearby villages and towns have been included in the Nasik Urban Agglomeration. The names of these places are: Deolali Cantonment, Nasik Road, Eklahare, Mhasrul, Pimpalgaon Bahula, Adgaon, Makhmalabad, Upnagar and Someshwar. Nasik has notable structures of historical importance scattered all over. The city is a famous religious destination for Hindus in India. It hosts one of the largest religious gatherings in the world known as the Kumbh Mela. It is celebrated once in twelve years. There are many temples in Nasik that the devotees and tourist would like to visit, There are plenty other tourist attractions and important places to see in Nasik. The Pandavleni Caves, Museum of Numismatics, Dudhsagar Fall, etc are some of the popular places in Nasik. Nasik is well linked with National Highway Number 3 to Mumbai and National Highway Number 50. These two major highways are connected with other roads in the city. The city is well connected with other states and cities by numerous state highways. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation and private bus operators operates regular bus services to various villages, towns and cities around Nasik. Taxi and cab services are also easily available in the city. The Nasik Road Railway Station is about 11 km from the city center. Commuters can reach Nasik easily from major cities in the state and country. Daily Intercity Superfast Express Trains connects Mumbai with Nasik. There are two airports in Nasik. The Ghandinagar Airport is a Flying school but handles domestic flights and the Ozar Airport is a defence airport with no commercial flight authorization. Last Updated on : 07/10/2013 Cities in Maharashtra Akola Alibag Amravati Beed-city Bhiwandi Chandrapur Chiplun Jalna Dombivli Khandala Kolhapur Latur Lavasa Lonavala Malegaon Matheran Mumbai Kalyan Nanded Navi Mumbai Pandharpur Panvel Sangli Satara Vajreshwari Washim Travel to Maharashtra Travel to Ajanta Travel to Aurangabad Travel to Ellora Travel to Khandala Travel to Lonavala Haji Ali Dargah Travel to Mumbai Travel to Nagpur Travel to Nashik Travel to Panchgani Travel to Pune Travel to Shirdi Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Ajanta Places to visit in Aurangabad Places to visit in Khandala Places to visit in Lonavala Places to visit in Mahabaleshwar Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Mumbai Places to visit in Nagpur Places to visit in Nashik Places to visit in Pune Places to visit in Shirdi   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule