:: National Horitculture Mission :: Mission A National Horticulture Mission was launched in 2005-06 as a Centrally Sponsored Scheme to promote holistic growth of the horticulture sector through an area based regionally differentiated strategies. The scheme has been subsumed as a part of Mission for Integration Development of Horticulture (MIDH) during 2014-15. " Presently, India is the 2nd largest producer of fruits & vegetables in the world. " Events/Message Impact Evaluation Study on National Mission on Micro Irrigation(NMMI), June-2014 Administrative approval - Implementation of the Scheme during 2015-16. Allocation of funds for AAP 2015-16 NHM States & UTs. Allocation of funds for AAP 2015-16 NLAs. Activity chart on Major interventions for horticulture development by Different Departments / Ministries. Revalidation of unspent funds out of grants-in-aid release in previous financial year and accrued interest thereon and release of funds in 2015-16. Monthly Progress report on adoption of payment framework on DBT platform. Release of funds under MIDH and OFWM (Micro Irrigation). RFP for empanelment of RIs for imparting training on Hi-tech Horticulture. ( Advertisement ) Advisory for Horticultural Crops under high moisture conditions due to rain during 1-2 March, 2015 Inclusion of Food Processing Component in North Eastern States under Horticulture Mission for HMNEH sub scheme of MIDH. MIDH Quarterly Bulletin (October - December), 2014 Amount of subsidy for credit linked Projects under Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture(MIDH). Photo Update Facets of NHM which could be availed to enhance income. Nursery Vegetable Seedling Production Tissue Culture Lab Seed Grader Area Expansion - Turmeric Area Expansion with Integration - Mango Mushroom Production Rejuvenation Water Resources - Individual Tank Protected Cultivation - Plastic Mulching Bio Control Lab IPM-Pheromone Trap Beekeeping Vermi Compost Horticulture Mechanization Cold Chain - Pack House Cold Chain-Refrigerated Transport Cold Chain - Cold Storage Cold Chain - Ripening Chamber Primary Processing - Cashew Retail Market Whole Sale Market