 Maternal and Child Health CARE, Women's Health Care Programs | CARE India Jump to navigation NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India HOME CONTACT US Search Search form Search ABOUT US Overview History Vision/Mission Board Members Management Team OUR WORK Our Approach Where We Work Our Programmes Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness & Response GET INVOLVED Careers Internship Campaigns Volunteer Partnerships Power to Empower NEWS National International CARE India in Media Media Contact DONATE NOW You are here Home » Healthcare CARE’s healthcare initiatives aims to increase demand for and improve accessibility, availability and affordability of essential healthcare services. CARE works to promote newborn care, reduce malnutrition in children, decrease infant and maternal mortality rates, and protect those affected by or susceptible to HIV/AIDS and TB, especially women and girls. CARE works with the most vulnerable communities, providing support to address the needs of affected families. Donate Now Health Programmes Delivering healthcare to over a billion people is a very complex challenge. CARE India works in close collaboration with State and Central Government and other partner organisations to secure accessible and quality maternal and child healthcare among marginalised communities. We work towards identifying the root causes of healthcare challenges, provide innovative solutions, and help implement secure and quality healthcare services in India. CARE India believes that a healthy mother and a healthy baby is the route to a productive, developed nation. Hence, CARE has specially focused upon providing comprehensive solutions to address public health problems. We promote essential new born care and immunisation, reduce malnutrition, prevent infant and maternal deaths and protect those affected by or susceptible to HIV/ AIDS and TB. CARE works closely with its partners to achieve good health care for everyone. CHCMI SEHAT BRIDDHI SWASTH EMPHASIS OHSP MDR- TB SKEAP Axshya MPNP MCH UHI FHI CARE Initiatives CARE works with more than 200 districts, in a total of 13 states and union terriotories across India Engage educate empower Assurance of a secure life Livelihood Initiative Tsunami Power to Empower Cyclone Hudhud Horlicks Ahaar Abhiyan GiveAssure Help Shanti JK Flood crisis Join my village VIEW ALL Latest Publications Pages from booklet 1 pages from booklet hindi-7-2.pdf READ MORE Case Studies Education Health Livelihood Emergency Blog Resources © 2014 CARE India. All Rights Reserved