Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana | Department of Financial Services | Ministry of Finance X X Tweets by @PMJDY X Hindi Screen Reader Access PMJDY Mission Financial Literacy RTI Contact Us Bouquets Bank Login Home Circulars Progress Report Press Release Who's Who Follow @twitterdev Branch-Locator National Toll Free 1800 11 0001 1800 180 1111 Scheme Details Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) is National Mission for Financial Inclusion to ensure access to financial services, namely, Banking/ Savings & Deposit Accounts, Remittance, Credit, Insurance, Pension in an affordable manner. Account can be opened in any bank branch or Business Correspondent (Bank Mitr) outlet. PMJDY accounts are being opened with Zero balance. However, if the account-holder wishes to get cheque book, he/she will have to fulfill minimum balance criteria. Documents required to open an account under Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana If Aadhaar Card/Aadhaar Number is available then no other documents is required. If address has changed, then a self certification of current address is sufficient. If Aadhaar Card is not available, then any one of the following Officially Valid Documents (OVD) is required: Voter ID Card, Driving License, PAN Card, Passport & NREGA Card. If these documents also contain your address, it can serve both as “Proof of Identity and Address”. If a person does not have any of the “officially valid documents” mentioned above, but it is categorized as ‘low risk' by the banks, then he/she can open a bank account by submitting any one of the following documents: Identity Card with applicant's photograph issued by Central/State Government Departments, Statutory/Regulatory Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks and Public Financial Institutions; Letter issued by a gazette officer, with a duly attested photograph of the person. Special Benefits under PMJDY Scheme Interest on deposit. Accidental insurance cover of Rs.1.00 lac No minimum balance required. Life insurance cover of Rs.30,000/- Easy Transfer of money across India Beneficiaries of Government Schemes will get Direct Benefit Transfer in these accounts. After satisfactory operation of the account for 6 months, an overdraft facility will be permitted Access to Pension, insurance products. Accidental Insurance Cover, RuPay Debit Card must be used at least once in 45 days. Overdraft facility upto Rs.5000/- is available in only one account per household, preferably lady of the household. Account Opening Form (English)    Account Opening Form (Hindi) Terms of Use Accessibility Options Site Map Privacy Policy Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Copyright Policy Hyperlink Policy Feedback Website is developed & managed by IDBI Intech Ltd Hosted by National Informatics Centre (NIC) and contents provided by the Department of Financial Services , Govt. of India. This site can be best viewed in Firefox 3.5 and above, IE 8 and above, chrome 18 and above. To check your browser version click here