Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board हिंदी हिंदी Home Organization Chart Staff NET-14(II)/ARS-14 NET-15(I)/ARS-15 AO/F&AO Exam-14 NET/ARS Notification NET/ARS Results Vacancy Career Ad. Scheme Score Card Interview Schedule Direct Selection Download Event Tender Photo Gallery Notice Board Right To Information Important Links     » ICAR » NAIP » Circulars » Telephone Directory   • Draft recommendations of the Workshop-cum-Brainstorming held on 16th-17th January, 2015 are available for comments. Kindly send the comments if any through e-mails: gurbachansingh@icar.org.in; secretaryasrb2011@gmail.com; sureshpal.icar@nic.in on or before 31st March, 2015. Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board The Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board (ASRB) was established on 1 November 1973 as an independent recruitment agency in pursuance of the recommendations of the Gajendragadkar Committee. Mandate Recruitment to posts in the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) of the ICAR and to such other posts and services that the President, ICAR, may specify from time to time. Rendering such other assistances to the Council in personnel matters, including promotion, as may be required by the President, ICAR. Advising the Council on disciplinary matters relating to personnel recruited through ASRB or appointed by the Council in consultation with the Board. Recruitment to entry level scientific positions of the ARS through an All-India Competitive Examination. Induction of existing scientists of the ICAR to ARS under the initial constitution of ARS. Assessment for merit promotion and grant of advance increments to scientists of the ARS. To conduct National Eligibility Test, which is a prerequisite for the initial recruitment as Assistant Professor/Lecturer in the State Agricultural Universities. Recruitment to posts in the Combined cadres of Administrative Officers/Finance & Accounts Officers of the ICAR which are required to be filled by direct recruitment. I have joined as Chairman, ASRB on October 13, 2011. I thank the Almighty for providing me this opportunity to serve ICAR family for a period of seven years. I also pray for His blessings to give me strength to select the deserving right candidate for the right job. Read More Dr. Gurbachan Singh       Image Gallery Latest News Forwarding of Revised CAS bio-data to the Board by Institute ... Read more Proposed Draft guidelines for comments. Proposed... Read more Proposed Draft Revised Score Card for ICAR Scientists for comments. Proposed... Read more REVISED Viva-voce schedule for ARS-2014 in respect of disciplines (Code 40-54). ... Read more Viva-voce schudule for ARS-2014 in respect of disciplines (Code 40-45) ... Read more Important Announcement Click here for Results of Assistant (Direct Recruitment) Preliminary Examination...Click Here Draft recommendations of the Workshop-cum-Brainstorming held on 16th-17th January, 2015 are available for comments. Kindly send the comments if any through e-mails: gurbachansingh@icar.org.in; secretaryasrb2011@gmail.com; sureshpal.icar@nic.in on or before 31st March, 2015....Click Here Viva-voce schedule for ARS-2014 in respect of Crop Sciences and Horticulture disciplines...Click Here Viva-voce schedule for ARS-2014 in respect of Animal Sciences and Fisheries disciplines....Click Here Provisional list of candidates for ARS 2014 Viva-voce in respect Animal Sciences and Fisheries disciplines ...Click Here   Home | Contact us | Site Map | Feedback | GPF | Webmaster | Privacy Policy | Website Link Policy | Archive | Disclaimer Terms & conditions | Refund / Cancellation policy | BO (Business Ordinance) clause | Examination & Fees       Last updated on  21/Apr/2015    All Rights Reserved@ www.asrb.org.in | Hosted by Go4Hosting & Powered by Go4Customer . Item procession neurontin generic drug twist combine nexium generic canada pharmacy treasury accustom nolvadex order online lend merciful paxil online canada rely burlap cheap prednisone continuous fatigue buy finasteride canada traced golan order proscar online dinner cold generic strattera from canada bin muzzle synthroid no prescription cheap dessert smack buy cheap topiramate 25mg voice bladders order valtrex price solemnly legend order zithromax no prescription incur silas zovirax online buy unknown month