International Initiative for Impact Evaluation: Policy Window Call for Proposals | ngogateway.com Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Latest : Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Posted 1 year ago MARS FOUNDATION Posted 1 year ago St.Theresa’s Educational Society Posted 1 year ago Ray Welfare Society Posted 1 year ago Narain Sewa Sansthan Posted 1 year ago WOMEN ORGANISATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRUST Posted 1 year ago Sewa Bhav Foundation Posted 1 year ago Panrui Swajan Welfare Society Posted 4 years ago Sampark Samaj Kalyan Sansthan Posted 4 years ago The Catholic Health Association of India Posted 4 years ago Home   >   Funding   >   International Initiative for Impact Evaluation: Policy Window Call for Proposals International Initiative for Impact Evaluation: Policy Window Call for Proposals By admin on May 2, 2010 NGOs and governmental agencies in low and middle-income countries to invited to submit “proposed social and economic development interventions (projects, programmes, or policies) to be subject to quality impact evaluation.” 3ie or the International Initiative for Impact Evaluation works “to increase development effectiveness through better use of evidence in developing countries. In fulfilment of this mission 3ie funds impact studies of high relevance to policy makers which have a large potential policy impact.” “Overview of the window The window operates through a two stage process: 1. Implementing agencies are invited to submit interventions to be evaluated. A panel of policy experts will select up to six of these proposals to be evaluated with 3ie grant finance. The review criteria are listed in Annex 1. 2. A separate international competitive bidding process is run for each of the selected proposals. Bids are reviewed by a technical team of reviewers, including a representative from the implementing agency. The review criteria are listed in Annex 1. Final approval of awards is made by the Board of 3ie, which will meet in the second half of October, 2010. Review process and timeline Applications must be submitted on the appropriate application form before the deadline, along with any supporting materials. Applications should be submitted to (email hidden: see the source link below/next page). Any submissions not on the correct form, or sent to other 3ie email addresses, may not be considered under this call. The deadline for submissions is 11.55 pm Delhi time, June 11th 2010. The proposals will be reviewed by a panel of international policy makers. The selected proposals for evaluation will be announced by June 28th 2010. The international competitive bidding process for the selected proposals will be launched in the first half of July, with a submission deadline of August 25th 2010. Successful awards will be announced in the week beginning 25th October 2010.” Role of national researchers/evaluators The study team will include national researchers. These will be selected in one of three ways. The usual means are either that: (1) the national research team is the lead agency in the bid, or (2) the national research team will be part of a bid in a collaborative partnership with an international research team. National teams may participate in more than one bid for the same contract, which international team members may not. In exceptional circumstances, the implementing agency may indicate the preferred national team. In such cases, 3ie will determine the most appropriate way of handling the bidding process. Evaluation process For each study, a steering committee will be established, comprising a representative from each of the (1) the implementing agency, (2) the parent government agency, if not the implementing agency, (3) the national study team, (4) the international study team, (5) the two independent experts appointed by 3ie to act as peer reviewers, and (6) a 3ie staff member to act as secretary. The steering committee will review all major products produced by the study team. Conditions In submitting a proposal, the submitting institution agrees to the following conditions: 1. 3ie reserves the right not to commission an evaluation if there are no proposals of sufficient quality. 2. Report findings will be disseminated locally and published on 3ie’s website. There will be a period of internal consultation prior to publication. A ‘management response’ can be included in the final report if requested. 3. The implementing agency will submit a report to 3ie on how it plans to utilize the recommendations and findings that ensued from the study, within 3 months of the dissemination of the results. 4. Data collected with 3ie financing are required to be placed in the public domain, being available for use by other researchers, 12 months after the completion of data collection. More information at this link . Related Posts: Centre for Research and Development (CRD) Can Opwonya Widows and Orphans Sub-project (COWOSP) Samaj Kalyan Foundation Research Academy for Rural Enrichment(RARE) Koraput Farmers’ Association (KFA) Call For Proposals Competitive Bidding Process Delhi Time Development Effectiveness Development Interventions Evaluation Policy Final Approval Governmental Agencies Impact Evaluation Impact Studies Implementing Agency International Initiative Materials Applications Middle Income Countries Policy Experts Policy Impact Quality Impact Source Link Submission Deadline Supporting Materials About admin Related Posts VIEWS VIEWS Centre for Research and Development (CRD) Centre for Research and Development (CRD) Wish Again Foundation Wish Again Foundation Women Education Development Social Service Trust Women Education Development Social Service Trust 4 Comments P.John August 21, 2010 at 12:11 pm please feavorable replay thank you RICHARD KIZITO September 12, 2010 at 7:37 pm Nice learning about this web, late for funding season i will try next time thank you. Sadanand B. Thorat September 13, 2010 at 1:22 pm fund in Shriyash Bahuddeshiya sanstha in aim madical colleges & engg. colleges etc. Rev Emmanuel.J October 10, 2010 at 7:28 pm Dear brother in Christ, Greetings to youm in the name of our Lord and Saviour jesus Christ, I am Rev J.Emmanuel Founder/Executive Director of IGS Mission.Our Mission working with unreached people groups since 10 years in southeren part of India especielly in Andhra pradesh.Our Vision: “Reaching today’s unreached people for Christ” IGS Mission need the international partners for continuing its activities to the poor and marginalized groups in our country.We Think your mission is appropreate to our situation.Our prayer is if god’s willing your mission would like to partnering with IGS Mission for working together we can see best results in our mission in india.Please keep this request in your prayers and extend your vision through our mission in India. If you are willing to work with us we will send you all leagal documents of our organisation.We do hope that god will do great things through your mission in india.We are waiting for your faviourble response in this matter.God give us a vision through Romans:15:21 so we want to fullfill this word in our lives.Please do not hesitate to email me as I would love to hear from you. In Christ Service’ Rev J.Emmanuel Founder/Executive Director IGS Mission D# 12-21-84, Prakashnagar,NARASARAOPET Pin 522601,Guntur Dist, Andhra Pradesh. India. Email:revemmanuel.j@gmail.com Phone 091-8790160775 You must be logged in to post a comment Login Latest News pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile: A.... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym) –... Posted 8 months ago 0 Society for Peoples Integrated Development General information: Full Name of organization Society for People’s Integrated... Posted 8 months ago 0 Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Address: At – Bhalunka Po- Ramdaspur (Godisahi) Dist – Cuttack... Posted 8 months ago 0 Shri Durga Mahila Mandal (SDMM) Village & P.O. Ghanauli, District Roopnagar (Punjab) Shri Durga Mahila... Posted 8 months ago 0 Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) 1A, D. L. Khan Road,... Posted 8 months ago 0 Feedback Funding Agencies A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W Search Latest Popular Comments pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile:... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2.... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym)... Posted 8 months ago 0 Funding Agencies in India A M M Foundation “Tiam House” No 28, Rajaji... Posted 5 years ago 213 List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs American Jewish World Service Ananda Foundation Asia Foundation Baxter... Posted 6 years ago 116 Funding Agencies – C CAAC OF PIKE COUNTY 941 Market Street Piketon OH... Posted 6 years ago 91 Blog about human anatomy says: Awesome post.... Paul Ponniah says: Dear Sir, II, for Jeevan Sagar Trust, are w... Paul Ponniah says: Fine work for the Cause.... Recently Added pragati welfare society gariasathi Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Society for Peoples Integrated Development Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Copyright © 2007 - 14 | All Rights Reserved: advertisement advertisement