Dilip Deshmukh talks on Green House Cultivation - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Dilip Deshmukh talks on Green House Cultivation Home Dilip Deshmukh talks on Green House Cultivation Online Education Forum at www.agricultureinformation.com Provides consultancy services for greenhouse projects. Located at Pune, Maharashtra Mr. Dilip Deshmukh established Grow Tech in the year 1993 at Pune, Maharashtra. Manufactures greenhouse and specializes in providing complete greenhouse solution on turnkey basis. Also offers improvements and changes with existing structures to adopt latest technology like variety of coverings, evaporative cooling systems, and thermal screening with full automations. There are three types of green house; first one is naturally ventilated, depends on local climatic conditions; second is cooling pad system involves taking hot air using exhaust fan creating negative pressure inside the poly house where proper humidity is retained; third is used for small vegetables. “There are mainly two types of cultivation under protective environment that is green hose which gives good profit. These are flowers and exotic vegetables. One can cultivate flowers like gerbera, orchids, anthurium and exotic vegetables such as coloured capsicum, cherry tomatoes, cucumber, lettuce etc. There are different varieties for poly house cultivation which gives better production against open field,” shares Mr. Deshmukh. Registered clients are given bankable project report for setting up greenhouse. Financial viability and marketing ability are the two main factors to be considered for setting up type of greenhouse and crop to be cultivated. The excerpts: What would be the cost of green house? Basic poly house starts with 20m some standard size of 20/28m, 28m /46m, third is 40m/100m like that based on the available area of the plot. The cost is Rs600/sq m to Rs 700 per sq m. This is the cost of only for the poly house structure. The cost involving drip irrigation system, mixing system and other infrastructure facilities shall be additional. What is the investment required to start the green house – approximately for 1 to 10 guntas? The poly house has to be in a larger area the rate remains same even if you go for 10 guntas, 20 guntas or 40 guntas etc. However, the revenues are directly proportional to the poly house area. In city like Chennai which is hot in terms of climate and has low humidity, is it okay to cultivate exotic vegetables in green house? It is possible to do so. There are different ways like using an air circulation fan, or sprinkler irrigation on the top of the roof, or applying the coat of calcium to reduce the temperature. Can we do it in Konkan area which is rainy area? In Konkan area, the humidity is very high so plants like anthurium, orchids can be grown. One can select the crops which are having good adaptability to humidity. There are different types poly house, green house, glass house, shade house. What is the difference? How the application differs and which one is best? Price wise which is cheaper? Difference between the shade net house and poly house is that where the rainfall is very less one can go for the shade net house which gives appropriate sunlight required for the growth of the plant but the disadvantage is it is not water proof so that affects the plants. Plastic is cheaper because of the availability of UV stabilization and diffused characteristics in the polythene film, flexibility, easily mounted and has got the advantage over glass and the crop production is higher with better quality. Can we set temperature, humidity to certain level as required by the plant, in poly house? Yes it is possible to set the temperature and humidity level for the plant by operating the mixing system inside the poly house using a sensor where that indicates the range of the level required, or using a timer to run the system for the certain time and stops. It is generally said that 4000 sq m (1 acre) is a viable size for a poly house. What are your thoughts on this? If you go for the 4000sq m poly house structure area the approximate cost for the total project will be around 30 to 32 lakhs including labour quarters, rooms for tools and package and storage, generator cost etc. How big is the market for Greenhouse cultivation? It depends on the crops we are planting for example Roses have got 100% demand. Many traders look for the suppliers for lettuce, strawberry etc during off season. Can we grow medicinal plants in green house? Anything can be grown in green house. One should see the return on cultivation. Cherry tomato, colour capsicum, cucumber are the normal crops planted in greenhouse. How often do you have to change the plastic sheet? And what all maintenance is required? Plastic sheet provides UV resistance and it can be used for 1000 days approximately  three  years after that the effect of UV stabilization goes and it becomes an ordinary plastic. Cost is based on the area and it is approximately 10% of the poly house cost. Do you need different kinds of greenhouses for different crops? Yes every crop needs it owns practices so we cannot mix the crops. Is it cost effective to utilize solar panels to generate electricity to meet the needs of a poly house? Is it too expensive? Is it reliable? Is it insufficient? Solar panel is possible to use and it depends again cost of the solar panel and power consumption. The most important aspect in growing in poly house is marketing of the produce. Does your organization help in marketing? Yes , we will give the list of the traders who are involved in trading of exotic vegetables or flowers and the clients have to directly contact the traders and decide the marketing rates and the quantity. How about getting a loan from the bank? Since Poly house are coming under top priority banks will give loan. What is a realistic production of capsicum in 1 acre polyhouse. There are varying numbers with some people claiming 100 tons from 1 acre? If we adapt good conditions we can get approximately 5kgs/ plant. Our Correspondent For complete discussion visit – http://bit.ly/11MsD2n Contact Details- Mr.Dilip Deshmukh Grow Tech 11, Vishakah,Kale Park, Baner Road, PUNE 411 008 Mobile: 09822252989 Email: growtechgreenhouses@gmail.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Dilip Deshmukh talks on Green House Cultivation Related – articles, consultants, downloads Satyabhama Engineers – green house Sriroz Consultants – Green house Mr. R.G. Sudarshan Ritty – banker turned greenhouse consultant Constructs green houses You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water