Department Of Agriculture : Himachal Pradesh Programmes and Schemes STATE SPONSORED SCHEMES 1. Quality Seed Multiplication and Distribution: Department owns 21 Seed Multiplication Farms, 3 Vegetable Development Stations, 1 Ginger Development Station & 13 Potato Development Stations where foundation seeds of Kharif and Rabi crops are produced. Annually about 3500 to 4000 quintals seed of cereals, pulses and vegetables are produced in these farms. Further about 90,000 quintals of certified seeds of various crops are distributed to the farmers in the state. At present 5 grading centres are in operation for various crops. Under this scheme, expenditure on seed multiplication farms, seed stores, seed testing and certification, subsidy on cost of seeds and cost on demonstrations etc are met. 2. Manure and Fertilizers: (a) Distribution of Fertilizers: The State Govt. has allowed cost subsidy on complex fertilizers NPK 12:32:16, NPK 10:26:26 and NPK 15:15:15 @ Rs.1000/-per MT. Apart from this cost subsidy @25% is also being provided on 100% water soluble complex fertilizers to the farmers ( limited to Rs. 2500 per farmer). In order to ensure adequate supply of fertilizers, the Govt. has entrusted this responsibility to HIMFED/Cooperative Societies. The farmers are educated about balanced use of fertilizers and as per soil testing nutrient basis. (b) Soil Testing Centres: Soil testing has great importance for raising agriculture production. The department is providing free soil testing facilities to the farmers. Department has 11 Soil Testing Laboratories besides four mobile soil testing labs to provide free soil testing facilities to the farmers. About 1,00,000 samples are analysed annually. Besides this Soil Health Cards are being provided to the farmers. About one lac farmers are being covered every year. Outlay proposed is to meet expenditure on these labs for testing of soil samples. Soil testing service has also being included under H.P. Govt. Public Service Act, 2011 in which the soil health cards are being made available to the farmers through online service within prescribed time limit. 3. Plant Protection: The Department exercise vigil on pest situation. To overcome this, about 150 MT of pesticides through 991 outlets are supplied to the farmers. Besides this, Pesticide Testing Laboratory at Shimla has been set up with a capacity of 150 to 250 samples per year. One Bio Control Laboratory has been set up at Palampur where conservation pest situation augmentation, rearing and multiplication of bio-agents and training to extension staff and farmers are being done. Another Bio Control Laboratory has been set up at Mandi and will be made functional very soon. This is a continued scheme and the provision is made for meeting the expenditure on transportation and subsidy on the cost of plant protection material. The plant protection material including equipments are supplied to the SCs / STs /IRDP families at 50% cost. The outlay proposed is to meet expenditure on subsidies. 4. Commercial Crops: Under diversification approach, major emphasis is being laid on the production of Off-season vegetables, quality vegetable seeds, Potato and Ginger besides Soybean, Oilseeds and Pulses; (a) Development of Seed Potato: The Department owns 13 Potato Development Stations where foundation seed potato is produced. Due to "Seed Plot Technique" in the plains, the Potatoes of plains are causing tough competition in marketing of seed Potato from H.P. Therefore, a policy has been devised to diversify the area under Potato towards cash crop, market maximum potato as table and produce only that much seed potato which can easily be marketed outside the State. (b) Development of Vegetables including Farms: Himachal Pradesh has gained reputation in cultivation of off-season vegetables and production of quality vegetable seeds. There is a great demand of off-season vegetables in the plains. The ongoing programme i.e. cultivation of off-season vegetables and production of vegetable seeds is proposed to be strengthened and organized on an extensive scale during 12th Plan for providing higher income and employment. The suitable areas in the State for the purpose of vegetable cultivation would be intensively surveyed and identified and the farmers in the newly identified areas would be encouraged to take up these programme, demonstration on vegetables cultivation are done for the small and marginal farmers in these areas, so that the farm income of these rural poor can be improved and country can be supplied with the vegetables in off-season. The cropping pattern shifts from cereals to vegetables would be specially monitored in all such areas as are being brought under the culturable command area of the new irrigation schemes. Annually about 13.5 lakh tonne vegetables are produced and marketed within and outside the State. (c) Ginger Development: For production of disease free ginger, the Department is providing training, demonstrations and quality seed. About 35,000 tonnes of green ginger is produced annually which is marketed within the State and at the neighbouring States. 5. Quality Control : Under this scheme, implementation of various acts on seeds, fertilizers and pesticides is ensured. Quality control functionaries have been notified. The Department has three fertilizer testing labs ( Hamirpur, Sundernagar, Shimla), one state pesticides testing lab at Shimla, Biofertilizer and Biopesticide lab at Palampur and three seed testing labs ( Solan, palampur and Mandi ). 2000 fertilizer samples, 300 pesticide and 1200 seed samples are being analysed annually. 6. Extension and Farmers Training: Main function of the Department is to disseminate the technology to farmers. The Department runs two training centres, one at Mashobra and other at Sundernagar. Besides this farmers training camps are organised at village, block and district level. The outlay proposed is for meeting expenditure on training and demonstrations. 7. Agricultural Economics and Statistics: Under this programme, three centrally sponsored schemes viz (i) Timely Reporting Scheme(TRS) for estimation of area and production of crops (ii) Improvement of Crop Statistics(ICS) for bringing quality in the land record data at grass root level and (iii) Estimation of Production of Commercial crops like Potato and Ginger. The estimation is done accordingly to statistical techniques. Production estimates on principal crops like Wheat, Barley of Rabi season and Maize, Paddy, Potato and Ginger crops of Kharif are released on the basis of results of crop cutting experiments conducted accordingly Random Sampling Method. The Director of Land Records is the agency in the State responsible for collection and release of area estimates, forecast report etc. This is a continued scheme for meeting salaries of the staff under Timely Reporting Scheme and the Scheme of Improvement of Crop Statistics. These schemes converted in to 100% CSS from the financial year 2008-09 onwards. 8. Agricultural Engineering: Under this scheme, new farm implements/ machines are popularized among the farmers. Testing and demonstration of new machines is also done under this programme. The outlay proposed is towards subsidies and salaries of the staff. 9. Agricultural Marketing : This is controlled in the State through H.P. Agricultural and Horticultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) Act, 2005. Under this Act, H.P. State Agricultural Marketing Board has been set-up. At present, 10 market committees are functioning. 52 markets have been made functional. Market information is being disseminated through different media i.e AIR, Doordershan, Print Media and through Net to farmers. The work of development of marketing infrastructure is done out of the funds of APMCs. Information on daily market rates is also disseminated through AIR/ DD. Market rates of 39 commodities are also disseminated through agmarknet.nic.in. 10. H.P. Crop Diversification Project (JICA ODA Loan Project): Himachal Pradesh Crop Diversification Project being supported by JICA through ODA loan. The study on diversified agriculture for enhanced farm income in Himachal Pradesh was got conducted from Japan International Cooperative agency (JICA) w.e.f. February, 2007 to December, 2008. Draft report of the study was submitted by JICA in December, 2008 and final report in March, 2009. The study was fully funded by JICA as grant under bilateral cooperation. The report contains Crop Diversification Action Plan for 10 years and Master Plan for 15 years. Based upon the crop diversification potential, the state has been divided into four categories. JICA Contact Mission visited the state from 23-25th June, 2009 and had detailed discussion with State Government. The Mission showed their willingness to consider JICA ODA Loan for crop diversification project. The State was willing to cover entire state under the project and to provide JICA ODA Loan of Rs.949.00 crores as per the Master Plan projections but the JICA Mission expressed that rather than covering entire state from the outset (which requires extensive resources for implementation and longer time for project outcome), it would be more sensible to start the project by focusing in certain regions, crops, so as to get faster and tangible results. The result of the project can be replicated to other regions. It was also suggested to take maximum 4-5 districts with project cost of Rs. 250-300 crores. Based upon the JICA study and JICA Contact Mission report, Five districts comprising of Kangra, Mandi, Hamirpur Bilaspur and Una which fall in category II & III i.e. most potential for crop diversification were included in the project and based upon the outcome of this project, matter can be taken with JICA to sanction second phase of the project for left over districts. The project proposal was submitted in May, 2009 to the Govt. of India for approval and financing. After series of discussions, the projects Minutes of Discussion (MoD) were signed between Govt. of India, JICA and Govt. of Himachal Pradesh on 01.10.2010 at New Delhi. The loan agreement was signed on 17th. February, 2011 between Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India and JICA and loan effectuation was done from 16th June, 2011. Global Tender Notice for Expression of Interest [EOI] for procurement of Project consultants has also been floated on 1/3/2011. The flow of funds from ODA shall be on the basis of reimbursement, therefore, earmarked token provision for this Project in the Annual Plan Budget for the year 2011-12 of Rs. 8.20 crores was made in annual plan 2012-13, outlay of Rs. 20.00 crore has been made for execution of this project. The project area comprises 5 districts Kangra, Mandi, Hamirpur, Bilaspur and Una. The project period is 7 years i.e. 2011 to March, 2018 and the total project cost is Rs. 321 Crores (Loan Rs. 266 crores and State share Rs. 55 Crores). The launching of the project was done on 14th August, 2011. Objectives of the Project: 1. Increase the area and production of vegetables through crop diversification. 2. To raise income of small and marginal farmers. 3. To create infrastructures for irrigation, farm access roads, marketing, post harvest etc. 4. To promote organic farming in a big way. 5. To organize farmers into groups to take over operation and maintenance of irrigation systems. 6. Training and capacity building of Department of Agriculture field extension staff. 7. The project is being implemented through Himachal Pradesh Agriculture Development Society. It has Governing Council, Executive and Finance Committee. For overall management of the project, State Project Management Unit (PMU) has been set up at Hamirpur, three District PMU's at Palampur, Mandi, Hamirpur and 8 Block PMU's at Dehra, Nurpur, Baijnath, Hamirpur, Una, Bilaspur, Mandi, Sarkaghat have been set up. 11. Soil and Water Conservation : Due to topographical factors, the soil is subject to splash, sheet and Gully erosion resulting into degradation of the soil. Besides this, there is biotic pressure on the lands to the curb this menace particularly on the agricultural lands. The Department of Agriculture, H.P. is executing two Soil and Water Conservation schemes under State Sector Scheme. The schemes are Soil Conservation Works, Water conservation and development. 12. Agriculture Research and Education: Under this, GIA is given to Agriculture University for Teaching, Research & Extension. Emphasis is being laid on location specific research for adoption of the same by the farming community of the State. 13. Project under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (R.I.D.F): (a) Special Project on Diversification of Agriculture through Micro Irrigation and Other Related Infrastructure in Himachal Pradesh: Although water is a renewable resource, its availability in appropriate quality and quantity in under severe stress due to increasing demand from various sectors. Agriculture is the largest user of water, which consumes more than 80% of the country's exploitable water resources. The over all development of agriculture sector and indented growth rate of GDP is largely dependent on the judicious use of available water resources, while the irrigation projects [major and medium] have contributed to the development of water resources, the conventional methods of water conveyance and irrigation, being highly inefficient, has led not only to wastage of water but also to several ecological problems like water logging, salinisation and soil degradation making productive agricultural lands unproductive. It has been recognised that use of modern irrigation methods like drip and sprinkler irrigation is the only alternative for efficient use of surface as well as ground water resources. Hence, this project on diversification through micro irrigation and other related infrastructure in HP aims at increasing the area under efficient methods of irrigation viz., drip and sprinkler irrigation. NABARD has sanctioned this project under RIDF- XIV amounting to Rs.198.09 crores starting from 2009-10. The project components include sprinkler system, drip system, farm tank, shallow well, shallow tube well, deep tube well, small and medium lifts and pumping machinery. For sprinkler and drip systems, the farmers shall be provided 80% subsidy and 20% would be beneficiary's contribution. Besides this the farmers shall also be provided 50% assistance for creation of farm tank, shallow well, shallow tube well, deep tube well, small and medium lifts and pumping machinery. A farmer can install sprinkler system up to 4 hectares of land whereas for drip up to one hectare. Up to date, 27732 sprinkler sets have been installed covering an area of 19405 square meters and sum of Rs. 8629.44 lakhs has been spent. A budget provision of Rs. 8.0 Crore has been made for this component during 2014-15 to cover an area of 1200 hectare. (b) Dr. Y. S. Parmar Kisan Swarozgar Yojna: In order to achieve faster and more inclusive growth in Agriculture sector Government of Himachal Pradesh has started "Dr. Y. S. Parmar Kisan Swarozgar Yojna" ( poly house and micro irrigation inside polyhouse). Project components include creation of need based infrastructure and are expected to fulfill objectives of high productivity, quality, safeguard against adverse weather, efficient input use etc. Project components include construction of location specific models of poly houses with micro irrigation facility. For this, 85% project assistance shall be provided to the farmers. Also for creation for water sources individually and collectively by a group of farmers (Low/medium lift, pumping machinery), 50% subsidy shall be provided. A budget provision of Rs. 12.0 Crore has been made for this component during 2014-15. CENTRALLY SPONSORED SCHEMES 1. NATIONAL MISSION ON AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TECHNOLOGY (NMAET): Agricultural Technology, including the adoption/ promotion of critical inputs, and improved agronomic practices were being disseminated under 17 different schemes of the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation during the 11th Plan. The Modified Extension Reforms Scheme was introduced in 2010 with the objective of strengthening the extension machinery and utilizing it for synergizing the interventions under these schemes under the umbrella of Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA). NMAET has been envisaged as the next step towards this objective through the amalgamation of these schemes. National Mission on Agricultural Extension and Technology (NMAET) consists of 4 Sub Missions: (i) Sub Mission on Agricultural Extension (SMAE) (ii) Sub-Mission on Seed and Planting Material (SMSP) (iii)Sub Mission on Agricultural Mechanization (SMAM) (iv)Sub Mission on Plant Protection and Plant Quarantine (SMPP). (I) SUPPORT TO STATE EXTENSION PROGRAMMES FOR EXTENSION REFORMS ( ATMA ) (90:10) : This programme is a major initiative towards revitalizing agricultural extension to make the extension system decentralized and demand driven. The scheme has been conceptualized on the basis of the policy framework for agricultural extension and experiences with the innovations in the technology dissemination component of the National Technology Project . Following key reforms are being promoted under the scheme; 1. Providing innovative restructured autonomous bodies at the district level (Agriculture Technology Management Agency) and at block level (Farmers Advisory Committee, Block Technology Team), which are flexible, promote bottom up and participatory approaches, are farmer driven and facilitate public-private partnership. 2. Convergence of line departments' programmes and operating on gap filling mode by formulating Strategic Research and Extension Plan(SREP) and Annual Work Plans. 3. Encouraging Multi-agency Extension Strategies involving inter-alia public/private extension service providers. 4. Moving towards integrated, broad-based extension delivery in the line with farming systems approach. 5. Adopting Group approach to extension (Operating through Farmer interest Groups (FIGs) & Self Help Groups (SHGs). 6. Addressing gender concerns (mobilizing farm women into groups, capacity building etc.) 7. Moving towards sustainability of extension services (e.g. through beneficiary contribution). One of the first tasks of the district level institutions is to facilitate the preparation of a Strategic Research and Extension Plan (SREP) of the district through participatory methodologies involving all the stakeholders and farmers. SREP becomes the basis for development of Block/District level plans. State Extension Work Plan is developed at the State level and it contains a consolidated activity-wise plan incorporating all the District Action Plans (DAPs) in the State and the State Level activities. In the year 2013-14, Rupees 1132.85 lacs were spent. For 2014-15 approved work plan is Rs. 2236.74 lacs. All districts have now been covered under this scheme. (ii) Sub-Mission on Seed and Planting Material (SMSP) : Adoption of quality seeds is the most cost effective means for increasing agricultural production and productivity. The interventions included in the Sub-Mission ATMA GUIDELINES, 2014 will cover the entire gamut of seed chain from nucleus seed to supply to farmers for sowing and also to the major stakeholders in the seed chain and also provide for support for infrastructure to create an enabling environment for development of the Sector. SMSP also envisages strengthening of Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights Authority (PPV&FRA) in order to put in place an effective system for protection of plant varieties, rights of farmers and plant breeders and to encourage development of new varieties of plants. Till date, Government of India has allocated funds to the tune of Rs 89 lakh during 2014-15 under this programme. (iii) Sub Mission on Agricultural Mechanization (SMAM): There is a strong correlation between farm power availability & Agriculture productivity. Therefore, sub Mission on Agricultural Mechanization will focus on farm mechanization. The Sub-Mission will mainly cater to the needs of the small and marginal farmers through institutional arrangements such as custom hiring, mechanization of selected villages, subsidy for procurement of machines & equipments, etc. Government of India has allocated funds to the tune of Rs. 65 lakhs during 2014-15 under this Sub-Mission. (iv) Sub Mission on Plant Protection and Plant Quarantine (SMPP): Sub-Mission on Plant Protection included in NMAET envisages increase in agricultural production by keeping the crop disease free using scientific and environment friendly techniques through promotion of Integrated Pest Management. Strengthening and Modernization of Pest Management Approach aims at this vital aspect of Plant Protection and also covers regulatory requirements of pesticides. The component on Strengthening & Modernization of Plant Quarantine facilities in India is regulatory in nature with the aim of preventing introduction and spread of exotic pests that are harmful to crops by regulating/restricting import of plant/plant products. Monitoring pesticide residues in food commodities and environmental samples is also included in this Sub-Mission. The component on National Institute of Plant Health Management (NIPHM) will promote environmentally sustainable Plant Health Management practices in diverse and changing agro-climatic conditions, pesticide management, and Bio-security through capacity building programmes. Farmers' skill trainings and field extension as contained in all 4 Sub Missions of NMAET (Viz. SMSP, SMAE, SMAM and SMPP) will be converged with similar farmer related activities going on through ATMA. Five tiered modes of extension carried out in broadcast or interactive electronic modes will also cut across extension activities in all the four Sub Missions. 2. MASS MEDIA SUPPORT TO AGRICULTURE EXTENSION (100%CSS): The primary objective of the scheme is to use television and radio with their massive penetration, as a vehicle for agricultural extension. Basically, the scheme is focusing on two initiatives: Doordarshan: The first is use of Doordarshan for infrastructure for providing agricultural related information and knowledge to farming community. It has two components (i) narrowcasting using high/low transmitters of Doordarshan (ii) regional and national agricultural programmes in terrestrial mode of transmission. Presently, Doordarshan Shimla is telecasting Krishi Darshan programme between 6.00 PM to 6.30 PM five days in a week. All India Radio: This component of scheme envisages use of FM transmitters of AIR to broadcast area specific agricultural programmes with 30 minutes radio transmission six days a week. Presently, half an hour, Kisanvani programme is being broadcast, six days a week from FM Dharamshala and Hamirpur. 3. KISAN CALL CENTRE: Under this, farmers can get any information on agriculture by dialling toll free number 1800-180-1551 or 1551. The service is available from 6.00 AM to 10.00 PM on all days. This is 100% Centrally Sponsored Scheme. 4. CROP INSURANCE SCHEMES: (A) RASHTRIYA KRISHI BIMA YOJNA (RKBY): The State Govt. has introduced this scheme from Rabi, 1999-2000 season. Crops covered are Wheat, Barley, Maize, Paddy, Potato and Ginger. 50% subsidy on premium is being provided to small and marginal farmers. The scheme is compulsory for loanee farmers and optional for non-loanee farmers. The scheme provides comprehensive risks insurance against yield losses viz. drought, hailstorm, floods and pests disease etc. The Agriculture Insurance Co. of India (AICI) is implementing the scheme. The farmers of the State can get benefit out of this programme. State and Government of India share the losses equally. From Rabi, 2007-08, the subsidy on premium has been raised from 10% to 50% to small & marginal farmers. Ginger crop of District Sirmour has been included in this scheme on pilot basis from Kharif, 2008. a) Objectives: 1. To provide insurance coverage and financial support to the farmers in the event of failure of any of the notified crop as a result of natural calamities, pests & diseases. 2. To encourage the farmers to adopt progressive farming practices, high value in-puts and higher technology in Agriculture. 3. To help stabilise farm incomes, particularly in disaster years. b) Farmers to be covered: The Scheme covers following groups of farmers: On a compulsory basis: All farmers growing notified crops and availing Seasonal Agricultural Operations (SAO) loans from Financial Institutions i.e. Loanee Farmers. On a voluntary basis: All other farmers growing notified crops (i.e., Non-Loanee farmers) who opt for the Scheme. c) Risks Covered: Comprehensive risk insurance will be provided to cover yield losses due to non-preventable risks, viz.: 1. Natural Fire and Lightning 2. Storm, Hailstorm, Cyclone, Typhoon, Tempest, Hurricane, Tornado etc. 3. Flood, Inundation and Landslide 4. Drought, Dry spells 5. Pests/ Diseases etc. d) Seasonality Discipline: The broad cut-off dates for receipt of proposals in respect of Non-loanee farmers will be as under : Kharif season : 31st July Rabi season : 31st December However, seasonality discipline may be modified, if and where necessary in consultation with State / UT and the Govt. of India. (B) Pilot Weather based crop insurance scheme (WBCIS): In addition to this, from Rabi, 2008-09 season, tomato crop of District Solan has been covered under weather based crop insurance scheme for the first time. From the Rabi 2009-10 season, Rabi potato crop has also been covered under weather based crop insurance scheme in the Districts of Kangra and Una. a) Objectives: 1. To provide insurance coverage and financial support to the farmers in the event of failure of any of the notified crop as a result of natural calamities, pests & diseases. 2. To encourage the farmers to adopt progressive farming practices, high value in-puts and higher technology in Agriculture. 3. To help stabilise farm incomes, particularly in disaster years. b) Perils Covered: Following weather perils, which are deemed to cause" Adverse weather incidence", leading to crop losses, would be covered under the scheme; Temperature(Low temperature(frost), Chilling, High mean temperature, temperature fluctuation), Wind speed and Rainfall( deficit/excess). c) Seasonality Discipline: The broad cut-off dates for receipt of proposals in respect of Loanee & Non-loanee farmers will be as under : Kharif season : August Rabi season : March-April 5. BIOGAS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES (100%): This is 100% Centrally Sponsored Scheme under which subsidy @ Rs.7000 per biogas plant of one cubic meter and Rs.11,000/- per biogas plant of two & above cubic meter capacity is being provided. So far, installation of 44,423 biogas plants in the State upto 31.03.2014 have been anticipated. The targets for construction of Biogas plants of 1500 Nos and 300 Nos during the period of 12th Five Year Plan (2012-2017) and Annual Plan 2014-2015 have been fixed respectively. 6. RASHTRIYA KRISHI VIKAS YOJNA (RKVY) (100%CSS): Concerned by the slow growth in Agriculture and allied sectors, the Government of India has launched a special Additional Central Assistance Scheme Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojna (RKVY). The RKVY aims at achieving 4% annual growth in the agriculture sector during the XI Plan period, by ensuring a holistic development of Agriculture and allied sectors. The scheme is being implemented in the State of Himachal Pradesh from the year 2007-08 to achieve envisaged annual growth rate. This scheme has also been continued by the Govt. of India during 12th Plan. a). Objectives of the scheme: I. To incentives the states as so as to increase public investment in Agriculture and allied sectors, II. To provides flexibility and autonomy to states in the process of planning and executing Agriculture and allied sector schemes, III. To ensure the preparation of agriculture plans for the districts and the states based on agro-climatic conditions, availability of technology and natural resources, IV. To ensure that the local needs/ crops/ priorities are better reflected in the agricultural plans of the states, V. To achieve the goal of reducing the yield gaps in important crops, through focused interventions, VI. To maximize returns to the farmers in Agriculture and allied sectors, VII. To bring about quantifiable changes in the production and productivity of various components in Agriculture and allied sectors by addressing them in a holistic manner. b). Area of Focus under RKVY: I. Integrated development of major food crops such as wheat, paddy, coarse cereals, minor millets, pulses & oilseeds. II. Activities related to enhancement of soil health and mechanization. III. Development of rain fed farming systems in and outside watershed areas. IV. Support to state seed farms and IPM. V. Strengthening of market infrastructure and marketing development. VI. Strengthening of infrastructure to promote extension services. VII. Activities relating to enhancement of horticultural production and popularization of micro irrigation systems. VIII. Animal husbandry and fisheries development activities. IX. Organic and bio-fertilizers and innovative schemes. 7. NATIONAL FOOD SECURITY MISSION (NFSM): The National Food Security Mission is a centrally sponsored scheme has been launched in 2007. Government of India has allocated funds to the tune of Rs 19.37 crores during 2014-15 for rice, maize, pulses and wheat crop. Himachal Pradesh has been included under this Mission to increase the production and productivity of Wheat, Maize, pulses and Rice. Under this Mission, 9 Districts in Wheat ( Except Shimla, Kinnaur & Lahaul & Spiti) , two Districts Kangra & Mandi under Rice & five districts Kangra, Chamba, Mandi, Hamirpur and Una under Maize & all districts under pulses ( For this Rabi season lentil & gram crops are selected in Bilaspur, Kangra, Sirmour, Solan ,Una , Mandi & Kullu Districts) have been selected in the State. The Mission provides assistance for laying cluster demonstrations, distribution of Certified Seed, Micro-Nutrients, Plant and soil protection material, liming of acidic soils, improved implements and machinery, introduction of IPM, INM and capacity building of the farmers. Besides this assistance would be available for water harvesting, Micro irrigation & pumping sets. A sum of Rs.1.98 crore have been approved for NFSM Rice & Rs.13.33 crore for NFSM Wheat and Rs.3.77 crore for NFSM Maize & Rs.28.87 lakhs for NFSM Pulses for the year 2014-15. The Mission would be very helpful in increasing the productivity level of Rice, Maize, Pulses and Wheat. For smooth implementation of the Mission in the Districts the District level NFSM Executive Committees have also been constituted in all the districts. Objectives of this scheme: a. Increasing production of rice and pulses through area expansion and productivity enhancement in a sustainable manner in a identified district of the State. b. Restoring soil fertility and productivity at the individual farm level. c. Creation of employment opportunities. d. Enhancing farm level economy i.e. farm profits to restore the confidence among the farmers. 8. ORGANIC FARMING: Organic agriculture is a holistic production management system which promotes and enhances agro-ecosystem health, including biodiversity, biological cycles, and soil biological activity. Its emphasis is on the use of management practices in preference to the use of off-farm inputs, taking into account that regional conditions require locally adapted systems. This is accomplished by using, where possible, cultural, biological and mechanical methods, as opposed to using synthetic material, to fulfill any specific function within the system. The State of Himachal Pradesh has started taking steady strides towards the promotion of organic farming. There is an increasing awareness about organic agriculture practices in the state. Besides, most of the remote and inaccessible areas are still continuing with the traditional methods of crop production using organic manures as the only source of the nutrients. It includes all the agricultural production systems that promote environmentally, socially and economically sound production of food and fibers. In this system soil fertility is the key to successful production. Organic farming aims to optimize quality in all aspects of agriculture by taking into consideration the natural capacity of plants, animals and the land. It emphasizes on the health of agricultural ecosystem and prohibits the use of synthetic herbicides and pesticides, genetically modified organisms, synthetic fertilizers in crop production and hormones and antibiotics in livestock production. It respects the law of nature to increase yields and disease resistance. Organic farming requires a high level of farm management skills and require use of vide variety of resources to solve the problems. The organic farming focuses on; " Maximize biological activity in soils " Maintain long term soil health and minimize soil erosion " Enhance the genetic and biological system and its surroundings " Provide livestock with optimal living conditions for well being and better health " Recycling of materials of plant and animal origins, nutrients to the land (soil and minimize the use of non renewable resources " Promotion of environmentally friendly use of soil, water and air thus minimizing agricultural pollution Fertility management in different types of soils is very crucial and critical to increase the productivity under organic farming. Fertility management encompasses application and addition of nutrients supplying materials, which include chemical fertilizers, organic manures and other ameliorants. Efficacy of added materials depends on several factors like structure of soil, drainage and tilth etc. It has been found that continuous use of chemical fertilizers has lead to several problems in hill soils i.e. reduction in pH, deficiency of secondary and micro nutrients and reduced biological activity. It is tradition in hills to add organic manures in the soils which also supplement nutrition and also improves physical and biological properties of soils. Practice of incorporation of organic manure is very good, but farmers usually add partially decomposed biomass, which account for immobilization of available nutrients in soil particularly Nitrogen and also it is the chief source of insects attack, fungal and weed infestation. The most challenging time in the organic farming system is the transition phase as the farmer switch from conventional to organic agriculture. During the early stages of conversion, drop in yields up to 30 % have been reported by farmers who were dependent on herbicides, fertilizers and pesticides and it takes about decade for their yields to recover. But some farmers observed that the yields rebound within just a few years as they were using only minimum inputs. The yields tend to increase with the number of years under organic management as farmers gain experience and soil improves. It has also been reported that organic farms have higher yields than conventional farms under stress caused by drought, heat, excessive rainfall or unreasonably cold weather. Organic farming tends to have lower cost of production than conventional farming, as less emphasis on purchased inputs. Similarly, the net income from organic farming appears to be slightly higher than the conventional farming. In general, the expenses are lower and the income is higher (due to price premium). Keeping in view importance and scope of Organic Farming, the Government has already notified the policy for its adoption and fulfillment of need based organic farming policy objectives. The present project proposal is prepared in consideration of the organic farming policy document of Himachal Pradesh giving thrust to some of the strategies to be adopted viz, Govt. support to organic sector, support to organic farmers, the incentive schemes for the farmers and strategy for awareness raising. The main features of organic policy are as under: 1. Incorporation of organic into agriculture development. 2. Awareness raising. 3. Research and Technology support. 4. Strengthening Organic Extension services support. 5. Organic quality assurance. 6. Meeting organic input requirement. 7. Supply chain and marketing. 8. Identifying Niche Areas for organic farming and converting institutional farms etc. Justification/Objectives: " To promote the policy relating to adoption of Organic Farming " Promotion of environment friendly agriculture " Recycling & use of farm waste biomass, thereby reducing the cost of production " To improve the physical and biological properties of soils, shelf life and flavour of farm produce " To reduce the use of inorganic fertilizers " To increase export of farm produce " Improvement of soil health. 9. NATIONAL MISSION ON SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (NMSA): Sustaining agricultural productivity depends on quality and availability of natural resources like soil and water. Agricultural growth can be sustained by promoting conservation and sustainable use of these scarce natural resources through appropriate location specific measures. Indian agriculture remains predominantly rainfed covering about 60% of the country's net sown area and accounts for 40% of the total food production. Thus, conservation of natural resources in conjunction with development of rainfed agriculture holds the key to meet burgeoning demands for foodgrain in the country. Towards this end, National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) has been formulated for enhancing agricultural productivity especially in rainfed areas focusing on integrated farming, water use efficiency, soil health management and synergizing resource conservation. NMSA will cater to key dimensions of 'Water use efficiency', 'Nutrient Management' and 'Livelihood diversification' through adoption of sustainable development pathway by progressively shifting to environmental friendly technologies, adoption of energy efficient equipments, conservation of natural resources, integrated farming, etc. Besides, NMSA aims at promoting location specific improved agronomic practices through soil health management, enhanced water use efficiency, judicious use of chemicals, crop diversification, progressive adoption of crop-livestock farming systems and integrated approaches like crop-sericulture, agro-forestry, fish farming, etc. NMSA will have following objectives: 1. To make agriculture more productive, sustainable, remunerative and climate resilient by promoting location specific Integrated/Composite Farming Systems; 2. To conserve natural resources through appropriate soil and moisture conservation measures; 3. To adopt comprehensive soil health management practices based on soil fertility maps, soil test based application of macro & micro nutrients, judicious use of fertilizers etc.; 4. To optimize utilization of water resources through efficient water management to expand coverage for achieving 'more crop per drop'; 5. To develop capacity of farmers & stakeholders, in conjunction with other on-going Missions e.g. National Mission on Agriculture Extension & Technology, National Food Security Mission, National Initiative