National Anthem of India Home » National Anthem of India   Independence Day About india Indian history National Flag 15th August Wallpapers India Gate Red Fort Nehru's Message to Nation National Song National Anthem Freedom Fighters Mahatma Gandhi Jawaharlal Nehru Subhash Chandra Bose Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sukhdev Chandra Shekhar Azad Ram Manohar Lohia Rani Lakshmi Bai Bal Gangadhar Tilak Lala Lajpat Rai Mangal Pandey Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Motilal Nehru more... Mahatma Gandhi Civil Disobedience Dandi March Non-Cooperation Movement Satyagraha Quit India Movement Non-Violence more...       National Anthem of India National Anthem of India in Hindi Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Jan gan man Jan gan mann adhinaayak jay hai Bhaarat bhagya vidhaata Panjaab, sindh, gujraat, maratha Draavid utkal banga Vindya, himaachal, yamuna, ganga Utchchhal jaldhi taranga Tab shubh naame jaage Tab shubh aashish maage Gaahe tab jay gaatha Jan gan mangal daayak jay he Bhaarat bhagya vidhaata Jay he... Jay he... Jay he... Jay jay jay jay he... The National Anthem of India is "Jana Gana Mana" which was written by the Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore. The Anthem is written in high Bengali Sanskrit and is taken from the first 5 stanzas of a Brahmo Hymn which was composed and scored by Rabindranath Tagore himself. The Anthem was first sung on 27th December 1911 in the Calcutta Session of the Indian National Congress and was officially accepted as the Indian National Anthem by the Constituent Assembly on 24th January 1950. The National Anthem takes around fifty-two seconds to be played. The original poem was translated by Abid Ali into Hindi and the original Hindi version of the song was a little different. The text of Jana Gana Mana, though written in Bengali, is highly sanskritised and has been written almost completely with the use of nouns which can also function as verbs. Nearly all the nouns in the song are used in all major languages of India. The National Anthem tell us that India is a diverse nation and there are differences in culture, traditions, religion and languages, but despite these differences, it reminds us that India is united under one flag. The Anthem is significant in uniting people and reminding us that there isn't any difference between us Indians. The Indian National Anthem is played or sung at various occasions. From government offices to schools and colleges the National Anthem of India is sung at special occasions or National Holidays or even daily as it is also titled as "The Morning Song of India". The National Anthem of India is respected and proper observance and decorum is maintained when it is played on such occasions. All inhabitants are required to stand when the National Anthem is played or sung. December 27th, 2011 marks the achievement of 100 years of Jana Gana Mana from the time it was sung for the first time. Last Updated on : 06/07/2013 Related Information India Flag Jawaharlal Nehru Jawaharlal Nehru's    Independence Speech Mahatma Gandhi Independence Day Wallpapers India Facts Images of Rashtrapati Freedom Fighters of India National Anthem of India National Song of India            