 Government of India, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture मुख्‍य सामग्री पर जाएं | स्क्रीन रीडर | | | | | English | ट्विटर पर हमसे जुड़ें मुख्‍य पृष्‍ठ अधिनियम नागरिक चार्टर आरएफडी योजनाएं योजनाएं की जानकारी दिशानिर्देश हमें लिखें सी पी जी आर ए एम एस सुझाव व प्रतिवेदन विविध संसदीय प्रश्न भर्तियाँ निविदाएं हम तक पहुँचे हमसे संपर्क करें दूरभाष निर्देशिका आप यहाँ हैं : मुख पृष्ठ > निविदाएं हमारे बारे में प्रभाग विभागीय संगठन प्रस्‍तुतीकरण रिपोर्ट व प्रकाशन कार्यक्रम व योजनाएं कृषि आकस्‍मिक योजना परिपत्र व अधिसूचनाएं सी ए सी पी बहुधा पूछे जाने वाले प्रश्‍न सूचना का अधिकार ई-अभिशासन परियोजनाएं संबंधित संपर्क निविदाएं कृषि एवं सहकारिता विभाग द्वारा सक्रिय निविदाएं Title Expiry Date केंद्रीय कीटनाशक बोर्ड और पंजीकरण समिति का सचिवालय, पौध संरक्षण, संगरोध एवं भंडारण, फरीदाबाद निदेशालय में रखा रिकार्ड की स्कैनिंग / डिजिटाइजेशन के लिए टेंडर (एनआईटी) आमंत्रित करने के लिए शुद्धिपत्र (पूर्व बोली) नोटिस. 15.07.2014 गणतंत्र दिवस परेड के लिए झांकी की तैयारी के लिए कोटेशन आमंत्रित करने के लिए नोटिस-2015. 30.07.2014 केंद्रीय कीटनाशक बोर्ड और पंजीकरण समिति का सचिवालय, पौध संरक्षण, संगरोध एवं भंडारण, फरीदाबाद निदेशालय में रखा रिकार्ड की स्कैनिंग / डिजिटाइजेशन के लिए टेंडर (एनआईटी) आमंत्रण सूचना. 25.07.2014 सुरक्षा व्यवस्था के लिए एजेंसी को काम पर रखने के लिए और आईआईटीएफ में प्रहसन शो के आयोजन के लिए निविदा सूचना 2014. 21.07.2014 कृषि एवं सहकारिता विभाग द्वारा समय सीमा समाप्त निविदाएं Annual Contract for Supply of Drinking Water Jars Maintenance of Water Dispensers in Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Tender for CTO in Krishi Vistar Bhawan and Upset Press. Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (CAMC) of Audio/Video System installed at Acharya J.G. Bose Hall (Room No.142), & Mahalanobis Hall (Room No.138)at Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi.. Contract for outsourcing of the services of an Agency to provide manpower viz. Cook/ Halwai/ Bearers and sweeper for Departmental Canteen of Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Quotation for Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract(CAMC) for the repair and maintenance of PCs / Printers / UPS / Laptops and LAN System in DOE - for one year from the date of contract – Reg. Supply of stationery items in the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation -invitation of tenders. Letter of Invitation to Request For Proposal (RFP) for selection of Technical Support Unit (TSU) for “Crop Insurance & Risk mitigation in Agriculture”. Comphrehensive Annual Maintenance Contract(CAMC) for Inverters & UPS for Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Comphrehensive Annual Maintenance Contract(CAMC) for Air Condtioners,Generators,Water Coolers and Water Purifiers in Department of Agriculture & Cooperation.. Inviting quotation for supply of Summer Liveries to the Department of Agriculture& Cooperation. Supply and Installation of Desert and Room Coolers on hiring basis in the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation for the period from 08.5.2014 to 30.09.2014 – invitation of quotations – regarding. Printing of Annual Report of the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation for the year 2013-14 - Quotations regarding. Annual Maintenance Contract of “CORAL Telecom” EPABX Systems from Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM). Pre Tender Meeting Notice to install CCTV Camera,including PTZ Camera,Dome Camera CCTV in the Krishi Bhawan. Printing of Annual report of Department of the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation for the Year 2013-14-Quotation Regarding. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract for air Conditioners Refrigerator water Coolers and Water Purifiers belonging to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. . Supply of sanitary related items in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi -invitation of quotations - regarding. Comprehensive Contract for Mechanized/Automated HouseKeeping/Cleaning Services,regulation of trafic and maintenance of common green areas like parks,planters in Krishi Bhawan Complex,New Delhi-Invitation of Tender . Inviting quotation for supply of Summer Liveries to the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Award of contract through limited tender for disposal of Office Sweepings, Old Magazines/Newspapers/Books in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi -invitation of quotations - regarding. Tender Notice for hiring of Taxi for use in Department of Agriculture & Cooperation . Annual Contract for Supply of Packaged Drinking water Jars and maintenance of water Dispenser in the Agriculture & Cooperation. Annual Rate Contract for repair and maintenance of electric items (Heater Heat convector,tube light Sets,Hot case,fan,Extension Board etc) in Department of Agriculture and Cooperation. Annual Comphrehensive Maintenance Contract for for Air Condioners,Refrigerators,Water cooler and water Purifier for Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Annual Maintenance Contract(AMC) of Fax Machines installed in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Photo copying ,collation binding (spiral bound)of paper /reports etc in the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation. Rate Contract for dry-cleaning washing of carpet,sofa Sets,Chairs,Loose Covers,towel. Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (CAMC) for Inverters & UPS in Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Tender Notice for maintenance/repairing, polishing of various furniture items etc. in Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Department of Agriculture & Cooperation intends to Award Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract for Air Conditioners ,Refrigerators water purifiers . Inviting quotation for Supply of Summer Liveries to the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Quotation for Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (CAMC) for the Repair and Maintenance of Air Conditioners (ACs) and Water Coolers in the Directorate of Extension for one year from the date of contract – regarding. Maintenance of coral Make EpABX system and its 500 Approx Ertensions – regarding. Annual Contract for Supply of Packed Drinking Water Jars and Maintenance of Water Dispensers in the department of Agriculture and Cooperation . Supply of sanitary related items in the Departrnent of Agnculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bbawan, New Delhi -invitation of quotations - regarding. Award Annual Compehensive Maintenance Contract for Aircoditioners,Refrigerators,waterpurifiers and water Coolers for the one year. Inviting quotations for award of Annual Rate Contract for supply of consumables refill/cartridge(N-4) for Microbust and Auto Janitor(N-6) Refills/cartridge expression cleaner deodorizer for 5 Microburst and 2 Auto janitor installed in Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Department of Agriculture& cooperation intends to award Annual comprehensive maintenance contract of Air conditioners. Supply of water jars and maintenance of water dispensers in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Quotations for award of contract for providing services of Messengers on outsource basis. Quotations for award of contract for providing services of Data Entry Operators on outsource basis. RFP for Selection of Agency for SECURITY HARDWARE EQUIPMENT for Exhibition & Conference Venue at KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. Revised RFP for Selection of a vendor for Hiring of IT Requirements at KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. RFP for Selection of Agency for Catering Services(Version 3.2) in Krishi Vasant 9 – 13 February2014 at Nagpur.. RFP for Selection of Agency for Catering Services in Krishi Vasant 9 – 13 February2014 at Nagpur. RFP for Selection of Agency for Supply of Drinking Water (Vesrion 1.2) in krishi Vasant 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. Annual Maintenace Contract (AMC) of Fax Machines Installed in the Department of Agriculture  & Cooperation. RFP for Selection of Agency for Security Manpower Services for Exhibition & Conference Venue AT KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. RFP for Selection of Agency for Security Hardware Equipment for Exhibition & Conference Venue AT KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. Supply of sanitary related items in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi -invitation of quotations - regarding Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (CAMC) for Inverters & UPS in Department of Agriculture & Cooperation Tender for supply of Rubber Stamp self linking and computerised self inking(flash) for use in the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation-invitation of quotations-regarding. Directorate of Agricultural,Extension began Internet line connection in respect of annual invited to set them up RFP Version 4.2 Dated November 16 for Krishi Vasant - The National Agriculture Fair cum Exhibition at Nagpur during 9-13 February 2014 Tender for outsourcing services of 22 Data Entry Operators and 17 Messengers in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation Due to non-punlication of the advertisament in Newspaper, the tender is hereby cancelled. Updated RFP for Selection of an Event Management Agency for KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur RFP for Selection of a vendor for Hiring of IT Requirements RFP for Selection of an Event Management Agency for KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur RFP for Selection of Agency for Housekeeping and Conservancy at KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur Revised RFP for Selection of SECURITY AGENCY for Exhibition at Nagpur during 9-13 February 2014 Note: Following changes have been incorporated in the Revised RFP for Selection of SECURITY AGENCY for Exhibition 1. Pages 13, 16 ( Para 2.1 Terms & conditions for submitting the bids) - Para 5 changed, Para 14, 15 amended & new para 16 added. 2. Page 26 (Para 5.5 Schedule of Payments) - Revised Payment terms added. Final RFP for Selection of SECURITY AGENCY for Exhibition at Nagpur during 9-13 February 2014 Photocopying, collation, binding (spiral bound) of papers/reports etc. in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation - regarding RFP for Catering Services at Krishi Vasant Version 2 for KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. Final Updated RFP (version 5) for Selection of an Event Management Agency for KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. Final Updated RFP for Selection of Contractor for Hiring of Sound Proof Diesel Generating Sets Version 3.5(6 Jan) at KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. Final Updated RFP (version 4.5) for Selection of an Event Management Agency for KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. Final Updated RFP (version 4.2) for Selection of an Event Management Agency for KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. Revised RFP for Selection of an agency for hiring IT Requirements v-1 for Krishi Vasant,9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. Revised RFP for Selection of an agency for hiring IT Requirements v-1 -Annexure-I for Krishi Vasant,9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. RFP for Selection of an Event Management Agency for Krishi Vasant,9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. RFP for Selection of Contractor for Hiring of Sound Proof Diesel Generating Sets at Krishi Vasant,9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. RFP for Selection of Security Agency for Exhibition & Conference Venue At Krishi Vasant,9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. RFP for Selection of Agency for Housekeeping and Conservancy At Krishi Vasant,9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur. Tender Notice for maintenance/repairing, polishing of various furniture items etc. in Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Uploaded RFP for Selection of Contractor for Gensets Version 3.2 for KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur Final Updated RFP for Selection of an Event Management Agency for KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur Updated final for Selection of an Event Management Agency for KRISHI VASANT 9 – 13 February 2014 at Nagpur Quotations for rate contract for supply of consumables for Riso/Duplo Digital Duplicator,Fax & Photocopier Machines Inviattion to Tender for Computer UPS 600 VA in Directorate of Extension,krishi Vistar bhavan Purchase of Photocopy papers of 75 GSM and 80 GSM, A-4 Size and FS Size for Department of Agriculture and Cooperatopn-Invitation of Tenders regarding RFP Version 3.2 Dated November 16 for Krishi Vasant - The National Agriculture Fair cum Exhibition at Nagpur during 9-13 February 2014 Revised Timelines for the RFP of Krishi Vasant - The National Agriculture Fair cum Exhibition at Nagpur during 9-13 February 2014 Modified RFP Version 3.1 Dated November 14 for Krishi Vasant - The National Agriculture Fair cum Exhibition at Nagpur during 9-13 February 2014 Format of submission of EMD for Krishi Vasant bid Tender Notice for Hiring Agencies for Security Systems & for Organizing Skit Show in IITF 2013. Inviting quotation for supply of winter Liveries to the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Inviting quotation for supply of Soap,Duster,Towel,Lock and Markin Cloth for the Year 2013-2014 Pre tender meeting notice Rate contract of binding work for  books, PBR, pay bill Registers, etc in DAC Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC) of Dominent Offset Printing Machine installed at Krishi Vistar Sadan, CTO Campus, Pusa of this Directorate –reg. Notice for Inviting Quotation for Preparation of Tableaux for Republic day Parade-2014 Corrigendum Rate quotation of IT Consumable Items (as Ink/Toner Cartridge,CDs,DVDs,Floppies etc.) Tender for Supply and Installation of SONY BRAVIA,32'' (81 cm ) Bx350 Series BRAVIA LCD Tv in the DAC Refilling of computer Printer Cartidges of Directorate of Extension-Rate Contract Reg Supply of printing material for offset press quotation-reg Supply of process material for offset press quotation-reg Quotation for Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract of Fax Machines (Printer I Faxl Scannerl Copier) invitation thereof-regarding Expression ofInterest(EOI)Document for Engagement of ConsultantforImpact Evaluation of National Food Security Mission (NFSM) Supply of printing material for offset press quotation-reg. Supply of process material for offset press quotation-reg Rate contract for Binding of PBR, Service Books, Bill Book, Registers,Records/Library Books/ Stitching of Files, Papers, reports, Vouchers, etc.of the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation--calling of quotations. Inviting quotation for Supply of Summer Liveries to the department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Invitation for Expression of interest Notice for Inviting Quotation for Preparation of Tableaux for Republic day Parade-2014 Quotation for annual comphrensive maintenance contract of fax machines(printers/fax/scanner/copier) invitation thereof regarding Annual Maintenance Contract of NEC ASPILA–EX Key Telephone Systems from Original Equipment Manufactures (OEM), Authorized Service Provider Award of contract f