Biography of Narendra Modi : Family, Early days in Politics, Criticisms, Awards and Recognitions India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Government and Politics » Narendra Modi Biography   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Narendra Modi Biography Narendra Modi: A Political Phenomenon Narendra Modi Narendra Damodardas Modi has emerged as the indisputable champion of the Lok Sabha Election 2014 by delivering the party's best results ever in the general election of India. Modi, who worked as a tea-seller in his childhood, has come a very long way to have excelled in the report card of the world's largest-ever electoral exercise. He will now serve the nation as the Prime Minister, with the goal of implementing the Gujarat model of development throughout the nation. He took the oath as the Prime Minister of India in a lavish affair on 26 May 2014. Narendra Modi governed Gujarat for 13 years as its Chief Minister. He was selected by L K Advani, a leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in 2001 to give a direction to the election campaign in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh. Modi was elected as the Chief Minister of Gujarat on 7 October 2001, and was been the longest-serving Chief Minister of the state. In the 2012 Gujarat legislative assembly election, he won his fourth consecutive term as the Chief Minister of Gujarat. A career that started as an errand runner for the RSS (Hindu Right wing group) is now perhaps on the way to reach its zenith. Yes, Narendra Damodardas Modi has walked quite a distance wearing unflinching confidence on his sleeves. The former Gujarat Chief Minister and India's current Prime Minister candidate is a fascinating case study as the man opens up equal number of avenues for his critics as well as admirers. The man is admired for his economic policies and growth scenario in Gujarat, but he also bears flak for the dismal state of the Human Development Index in Gujarat. Now, since he has become the Prime Minister of India, let's have a deeper look into Narendra Modi's biography. Humble Beginnings The idea of struggle was never very distant for Modi. He used to run a tea stall till the time RSS inducted him as a full-time member. With whatever minimal training he received from the party's associates, he surged ahead and exhibited enough capability to be given the charge of the ABVP (the student wing of RSS). His diligence and dedication towards the party hardly ebbed despite the fact that he was simultaneously pursuing a Master's degree in Political Science. This 'average student' from Vadnagar tutored himself to take greater steps on a national level. Family Although there isn't enough about Modi's personal life in the public domain, the political discourse sometimes throws up bits of facts and stories. He was born into a middle class family of six in Vadnagar in Mehsana District (then Bombay state) to Damodardas Mulchand Modi and Heeradben Modi. He was bethrothed when quite young, but chose to walk away from the marriage and has remained a bachelor. Early days in Politics Narendra Modi was drawn to politics in his early teens and was a member of Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS). During the 1960's India-Pakistan war, even though he was only a young boy, he volunteered to serve soldiers traveling through railway stations. As a youth, he became a member of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, a student body involved in anti-corruption. After having worked full time with them, he was then nominated as its representative in the BJP. Modi was also a campaigner in the RSS during his years in college and took on the task of encouraging the party members. Partnering with Shankersingh Vaghela, Modi began a strong cadre base in Gujarat. Narendra Modi has come from a humble background and is known for his simple lifestyle. He has a reputation of being a workaholic and introvert. Mr. Modi has tried to change his image from that of a Hindu Nationalist politician to that of a sincere administrator. The party began getting political attention and formed a coalition government in April 1990. After this, the BJP came to power in Gujarat in 1995. During this period, Modi was responsible for the Somnath to Ayodhya Rath Yatra and a similar trek from Kanyakumari in Southern India all the way up to Kashmir in the north. A careful observation of his rise to the national podium would evince how he remained glued to his fundamentals - continuing agitations during the nationwide Emergency, organizing Murli Manohar Joshi's Ekta yatra (journey for unity), and impressing everyone with electoral strategy ahead of the 1995 state elections. As BJP tasted victory, Modi relished his newly ordained post of the party's General Secretary. The workaholic and loyal 'sevak' moved to New Delhi to take up the new responsibility of managing the party's activities in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Three summers whizzed past and Modi already had the post of National Secretary of the BJP under his kitty. First Stint as Chief Minister of Gujarat Times were turbulent in Gujarat with allegations of corruption and poor governance doing the rounds. After Shankarsingh Vaghela left the BJP, Keshubhai Patel was made Chief Minister of Gujarat and Modi became General Secretary of the party in Delhi. Weak handling of the effects of the Bhuj Earthquake in 2001 prompted the BJP's national leaders to seek a new candidate as chief minister, after the removal of Keshubhai Patel. In October 2001, Modi was brought in to fill the vacuum and made Chief Minister of Gujarat despite his lack of experience in governance. Initially, the BJP was not very keen on having him at the forefront and the party was contemplating the position of deputy CM for him, which he refused. He wrote to Advani, and the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, stating that he was either "going to be fully responsible for Gujarat or not at all." In July 2007, he became the longest-serving Chief Minister in Gujarat's political history. In the Gujarat legislative assembly elections of 2012, Narendra Modi won the constituency of Maninagar over the Indian National Congress, with a majority of 86,373 votes. The BJP won 115 out of the 182 seats and formed its government in Gujarat. This was Narendra Modi's fourth term as the Chief Minister. The following year in March, he was appointed as member to the BJP Parliamentary Board which is the highest decision-making body of the party. He was also nominated as a member of the party's Central Election Committee. Taking Tough Calls His rift with the VHP started to show after his much-criticized decision of demolishing 200 illegal temples in Gandhinagar. This was just the trailer. Modi was also vocal about PM Manmohan Singh's reluctance to revive anti-terror laws. He called for invoking tougher laws in states following the 2006 Mumbai blasts. Time and again, he has judiciously chosen issues to pontificate and attack the central government. In the wake of the November 2008 Mumbai attacks, Modi brought up the issue of security along Gujarat's coast. The UPA government acted upon this immediately and sanctioned construction of 30 high-speed surveillance boats. Recently, he came down heavily on the Central government for its weak approach towards Chinese incursions in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh and infiltration by Bangladeshis on the Indo-Bangladesh border. Criticisms The Modi government came under bitter criticism following the 2002 Gujarat riots that betrayed the prevailing communal harmony within the state. Investigations were ordered into alleged abatement of crime. Modi's image suffered a quake as a common consensus was established that pointed fingers at the chief minister for allowing communal violence in the state. Some demanded his prosecution for promoting enmity among different communities during the riots. His way of functioning has also been the topic of much debate in the political arena with commentators and subject-matter experts lambasting him for carrying the DNA of fascist leadership. His critics call him a self-centered autocrat who doesn't care a hoot about the BJP. The Gujarat chief minister finds himself in the bad books of analysts as he is also accused of twisting facts to suit political motives on more than one occasion. In June 2013, when Narendra Modi's was appointed as the chairman of the national campaign committee, L K Advani submitted his resignation escalating his objection against Modi's appointment. But, the BJP leadership remained rigid on its choice to put Modi in front of 2014 campaign. A self-made man Besides being a revered orator and a prolific writer, he is also a caring son and a man with his brand of humour. Those who have been associated with him for long are of the opinion that the idea of power is exciting to him. Next time you wonder how he could garner so much of national attention, think of this. He underwent a rigorous training in the US on public relations and image management. When it comes to taking lessons on brand building, Modi says there's no greater inspiration than Mahatma Gandhi. His eulogies about Gandhi come from the fact that "He spoke of Ahimsa but carried a stick. He never wore a cap but the world wears a Gandhi Topi." Modi's careful metamorphosis from a Hindutva party man to a pro-development leader and change maker speaks volumes for his image-building ability. His two-year long escapade into the Himalayas and co-mingling with the yogic sadhus gave him a fair understanding of Hinduism. That partly explains why people listen to him in rapt attention when he talks of ideologies. Face of Development - Favorite among the leaders of India Inc. Modi frequently refers to his P2G2 (Pro-people good governance) formula to substantiate his claims on holistic development. Some observers are of the opinion that Gujarat has been able to improve its agricultural output despite being a semi-arid state. The credit is given to the Gujarat government's measures to scale up groundwater projects and initiatives to increase the use of micro-irrigation. India Inc. is almost unanimous in their verdict. They want Narendra Modi as the next PM. Reason? They seek a strong leadership that has a clear road-map and actionable plans ready for execution. Indian business leaders from Ratan Tata to Mukesh Ambani seem to be convinced that for India to come out of its Gross Domestic Paralysis, a visionary and decisive leadership is essential. Empirical evidence suggests that Gujarat has been able to position itself as a lucrative destination for investment. Under his aegis, according to a political commentator, the level of corruption receded and technology parks have seen the light of the day. His iconic call for "Minimum Government and Maximum Governance" has frequently struck the chord with the masses. With so many brand images of Narendra Modi existing in a juxtaposed manner, it is to be seen which one suited his greater agenda and helped him in winning the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Narendra Modi Facts and Information Full Name Narendra Damodardas Modi Born 17 September 1950 at Vadnagar, Bombay State, India Religion Hinduism Father Damodardas Mulchand Modi Mother Heeraben Brothers Soma: A retired health officer. Now runs an old-age home in Ahmedabad. Prahlad: Runs a fair-price shop in Ahmedabad. He is also an activist fighting for the interests of fair-price shop owners. Pankaj Modi: Works in the information department, Gandhinagar. Residence Gandhinagar, Gujarat Marriage The issue of Modi's marriage became a minor controversy. It was later revealed that he had been betrothed as a child but had refused to acknowledge the union later on. Teenage As a teenager, Modi and his brother ran a tea stall. Schooling Did his schooling from Vadnagar. According to his teachers, he was an average student but had great interest in debates. Education Gujarat University Occupation Former Chief Minister of Gujarat. Current Prime Minister of India since 26 May 2014. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Modi's image is that of a staunch RSS supporter and Hindu nationalist. He has sparked controversy both within India and abroad. Start of politics After receiving RSS training in Nagpur, Modi started with taking charge of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the RSS, in Gujarat. Political Party Bharatiya Janta Party Constituency Maninagar Preceded by Keshubhai Patel Assumed office 10/07/01 General Secretary of the BJP Soon thereafter, Modi was made the General Secretary of the BJP and started looking after the party's activities in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. His work led to the party's victory in those elections. National Secretary of the BJP In 1998, Modi became the National Secretary of the BJP. First Term as Chief Minister of Gujarat (2001-02) Modi replaced Keshubhai Patel as the CM of Gujarat, as the latter had been struggling to contain the problems of corruption and poor administration. Given Modi's lack of experience at that time, L K Advani was not very confident about his chances. On 7 October 2001, Modi was appointed the Chief Minister of Gujarat and was assigned the responsibility to prepare the BJP for elections in December 2002. However, Modi did exceedingly well, focusing on privatization and minimum interference in business, an ideology that was squarely at odds with that of the RSS. Gujarat violence (2002) The Godhra riots broke out in the state following the apparent murder of 58 Hindu pilgrims on a train. About 1,000-2,000 Muslims were killed as communal violence broke out. In response, the Modi government imposed curfew in the state, issued orders of shoot-at-sight, and called in the Army. There were accusations that the violence was incited by the Modi government, although the Special Investigation Team (SIT) did not find any such strong evidence. However, on 7 May 2002, Raju Ramachandran, advisor to the Supreme Court for this case, held an opposite view and said that Modi can be prosecuted. The matter snowballed into a national-level debate, with opposition parties demanding Modi's resignation. He did do, and elections were held again. Modi win in Elections of 2002 In the elections following immediately, Modi adopted a strong anti-Muslim stance and managed to win 127 out of the 182 seats. Second Term as Chief Minister of Gujarat (2002-07) During his second term, Modi shifted his focus entirely from Hindutva to aggressive economic expansion. He reigned in reactionary organizations like the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) as Gujarat saw its economy soar as investments poured in. An indicator of this was the Vibrant Gujarat Summit of 2007, which saw land leads worth Rs. 6,600 billion getting signed. However, he found himself getting increasingly alienated within the party as even Atal Bihari Vajpayee distanced himself from Modi. Criticism in media also grew stronger, with Modi being equated to the likes of Adolf Hitler. Elections 2007-08 Despite the troubled waters, Modi managed to win the 2007 election, bagging 122 of the 182 seats. Third Term as Chief Minister of Gujarat (2007-12) During his third term, Modi worked to turn around the agriculture industry of Gujarat, launching a successful project to improve groundwater tables. During this time, about 1,13, 738 were constructed. As cotton production in the state soared, the economy started growing rapidly, recording an all-time high compounded annual rate of 10.97%. Sadbhavana Mission and Fasts In what is seen as a stratagem to appease the Muslims, Modi observed a number of fasts under his Sadbhavana Mission or Goodwill Mission, to improve communal ties and promote peace in the state. However, this had next to no impact. Adoption of Social Media Modi is arguably the most net-savvy political leader in India. He was quick to realize the potential of Twitter and Google Plus hangouts, and has been using these effectively. Fourth Term as Chief Minister of Gujarat (2012-present) The 2012 elections came as no surprise to anyone as the BJP swept the assembly once again, winning 115 out of the 182 seats. Role in National Politics The year 2013 proved extremely fruitful for Modi as he projected himself on the center stage. The BJP elected him as Chairman of the Central Election Campaign Committee of the BJP, amid growing clamor for Modi's name for the position of Prime Minister. Prime Ministerial Candidate In a decision that polarized the party, the BJP decided to cash in on Modi's growing popularity and selected him as the PM candidate for the 2014 polls. In September 2013, BJP announced Modi as the prime ministerial candidate for the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. As the Prime Minister of India BJP won the 2014 general elections with a landslide mandate. Narendra Modi took oath as the Prime Minister of India on 26th May 2014. Awards and recognitions Gujarat Ratna, conferred by Shri Poona Gujarati Bandhu Samaj e-Ratna award by the Computer Society of India Best Chief Minister, according to a 2006 India Todaysurvey Personality of the Year Award (Asia) for 2009 by the fDi magazine Featured on the cover of Timemagazine (Asia) in March 2012 Prime Ministerial trips made by Narendra Modi Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing Prime Ministerial trips made by Narendra Modi. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. NaMo Saga - From Tea Seller to Prime Minister It's an interesting story of a man who recently stormed into 7, Race Course Road. And, he did not achieve this feat without struggle. Narendra Modi had worked his way to the top post of India's Prime Minister. His rise through the ranks is meteoric, to say the least. As he charts his future course, it would be rewarding to look back at those years when he steadily shaped himself as a national leader. Born into a lower middle class family in Mehsana district in Gujarat on September 17, 1950, Modi started supporting his family at a tender age as he helped his father sell tea to train passengers at Vadnagar railway station. During his teenage days, he ran a tea stall with his brother. As a student, Modi was an average performer. Immediately after he became a full-time member of RSS in 1971, Modi witnessed growth on two fronts - academic and political. He completed graduation and Master's degree in 1978 and 1983 respectively. He was given charge of the Sangh Pariwar's student wing - Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) in Gujarat, but not before he received RSS training in Nagpur. Modi led a tough life as RSS pracharak. After moving to the RSS office in Delhi, he used to start his day at 4 am by cleaning the office. He was involved in diverse set of chores - serving tea and breakfast to senior colleagues, cleaning utensils and also replying to mails. During the stormy phase of emergency (1975-1977) when social and political organisations were facing ban, Modi and formed the government on its own continued his campaign against the central government covertly. Under the leadership of Jayaprakash Narayan, Modi did his bit to strengthen the movement against the Emergency. During this period, he authored a book - 'Sangharsh ma Gujarat' (Gujarat's struggle). Modi was first inducted in BJP in 1985 on RSS' recommendation. In 1988, he became the organising secretary of BJP's Gujarat unit, which was his first prominent entry into politics. His induction into party's national executive in 1991 happened following his efforts to garner support for Murli Manohar Joshi's Ekta Yatra (journey for unity) Modi was appointed Gujarat's Chief Minister in October 2001. In 2002, post-Godhra train carnage, a series of communal riots brought the state to a crisis. He was accused of not doing enough to prevent the unprecedented mayhem and violence against Muslims that raged in Gujarat for several days. Another challenge before Modi was to withstand international criticism in the wake of his apparent failure to control rampaging mobs. During his Second term (2002-2007), Modi focused on making Gujarat an attractive investment destination by emphasising on economic growth and good, corruption-free governance. For successive years, Gujarat surpassed other states in GDP growth. On the other hand, Modi's gradual distancing from RSS and similar organisations was felt in the decisions he took. Although Modi faced flak from certain groups for 'exaggerating the growth' and favouring only a handful of corporate entities like the Adani group, he nonetheless worked towards state-wide electrification, infrastructure building and industrialisation. During this period, he launched an attack against UPA government on national issues, one of them being the latter's reluctance to revive anti-terror legislations. After the BJP announced Modi as its prime ministerial candidate for 2014 Lok Sabha elections, he leveraged the anti-Congress wave and tailored his campaign speeches to pinpoint how UPA failed to keep its promise of ensuring development and progress of the country. He assiduously traveled the length and breadth of the country, winning hearts of the millions. This remarkable journey of the grassroots leader reached a watershed moment when his party registered its finest performance in the Lok Sabha elections by winning 282 seats and formed the NDA government. Modi, as anticipated, won from both the seats he contested. He was unanimously elected as the 15th Prime Minister of India. Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 Day 6 Day 7 Day 8 Day 9 Day 10 Day 11 Day 12 Day 13 Day 14 Day 15 Day 16 Day 17 Day 18 Day 19 Day 20 Day 21 Day 22 Day 23 Day 24 Day 25 Day 26 Day 27 Day 28 Day 29 Day 30 Day 31 Day 32 Day 33 Day 34 Day 35 Day 36 Day 37 Day 38 Day 39 Day 40 Day 41 Day 42 Day 43 Day 44 Day 45 Day 46 Day 47 Day 48 Day 49 Day 50 Day 51 Day 52 Day 53 Day 54 Day 55 Day 56 Day 57 Day 58 Day 59 Day 60 Day 61 Day 62 Day 63 Day 64 Day 65 Day 66 Day 67 Day 68 Day 69 Day 70 Day 71 Day 72 Day 73 Day 74 Day 75 Day 76 Day 77 Day 78 Day 79 Day 80 Day 81 Day 82 Day 83 Day 84 Day 85 Day 86 Day 87 Day 88 Day 89 Day 90 Day 91 Day 92 Day 93 Day 94 Day 95 Day 96 Day 97 Day 98 Day 99 Day 100 Day 101 Day 102 Day 103 Blogs about Narendra Modi USTAD: Skills Upgradation and Training Initiative for Craftsmen : On 14 May 2015, Union Minister for Minority Affairs Najma Heptullah launched a major welfare scheme in Varanasi, aimed at preserving and upgrading traditional arts and handicraft skills, in a move that will benefit thousands of traditional craftsmen, many of whom belong to minority communities. Upgradation of Skills and Training in Ancestral Arts/Crafts for Development (USTAD) is a Rs 17-crore initiative to preserve and promote traditional skills and ensure wider market access. Launching USTAD in… read more... One Year of Modi Government: A Look Back : It has almost been a year since Narendra Modi assumed the post of India’s Prime Minister. During the year, his administration has taken plenty of steps – some of which have been lauded for their potential to create a positive impact from the perspective of the country while some have not been so popular. While criticising Modi, it needs to be taken into consideration that it is not entirely possible to bring about a drastic… read more... Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India : Financial inclusion, social security, and low-cost benefits for the masses have been high on the NDA government’s agenda. Ever since the NaMo government’s ascent to the centre, PM Modi, FM Jaitley, and the Cabinet have worked relentlessly towards promulgation of new schemes that make financial security for the common man. The first step towards achievement of social security was the rollout of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY). With Phase I being declared a… read more... Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme : The Pradhan Mantri of India Narendra Modi has launched another flagship social security scheme: Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) - An accidental Death and Disability insurance scheme. A large part of the Indian population lives in rural areas and most of them are not covered under any kind of social security scheme. A large section of this population has not even gained the benefits of the banking system and most are still unaware of various governmental schemes… read more...   Related Links   Prime Ministers Atal Behari Vajpayee Indira Gandhi Chandra Shekhar Lal Bahadur Shastri Choudhary Charan Singh Morarji Desai Dr Manmohan Singh P.V. Narasimha Rao Gulzarilal Nanda Rajiv Gandhi Inder Kumar Gujral Vishwanath Pratap Singh Narendra Modi Last Updated on : May 14, 2015  