Hotels in Maharashtra Destinations Destinations Travel To | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Maharashtra Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Maharashtra Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Places to Visit in Maharashtra Chowpatty Beach Juhu Beach Marine Drive Gateway of India Elephant Caves Shaniwar Wada Parvati Hill Ajanta Ellora Caves Mahabaleshwar Temple Essel World Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Cities to Visit in Maharashtra Aurangabad Travel Lonavala Travel Mumbai Travel Nagpur Travel Nashik Travel Pune Travel Mahabaleshwar Travel Khandala Travel Maharashtra Hotels Lonavala Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Mumbai Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Pune Hotels Navi Mumbai Hotels About Maharashtra Geography and History Climate Home » Hotels » Hotels in Maharashtra Hotels in Maharashtra HOTEL SEARCH Search by Location Search by Places Select State Select City Location of Hotels in Maharashtra Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing the location of hotels in Maharashtra. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Maharashtra, the 3rd largest state in India is speckled with many places of interest. The state is an assortment of a number of popular cities like Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad etc which attracts a large number of tourists from all over the globe, throughout the year. The magical city of Mumbai which is the financial and also the film capital of Maharashtra , is always full of life and excitement. The must visits of this place consists of the Gateway of India, Prince of Wales Museum, Elephanta Island, Haji Ali's Tomb, Flora Fountain, Kamla Nehru Park, Kalbadevi Temple, Jama Masjid, Bhuleshwar Temple, Mumbadevi Temple, Nehru Planetarium, Hanging Gardens, Marine Drive, Nehru Science Center, ISKCON temple. For recreational activities you may check out the beaches like Manori, Madh Island, Versova, Marue, Goral, and Juhu or fun places like Essel World and Fantasy Land. The vibrating city of Pune also adds charm to Maharashtra tourism. The Shanwarawada Palace, Gandhi National Memorial, Raja Kelkar Museum, Pataleshwar Temple and Samadhi are some of the tourist destinations that are often visited by tourists from different regions of India and outside. Yet another wonderful city in Maharashtra is Aurangabad. While in the city, as you visit the tomb of Bibi-ka-Makbara on one hand you can also plan a trip down to Ellora and Ajanta, on the other. Aurangabad also comes with many shopping options. A chill out place at Maharashtra is Mahabaleshwar which is a hot favorite among everyone from nature explorers to peace lovers and also filmmakers. Lonavala is another beautiful holiday spot and a perfect stress buster from the daily hassles of life. The state of Maharashtra is very well connected by air rail and road, which makes it easily accessible from all the major parts of the world. With so many places of tourist interest, it is obvious that a large number of hotels in Mahrashtra have emerged to cater to Maharashtra tourism and its tourists. Be it a business trip or a leisure trip, one would find an array of hotels to suit all pockets and taste. Be it a five star hotel in Maharastra or budget hotels, the Maharashtra hotels gives you the opportunity to drape yourself in this glamorous state of India that magnetize and mesmerize thousands of visitors with its refreshing greens, hilly terrains, golden beaches and rich cultural heritage. Five star hotels in Maharashtra Some of the five star hotels in Maharashtra are The Oberoi and The Taj President Hotel. The Oberoi Hotel Run by "Oberoi Group", this Maharashtra hotel is conveniently located in the heart of Mumbai being at a distance of 35kms from the airport. This dazzling luxury hotel in Maharashtra which stands tall at Nariman Point with an overview of the Arabian Sea comes with luxurious stay at the 337 rooms of the hotel. The hotel caters to the dining needs of its guest through 'Brasserie', which serves informal dining, "Kandahar", known for Indian cuisines, 'Rotisserie' & 'Sea Grill' offering Mediterranean food while the well stocked bar, 'Bayview Bar' serving all kind of drinks. Some of the other facilities in this Maharashtra hotel are spa, swimming pool, fitness and recreation centre, business facilities etc. The Taj President in Mumbai Another 5 star Maharashtra hotel is the Taj President situated in Mumbai which is also a popular business hotel. It is at a distance of 3kms and 35kms from the railway station and the airport respectively. This star hotel in Mumbai is replete with 300 exclusive rooms and suites. This Mumbai hotel also comes with an Italian eatery, Trattoria, Thai pavilion, Konkan Café, poolside Barbeque and a bar. Other amenities at the Taj President, Mumbai, includes Banquet rooms, Business Centre, Shopping arcade, Bookshop, Souvenir shop, Fitness Centre, Swimming pool, Spa etc. Budget hotels in Maharashtra The budget hotels in Maharashtra include Hotel Suba Palace, Gordon House Hotel etc. Hotel Suba Palace Ideally in closeness to the Arabian Sea and also the famous Gateway of India, Hotel Suba Palace is one of the sought after Maharshtra hotels situated near Nariman Point. It has 50 AC rooms equipped with modern amenities. The hotel also comes with dining facilities at its restaurants, coffee shops and the lounge. Conference room, Laundry, Doctor on call, terrace for programmes are also available at the hotel. Gordon House Hotel Gordon House Hotel located in Mumbai is made in a contemporary, swish style, which makes it stand apart. There are ample accommodation options in the form of luxurious rooms. "Tides" and "All Stir Fry" are the restaurants of the hotel while "Three Flights Up"" is a bar and a club at the hotel. This Maharashtra hotel also comes with facilities like Conference, Banquet, and terrace for social gatherings etc. Last Updated on : 05/06/2013   Hotels in Maharashtra   Hotels in Indian States Hotels by City and Destination Hotels in Goa Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Mahabaleshwar Hotels in Ooty Hotels in Manali Hotels in Mysore Hotels in Puri Hotels in Nainital Hotels in Udaipur Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Pondicherry Hotels in Mount-abu Hotels in Aurangabad Hotels in Bhopal Hotels in Jodhpur Hotels in Kanpur Hotels in Mussoorie Hotels in Delhi Hotels in Jaipur Hotels in Bangalore Hotels in Mumbai Hotels in Hyderabad Hotels in Pune Hotels in Chennai Hotels in Agra Hotels in Chandigarh Hotels in Mangalore Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Mathura Hotels in Nashik Hotels in Noida Hotels in Raipur Hotels in Rishikesh Hotels in Bhubaneswar Hotels in Ahmedabad Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Amritsar Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Gurgaon Hotels in Dehradun Hotels in Haridwar Hotels in Lucknow Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Nagpur Hotels in Allahabad Hotels in Secunderabad Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Surat Hotels in Thane Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Shirdi About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule