Directorate of Research, TNAU, Coimbatore Search this site Home Faculty Research Stations Identification of research problems Dissemination of outcome Monitoring and evaluation Contact us Our Mission To co-ordinate all research activities in Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and to administer / monitor the activities of Research Stations situated in different parts of Tamil Nadu.  Formats for Research Proposals Formats for New proposal, extension proposal, change of project leader, completion report etc. Proforma for research evaluation Externally funded project approval_cover note  Research Stations Regional Research Station, Paiyur Tapioca and Castor Research Station, Yethapur Agricultural Research Station, Bhavanisagar Agricultural Research Station, Vaigaidam Agricultural Research Station, Paramakudi Coastal Saline Research Centre, Ramanathapuram Regional Research Station, Aruppukottai Cotton Research Station, Srivilliputhur Agricultural Research Station, Kovilpatti Rice  Research Station, Ambasamudram Agricultural Research Station, Tirupathisaram Maize Research Station, Vagarai Dryland Agricultural Research Station, Chettinad  Number of varieties released since 1921 Number of crop varieties released since 1921 Contact us The Director of Research Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Coimbatore-641003 India Phone: +91-422-6611447, 547, 526, 527 E-Mail: drres@tnau.ac.in Links TNAU Home Page Home About the Directorate of Research The Directorate of Research was established in June 1971 to co-ordinate all research activities in Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) and to administer / monitor the activities of Research Stations situated in different parts of Tamil Nadu. The Directorate is headed by the Director of Research who is supported by scientists from various faculties in carrying out the activities of the Directorate. Consequent on the formation of Directorate at TRRI, Aduthurai, research stations  in Tamil Nadu has been divided into Region I and Region II.  There are 13  Research Stations grouped under Region I  under the administrative control of Director of Research, TNAU, Coimbatore. The Director of Research is the Nodal Officer for implementing the schemes funded by ICAR and other external agencies including NATP. The procedure for monitoring the University research sub projects in an effective manner through centralized system was dispensed from 2003 and decentralized monitoring system by the respective technical University Officers for effective implementation is presently in operation.   Due to decentralization, the schemes, research sub-projects etc. other than Region I are being monitored by the concerned University Officer / Directorate. The newer research schemes funded by various agencies are implemented at various centres with the approval of the Vice-Chancellor. Generally, these schemes are prepared as University research sub projects and got approved for effective implementation. Besides, University research sub projects are also prepared by the scientists working in the University under Plan and Non-plan scheme on the research aspects that warrants action by the scientists on the day to day issues.   Responsibilities Pivotal centre for operating Tamil Nadu Government sponsored activities, Nodal Office for ICAR, NAIP, foreign and other private agencies funded schemes, Reviewing the completed projects under Research Advisory Committee to finalise the outcome to be either taken for further research or extension activities  Read More Identification of research problems The problems for research are identified during the discussion in monthly zonal workshops of each districts, Transfer of Technology  centres, Statewide Farmers Interactive meeting, Farmers’ Days in various campuses and Research Stations, State Research and Extension Councils, State Scientific Workers’ Conference  Read More Dissemination of outcome The Project Leaders publish the findings from their research projects in various National and International journals which are valued greatly by the scientific community.  They also publish popular articles in Journals and news papers for the benefit of the farming community. Click Here Hit counter since 23.2.2014 Sign in | Recent Site Activity | Report Abuse | Print Page | Powered By Google Sites