Aamir Khan Biography - Life Story, Career, Awards and Achievements India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Entertainment » Aamir Khan   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Aamir Khan Biography Aamir Khan is a famous actor, producer, and director of Hindi films who is regarded as one of the finest actors and youth icons in India. Early life of Aamir Khan Aamir Hussain Khan was born on March 14, 1965. He belongs to a Muslim family which for an extensive period of time has been associated with Hindi films. Aamir Khan's father, Tahir Hussain was a producer of Hindi films. At the same time, Nasir Hussain, his uncle, was a renowned film producer, actor, and director. Their family came from Herat in Afghanistan. Aamir Khan is a second cousin to Dr Najma Heptulla, previous Chairperson of Rajya Sabha. He is also an inheritor of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, the well-known academic and freedom fighter. Beginning of Aamir Khan's career Aamir Khan began his journey as an actor when he was a child and acted in the film Yaadon Ki Baaraat in 1973. This film was directed and produced by his uncle Nasir Hussain and is one of the most remembered films of the 1970s. Next year, he also acted in Madhosh. After a period of 10 years, Aamir made his debut as a professional actor in the film Holi directed by Ketan Mehta. The film released in 1984. However, the character of Aamir Khan in this film went somewhat overlooked. How Aamir Khan became a Superstar Aamir experienced his first success when he acted in Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak in 1988. The director of this film was Mansoor Khan, who is his cousin and son of Nasir Hussain. He played the male lead role in this film which won him the first National Film Award (Special Jury Award). Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak was a blockbuster during that time which helped Aamir start his career as a promising actor in Hindi films. The next year, Raakh was released which also had Aamir in the lead role. This film also became popular but not like Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak. Aamir won the National Film Award (Special Jury Award) for his admirable performance in this film. For his appearance, he is often dubbed as the "Chocolate Hero" of Indian cinema. Subsequently, Aamir Khan acted in a number of films in the late 1980s and early 1990s such as Dil (1990), which was the top grosser in 1990, Jo Jeeta Wohi Sikandar (1992), Dil Hai Ke Manta Nahin (1991), Rangeela (1995), and Hum Hain Rahi Pyar Ke (1993). Khan was the screenwriter for the film Hum Hain Rahi Pyar Ke. He received his first Filmfare Award for Best Actor for acting in Raja Hindustani in 1996. He received the second award in this category for Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India which was released in 2001. The film was nominated for the Academy Award in the category of the Best Foreign Language Film and was the third Indian film to be nominated in this category. This was the first initiative of his production house, Aamir Khan Productions. The majority of films in which he acted are commercial successes and grossed big revenues. His other achievements include Andaz Apna Apna in which he acted with Salman Khan, another superstar of Bollywood. When the film released, the critics did not give it a positive review. However, with the passage of time, the movie has achieved the position of a cult movie. Aamir Khan took a four-year gap from acting after Lagaan in 2001. He returned to Stardom when he played the lead role in Mangal Pandey: The Rising in 2005. He subsequently acted in Rang De Basanti (2006) for which he received a Filmfare Critics Award for Best Actor. In 2007, he directed his first film Taare Zameen Par and this film won him the Filmfare Award for Best Director. The next year, Ghajini was released and it was the top grosser in 2008. The comedy film 3 Idiots in 2009 was a major breakthrough in his career, which was the top revenue earning Hindi film in history. It was simply an unparalleled feat. Other notable films in which he acted are Ishq (1997) with Ajay Devgan, Juhi Chawla, and Kajol, Ghulam (1998), in which film he sung as a playback singer, Sarfarosh (1999), Dil Chahta Hai (2000) with Saif Ali Khan, Akshaye Khanna, and Preity Zinta, and Fanaa (2006) with Kajol. Aamir Khan as a producer As a producer, Aamir Khan produced the following films: Lagaan in 2001 Jaane Tu... Ya Jaane Na in 2008 Taare Zameen Par in 2007 Dhobi Ghat in 2011 Peepli Live in 2010 Delhi Belly in 2011 Talaash in 2012 Personal Life of Aamir Khan Aamir Khan has been married two times. He first married Reena Dutta who played a small role in Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak in 1986. He has two kids from his first marriage, a daughter, Ira and a son, Junaid. The couple divorced in the end of 2002. In 2005, he tied the knot with Kiran Rao who was the assistant director of the film Lagaan. He is an avid disciple of Dada Vaswani. In 2011, Kiran Rao and Aamir declared the birth of their son, Azad Rao Khan, via a surrogate mother. Awards and achievements by Aamir Khan Given below is a list of the awards and achievements by Aamir Khan: National Film Awards National Film Award - Special Jury Award / Special Mention (Feature Film) - Actor for Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak and Raakh in 1989 National Film Award for Best Popular Film Providing Wholesome Entertainment for Lagaan (shared with Ashutosh Gowarikar) in 2001 National Film Award for Best Film on Family Welfare for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Civilian Award Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award of India from the Government of India in 2003. Padma Bhushan, the third highest civilian honor of India from the Government of India in 2010. Filmfare Awards Aamir Khan received the following awards and honors: Filmfare Best Male Debut Award for Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak in 1989 Filmfare Best Actor Award for Raja Hindustani in 1997 Filmfare Best Actor Award for Lagaan in 2002 Filmfare Best Movie Award for Lagaan in 2002 Filmfare Critics Award for Best Actor for Rang De Basanti in 2007 Filmfare Best Movie Award for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Filmfare Best Director Award for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Star Screen Awards (Currently, Colours Screen Awards) Aamir Khan received the following awards: Star Screen Award for Best Actor for Raja Hindustani in 1997 Star Screen Award for Best Supporting Actor for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Star Screen Award for Best Director for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Star Screen Award for Most Promising Debut Director for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 International Indian Film Academy Awards (IIFA) IIFA Best Movie Award for Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India, shared with Ashutosh Gowariker in 2002 IIFA Best Actor Award for Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India in 2002 Bengal Film Journalists' Association Awards He won the following awards: BFJA Awards, Best Actor for Akele Hum Akele Tum & Rangeela in 1995 BFJA Awards, Best Actor for Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India in 2001 Zee Cine Awards Zee Cine Award Best Actor- Male for Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India in 2002 Zee Cine Award Best Actor- Male for Sarfarosh in 2000 Zee Cine Award for Best Director for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Gollapudi Srinivas Award He received the Best Debut Director Award for Taare Zameen Par. Bollywood Movie Awards Bollywood Movie Award - Critics Award Male in 2002 for Dil Chahta Hai Bollywood Movie Award - Best Actor in 2002 for Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India Global Indian Film Awards (GIFA) Nominated 2007 - Best Actor for Rang De Basanti Stardust Awards Nominated Stardust Dream Director Award for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Stardust Best Film Award for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Stardust Star of the Year Award - Male for Ghajini in 2009 Stardust Star of the Year Award - Male for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Stardust Star of the Year Award - Male for 3 Idiots in 2010 BIG Star Entertainment Awards nominated BIG Star - Film Actor of Decade (Male) in 2010 Other Awards Planet Bollywood People's Choice Awards: Best Director for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Bollywood People's Choice Awards: Best Actor for Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India in 2001 V. Shantaram Awards: Best Film Gold Award for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Planet Bollywood People's Choice Awards: Best Supporting Actor for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Bollywood Hungama Surfers Choice Movie Awards 2008: Best Actor Award for Ghajini in 2009 V. Shantaram Awards: Best Director Silver Award for Taare Zameen Par in 2008 Apsara Awards: Best Director for Taare Zameen Par in 2009 Apsara Awards: Best Movie for Taare Zameen Par in 2009 Dadasaheb Phalke Awards: Phalke Memorial Performance Award for 3 Idiots in 2010 Honors and accolades of Aamir Khan Aamir was awarded with a "Special Award" in April 2008 from Master Dinanath Mangeshkar Smruti Pratisthan for his outstanding contributions to the Indian film industry. Aamir was named "Man of the Year" in December 2001 by Bombay Times. Aamir was honored with the "Indian of the Year in Entertainment" Award in January 2009 from CNN-IBN. He was honored with "Indian of The Year in Cinema" Award in January 2009 by NDTV He got the "Raj Kapoor Smriti Vishesh Gaurav Puraskar" in May 2009 by the Government of Maharastra for exceptional services to the Indian film industry. He was one of the 10 receivers of the IIFA-FICCI Frames Awards in February 2009 for the "Most Powerful Entertainers of the Decade". On November 30, 2011, Aamir was designated as the countrywide brand ambassador of UNICEF to encourage child nourishment.   Related Links   Bollywood Aamir Khan John Abraham Raj Babbar Abhijeet Sawant Johnny Walker Raj Kapoor Abhishek Bachchan Juhi Chawla Rajendra Kumar Aditi Govitrikar Kader Khan Rajendra Nath Aishwarya Rai Kajol Rajesh Khanna Ajay Devgan Kareena Kapoor Dr Rajkumar Akshay Kumar Karishma Kapoor Rajnikant Akshaye Khanna Katrina Kaif Randhir Kapoor Amisha Patel Kim Sharma Raveena Tandon Amitabh Bachchan Kishore Kumar Rekha Ganesan Amrita Arora Kumar Gaurav Rimi Sen Amrita Rao Kundan Lal Saigal Rinkie Khanna Anil Kapoor Lalita Pawar Ritesh Deshmukh Antara Mali Lata Mangeshkar Riya Sen Ashutosh Rana Lisa Ray S. Janaki Ayesha Takia Lucky Ali Saif Ali Khan Babita Madhuri Dixit Salman Khan Bipasha Basu Mahesh Bhatt Sameera Reddy Bobby Deol Mahesh Manjrekar Sanjay Dutt Celina Jaitley Mahima Choudhary Satyajit Ray Chandrachur Singh Malaika Arora Shabana Azmi Deepa Mehta Mallika Sherawat Shah Rukh Khan Dilip Kumar Manisha Koirala Shahid Kapoor Dimple Kapadia Manoj Bajpai Shamita Shetty Dino Morea Meghna Reddy Shammi Kapoor Diya Mirza Mehmood Sharmila Tagore Esha Deol Milind Soman Shashikala Fardeen Khan Mohammed Rafi Smita Patil Farhan Akhtar Namrata Shirodkar Soha Ali Khan Gracy Singh Nandita Das Sonali Bendre Gulzar Naseeruddin Shah Sonali Kulkarni Hema Malini Neha Dhupia Sonu Nigam Hrithik Roshan Om Puri Suchitra Sen Isha Koppikar Pooja Bedi Sunil Shetty Jackie Shroff Pooja Bhatt Sunny Deol Jagdeep Preeti Jhangiani Sushmita Sen Javed Akhtar Preity Zinta Tabu Jaya Bachchan Prithviraj Kapoor Tara Sharma Jimmy Shergill Priyanka Chopra Tusshar Kapoor Jitendra Rahul Khanna Yash Chopra Zohra Sehgal Television Ekta Kapoor Jaspal Bhatti   Telugu cinema Chiranjeevi Nagarjuna   Tamil cinema Ilaiyaraaja     Malayalam cinema Mammootty     Last Updated on : April 14, 2015             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule