National e-Governance Plan | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > E-Governance > National e-Governance Plan National e-Governance Plan This section links Initiatives Central Initiatives States Initiatives Updates Mission Mode Projects Central MMPs State MMPs Integrated MMPs National e-Governance Plan The National e-Governance Plan (NeGP) has been formulated by the Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DEITY) and Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG). The Union Government approved the NeGP, comprising of 27 Mission Mode Projects (MMPs) and 10 components on May 18, 2006. The NeGP aims at improving delivery of Government services to citizens and businesses with the following vision: "Make all Government services accessible to the common man in his locality, through common service delivery outlets and ensure efficiency, transparency & reliability of such services at affordable costs to realise the basic needs of the common man." Implementation Strategy, Approach and Methodology of NeGP Implementation of e-Governance is a highly complex process requiring provisioning of hardware & software, networking, process re-engineering and change management. Based on lessons learnt from the past and the experience from successful e-Governance applications, the approach and methodology adopted for NeGP contains the following elements: i. Common Support Infrastructure: NeGP implementation involves setting up of common and support IT infrastructure such as: State Wide Area Networks (SWANs), State Data Centres (SDCs), Common Services Centres (CSCs) and Electronic Service Delivery Gateways. ii. Governance: Suitable arrangements for monitoring and coordinating the implementation of NeGP under the direction of the competent authorities have also been substantially put in place. The programme also involves evolving/ laying down standards and policy guidelines, providing technical support, undertaking capacity building, R&D, etc. DEITY is required to adequately strengthen itself and various institutions like NIC, STQC, CDAC, NISG, etc. to play these roles effectively. iii. Centralised Initiative, Decentralised Implementation: e-Governance is being promoted through a centralised initiative to the extent necessary to ensure citizen-centric orientation, to realise the objective of inter-operability of various e-Governance applications and to ensure optimal utilisation of ICT infrastructure and resources while allowing for a decentralised implementation model. It also aims at identifying successful projects and replicating them with required customisation wherever needed. iv. Public-Private Partnerships (PPP): PPP model is to be adopted wherever feasible to enlarge the resource pool without compromising on the security aspects. v. Integrative Elements: Adoption of unique identification codes for citizens, businesses and property is to be promoted to facilitate integration and avoid ambiguity. vi. Programme Approach at the National and State levels: For implementation of the NeGP, various Union Ministries/Departments and State Governments are involved. Considering the multiplicity of agencies involved and the need for overall aggregation and integration at the national level, NeGP is being implemented as a programme, with well-defined roles and responsibilities of each agency involved. For facilitating this, appropriate programme management structures have also been put in place. vii. Facilitator role of DEITY: DEITY is the facilitator and catalyst for the implementation of NeGP by various Ministries and State Governments and also provides technical assistance. It serves as a secretariat to the Apex Committee and assists it in managing the programme. In addition, DEITY is also implementing pilot/ infrastructure/ technical/ special projects and support components. DARPG’s responsibility is towards Government Process Re-engineering and Change Management, which are desired to be realised across all government departments. Planning Commission and Ministry of Finance allocate funds for NeGP through Plan and Non-plan budgetary provisions and lay down appropriate procedures in this regard. viii. Ownership of Ministries: Under the NeGP, various MMPs are owned and spearheaded by the concerned line Ministries. In case there are any ongoing projects which fall in the MMP category, they would be suitably enhanced to align them with the objectives of NeGP. For major projects like Bharat Nirman, Rural Employment Guarantee Schemes, etc. the line ministries concerned are advised to make use of e-Governance as also automation techniques from the inception stage. States have been given the flexibility to identify a few additional state-specific projects, which are relevant for the economic development of the State. For more information on NeGP services, projects, infrastructure, knowledge and collaboration please visit negp.gov.in. For further information please contact: National e-Governance Division Electronics Niketan 6, CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi- 110 003 Phone: +91-11-24364757 +91-11-24301931 Fax: +91-11-30481611 e-mail: info[at]negp[dot]gov[dot]in Website: negp.gov.in About the Portal Contact us Feedback Help Link to Us Newsletter Tell a Friend Website Policy Accessibility Statement Visitor Summary Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communication Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services Online Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms People Speak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance This is the National Portal of India, developed with an objective to enable a single window access to information and services being provided by the various Indian Government entities. The content in this Portal is the result of a collaborative effort of various Indian Government Ministries and Departments, at the Central/State/District level. This Portal is Mission Mode Project under the National E-Governance Plan, designed and maintained by National Informatics Centre (NIC), DeitY, MoCIT, Government of India. Last reviewed and updated on 21 May, 2015