Top Chocolate Brands in India Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Top-Brands-India         Educational Food Products Kitchen Appliances Life Insurance Mutual Fund Consumer Durables DTH Laptop Retail Matress Brands AC Brands Beer Brands Bi Cycle Brands Biscuit Brands Desktop Computer Brands Basmati Rice Brands Namkeen Brands Shampoo Brands Tea Brands Baby Food Brands Jewelry Brands Perfume Brands Apparel Brands Chocolate Brands Digital Camera Brands Lipstick Brands hotel Brands Shirt Brands Men Clothing Brands Milk Brands Newspaper Brands Restaurant Chain Brands Car Brands Coffee Brands ice Cream Brands Mobile Brands Detergent Brands Face Wash Brands Baby Toy Brands Skin Care Cream Brands Soap Brands Tooth Paste Brands Bathroom Fittings Brands Washing Machine Brands Watch Brands Microwave Oven Brands Shoe Brands TV Brands Ketchup Brands Motor Bike Brands Soft Drink Brands Noodle Brands Scooty Brands Shaving Cream Brands Top Online Retailers You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Top-brands-India » Top Chocolate Brands in India Top Chocolate Brands in India Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  66  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 Chocolates are not just meant for kids but for everyone. If you look at the consumption scenario in India only, then you will get to know that from adolescents to young people to middle-aged people all are consumers of chocolates And there have been studies proving this fact. This is the reason the chocolate industry is day-by-day growing in India. Chocolates now grace the most auspicious occasions in India, be it festivals like Diwali, a wedding, an engagement or birthday ceremonies. Most of the chocolate brands in India produce chocolates in different sizes, shapes and designs that are priced accordingly. Most popular chocolates like Diary Milk and Five Star can be bought for just Rs. 5. In India, chocolates are tardily but steadily replacing traditional Indian sweets, or we can say ‘Mithai’. Owing to ascending social cognisance, on festivities and functions, people choose to gift well-wrapped chocolates over traditional sweets. Capitalising this situation, top chocolate brands in India are currently concentrating more on the packaging and introducing well-packaged designer chocolates for specific occasions. Apart from that, increasing health consciousness among the urban masses is also tempting them towards dark chocolates rather than calorie-stuffed sweets. Ad campaigns like ‘Meethe Pe Kuch Meetha Ho Jaye’ and ‘Shubh Arambh’ are also luring consumers towards making chocolates a part of their everyday life. List of India's leading and popular chocolate brands: Cadbury Cadbury is a British multinational chocolate major. It is handled by Mondelez India (earlier Cadbury India). Cadbury was established in Birmingham, U.K. by John Cadbury in 1824. Cadbury entered India in 1948 and started its operations by importing chocolates. Today, Cadbury is the most loved and most widely sold in India. According to Euromonitor International, Cadbury accounted for 55.5% of the total chocolate sales in India during 2014. Dairy Milk is the flagship brand of Cadbury. Here are some of the most famous Cadbury variants: Dairy Milk 5 Star Gems Perk Silk Bournville Celebrations Nestle Founded in 1866, Nestle is a multinational beverage and consumer food items company based in Switzerland. Henry Nestle founded the company in Vevey, Switzerland. Nestle came to India in the late 1950s. Nestle was the second best-selling chocolate brand in India in 2014 with 17% share of the total sales volume. Kit Kat, a bar of crisp wafer fingers covered with chocolate layer, is Nestle's flagship variant in India. Some of the widely consumed Nestle brands are as follows: Extra Smooth Kit Kat Senses Kit Kat Dark Senses Alpino Kit Kat Bar-One Munch Ferrero India Ferrero is an Italian food and beverage company founded in 1946 by Michele Ferrero. The company started its business in India in 2004 and has gained a considerable ground in the Indian chocolate industry within a decade. It is famous for its unique taste defined by its main ingredients – creamy filling, a crunchy wafer and a hazelnut centre. Ferrero India was the third biggest chocolate brand in India as it held 5% market share in 2014. Ferrero Rocher is the flagship variant of Ferrero India. Here are some of the Ferrero variants: Ferrero Rocher Nutella Kinder Raffaello Mon Cheri Amul Amul is India's indigenous dairy cooperative primarily dealing in dairy products. It is also one of the biggest players involved in chocolate manufacturing industry of India. Amul is owned by Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd. (GCMMF) and was founded in 1946 by Dr. Verghese Kurien. The credit of making India the largest producer of milk and dairy products by bringing about the 'White Revolution' goes to Amul. Milk chocolate is Amul's most trusted brand amongst Indians. Accounting for 1.1% of India's overall chocolate sales volume in 2014, Amul stands fourth. Some of its variants are as follows: Milk Chocolate Dark Chocolate Fruit & Nut Chocolate Tropical Orange Chocolate Almond Bar Mars India International Mars was established in 1911 by Franc C. Mars in Washington, U.S.A. The first recognised brand of Mars was Milky Way that was launched in 1920s. Mars has been popular in India as well. Very recently, Mars has started its manufacturing in India. Snickers and Galaxy are the most popular chocolates in India that are made by Mars. The company was the fifth biggest seller of chocolates in India in 2014 as it got 1.1% share of the total sales. Some of its products are as follows: Snickers Galaxy Mars Milky Way Skittles M&M's Twix Campco Campco (Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd.) is an Indian cooperative that was founded in 1973 in Mangalore, Karnataka. Areca nut is the main ingredient of the Campco chocolate products, which is mainly cultivated in Indian states of Kerala, Karnataka and Assam. Campco processes, procures, markets and sells areca nut and cocoa. Some of its products are as follows: Bar Krust Fun Tan Melto Snack Bar Treat Turbo Dairy Cream ChocOn India ChocOn started making chocolates in 1998, but it was founded in 1994 and started off with manufacturing bottled mineral water. The company's operations were stretched to a whole new manufacturing segment of sweet and the first brand was Milk N Nut, which was launched in 1998. Since then, a series of exciting tasty chocolate brands have been launched. Some of ChocOn’s products are as follows: Chocolaty Bar Milcreme Choco Bar ChocOn Coconut Parle World's best-selling biscuit Parle-G is the flagship product of Parle, an Indian manufacturer of consumer goods, confectioneries and beverages. Parle was founded in 1929 by Vile Parle's Chauhan family. The company is the biggest biscuit manufacturer in India. It deals in confectionery items as well. Parle products are a rare combination of fine taste, nutrition and quality. Chocolate variants of Parle are as follows: Kismi Bar Kismi Toffee 2-in-1 Eclairs 2-in-1 Fruit Drops Lotus The Lotus chocolate company was founded in 1992 and is the maker of some of India's finest and most exquisite chocolates, cocoa derivatives and cocoa products. Lotus supplies cocoa and chocolate products to local bakeries as well as multinational chocolate manufacturers. Chuckles Milky Punch Eclairs Kajoos Candyman Candyman is owned by Indian conglomerate ITC founded in 1910 and based in Kolkata, West Bengal. ITC launched its confectionery brands in 2002. Within a little more than a decade of its existence, Candyman has launched a wide range of confectionery variants that have ruled over Indian masses. Candyman is admired by the people of India for the innovative and unique taste it provides through various products. Choco Double Eclairs Eclairs Creme Lacto Toffichoo Cofitino Last Updated on May 25, 2015 Top-Chocolate-Brands-in-India Chocolate Market choco-a-la-carte Cookie Man India Amul India Blue Bird Cadbury India Overview Cadbury India More Products New Product Launches New Insurance Product Petrochemical Products Leading dairy Product About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED