Ukhrul District Map Home » Maps » Manipur » Districts » Ukhrul District Map   District of Manipur East Imphal West Imphal Churachandpur Ukhrul Tamenglong              more.. मणिपुर का नक्शा Manipur Manipur Map Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Capital Imphal City Map Bishnupur City Map > Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Travel to Manipur Places to visit in Manipur Wildlife Sanctuaries Govindajee Temple War Cemetery Agricultural Map Geography Economy Media Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies- Inner Parliamentary Constituencies- Outer Government Education Universities In Manipur History Mineral Map Society and Culture Sex Ratio Pincode STD code       Ukhrul District Map District Map of Ukhrul Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Ukhrul District Map highlights the National Highways, Major Roads, District Headquarter, etc in Ukhrul . Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Ukrul is a small town and a district in the state of Manipur and stands for the administrative head quarters and also carries the tradition and culture of the Tanghuls. The town is the home of around 80,000 people from all fields of life. Geographical location The total geographical area of Ukhrul is around 8,200 sq km and lies at an altitude of 913 m to 3114m MSL. The temperature of the district is 3 degree Celsius to 33 degrees Celsius. The place receives 1600 mm to rainfall to 2100 mm. it is located at 24N to 25.41 N, 94 E to 94.47 E. Ukhrul is situated about 83 km from Imphal, which is the state capital and also has a national highway running through it. The district is bordered by Myanmar to the east and therefore becomes a sensitive place as it has an international border. Imphal lies to the east and to the west like Senapati district and Nagaland to the north. It has a hilly terrain with varying heights. Rivers Tuyeng and Maklang are the primary rivers of Ukhrul that lie in the Kasom Khullen and the Kamjong sub-division. River Thoubal originates in Ukhurl and flows from north Ukhrul and is recognized as the longest river of the district. People of Ukhrul Tangkhuls live here and are highly cultured people. Tangkhuls can be recognized with their pierced earlobes. They are originally of the Mongolian race and their language is called the Sino-Tibetan. They are from the north and the south west China and Tibet. The people of Ukhrul cultivate rice, maize, cabbage, groundnuts, leafy vegetables, potato, chilies etc. Fruits like sugarcane, orange, lemon, and banana are grown here in plenty. Cotton production is also carried on, on a large scale. Their staple food is rice and vegetables. Festivals of Ukhrul As the people of Manipur were agriculturists, all the festivals are observed around the agricultural activities. They are followed by religious rituals and people also observed strict codes of conduct during the feasts. Some of the major festivals are the Luira, which is the seed sowing festival and is observed around the months of January to March. People entertain their guests and offer grand meals and drinks. The Yarra is another ante-cultivation festival that comes around the months of April and May and is mainly a youth festival. Mangkhap is a post - Trans -plantation festival in the month of July and the people observe religious traditions and thank the rains and the god for a good crop. Last Updated on : 15 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule