Terms of Use : Official Website of Government of Jharkhand Click for Archive Website Skip to Main Content Skip to Navigation Sign In A A A- A A+ Government of Jharkhand Official website of the state Home About Directory Photo Gallery e Services You are here : Home Terms of Use Terms and Conditions   The Jharkhand Agency for Promotion of Information Technology (JAPIT)on behalf of Government of Jharkhand provides only the facility for transacting with Government Offices through the Internet. The service delivery is subject to the acts and rules promulgated by the Government from time to time. Electronic delivery of Government services are in compliance to the IT act 2000. The special conditions and the terms of service applicable to Internet delivery are detailed in this document.   The following terms and conditions will apply if you wish to use the Internet for availing a service. Please go through the conditions carefully and if you accept them, you may create a user and transact on the site. After creating a user you have to register the basic personal details on the site for availing a service (this is not required for bill payment services). Please note that once you register yourself on the State Potal site, you are deemed to have agreed to the terms and conditions set forth below. If You do not agree with all these terms and conditions, you must not transact on this Website.   If a user violates the terms and conditions of use by registering more than one userid and or availing services on such multiple userids, JAPIT / Government reserves the right to deactivate all such user registration and cancel any or all services requested without any notice. Garbage / Junk values in profile may lead to Deactivation.   Government's performance of this agreement is subject to existing laws and legal processes of Govt. Of Jharkhand, and nothing contained in this agreement is in derogation of Government's right to comply with law enforcement requests or requirements relating to your use of this Web Site or information provided to or gathered by SSDG with respect to such use. You agree that Government may provide details of your use of the Web Site to regulators or police or to any other third party, or in order to resolve disputes or complaints which relate to the Web Site, at Government's complete discretion.   This agreement is made between: Government of Jharkhand ("Us") and The User ("You"), the individual, whose details are set out in the Portal User Creation page.    Payment Option   The list of payment options available are internet banking /debit card payment / credit card payment from banks that are listed when selecting each of the above options. Apart from the fee chargeable to Government against each service, bank / payment gateway transaction charges will be applicable extra. Once you register yours and your family members basic profile data as the case may be, you can apply for a service. For online payment services the registration is not mandatory. The status of the applications submitted online shall be searched using the Status menu. SMS will be sent to your registered mobile number at different stages of processing of your application. In case of a failed transaction the user shall have no right to claim the amount. The loss on this account shall not be borne either by Government or by the Banks /Payment Gateways.   User Creation   You are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of the password and account, and are fully responsible for all activities that occur under your password or account.   Complaints Procedure   You can reach us on the contact details given in the ‘Contacts' link given in the login page.   Your obligations   General Obligations:   You shall access State Portal web site only for lawful purposes and you shall be responsible for complying with all applicable laws, statutes and regulations in connection with the use of Government web site. This Website is for your personal and non-commercial use. You shall not modify, copy, distribute, transmit, display, perform, reproduce, publish, license, create derivative works from, transfer or sell any information, or services obtained from this Website. You shall not create a hypertext link to the Website or "frame" the Website, except with the express advance written permission of the Government.    Information Provided   Services offered   This State Portal scheme / project as detailed below has been formulated under the National e-Governance Plan (NeGP) to fulfill the vision of providing easy and convenient services to the citizens through remote access primarily through Common Service Centres (CSCs) and enabling the State Portal by implementing the key components State Portal viz. SSDG, electronic Form ("eForms"), Application and Computing Infrastructure).   The objective of the State Portal & SSDG scheme is to ensure the following:   ► Providing easy, anywhere and anytime access to Government Services (both Information & Transactional)   ► Reducing number of visits of citizens to a Government office / department for availing the services   ► Reducing administrative burden and service fulfillment time & costs for the Government, Citizens & Businesses   ► Reducing direct interaction of citizen with the Government and encourage „e‟-interaction and more efficient communication through portal     Cancellation / Refund policy   The fees once paid will not be refunded for applications which are successfully submitted or for successful bill payment services. Cancellation of applications / bill payments shall not be entertained. The amount paid may be settled with the respective departments. In case of a failed transaction the user shall have no right to claim the amount. The loss on this account shall not be borne either by Government or by the Banks / Payment Gateways. However automatic refund will be made for transactions which are not successful   Contact Details   SSDG Project Related Queries   Shri A. K. Satyajeet, OSD Jharkhand Agency for Promotion of Information Technology Email: osdjapit@gmail.com Phone: 9431701138   Technical Issues   Vishal Alok Email: vishal.alok@tcs.com Phone: +91-9608380901 State Department and Agencies Agriculture Animal Husbandry Art & Culture Board of Revenue Disaster Management Forest & Environment Department of Excise Finance Food & Public Distribution Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Human Resources Industries Information & Public Relations Information Technology Labour & Employment Law (Justice) Power & Energy Rural Development Science & Technology Social Development Transport Tourism Department Water Resources Know More... Know Your District Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka East Singhbhum Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan About Us About the Portal Terms of use Policies & Disclaimer Contact us Site Map Accessibility Statement Help Feedback Screen Reader Access FAQ's Weather For Jharkhand --Select-- Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka Jamshedpur Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan Supported By External website that opens in a new window. External website that opens in a new window. This page was last modified on:Fri Jan 02 06:57:22 UTC 2015 All Rights Reserved by Government of Jharkhand, India. Designed & Maintained by TCSL   in cooperation with NIC and JAPIT Validation HTML5 , CSS3   Back to Top