Languages in Amritsar Home » Amritsar » Tourist Attraction » Akal Takht   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Languages in Amritsar The city of Amritsar is a cosmopolitan place with the co-existence of people of many religions, cultures and languages. Among the many spoken languages in Amritsar Punjabi, Hindi, Urdu and English are the main ones. The most spoken language in the city of Amritsar is however, Punjabi. The city of Amritsar is situated in the Indian state of Punjab, where a large part of the people is Punjabi. The mother tongue of these people is Punjabi. A dialect of the Punjabi language, which is known as Maajhi, is very popularly spoken in the whole of the Amritsar City as well as in the surrounding villages. Maajhi, the Punjabi dialect is considered the standard form of Punjabi Language in the city of Amritsar. Punjabi is a language that is now spoken by people worldwide. The speakers that speak Punjabi are spread out in the whole world. Punjabi is also spelled as Panjabi and it is a central Indo-Aryan language. As people of many religions and languages inhabit the city of Amritsar, they also speak languages like Hindi, English and Urdu. Hindi is the official language of the country and is spoken by many people in Amritsar for obvious reasons. The tourists that visit the city communicate in languages like Hindi or English. Punjabi Language Among the different languages that are spoken by the people in the city of Amritsar, Punjabi secures a main place. The majority of the city is Sikhs and they speak Punjabi. Although the Sikhs consist of the major part of the population of the city of Amritsar, the other people in the city speak other languages like English, Hindi, Urdu and Maajhi. The most spoken language in the city of Amritsar and in its surrounding rural areas is Maajhi, which is a dialect of Punjabi. In Amritsar, the dialect of Punjabi, Maajhi is regarded as the Standard Punjabi. The language of Punjabi is also sometimes spelled as Panjabi and it is a central Indo-Aryan language. It is mainly spoken in the state of Punjab and its different districts. The Punjabi Language is also spoken in the adjoining states of Punjab in India. Beyond the boundary of the country, the people in the country of Pakistan also speak the language. The Punjabi Language is one of the fourteen regional languages that have been recognized in the constitution of India so far. Punjabi is a language that is spoken by people in various places on earth. The speakers of this language are spread all over the world. Last Updated on 25/07/2013 About Amritsar History Massacre Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Weather Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule