XFN: What's Out There? XFN : What's Out There? Tools Jim Winstead, Jr. has added XFN support to blo.gs . That's over 5000 more blogrolls that now have easy to edit XFN support! Matthew Haughey suggested it and provides a screenshot of their XFN support . Paul Hammond discussed it as well. Adam Gessaman has written an XFN tool called XFNifier . Phil McCluskey has written an XFN Relationship Lookup Engine. Introducing rubhub.com : Rubhub is a lookup engine for determining the relationships between people who author personal websites. The relationships are based on XFN Add your XFN Friendly pages to rubhub . Coolness! Eric Meyer has improved XFN dumper and released v0.21 . dda has updated a bookmarklet (XFN dump v2) that was originally written (XFN dump) by Ben Zanin which now creates a new window instead of a dialog. Buzz Anderson has written a Blosxom plugin for XFN . D. Keith Robinson has written a Movable Type (MT) template for an XFN Friendly Link List . WordPress has made available their version 1.0.1 release candidate with more robust XFN support . WordPress has shipped release 1.0 with user friendly support for XFN! Manuel Razzari took the XFN Creator and produced a Spanish version, Creador de XFN , and graciously contributed it to the XFN effort! Nvu — thanks to Daniel Glazman . WordPress support coming soon. Dreamweaver extension coming soon courtesy Angela Buraglia . Sites Matthias Vandermaesen 's Weg van hier uses XFN. William Cox 's Frequent Reads list is now XFN Friendly. Ian Hickson has added XFN to the blogroll in his portal . Damien has added XFN to his blogroll. Jeffrey Zeldman has added XFN to his Externals page. Japhthor al Chil 's Japhthor Approved™ list uses XFN. David Engel 's blog is XFN Friendly. Thijs van der Vossen 's Friends & Family list is XFN Friendly. Peter Janes 's blog and External Links are . Dougal Campbell 's blogroll is . Brad Bice had made his Some Links section on his blog . dda has made his Neighbourhoods . Kishore Balakrishnan 's People links are . Jevon 's "Relevant Links" uses XFN. Markus Kniebes has written about making his blogroll . Mark Stevens ' Friends list is . Mark Pilgrim 's list of "People" on his blog is . Pete Prodoehl 's "Daily Visits" list is . Phil McCluskey 's home page is . Claire Robertson is using XFN relationship values in her selection of sites in her blogroll loaded at random. Wade Minter is . Martin Röll 's blogroll is now . Joris Artels 's Mensen list is now . Chris Crockett has made his blogroll . Mark Cornick 's Links are . Alexander Cooke has added XFN to his Links . Simon Jessey has made his "out there" list XFN friendly . Phil McCluskey 's home page is . David Osolkowski has included XFN data in the list of blogs he reads and his Recommended list is now . Kelson Vibber and Katherine Foreman's K-Squared Ramblings ' list of Friends' Journals is . Paul 's "People I Know" list is . Richard Menneveux is . zone41.net is . Shirley Kaiser has added XFN to her Regular Reads roll. Richard Rutter has made his blog roll . Jemal Cole is using XFN in his blog roll. Sako Eaton has started using XFN in his blog entries. Doc Searls has dipped his blogroll into XFN, and is using a little CSS2 to visually indicate who in his blogroll he has met. George Nemeth has demonstrated the use of XFN in his recent blog postings. D. Keith Robinson has added XFN info to his External Essentials column on his blog John Halcyon Styn who helped inspire XFN , now has an links page . Ross Mayfield also provides a list of attendees from the belowmentioned dinner enhanced with XFN. Roger Darlington 's blogroll is and he is using little XFN mini text buttons to indicate it. Looks like we need an xfn-mini graphic the brand new XFN mini graphic next to the folks with XFN info . Molly Holzschlag 's Famous People List is now . Adrian Rinehart-Balfe 's side bar of links is . Yvonne Adams 's reading list is . Ryan MacMichael has made his blogroll XFN-Friendly . Geof Morris 's blogroll is . Adrian Holovaty has enhanced his blogroll with XFN. Kristine Beeson 's blogroll is XFN enhanced. markmav 's blogroll is . Daniel Glazman has redone his blog and his blogroll is now . Roberto Ortelli 's quelques amis are . Melanie Langenhan 's Favoriten are . Rainer Langenhan now has an blogroll. Chris Davis is using XFN to add 'met' (and other semantics) to his blogroll, and CSS 2.1 which references that XFN to add a presentational asterisk "*" next to the folks he's met! Manuel Razzari is using XFN on his somalínks . Nick Finck is using XFN in his posts to Digital Web Magazine - What's New . Tanya Rabourn added XFN to her blogroll. Dan Cederholm has XFN'fied his blogroll. Dave Shea is using XFN in his blogroll as well. Douglas Bowman is using XFN in his blogroll and his see also sites page. Eric Meyer is using XFN in his blogroll and his recent weblog entries . Matthew Mullenweg has been putting XFN to use in his links page, otherwise known as his Personal Portal Tantek Çelik has been quietly using XFN for quite some time in his 2003 blogroll , and his archive of what was , written shortly after SXSW2003. IRC XFN discussions can be found at irc://irc.freenode.net:6667/gmpg : Network irc.freenode.net Port 6667 Channel #gmpg Hey Readers Tools, Sites, Spiders etc. that use or support XFN will be added to this page. Back to the XFN home page . XFN [ GMPG ] Copyright © 2003–2015 GMPG. Some rights reserved .