Farming as individual is absolutely not possible. - Page 6 AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Join the Editors Farming as individual is absolutely not possible. View Poll Results: Do you agree with the title of this thread? Voters 7 . You may not vote on this poll Yes 5 71.43% No 2 28.57% Page 6 of 6 First ... 4 5 6 Jump to page: Results 51 to 52 of 52 Thread: Farming as individual is absolutely not possible. LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… April 9th, 2015 #51 raghu6961 Join Date Jan 2015 Posts 4 Not a new concept. It’s practiced in all other areas. For example- If you can afford, you can have your individual bungalow or opt to flat system. Over there also, you have luxury or normal. 3 bhk or two. Area and weather etc. Its more or less like affordability, choice and necessity. I like individuality. may not like, someone come and dictate me what should i grow and why. Farmers who have basic education have never failed. Subsidy has to be given, if someone wants food. its very difficult to make more than 7% of profit in farming. bank interest is around 12%,let me say,than 5% has to be given if someone wants food. or else, import food from subsidy amount and try to balance trade deficit. Try with reserve bank governor. he will tell you, why its not possible Regards Reply With Quote April 9th, 2015 #52 vijay50 Join Date Oct 2011 Posts 22 I fully agree that group farming is the best way out. It is possible to have a common gated area , still keeping individual farm plots , to avoid any concerns about partnership business. I have been trying to sell this idea in kerala for quite some time , but did not find many takers. If you read zero budget farming by Palekar he strongly argues organic farming is as dangerous as conventional chemical farming. Reply With Quote Page 6 of 6 First ... 4 5 6 Jump to page: « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread farming , group farming View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 12:27 PM .