What is a Business Plan - format, presentation, structure, uses and more Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Industries we cover         Automobile Aviation Aluminium Cement Cottage Communications Dairy Education Food Fertilizer Hotel Investment Insurance IT Jute Logistics Paper and Pulp Pharmaceutical Petroleum Petrochemical Polymers Retail Steel Software Sugar Telecom Tourism Textile Business Ideas Home Based Business Low Investment Business Ideas For Beginners For Women For Professionals For Accountants For Musicians For NRI For Retired People For Valentine's Day For Christmas For Creative People Home   » business-plan » Business Plan What is a Business Plan Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  70  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 A business plan is an official declaration of an assortment of business objectives along with major guidelines to achieve them. A business plan includes details like the company's profile, top management, functional area, team work and so on. The business objectives generally concentrate on fiscal targets such as production or generation of capital. The business plan of government or non-profit organisations concentrates more on the structural format which is the basis of their tax-exempt standing and optimising profits. Business plan also aims at increasing clientele, changing outlook and branding strategy as a part of its marketing plan. Presentation Structure of Business Plan The structure of a business plan relies heavily on its presentation. Hence, it is vital for new business and even established business to prepare at least two to three business plans. The different presentation structures of a business plan are mentioned as under: Executive summary: A five-minute synopsis of the business plan. It is a brainteaser to stimulate the awareness of prospective businessmen and clients. Slide show: It is a visually attractive presentation format presented with oral recitation of the business plan. It is meant to prompt dialogue and also increase awareness of the prospective investors. The text of the presentation is generally restrained to the short summary and some major statistical figures indicating the fiscal trends and major decision-making yardsticks. If a new product is in the pipeline and there is ample time for promotion, then an exhibition of the product may also be entailed in the plan. Written presentation: This format of presentation is generally for external shareholders. It provides a comprehensive, qualitative written and visually stimulating format. Functional plan: An all-inclusive functional plan for the in-house users is prepared by the administration but may not at the same time attract the attention of the external shareholders. Such business plans have a greater level of truthfulness and familiarity than the presentation aimed at external shareholders. Plan-Format for starting a new Business Mentioned below are the guidelines on how to prepare a business plan for a new business, arranged in sequential order: Title page Content Tables Executive synopsis Business account and relevant details Commercial ambiance assessment Sectoral backdrop Market Assessment and its key players Competitive study Promotional plan Functional Plan Administrative summary Fiscal Summary and objectives Add-ons and landmarks Conclusions Uses of a Business Plan Public contributions: A prospective investor can assess the possibilities of investing in the firm after going through the business plan that outlines details of public offerings. Helps in generating capital: Fund-raising is the basic objective of a business plan as it is associated with the success or failure of the firm. Total quality management: Targeted at enhancing knowledge in all managerial processes, TQM is the chief aim of the business plan. It is widely used in manufacturing, BPO, nuclear science and service industries. Calculated planning: the business plan presents the SWOT analysis (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats) and STEER analysis (Socio-cultural, Technological, Economic, Ecological, and Regulatory) of the firm which helps in defining its future plans as well as in vital decision making. In education sector: Business plans are used in educational institutions to teach fiscal theories. ﻿ Last Updated on 4/18/2015 Business Plans For Airlines For Acquisition For Banking Industry For BPO For Consultancy for Event Management For Financial Services Format For Hospital For Hotel For Restaurant For Software Company For Travel Agency For Advertising Agency For Venture Capital About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED