Bangalore Fort or Tipu Sulatan's Fort - Address, Timings, Attractions | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Travel / Tipu Sultan’s Fort – Bangalore Fort Tipu Sultan’s Fort – Bangalore Fort April 30, 2013 by Priyanka Tipu Sultan’s Fort or Bangalore Fort witnessed the struggle of the Mysore Empire against the British Located in Bengaluru (Bangalore), Tipu Sultan’s Fort (aka Bangalore Fort) was initially built as a mud fort by Kempe Gowda, the founder of Bengaluru. Later, Hyder Ali, father of Tipu Sultan converted it into a stone fort. The Fort has witnessed the struggle of the Mysore Empire against the British. Within the fort is Tipu Sultan’s Summer Palace, which is an impressive piece of architecture in itself. Islamic art adorns the interiors of the palace with inscriptions of, “Abode of Happiness” inscribed across. Teak wood interiors generate curiosity among people to know more about the history associated with Tipu Sultan, also known as the  Tiger of Mysore . There are two floors in the palace with balconies, chambers, four small rooms and a large hall. Paintings and murals on the walls depict and narrate the stories of bravery and chivalry of the Sultan and also portrays his hatred towards the British. There are patches of original paint on the walls of the Summer Palace. You can also visit the Ganpati Temple which is located in the fort complex, or relax in the gardens surrounding the palace. The fort and the palace are partially renovated, but major sections demand care. There is an entry fee for the fort. The management and service may disappoint you though. Hire a guide for a justified explanation and narration of the historical tales associated with the fort. There is a city market that surrounds the fort, but is usually very crowded. Location : KR City Market, Chamrajpet, Bangalore Main Attraction : Tipu Sultan’s Summer Palace Timings:  8:30 am to 5:30 pm (everyday) Entry Fees : Rs. 5 (Indian), Rs. 100 (Foreigners) Photography : Free (Still Camera), Rs. 25 (Video) Related information : Mehrangarh Fort Fort Aguada Mirjan Fort Bekal Fort Jaigarh Fort Bangalore Fort Priyanka I am an independent person who respects the virtues of patience, versatility and creativity. I like to travel around and if by chance I cannot, my dreams help me explore the world! More articles from Priyanka : Khusro Bagh – A tranquil garden surrounding Mughal structures Ocean Park in Hyderabad An Architectural Wonder called the Shore Temple at Mahabalipuram Teli Ka Mandir in the Gwalior Fort: Stunning Blend of North and South Indian Architecture Historical Treasures of Gujari Mahal Archaeological Museum Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Comments Showing 3 Comments : Babu January 31, 2014 at 10:57 pm Thanks a lot. Its very intersting blog and highlights the bravery of Tipu Sultan. But still our rulling goverments are not taking care of his family and his history. Reply Neethu August 3, 2013 at 11:33 pm I will certainly visit the fort Reply chandralekha May 14, 2013 at 11:39 am I must say very nice blog post :). Whenever i plan my trip to bangalore i’ll definitely visit Bangalore fort. Reply Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Baidyanath sah on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd omprakash on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd VIJAY MANGLIK on Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012