Required WORKING PARTNERS..NO INVESTMENT....PROFIT SHARING - Page 2 AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Job Vacancies Required WORKING PARTNERS..NO INVESTMENT....PROFIT SHARING Page 2 of 5 First 1 2 3 4 ... Last Jump to page: Results 11 to 20 of 44 Thread: Required WORKING PARTNERS..NO INVESTMENT....PROFIT SHARING LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… August 19th, 2009 #11 ravi_vkokate Join Date Aug 2009 Posts 11 Blog Entries 1 Dear Sir, With respect to below mail, I am a mechanical engineer by profession and hold a master degree in International Business with 3 yrs exp in export, logistics and supply chain. We are in process of starting a business venture for export of fruits from Maharashtra and in search for a potential investor. As India In 2nd largest country behind China in Production of Fruits but due to availability of proper infrastructure and supply chain we are able to export just 1 % of the same. Maharashtra tops in production of many potential fruits like Banana, Mangoes, Papaya and Pomegranate which has immense potential for export in Gulf and European market. I find a positive ray of hope in the below mail for our possible start up.I wish to have your guidance in this matter as you have huge exprience in this matter.Kindly let us know how we can proceed in this matter. Regards Ravi Kokate Originally Posted by skdhawan3 Dear messers, I am based at Chandigarh where almost all companies have their Regional Offices located I am M.Sc Agriculture and have 25 Yrs Govt service to my credit .Please let me know what Can I do for your organisation Regards Dhawan Please contact.... Reply With Quote August 22nd, 2009 #12 someshjha Join Date Aug 2009 Posts 2 kindly mail details at ID... Please contact.................. Last edited by moderator A; August 22nd, 2009 at 11:24 AM . Reason: Only Business Members are allowed to post contact info. Please click “Upgrade” to become a Business Member. Reply With Quote September 9th, 2009 #13 diamondfrompune Join Date Sep 2009 Posts 3 Please contact back... Hi, Please provide me the details. I have sent Private Msg to you and given my details init. Thanks. Originally Posted by rudra_herbal Dear Entrepreneurs, We are operates into various diversified areas mainly, Education, Agro Retailing, Wellness and Nutrition , Finance and Investments consultancy, Franchising setup, corporate training etc. Currently we are working in Maharashtra region and now we would like to grow in other parts of India specially Maharashtra, Madhyapradesh, Karnataka, Andhrapradesh, chhatisgarh, Gujrat states. We are in search of Entrepreneurs who can handle our company expansion work as a Working Partner (Not as a Employee).We can offer and workout a Huge return on your time Investment (No Money Investment is required). No matter whether you are working or unemployed either experienced or non-experienced, if you are looking to start your own Business then we are here to help you in every aspect. We believe that now Indian youth should not spoil life in searching and doing JOB for others and make others rich by their own skills. You should use these skill in building your own Enterprise. If you are entrepreneur and go gater type person then we have a exciting Business Proposal for you. You can contact us on . We are into partnership with Leading Multinational Company for Pan India region. And as stated above We are dealing in Agro Products which are used for water scarcity problem, Saline and Alkaline soil problem, Bio Silica based foliar spray, Growth maximizer, and for Pest and Insect Control on almost every crop (includes Floriculture, Horticulture) by every farmer. Very nominally priced and having huge benefits(For our Partners and for Farmers both) are available for distribution in your area. No deposit is required as we want WORKING PARTNERS for this expansion work. If you are interested in Sell / Marketing / Promoting these wonder products through your network of farmers or contacts then we can workout a very attractive income package (between 20000 to 75000 per month) for you. All training and Information shall be provided at Pune Office. If you can come for initial meeting to Pune then please do contact through private message or on above given contacts. All the Best. Bhupesh Last edited by moderator A; August 19th, 2010 at 04:17 PM . Reason: Only Business Members are allowed to post contact info. Please click “Upgrade” to become a Business Member. Reply With Quote September 12th, 2009 #14 shahnaz Join Date Sep 2009 Posts 22 working partner My dear Bhupesh I have just retired as director Research from an agriculture university and took up a job as consultant in a cold atmompheric storage in delhi.As director research handled atleast 200 externally funded projects worth crores of rupees. I have worked with eminent people in the field ao agriculture with sufficient experience in horticulture,floriculture,medicinal and aromatic plannts, organic farming etc. i am interested to join yoy. Please contact..... Regards Dr. Shah Originally Posted by rudra_herbal Dear Entrepreneurs, We are operates into various diversified areas mainly, Education, Agro Retailing, Wellness and Nutrition , Finance and Investments consultancy, Franchising setup, corporate training etc. Currently we are working in Maharashtra region and now we would like to grow in other parts of India specially Maharashtra, Madhyapradesh, Karnataka, Andhrapradesh, chhatisgarh, Gujrat states. We are in search of Entrepreneurs who can handle our company expansion work as a Working Partner (Not as a Employee).We can offer and workout a Huge return on your time Investment (No Money Investment is required). No matter whether you are working or unemployed either experienced or non-experienced, if you are looking to start your own Business then we are here to help you in every aspect. We believe that now Indian youth should not spoil life in searching and doing JOB for others and make others rich by their own skills. You should use these skill in building your own Enterprise. If you are entrepreneur and go gater type person then we have a exciting Business Proposal for you. You can contact us on . We are into partnership with Leading Multinational Company for Pan India region. And as stated above We are dealing in Agro Products which are used for water scarcity problem, Saline and Alkaline soil problem, Bio Silica based foliar spray, Growth maximizer, and for Pest and Insect Control on almost every crop (includes Floriculture, Horticulture) by every farmer. Very nominally priced and having huge benefits(For our Partners and for Farmers both) are available for distribution in your area. No deposit is required as we want WORKING PARTNERS for this expansion work. If you are interested in Sell / Marketing / Promoting these wonder products through your network of farmers or contacts then we can workout a very attractive income package (between 20000 to 75000 per month) for you. All training and Information shall be provided at Pune Office. If you can come for initial meeting to Pune then please do contact through private message or on above given contacts. All the Best. Bhupesh Last edited by moderator A; August 19th, 2010 at 04:18 PM . Reason: Only Business Members are allowed to post contact info. Please click “Upgrade” to become a Business Member. Reply With Quote September 15th, 2009 #15 bibhuti Join Date Apr 2009 Posts 18 Dear sir, Are u intersted to start this business in Orissa if yes then please mail me to my E-mail Id. Please contact... Basically Iam an agricultural graduate n having 14 years of experiences . Last edited by moderator A; September 15th, 2009 at 01:47 PM . Reason: Only Business Members are allowed to post contact info. Please click “Upgrade” to become a Business Member. Reply With Quote September 15th, 2009 #16 shahnaz Join Date Sep 2009 Posts 22 Working partner- Profit sharing [My Dear I am having sufficient expertise with over 40 years experience.Please let me know how to proceed further. Regards shah QUOTE=rudra_herbal;85469]Dear Entrepreneurs, We are operates into various diversified areas mainly, Education, Agro Retailing, Wellness and Nutrition , Finance and Investments consultancy, Franchising setup, corporate training etc. Currently we are working in Maharashtra region and now we would like to grow in other parts of India specially Maharashtra, Madhyapradesh, Karnataka, Andhrapradesh, chhatisgarh, Gujrat states. We are in search of Entrepreneurs who can handle our company expansion work as a Working Partner (Not as a Employee).We can offer and workout a Huge return on your time Investment (No Money Investment is required). No matter whether you are working or unemployed either experienced or non-experienced, if you are looking to start your own Business then we are here to help you in every aspect. We believe that now Indian youth should not spoil life in searching and doing JOB for others and make others rich by their own skills. You should use these skill in building your own Enterprise. If you are entrepreneur and go gater type person then we have a exciting Business Proposal for you. You can contact us on . We are into partnership with Leading Multinational Company for Pan India region. And as stated above We are dealing in Agro Products which are used for water scarcity problem, Saline and Alkaline soil problem, Bio Silica based foliar spray, Growth maximizer, and for Pest and Insect Control on almost every crop (includes Floriculture, Horticulture) by every farmer. Very nominally priced and having huge benefits(For our Partners and for Farmers both) are available for distribution in your area. No deposit is required as we want WORKING PARTNERS for this expansion work. If you are interested in Sell / Marketing / Promoting these wonder products through your network of farmers or contacts then we can workout a very attractive income package (between 20000 to 75000 per month) for you. All training and Information shall be provided at Pune Office. If you can come for initial meeting to Pune then please do contact through private message or on above given contacts. All the Best. Bhupesh[/QUOTE] Last edited by moderator A; August 19th, 2010 at 04:19 PM . Reason: Only Business Members are allowed to post contact info. Please click “Upgrade” to become a Business Member. Reply With Quote September 16th, 2009 #17 guruprasadgpn Join Date Sep 2009 Posts 2 Originally Posted by mohammedjali i have send youa a mail in this regard. and found no reply. expecting the earliest reply. - mohammed Sir , I am interested in & wish to know more about u. like to have ur contact nos & mails ID for further details. Regards Guruprasad Reply With Quote September 16th, 2009 #18 guruprasadgpn Join Date Sep 2009 Posts 2 Originally Posted by diamondfrompune Hi, Please provide me the details. I have sent Private Msg to you and given my details init. Thanks. Sir , I am interested in & wish to know more about u. like to have ur contact nos & mails ID for further details. Regards Guruprasad Reply With Quote September 29th, 2009 #19 diamondfrompune Join Date Sep 2009 Posts 3 hello hello sir, I am waiting for your term and conditions to start venture with you. Thanking you with regards. Originally Posted by rudra_herbal