Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Departments    Food Engineering Food Engineering Faculties 1. Dr.N.Venkatachalapathy - Associate Professor and Head 2. Dr.S.Shanmugasundaram  - Associate Professor 3. Dr.Ashish Rawson - Assistant Professor 4. Sh.Arul Murugan  - Physical Education Teacher The ideas generated by other departments are given a shape in the food engineering department. This department consists of modern fabrication facilities with all manufacturing machines and tools.The food engineering department work, either Interdependently or jointly with other departments, help in creating new machines and processes for food processing industries. We have developed technologies or accessories like multi-purpose Yard drying implement (MYDI), continuous rice puffing unit, thermal dis infestation unit of paddy, low friction huller, improved parboiling unit, rice degermer, husk fired stove, small scale pulse dehusker and pedal operated winnower. These technologies are popular among the farmers and entrepreneurs. This department further works towards the commercialization of the products and processes in technical terms. The equipment for large scale production is designed and the production processes are optimized for subsequent adoption by the food industry. Appropriate quality control protocols are embedded into the production processes. No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com