Assam Festivals and Events Home » Assam » Assam Society » Assam Festivals and Events   Assam Society Shopping Food Language Bihu Festivals & Events Culture                          more... Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Districts of Assam Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Assam Economy Travel to Assam Places to Visit in Assam Wildlife Sanctuaries National Parks in Assam Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Education in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info       Assam Festivals and Events The state of Assam abounds in Assam festivals and events that occur through the year but is mostly prevalent in the winter months of November, January and February. The state rejoices in the activities and sporting events that are held during the various festivals celebrated in Assam . The state of Assam is surrounded by mountains and is watered by the great River Brahmaputra. The beauty of the land is enhanced during the festive season. The tourists and the visitors also enjoy the hospitality of the Assamese people that is at its best during the festivals. Various festivals are organized by the Forest Department of the state and the Department of Tourism of Assam. The Forest Department of Assam organizes the festival for the elephants, also known as the Elephant Festival of Assam. This festival shares its objective of increasing the awareness of the people of Assam about the forest and its inhabitants with the Dehing Patkai Festival which is celebrated in the confluence of the River Dehing and the Patkai mountain range. Various activities and events are organized during the Majuli Festival. Water sports and events feature in the Brahmaputra Beach festival held on the bank of the cold and the turbulent River Brahmaputra. The state of Assam holds several other festivals and events some of which are listed below: Tea Festival Magh Bihu or Bhogali Bihu Kati Bihu or Kangali Bihu The Rangali Bihu The spirit of the state of Assam comes alive during the Assam festivals and events. The participation of the people is encouraged by the government. Tourism in the state also benefits from the festivals and events of Assam. Last Updated on 10 January 2011             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule