TNAU Agritech Portal :: Banking & Credit Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact Banking & Credit :: KRISHAK BHARATI COOPERATIVE LIMITED (KRIBHCO)   KRIBHCO has setup a Fertilizer Complex to manufacture Urea, Ammonia, Bio-fertilizers, Argon  & Seeds at Hazira in the State of Gujarat, on the bank of river Tapti, 15 Kms from Surat city on Surat – Hazira State Highway. To promote the organic agriculture in the country, Government has initiated several initiatives like promotion of use of bio-fertilisers, bio-compost etc. KRIBHCO has been promoting the use of bio-fertilisers since many years. The society has three units to manufacture bio-fertilisers at Hazira (Gujarat), Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) and Lanjha (Maharashtra). All four popular bio-fertilisers i.e Rhizobium, Azotobactor, Azossprillium and Phosphate Soluable are produced and marketed by KRIBHCO. The Society has plans to sell around 1000 MT of bio-fertilisers during 2010-2011, which is likely to increase to about 1200 MT in next 3-5 years. Organic Agriculture has emerged as a feasible option to concern relating to land degradations. As per the GOI directives, all fertiliser suppliers are expected to promote the use of Bio-Compost by involving actively in the marketing of the product. KRIBHCO has sufficient human resources and credible brand image to market Bio-compost. This will also help the society to generate additional margins. During the year 2010-2011 we plans to market about 19,000 MT of bio-compost which is expected to increase to about 50,000 MT in next 3 years. Mission and Vision Objective Farmers Services Marketing MISSION Top To act as a catalyst to agricultural and rural development by selecting, financing and managing projects that are bothsocially desirable and commercially profitable. VISION To become a world class organization that represents the farmer community and maximizes their returns through specialization in agricultural inputs, rural need based products and other diversified businesses that maximize stakeholders value. OBJECTIVE Top To strengthen cooperative system. To enhance the urea installed capacity and increasing its market share To ensure optimum utilization of existing plant and machinery To diversify into other core sectors like Power, Port, Infrastructure, Rural Retail, etc Transfer of technology for modern farming and improving farmers'livelihood To educate and train farmers, provide free testing facilities for soil nutrients and irrigation water FARMERS SERVICES Top Kisan Helpline Promotional Program  Krishak Bharati Seva Kendra Sankat Haran Bima Yojna  1. KRIBHCO Kisan Helpline (Both ways). A Kisan Helpline is in operation which provides expert advise to farmers. Queries can be sent through email . OR The query can be sent to - 0120 - 2535628. The Helpline is absolutely free of cost. 2. KRIBHCO Krishi Paramarsh Kendra All the below facilities are free for farmers & cooperatives  : Complete soil & water testing Samples received thru courier from all states Results sent thru e-mail & posted on website. Technical farm literature. Hindi & local languages. Technical exhibition. Agro-inputs & farm technology Meteorological information. Short & long term forecast. Farm operations (monthly). On website & kisan helpline. Kisan Helpline (both ways) 3 .  Krishak Bharati Seva Kendras (KBSK) These Kendra provide all essential agro-inputs viz. fertilizers pesticides, seeds, farm implements and technology under one roof.  Farmers are getting quality inputs and saving their precious time usually lost in inputs collection from different locations.  There is also a provision of reasonably good sitting and reading place at our KBSKs. 4.  Sankat Haran Bima Yojna Keeping in view the welfare of the farmers, the Society has participated in Sankat Haran Bima Yojna launched by M/s. Bajaj Allianz  General Insurance Company  Limited  from January 1, 2006. Under the Scheme, farmers will be insured on purchase of KRIBHCO Urea from Cooperative Societies/Krishak Bharati Sewa Kendras, against the risk of accidental death/or disablement. The Scheme provides a free “Sankanth Haran” Bima Policy to any farmer for an amount of Rs.4,000/- (Rupees four thousand only) with the purchase of each bag of KRIBHCO Urea. Maximum liability under the Policy for any one farmers, irrespective of number of bags purchased by him shall be limited to Rs.1,00,000/-  (Rupees one lakh only). MARKETING Top KRIBHCO is marketing fertiliser through cooperative/institutional agencies.   Cooperatives: (A)  Apex Federations  (B)  District/Taluka Marketing Societies  (C)  PACS/Other Village Level Societies Institutional Agencies (A)  Agro Industries Corporation  (B)  Other Corporations such as Land Reclamation Corporation Own Outlets Krishak Bharati Sewa Kendras (KBSKs) Address of State Marketing Office State Marketing Manager        KRIBHCO  Module No. 1,2&3,  SIDCO Garment Complex  Thiru-Vi-Ka. Industrial Estate, Guindy  CHENNAI – 600 032  Phone No. 044-22324063(o)                For further details  Click here Source http://kribhco.net/     Updated on July 3 rd 2013   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.