Silicon Solutions - Helping plants to help themselves - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Silicon Solutions – Helping plants to help themselves Silicon Solutions – Helping plants to help themselves Buy from Amazon Request Price Description Product Description The use of silicon could become a fundamental tool to help solve many critical problems of modern-day agriculture. CONTENTS • Acknowledgements • Preface • Introduction • Questions & Answers • Part I: AGRICULTURE Silicon Facts (Tables) Technical trials • Part II: FUNCTIONS OF SILICON Silicon supplies (Tables) Technical details • Part III: HORTICULTURE Silicon Facts (Tables) Technical details • Part IV: FLORICULTURE Silicon facts (Tables) Technical details • Part V: NATURAL STRENGTH • Notes, Annex, Glossary, • Bibliography, Index The author Edward Bent has wide experience in horticulture, ranging from research to education, marketing and promotion. The book is written in a straightforward style for growers, extension services, distributors and food processors, educational establishments, students and consumer associations. The work is divided into sections addressed to agricultural, horticultural and floricultural crops together with a series of tables showing positive results obtained from experimental trials. It contains some detailed technical information on methods of application together with a list of suppliers. Of particular note, it emphasizes the important contributions that silicon can make to improving the internal quality of produce and its post-harvest characteristics in terms of nutritional value, packing, transport, storage and The book ‘puts silicon on the shelf’ – providing the basis for a better understanding and appreciation of the potential of silicon to help improve yields and internal quality by increasing the resistance of crops to a range of stresses, whilst at the same time, reducing the need for plant chemicals. READERSHIP Growers, farmers and plantation managers, agronomists, extension workers, experimental stations, scientists, food processors and distributors, students and teachers. Edward Bent has a degree in Botany and wide experience in horticulture, from research to teaching, marketing and promotion. He has written extensively for the international trade press in ornamental horticulture. He was one of the founding directors of Floranova Ltd, an independent plant breeding company in England. He is co-author of a series of books on gardening (De Vecchi Editore) and is the author of the book ‘Wild Flowers – la cultura della biodiversità’ (Sestante Edizioni). He has followed his technical interest in silicon fertilizers for the last 10 years, studying scientific papers and visiting nurseries. AVAILABILITY Printed Book and Digital Flip-Book If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: SS1 . Category: Books . Tag: Books . Social share Related Products Add to cart Submit your Enquiry Quick View Books , Publications Global Agriculture Update 2015 Rs.999.00 Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics irrigation magazine medicinal plants net pots npk organic fertiliser packaging plant growth promoter plant growth stimulator Potassium Rotavator seeds soil soil nutrients soil testing kits sprayer stevia technology tiller tractors training vegetables water testing weeder wires