India Political Map in Malayalam, Map of India in Malayalam Home » India Political Map in Malayalam   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       India Political Map in Malayalam Political Map of India in Malayalam Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing All the States of India in Malayalam Language. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Importance of India Political Map in Malayalam Political maps of India are published in different regional languages so as to enhance the knowledge of every people, irrespective of their vernacular. Color coded in varied colors, such a map shows the distinct border of each and every state or U. T. as well as the foreign boundaries. By looking into such a map, one can even learn the name of every state and U. T. along with their respective capital cities in their own language. Besides these, this kind of regional map even helps one locate his or her native place or any other place within the country in a much easier way. Political maps of India in Malayalam are mostly used by people who have got Malayalam as their mother tongue or vernacular. Last Updated on : April 2, 2014 View India Map in Gujarati Bengali English Malayalam Oriya Sanskrit Hindi Marathi Tamil Punjabi Kannada Nepali Telugu Urdu Assamese              