Mr. Pranjal Baruah - promoting mushroom cultivation in North Eastern States - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Mr. Pranjal Baruah – promoting mushroom cultivation in North Eastern States Home Mr. Pranjal Baruah – promoting mushroom cultivation in North Eastern States Facilitates farmers to attain self-empowerment through mushrooms Guwahati, Assam based Mushroom Development Foundation (MDF) takes the initiative to bring change in the life of small and marginal farmer through mushroom farming. Farmer clusters/groups are formed in different villages and training is provided to them for growing mushrooms. Quality planting material is given to these clusters at reasonable rates. In addition marketing support is also extended as required to enhance sales of the mushroom produced by these farmer groups. Presently MDF is working in 5 states in North-East India, has more than 30 clusters to its credit. Organization has been able to bring positive change in lives of 5000 farmers till date. Mr. Pranjal Baruah, Founder and CFO shares more details about the organization. Mr. Pranjal Baruah himself started growing mushrooms in 1994 and realized its’ growth potential. To explore more he went to attend International trade fair for mushroom in New Delhi in 1995 and was amazed to see mushroom technocrats from foreign countries too keen to set-up export oriented units (EoU) in India. He shares, “Labor cost in developed countries in those times was Rs. 350/hour where as in India it was one week cost. Foreigners were interested to tap growing mushroom demand in International market by setting up EU in India due to less labour cost. Probing little more I found, out of 10 people in foreign countries 7 people consume mushroom. Their requirement is approximately 2kg per month for a family. So demand was huge hence I thought if replicated the same EU model of mushroom business in India it could be tool for self-empowerment for many small and marginal farmers.” In this way foundation of MDF was laid down in 1996 by Mr. Baruah along with other seven members. MDF started participating in many horticulture shows to promote and popularize mushrooms. “We were amongst the first to introduce value added products like papad, cake, biscuits, pickle and so on. All these products were made in our lab in 1997-98. The response received was good and we started training people to grow mushrooms,” he shares. Farmer always remains poor inspite of working hard, he explains, “Farmers tend to buy all farming inputs at exorbitant prices and that too very inferior quality. After analyzing the problem I found there is the gap in collection and distribution center in terms of farming inputs and knowledge. Secondly they really do not know where to sell their farm produce. Money from across the world is being pumped for upliftment of marginal farmers but their financial conditions remain same. Solution is only to have good collection and distribution center at village/grass-root level. MDF has taken this responsibility to address the issue by forming the farmer cluster.” To form the farmer cluster, MDF selects the region, look for existent mushroom grower, revive his farm and with his help identify group of villagers to form the cluster. “We select the villagers on selective basis as who are interested in growing mushroom and who need to grow mushrooms. Villagers who need to grow mushrooms are usually people with less than one acre land or no land. Only 5-10% of the villagers from different village are grouped together to make the cluster. Wherever they want to grow mushrooms we provide them all possible help in terms of technology, planting material and marketing support. In the same group we also groom people having leadership skills who can manage the group.” When asked if MDF buys backs mushroom from farmer cluster and sells it, Mr. Baruah quickly responds, “No! We are not the middleman. We link these cluster to professional communities. These people are established professionals and socially active. They take charge for these clusters to help them sell mushroom. MDF strategically and systematically connects the farmer cluster with these professional communities.” In this way selling becomes easy as professional community members consume the mushroom produce themselves as well as help to sell it to others. “Community participation is the strength of our initiative and developing community governance is its sustainable approach,” he adds. North East India is home to many tribal families who find mushroom a cost effective alternative to other wise expensive non-vegetarian food. Even neighboring country Bhutan prefer mushroom as one of their most preferred food items. “Demand of mushroom is huge and will be growing forever. Selling is not tough. Mushroom surely will bring positive change in life of marginal farmers,” informs Mr. Baruah. Oyster mushroom is largely grown by the farmer groups associated with MDF. It is followed by button mushroom and handful of farmer clusters are also growing shiikate mushrooms. “Some of our farmers have mastered the art so well that they are into growing mushroom commercially,” he adds. These clusters are able to produce 3-5 quintals mushroom every day and sell the same at Rs. 100-150/kg. MDF is funded by the contribution by the members. “We also generate funds by giving mushroom training to people across the country. We are even knowledge partners to many other organizations and we collect lot of awards’ prize money and funding from many institutes throughout the world. We even raise lot of funds for government. So money is not much an issue as our concept and purpose is unique,” he says. Mushroom farming is ideal for North Eastern States with respect to demand, climate and sales. Only problem is last mile supply chain management. MDF is constantly working to solve the issue in most effective way. Mr. Baruah explains with the example, “We have one lady farmer Gunawati. She has taken steps on her own for selling of produce of her village farmers by starting the collection and distribution center. And response is overwhelming in her village.” MDF plans to help farmers to sell their other farm produce as well apart from mushroom. He adds, “This project has already been started from October 2014. It is referred as Eco-Friendly Integrated Livelihood Mission (E-FILM). Under this project we have done intense survey about the farming families in 36 villages in Meghalaya as what they are producing and in what quantity. We shall be doing forward marketing for the farm produce the day plantation takes place. The crops will be sold before the harvest. Only the sold crops will be brought in the market rest will be used for producing value added products.” Plans are to sell the processed food items to corporate buyers. Mr. Pranjal Baruah has 22 years of experience in growing mushrooms. He took the training from Directorate of Mushroom Research, Solan, Himachal Pradesh. He was felicitated with Ashoka Fellow award in 2003 for empowering farmers for lab to land strategy. Contact details- Mushroom Development Foundation (MDF) 32 Lamb Road, Ambari, Guwahati, India 781001 Mobile – 9854003003 Email – mdfassam@gmail.com Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Mr. Pranjal Baruah – promoting mushroom cultivation in North Eastern States Related – articles, consultants, downloads K.T.C. International – Expert in Mushroom Cultivation Lavanya Mushroom Mushroom Cultivation Tips for Beginners Siddhidah Farm Services – bamboo cultivation You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture