Biofertiliser Entrepreneurs in India - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Biofertiliser Entrepreneurs in India Home Biofertiliser Entrepreneurs in India What are the challenges faced by biofertiliser businesses in India? Who are their target customers and how do they reach them? Are farmers genuinely interested in buying biofertilisers? We talk to three upcoming entrepreneurs running biofertiliser businesses to find out more. Ramdas J. Patil, R. B. Herbal Agro R.B. Herbal Agro was established in 1999 in Nasik, Maharashtra. Mr. Ramdas J. Patil is the CEO and the R&D Chief at R. B. Herbal Agro. Mr. Patil is an M.Sc. by qualification. He has also done courses in mass production of biopestices, mycorhizal technology, and methyl bromide alternatives. He has over 15 years of experience in this field. The company offers a range of biofertilizers including, azotobactor, acitobactor, rhizobium, potash solubizing bacteria, phosphate solubiling bacteria, silica soluniling bacteria, and acetobactor. “We were among the first ones to start liquid technology for biofertilisers. We also specialize in biocontrol agents,” maintains Mr. Patil. [hidepost] Major Challenges Speaking about the major challenges faced in production and marketing of biofertlizers, Mr. Patil says, “Maintaining virulence in bioagents and sustaining biofertilisers’ activity in the organization are the major challenges in production. In the market genuine products are losing credibility among farmers due to the many spurious products flooding the market from unregistered manufacturers.” Target Customers R. B. Herbal Agro is mainly targeting farmers engaged in horticulture and organic base producers. “We work with the help of marketing force meeting the farmers personally as well as through arranging farmers’ meet at various plots,” maintains Mr. Patil. Marketing To promote its products, R. B. Herbal     offers training programe to farmers in the villages placed on INM, or crop-wise basis. This provides them a platform to spread awareness about the benefits of the product. It has a dealer network through which it distributes its products. “We have our own transport vehicles,” informs Mr. Patil, adding, “We also offer aftersales service.” Demand for Products Mr. Patil agrees not many people are inclined to go for bioorganic production. He maintains, “The number is increasing. Cost is no criteria but because of spurious bio products, customers lose confidence in the products.” Growth Potential When asked about the growth potential of biofertilizers, Mr. Patil says, “For sustainable agriculture, this is the only answer in forthcoming agriculture. Therefore we expect steady growth in the field. Slowly we have to create awareness in the farming community regarding the concept.” He further adds, “I believe we can produce agriculture goods much more than our demand but our politically motivated decisions are hindering growth in agriculture sector. Government only shows they are protecting farmers, but actually they are protecting customers rather than farmers. Government should remain constant in their export policy against the agriculture produces.” For the growth of the sector, Mr. Patil suggests, “Involvement of universities, and ICAR scientist along with farmers. Extensive training to the farmers is required. Good quality inputs under strict quality control supervision will definitely increase the demand of biopesticides.” Mr. Balamurukan P, Creative Ideas Inc. Creative Ideas Inc. manufactures organic humic acid, used as plant nutrient, under the brand name Humicas. The company was set up by Mr. Balamurukan in 2012. It is headquartered in Chennai. “NLC Ltd Neyveli has developed the technology to extract the potassium humate (humic acid) from lignite and NRDC has commercialised the same. We have purchased the license from them and managed to establish the plant with the best available resources,” says Mr. Balamurukan, a B.E. in chemical engineering by educational qualification. Major Challenges Speaking about the major challenges faced by the company, Mr. Balamurukan says, “Availability of the raw material lignite in the long term is questionable. Marketing is the next biggest challenge for any product in the agriculture sector. There are no standard procedures to authorise this product.” He adds, “Now the technology provider is working on it with BIS to formulate the testing procedure. The same thing happened to bio fertilizers manufacturers in the initial stages. Now that segment has been standardised and hope the same will happen for this product too. As we are very new to this industry, we are working out the strategy and solutions for the marketing.” Target Customers Mr. Balamurukan maintains Humicas is ideal for all types of soil, plants and crops, saying, “It is compatible with all applications (i.e. soil/drip-irrigation, spray and with all fertilizers/pesticides). So whoever has even one potted plant is our customer.” He adds, “The company offers 250 ml to 5 litre cans. “We also supply in 20, 30, 50 and 200 litres drums for big farmers and dealers. Our production capacity is 5000 litres per batch and can work two shifts per day.” Mr. Balamurukan also maintains that the company is in the process of obtaining organic certification and also they have registered with OMRI. Marketing The company is appointing dealers all over Tamil Nadu. “Next we plan to appoint dealers and distributors all over the country. Logistics is the biggest challenge in this scenario and we are working on the same,” he adds. He maintains farmers who have used the product come back for more. “We are also working on supplying Humicas to each and every farmer of Tamil Nadu at their doorsteps. After achieving it in Tamil Nadu, we will work on other states of India also. As this is a liquid substance, transporters are not ready to book small consignments, but we are working on the solution,” he adds. Regarding competition, he says, “As of now, a lot of imported products are available in the market. There are a few manufacturers who extract from different sources but the desired quantity cannot be achieved. Humicas is purely an organic substance and compared to any other rival products available in the market, the results are very good. Constant upgradation, quality maintenance and the availability of product at the right time to the farmers at an economical cost will help us to survive and perform well in the market. The company conducts regular promotional campaigns with the help of local dealers. We also participate in the agri fairs and exhibitions. We give lots of samples to the farmers and teach them about the product and the application portion of Humicas.” Product Benefits Mr. Balamurukan maintains that the product is organic but is compatible with chemical fertilizers. “It reduces chemical usage in farms and cost to production ratio is at par with chemical fertilizers. Both the quantity and quality of the produce get enhanced, which is visible in fruits, flowers and vegetables instantaneously,” he says. Growth Prospects Mr. Balamurukan says, “Farmers were using chemical fertilizers to enhance productivity, but now we have many reports about the side effects and damages caused to the soil because of the constant usage of chemical fertilizers. On the other end, the prices of the chemical fertilizers are skyrocketing and slowly subsidies are being withdrawn, which really hurts the farmers. Apart from these factors, the go green awareness is catching up. Thus our farmers are returning to the conventional method of natural and organic farming which was happening before the introduction of chemical fertilizers.” He adds, “Growth potential of biofertilisers is high but awareness is very less. Our first plan is to create awareness about this natural organic nutrient to the farming community. So we should create awareness through all possible channels and modes.” In future the company wants to supply Humicas to all parts of the country. Dr. Hemangee Abhay Jambhekar, Vasumitra Life Energies Pvt Limited Vasumitra Life Energies Pvt Limited was established by Dr. Hemangee Abhay Jambhekar in 1990. The company is based in Pune, Maharashtra. “We started Vasumitra with an initial investment of Rs. 10 lakhs,” says Dr. Jambhekar. The company manufactures organic agricultural products based on the concept of Sanjeevan system. “The herbal products were developed to stimulate the energies of self-nutrition and self-protection, so that the crop could be grown without manipulation from outside,” maintains Dr. Jambhekar. Adding, “The products can be used in chemical as well as organic agriculture and increase the production of the crop by nearly 30 to 40%. It helps minimum use of agricultural inputs like fertilizers, pesticides, fungicides and water.” She says, “Our initial research included literature review of vedic literature like Atharvaveda, Vrukshaayurved and Ayurveda; studying the concept of vital energy management as mentioned in yoga shashtra (By Hrishi Patanjali) and Sanjeevan system (Late Dr. Y. K. Paranjape); understanding the energy management used by plants for self-protection and self-nutrition; identification and extraction of the herbs which receive and store similar energies; and product formulation on the basis of Sanjeevan system.” Dr. Jambhekar has done M.Sc. in physical chemistry and Ph. D. in communication studies. She has won several awards including, Women entrepreneur award by ‘The Institution of Engineers’ (India); Women entrepreneur award by Supanekar Pratishthan and Jnana Prabodhini; Excellent research work on phosphocompost – certified by Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India; Women and Technological Innovation National Award by Bharatiya Stree Shakti, Mumbai in 2004,” she says. Major Challenges Speaking about the major challenges faced, Dr. Jambhekar says, “We are not marketing the product but only the concept of energy management. We faced initial resistance from scientists, and consultants regarding the concept. However, the product is well accepted by farmers once the results were observed. Intensive training is required for field assistants, dealers, and farmers. We had to do major investments in field demonstrations. It takes at least 5-6 years to establish a product in the market. In production we faced difficulty in standardizing quality parameters (in terms of energy) of the product.” Product Benefits Explaining the product benfits, Dr. Jambhekar says, “Nature has given all living beings, particularly plants, the capacity for self-nutrition and self-protection. This capacity of plants is hampered due to our interference or climatic changes. As a result, there is deficiency of nutrients or incidence of pests or diseases, ultimately reducing the yield. Sanjeevan system acts by stimulating the plants to restore this energy balance by means of solar, lunar and cosmic energies stored in herbs.” She maintains, “Farmers who used Humiphos consistently for 2 years stopped using any chemical phosphate fertilizer. Crop nutrition products are not substitutes by enhanced nutrient uptake and their use efficiency, thus dosage of chemical nutrients reduces significantly.” She lists the benefits: • Significant increase in yield. • Significant improvement in quality of produce (luster, weight, size, color, taste, keeping quality etc.) • Improvement in physical, chemical and microbial properties of soil. • Soil becomes live. • Robust crop which can withstand any biotic and abiotic stress. • Minimum chemical residues in the produce as pest and disease resistance of crop are increased. • Better market rate for the produce. • Maximum output using minimum inputs. Target Customers The company mainly targets farmers through dealer networks in respective districts. “We reach out to them through trainings, meetings, advertisements, campaigning, individual visits, field demonstrations, articles in popular agricultural magazines, internet, and news bulletin,” says Dr. Jambhekar. Marketing The company has dealer – distributor network, satellite plants, technical team development, and collaboration with various seed companies, through which it markets and distributes its products. She disagrees that biofertilisers are high-priced, saying, “Humiphos is cheaper and effective compared to DAP. Hence farmers choose to use it. Use of other nutrition products minimizes the use of chemical fertilizers, thus making them economically viable” The company conducts promotional campaigns throughout various villages of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab and Karnataka. “We also include agricultural scientists, consultants and officers in agricultural departments. More than 500 farmers attend our meetings at each place. At the end of the campaign most of them turn into our valuable customers,” Dr. Jambhekar maintains. She is not worried about competition, saying, “Initially, Humiphos was our monopoly. But recently, many companies are entering into the market. But because of our unique technology for phosphate solubilization, strong rapport with our farmers and dealers and strong brand equity in the market are maintained. It is also very difficult to copy our technology.” Growth Potential Dr. Jambhekar is optimistic about the future of biofertilisers. “For Humiphos, we are trying to plan satellite manufacturing plants at prime locations in each district to make its distribution easier and efficient. We are trying to tie-up with some companies working in the field of agriculture,” she says. The company also exports its products to international market. They export mainly to South-East Asia, African countries and some parts of Europe. In future, the company plans to focus its research on major problems in agriculture like weed management, pest and disease management, and some organic alternatives for growth regulators, besides others. “We are also focusing our research on animal health products, increasing our manufacturing potential, and strong marketing network with strong brand equity,” says Dr. Jambhekar. Our Correspondent Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Biofertiliser Entrepreneurs in India Related – articles, consultants, downloads Klink Bio Organic Fertilizers Golden Agricare Traders – organic farm fertilisers Neem India Products Organic India You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011