Myanmar, China ink $7.8bn deals Welcome Forgot Password Advanced Search Daily Newspaper published by GPPC Doha, Qatar Home Qatar Region International Sport Business Features Opinion PDF Business Eco./Bus. News Myanmar, China ink $7.8bn deals Eco./Bus. News Other Sections This Article is deleted Myanmar, China ink $7.8bn deals Tweet Viewed by: 129 Not rated yet Li: Bolstering economic relations. 9:01 PM 15 November 2014 Reuters Beijing China and Myanmar signed deals worth $7.8bn for energy, agriculture, telecommunications, infrastructure and finance during Chinese Premier Li Keqiang’s visit to the Southeast Asian country, state media reported yesterday. The deals made on Friday include an agreement to build natural gas power plants, as well as $300mn in small-scale loans for agriculture, said the official China Daily newspaper. China and Myanmar also agreed to set up an electricity cooperation committee, with the aim of keeping energy projects on track. In 2011, President Thein Sein suspended the $3.6bn, Chinese-led Myitsone dam project, some 90% of whose power would have gone to China. The project has not been resumed. China and Myanmar have traditionally had close ties, with Myanmar relying on its powerful northern neighbour for economic and diplomatic support when it was under wide-reaching Western sanctions, before embarking on political reforms four years ago. Since taking power in March 2011, Myanmar’s reformist government has sought to decrease its dependence on China, which was cemented during years of Western sanctions put in place in response to human rights abuses carried out by the ruling junta. China has watched nervously as the new government has courted the US, and Beijing has been stung by criticism that it is only interested in Myanmar for its natural resources and that its investment has come at a huge cost, with criticism focused on a gas and oil pipeline and hydroelectricity projects.       Add to: Send Print Related News After decades of decay, Myanmar bets on Thilawa to lead industry boom India, Myanmar ‘stand out’ among growing Asian economies: QNB Myanmar wins, Thailand loses tourism growth race in Asean Myanmar, Cambodia seek investors for rice business Myanmar-China oil pipeline opens, reduces shipping time Myanmar’s currency slump a threat for investors Myanmar, Cambodia to push oil and gas business Myanmar’s nuclear ambitions revive atomic power discussion in Asean Myanmar tourism boom a magnet for Gulf investors Latest Post Most Viewed Most Commented You cannot Subscribe until Login Or Login Guest Add Comment Please make sure the following errors to complete the comment Please write a comment first Sorry.. You cannot use HTML code here Sorry.. you have exceeds the maximum charcter limit Disclaimer: To use comment service please Login To add your picture and your name to your comments and the appearance of comment in less time guest