Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Market or Crawford Market in Mumbai | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Travel / Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Market or Crawford Market in Mumbai Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Market or Crawford Market in Mumbai November 28, 2013 by Nandni Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Market or Crawford Market: A Popular Shopper’s Delight Location:  Mumbai, Maharashtra All the Mumbaikars and those who have been to Mumbai will definitely vouch for the fact that the Crawford Market is the liveliest and the most crowded shopping arcade in the city of dreams. Located right in the heart of the city in front of the iconic Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Railway Station, the Crawford Market was built during the time of the British Raj. After independence, the market was officially named after the social reformer Jyotibha Phule and thus, gained popularity as Mahatma Jyotibha Phule Market. Stretching across an area of 24000 sq. feet, Mahatma Jyotibha Phule Market or the Crawford Market is one of the oldest markets in Mumbai. The building, which the market encompasses, was constructed in the year 1869. At present, this grand market houses several wholesale outlets of fruits, vegetables and poultry items. Apart from this, a variety of consumer goods such as footwear, clothes, leather goods, toys, cosmetics etc. are also available here. One can also find a pet store at one end of the market. The Crawford Market is like a shopper’s delight in the city of Mumbai. It is not only ideally located but is also easily accessible from all parts of the city.   Mumbai Nandni Twenty three years ago, I came bounding into this world of love and laughter. Fortitude and Vigor have brought me where I am; perseverance and candor will take me where I want to be! An avid lover of books, music, traveling, shopping and designing, I am highly bound by the habit of perfectionism. More articles from Nandni : 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! Tanu Weds Manu Returns: Movie Review 8 Bollywood Celebs Who Left Us Too Early Weird Superstitions of 10 Bollywood Stars Bollywood Celebrities at Cannes 2015 Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Baidyanath sah on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd omprakash on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd VIJAY MANGLIK on Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012