NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL MARKET ATLAS NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL MARKET ATLAS    Click for Interactive and Dynamic Maps For Static maps of National Atlas click on : Email Comments and Suggestions to: sharma.vandana@nic.in vishnu@nic.in   Other Links    1. AGMARKNET PORTAL    2. Department of Agriculture & Cooperation    3. GIS & RS Division of NIC    4. india.gov.in Background: AGMARKNET is a NICNET based Agricultural Marketing Information System Network sponsored by Directorate of Marketing and Inspection (DMI) [of the Department of Agriculture & cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, GoI] and is implemented by NIC. The project is aimed at networking all the APMC’s /Mandi’s, State Agricultural marketing Boards / Directorates and DMI regional offices located throughout the country, for effective information dissemination. NIC is the implementing agency for this project. It facilitates in the effective dissemination, over web, of the daily arrivals and prices of commodities in the agricultural produce markets spread across the country. AGAMARKNET aims at improving decision making capability of the farmers and strengthening of their bargaining power. National Agricultural Market Atlas (NAMA) is an offshoot of the AGMARKNET with an additional component of spatial data. It provides GIS web interface to visualize the daily market scenario on National Map. Overlaying the above information with the Road/Rail network makes it more meaningful and strengthens the decisions taken by the planner as well as the farmer. It provides details about market functionaries, market infrastructure, etc. in the form of map. The geographical distribution of the markets in conjunction with market parameters will be of immense help both the monitoring authorities and the farming community. Directorate of Marketing and Inspection (DMI) The Directorate of marketing and inspection implements the agricultural marketing programmes of the Union Government under the supervision and control of Union Ministry of Agriculture. It aims at bringing integrated development of marketing of agricultural and allied produce in the country. It is headed by Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India(AMA). It maintains a close liaison between Central and State Governments through its Branch Head office at Nagpur, 11 Regional Offices and 37 sub-offices spread all over the country. It has a network of 22 Regional Agmark Laboratories with Central Agmark Laboratory at Nagpur as apex laboratory. CCS NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF AGRICULTURAL MARKETING, JAIPUR The National Institute of Agricultural Marketing (NIAM) is a premier National level Institute set up by the Government of India in August 1988 to offer specialized Training, Research, Education and Consultancy in the field of Agricultural Marketing. NIAM has been involved in collecting market based data for the project of National Agricultural Marketing Atlas (NAMA) from different states by providing training, creating database of various markets. The data has been collected with the co-operation of Officers and Staff of State Agricultural Marketing Boards, Directorate of Agricultural Marketing, Department of Agriculture , Department of Horticulture of various States.