about-edit About us Administrative Setup Infrastructure Training Faculty Contact Picture Gallery   ABOUT US History Philosophy Objectives Our Activities Our Focus Quality Systems INFRASTRUCTURE Academic Area Library Computer Lab Quality Control Lab Hostel Training FCI Regular Course FCI Direct Recruitment Training Other Traning Conference   HISTORY हिंदी रूपांतर Genesis of the Institute FCI has established a comprehensive and a structured training mechanism in accordance with its organisational goals. This mechanism has been perfected over a period of time. The training set-up in FCI initially consisted of 4 Zonal Training Institutes (ZTIs) and one Central Training Institute. The ZTIs that primarily catered to the zonal training needs of Category-III employees of the Corporation were located one in each zone except the North East. The Central Training Institute (CTI) was set up in the year 1971 in leased premises at New Delhi. CTI was given the responsibility of catering to the training requirements of Category-I & Category-II officers of FCI. As CTI's activities grew, a growing need for infrastructural expansion was felt. FCI thus decided to have its own building for its Central Training Institute at Gurgaon. The Institute became operational at its new premises from 1st August, 1997, and the first training programme was conducted from 2 nd February 1998. It was in the year 2004 that the name of the institute was changed to ‘Institute of Food Security' in order to provide a holistic expanse to the training curriculum and the activities of the Institute. This development took place in the backdrop of a decision to abandon the Zonal Training Institutes. Since then, the Institute of Food Security has been positioned primarily as an in-house training centre for the Food Corporation of India. Home About us Infrastructure Our Courses Faculty Contact Picture Gallery Copyright @ 2013, Institute of Food Security, Food Corporation of India "Site is designed and developed by IFS and is hosted by National Informatics Centre"