Bhupinder Singh Hooda: Biography, Family, Early days in Politics, Criticisms & Awards India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Government and Politics » Bhupinder Singh Hooda   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Bhupinder Singh Hooda Bhupinder Singh Hooda is presently the Chief Minister of Haryana . On 5th March, 2005, he took the oath as the Chief Minister of Haryana. He was born on 15th September 1947 in Sanghi in the Rohtak district of Haryana. He is a graduate in Arts and acquired his LL.B.degree. On 15 October 1976 he married Asha Hooda and has one son and one daughter. Bhupinder Singh Hooda was associated with various movements led by farmers in Haryana. He was the President of All India Young Farmers' Association of Haryana and also the Secretary of Farmers' Parliamentary Forum from 1991 onwards. He has also performed his duties as a member of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana. As a member of the Indian National Congress Bhupinder Singh Hooda was the president of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee from 1996 to 2001. He has been elected to the Lok Sabha four times in 1991, 1996, 1998, 2004. He was opposition leader in Haryana's Legislative Assembly from 2001 to 2004. In the year 1991, he defeated Chaudhary Devi Lal who was then the deputy Prime Minister of India. Bhupinder Singh Hooda has been deeply involved with various social and cultural activities.   Related Links   Chief Ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda Vijay Bahuguna Arvind Kejriwal Ptithviraj Chavan Nallari Kiran Kumar Reddy Kalvakuntla Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) Prem Kumar Dhumal mamta Banerjee Tarun Kumar Gogoi Omar Abdullah Nitish Kumar Naveen Patnaik Arjun Munda Neipiu Rio Sheila Dixit N Rangasamy Manohar Parrikar Pawan Kumar Chamling D V Sadananda Gowda Ashok Gehlot Oommen Chandy Jayalalitha Shivraj Singh Chouhan Parkash Singh Badal Akhilesh Yadav Chandrababu Naidu Last Updated on : February 1, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule