NERFMTTI Home Page »  Programmes »  Calender »  Facilities »  List of machineries for training »  Application Procedure »  List of selected Candidates »  Application for Utilisation Course (U-Series) »  Application for Other than U-Series Course »  Objectives »  Types of Test »  Application for Testing Machinery »  Testing Charges »  Facilities »  Regulations »  Testing Logistic »  Detail of machine tested »  Trainees Trained Since Inception - Coursewise »   Trainees Trained Year wise - Categorywise »  Machines Tested Year wise - Catgorywise »  About RTI Act »  A.O. Order »  C.P.I.O. Order »  Contact Address »  Obtain Institute's Information from »  P.I.O. Particulars »  Organisational Chart »  Directory of Officers & Staff »  Functions of NERFMT&TI »  Power & duties »  Procedure followed in decision making »  Rules & Regulations »  Remuneration »  Service details »  History »  Location & Climate »  Organisation Chart »  Guest House & Housing for Staff Disclaimer: The content of these websites are owned by the respective organizations and they may be contacted for any further information or suggestion. Maintained & Updated by North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, B.Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam Site Designed & Hosted by: National Informatics Centre North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute Home हिंदी     Training Objectives Under the various training programme different categories of trainees such as progressive farmers, technicians, entrepreneurs, nominees from Govt. Departments, Universities, NGO, SHG are trained on selection, use, operation, repair and maintenance of tractors, power tillers and other farm machinery with the following objectives: To promote the farm mechanization for cultivation of different crops. Transfer of technology to the farmer’s field. To provide a pool of trained and skilled personnel for selection, operation, repair & maintenance of Tractors and agricultural machinery. To generate self employment for rural youth by establishing their own repair & maintenance shop for agricultural machinery at village level. To provide a technical support to the farmers and users of tractor & farm machinery at village level. To increase the production and productivity of different crops through farm mechanization. To increase profitability of farmers besides saving in labour and time. To promote the efficient use of energy resources, natural resources such as land, water etc. and other inputs like chemicals, fertilizers, seeds etc