Kanpur City Map Home » Maps » Uttar Pradesh » Kanpur City Map   Uttar Pradesh Cities Agra Aligarh Allahabad Ghaziabad Gorakhpur Jhansi Kanpur Lucknow Mathura Meerut Noida Varanasi                    more.. उत्तर प्रदेश का नक्शा Uttar Pradesh History of Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                  (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Uttar Pradesh Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map Proposed New States Awadh Pradesh Bundelkhand Paschim Pradesh Purvanchal Yamuna Expressway Lucknow Metro Map Noida Metro Map Industries in UP Thermal Power Plants UP Government Uttar Pradesh Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Travel to Uttar Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Forts and Palaces in Uttar Pradesh Temples and Shrines in Uttar Pradesh Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels             more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Uttar Pradesh Architectural Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Uttar Pradesh Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Uttar   Pradesh       Kanpur City Map City Map of Kanpur Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Mathura city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Kanpur - Uttar Pradesh Kanpur or 'Kanhpur' as it was originally known as is also called as the Manchester of the east. Kanpur is today the important industrial center of Uttar Pradesh , an Indian state, and is located on the shores of river Ganga. The city is big and has great historical, commercial and religious importance today. The city has many attractions and one can use the Kanpur map to discover and unfold the mysteries of the city. Many visitors love to visit the place as it has several places of attractions and can be reached easily by the efficient mode of transport provided by the city administration. There are several places of importance nearby Kanpur that can be seen in the map and use it to further explore the city, which is famous for many things like leather good, textile, monuments, temples, zoo, forest etc. Until the 18th century it was known as a small village under the rule of Shuja-ud-duala, who was the Nawab Wazir of Awadh. But after he was defeated by the British, things began to take a new turn. Today it is the most flourished and highly important place and is the most industrialized place of the state. Kanpur is known to have played an important part in the freedom struggle of India. The place was a favorite among freedom fighters like Tantiya Tope, Chandra Shekhar Azad, Sardar Bhagat Singh and Nanarao Peshwa. It is today an important educational center as well and has institutions like the Agricultural College, National Sugar Institute, Harcourt Butler Technology institute, medical colleges and many more. Kanpur is a must-visit destination on the map of Uttar Pradesh. It comprises of the Bhitargaon brick temple that is known as the oldest roofed Hindu shrine with a high shikhara. Jajmau is another important place to visit that lies on the east side and is important place to see the famous mausoleum of Makhdum Shah Ala - ul- Haq, mosque built by Kulich Khan and also famous temples like the Siddha Devi temple, and Siddnath temple. The beautifully constructed Shri Radhakrishna temple is another must visit by tourists. It is built by J.K. trust and has a perfect blend of modern and ancient architecture. The Jain glass temple is also a place worth visiting. It is built with glass and intricate enamel work. Apart from the huge structures, you can also visit the Allen forest zoo, which was opened in 1971 for visitors and is one of the best Zoos in India. You can have picnics here and spend the whole day admiring the picturesque surroundings. Kamal retreat is also an ideal spot for spending the day. It has a swimming pool and displays artificial waves with lightning which is worth watching. You can also enjoy a walk in the park, or enjoy boating facilities here. Pool Bagh is a beautiful park that is situated in the heart of the city and is also known as Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi memorial. Bhitargaon is a unique architectural specimen that belongs to the Gupta era and dates back to 600 AD. The place is the first shrine that comes with Shikara. The other places of importance are Musanagar, Kannuaj, Lucknow Nawabganj bird sanctuary, Bithoor, etc. Kanpur is well connected by road ways, railways and airways as well. It is situated on National Highway No.2 and No.25. One can take the help of the map to locate the city and its significant places that can be visited. The maps help you with the roads, towns, rivers and other places. Kanpur Facts City Name Kanpur State Uttar Pradesh District Kanpur Nagar District Headquarters Kanpur Tehsil/Taluk Kanpur Ward (MC)110, (OG) 2 Lat Long 26.446405, 80.329456 Area 3,029 km2 (1,170 sq mi) Population as per 2011 2,767,031 Official Languages English, Hindi, Urdu, Awadhi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) STD Code 0512 Transport Air, Road, Rail, Bus Vehicle registration UP-77, UP-78 Religion Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains Food and Cuisine Vegetarian and Non-Vegetarian Dishes, Nawabi Foods & Punjabi Dishes, Kebabs, Kaliya, Nahari-Kulchas, Zarda, Sheermal, Taftan, Roomali Rotis and Warqi Parathas, Mutton, Paneer, Awadhi Thali with Naan Bread, Daal, Raita, Shahi Paneer, Halva including Sooji, Chana, Gajar Halva, Paratha Served with Tea, Puri with Accompaniments, Chicken Dum Biryani, Navratan Korma, Persian Dishes, Chicken Curry with Chapati etc. Festival Ganga Mela, Ramnavami, Dussera, Diwali, Maha Shivratri, Holi, Janmastami, Muharram, Navratri, Christmas etc. Monuments Massacre Ghat, Gurudwara Banno Sahib, Shri Radhakrishna Temple, Kanpur Memorial Church, Jain Glass Temple, Shri Radhakrishna Temple etc. Places of interest Dwarka Dhish Temple, Jain Glass Temple, Mecca Masjid, Shri Radhakrishna Temple, Kanpur Memorial Church, Allen Forest Zoo, Agricultural Gardens, Brijendra Swaroop Park, Phool Bagh, Massacre Ghat, Moti Jheel, Sarsaiyya Ghat, Siddhant Ghat, Jajmau, Nana Rao Park etc. Markets The Mall, Birhana Road, Gumti No. 5, Parade, Naveen Market, Matson road and P.P.N. Market. The city center, UP Handloom Emporium, The Mall, Phulkari- Punjab Emporium and Manjusha- Bengal Emporium, Mall Road, Naveen Market, Birhana Road, and Meston Road, Phulkari etc. Hospital Madhuraj Hospital Private Limited, Regency Hospital, Kanpur Medical Centre Private Limited, Rama Super Speciality Hospital, Lakshmi Devi Kishan Chand Memorial Hospital, Khairabad Netra Hospital, Santosh Hospital, Mariampur Hospital, The Gastro-Liver Hospital etc. Hotel Geet Hotel, The Landmark Hotel, Hotel Maharaja Palace, Hotel Mandakini Palace, Hotel Gaurav Private Limited, The Attic Hotel, Hotel Mandakini Plaza, Hotel Gaurav Private Limited, The Attic Hotel, Hotel Mandakini Plaza, May Fair Inn, Hotel Mahadeva Regency, Hotel The Meera etc. Industries British India Corporation, A R Polymers Pvt Ltd., A R Thermosets Pvt Ltd , Abdullah Tannery Pvt Ltd, Agmotex Fabrics Ltd , Ahsan Leathers Pvt Ltd , Ailga Rubber Works , AKI India Pvt Ltd, Kashi Jewellers, Laxman Traders, Superhouse Group, Simran Traders, Mirza International, Flex Industries, Kesarvani, Bajrangbali, Pan Parag, Super Glue, Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India, Lohia Machinery Limited, British India Corporation, Rupani Footwear, Panki Thermal Power Station, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, JK Synthetics Ltd., Dainik Jagran, Kothari Products Ltd. etc. University/College IIT Kanpur, Harcourt Butler Technological Institute, Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial Medical College, University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Kanpur University, Chandra Shekhar Azad University of Agriculture and Technology, Uttar Pradesh Textile Technology Institute, Indian Institute of Pulses Research, National Sugar Institute, D.A.V. P.G. College, Harcourt Butler Technological Institute, Indian Institute of Pulses Research, National Sugar Institute, Kanpur University, Chandra Shekhar Azad University of Agriculture and Technology , Society for Tropical Plant Research, Tropical Plant Research etc. Notable people Mujeeb Aalam - Pakistani Playback Singer, Abhishek Avasthi - Actor, Choreographer, Dancer and Model, Poonam Dhillon - Actress, Ashwini Dhir - Director, Script Writer, Vinod Kumar Dwivedi - Classical Vocalist etc. Last Updated on : July 7, 2014 Uttar Pradesh Cities Agra Aligarh Allahabad Ayodhya Azamgarh Badaun Ballia Bareilly Basti Bhadohi Bijnor Chandauli Chandausi Chitrakut Deoria Etah Etawah Faizabad Ferozpur Ghaziabad Gokul Gonda Gorakhpur Greater Noida Hapur Hardoi Jaunpur Jhansi Kanpur Lalitpur Lucknow Mathura Meerut Mirzapur Moradabad Muzaffarnagar Noida Pilibhit Saharanpur Sambhal Sarnath Sitapur Sultanpur Unnao Varanasi Vrindavan Kanpur Localities Arya Nagar Ashok Nagar Azad Nagar Bhauti Barra Chowk Sarafa Chunni Ganj Civil Lines Darshan Purwa Defence Colony Fazalganj Ghumni Bazar G.T. Road Govind Nagar Indira Nagar Indrapuri Road Harjinder Nagar Harsh Nagar Jawahar Nagar Kakadev Kalpi Road Kalyanpur Kaushal Puri Kidwai Nagar Koyla Nagar Khalasi Line Lajpat Nagar Lakhanpur Lal Bangla Mall Road Nirala Nagar Naubasta Nayaganj Pandu Nagar Panki Ratan Lal Nagar Saket Nagar Sarvodaya Nagar Shastri Nagar Shyam Nagar Swaroop Nagar Shanti Nagar Sharda Nagar Singhpur Vikas Nagar Vishnupuri Yashoda Nagar Tatya Tope Nagar Tilak Nagar VIP Road Travel to Uttar Pradesh Travel to Agra Travel to Allahabad Travel to Ayodhya Travel to Ghaziabad Travel to Gorakhpur Travel to Jhansi Travel to Kanpur Travel to khushinagar Travel to Lucknow Travel to Mathura Travel to Noida Travel to Sarnath Travel to Sravasti Travel to Varanasi Travel to Vrindavan Places to visit in Uttar Pradesh Places to visit in Agra Places to visit in Allahabad Places to visit in Ghaziabad Places to visit in Gorakhpur Places to visit in Jhansi Places to visit in Kanpur Places to visit in kushinagar Places to visit in Lucknow Places to visit in Mahura Places to visit in Noida Places to visit in Sarnath Places to visit in Shravasti Places to visit in Varanasi Places of Interest in Kanpur Agricultural gardens Allen Forest Zoo Brijendra Swaroop Park Dwarka Dhish Temple Green Park Stadium Jain Glass Temple Jajmau J.K. Temple Kamla Retreat Kanpur Memorial Church Massacre Ghat Moti Jheel Nana Rao Park Phool Bagh             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule