Flea (Street) Markets of Mumbai: The Joy of Shopping | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Travel / The Joy of Shopping at the Flea Markets of Mumbai The Joy of Shopping at the Flea Markets of Mumbai April 29, 2014 by Nandni Flea Markets in Mumbai “”Whoever said money can’t buy happiness didn’t know where to shop” – Bo Derek Retail therapy is by far the most effective technique of rejuvenation! Who better than a woman would know this? She loves to shop and to shop till you drop! There is wide variety of shoppers in the world. While some like to splurge on the branded couture, the others feel happy bargaining. The city of Mumbai has always been regarded as the fashion capital of India. Not only does it have the top notch designers at its call, but is also a home to some of the most sought after flea markets in the country. A good flea market is a shopper’s paradise and Mumbai is definitely one of that! The flea or the street markets in Mumbai offer a good deal of opportunities for the shopaholic to indulge in luxuriant shopping. Who would miss a chance to buy the most stylish and fanciful attire that too at a good bargain? Shopping at the flea markets of Mumbai is as essential as visiting the Gateway of India! So here is a small insight of the shopping paradise of the city of Mumbai- 1. Colaba Causeway This is one place where you would get everything, quite literally! Handicrafts, clothes, books or jewellery; anything that you could possibly think of. And when you get tired drop-in at the Leopold’s Café, one of the most famous hangout areas in Mumbai. 2. Linking Road A vibrant amalgamation of traditional and modern, this place is one of the most crowded places of Mumbai. Avoid visiting this market on Sundays if you don’t like congested areas. 3. Crawford Market Nestled in a historical colonial building, this is one of the oldest markets of Mumbai. Fruits and vegetables are its specialties. There is also a special area devoted to pets of all kinds 4. Fashion Street This place has the highest fashion quotient in Mumbai and the locals can swear by the same. With over 150 stalls, Fashion Street is quite popular amongst the youngsters. 5. Chor Bazaar Initially, this was not actually a thieves market! The mispronunciation of British changed the name of this place from Shor Bazaar to Chor Bazaar and then eventually it lived up to its name! If vintage is your taste, strive through the crowded lanes of this market to get your hands on some of the most unique items of all times. Markets Mumbai Nandni Twenty three years ago, I came bounding into this world of love and laughter. Fortitude and Vigor have brought me where I am; perseverance and candor will take me where I want to be! An avid lover of books, music, traveling, shopping and designing, I am highly bound by the habit of perfectionism. More articles from Nandni : 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! Tanu Weds Manu Returns: Movie Review 8 Bollywood Celebs Who Left Us Too Early Weird Superstitions of 10 Bollywood Stars Bollywood Celebrities at Cannes 2015 Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Baidyanath sah on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd omprakash on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd VIJAY MANGLIK on Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012