Economy of Andaman and Nicobar Islands Home » Andaman & Nicobar Islands » Economy » Islands   Andaman and Nicobar Island अंडमान और निकोबार का नक्शा Andaman and Nicobar Island Map Portblair City Districts Location Map How to reach Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar Travel to Andaman and Nicobar Wildlife Sanctuaries Beaches in Andaman & Nicobar Andaman & Nicobar Monuments Museums in Andaman & Nicobar Hotels in Andaman and    Nicobar Portblair Hotels Havelock Hotels Culture Geography and History Government and Politics Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Infrastructure Language Education Facts Lat Long Pin Code Std code       Economy of Andaman and Nicobar Islands The Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands have immense collection of natural recourses. The fishing industry supports a major portion of the economy of Andaman and Nicobar islands. Besides agriculture is also a major revenue-earning source for the peasants of that island. The hilly and plain agricultural lands of Andaman and Nicobar Islands are important source of income for the rural people of those areas. Seasonal vegetables, oilseeds, pulses, pepper, nutmeg, cinnamon are some special crops cultivated there. Even the economy at Andaman and Nicobar Islands to some extent, depends on the red oil, rubber, palm and cashew nut that are grown here marginally. Other major industries that are also a big contributor to the Andaman and Nicobar islands economy include its handicrafts industry, minerals and energy resources. Even tourism is a big industry for the people of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. This land is full of natural beauties and the exotic collection of flora and fauna, which attract tourists worldwide. The innumerable tourist spots of Andaman and Nicobar islands support the tourism industry of the place. The island abounds with lush green forests that are a storehouse of some rare variety of floras. As a result the timber industry have come up into the island. Woodcrafts are very beautiful that also plays a considerable role in the economy of Andaman and Nicobar islands. Economy in Andaman and Nicobar Islands depend wholly on all the above factors. Agriculture Andaman and Nicobar Islands agriculture have come a long way in this important sector though the land available for this purpose is very limited and restricted within 6% of the total area of this place. Due to the need to increase the fertility of this land, intense measures have been taken to bring scientific revolution to increase the production capability. Andaman and Nicobar Islands are full of exotic natural varieties and thus it inspires the peasants of that land to devote themselves into agriculture.Agriculture crops in Andaman and Nicobar Islands include vegetables, which are cultivated during summer season when the climate is quite favorable for food productivity. The vegetable cultivation of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands includes vegetables like radish, lobia, brinjal, bhindi, poi, cucurbits, marsa, etc. which are mainly cultivated in Kharif season.Agriculture of Andaman and Nicobar Island also produces vegetables like knolkhol, tomato, capsicum, cauliflower etc which are mainly winter season vegetables. Andaman and Nicobar Islands agriculture has very recently included the hilly areas to promote plantation of different spices crops and fruits. The climatic condition of this island is favorable for the production of fruits. The hilly areas are best used for horticulture, with cultivation of crops like coconut and fruits like pineapple, guava, jackfruit, mango, citrus fruits and other special fruits specially found in this island.Agriculture at Andaman and Nicobar Islands also includes red oil palm, rubber, cashew nut cultivation. Andaman and Nicobar Islands agriculture is limited within 50000 hectares. Only 12000 hectares of land are flat, which is best suited for agriculture. During the kharif season paddy becomes the prime field crop. A minimum amount of oilseeds and pulses cultivation could be seen in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. To give a hike to the production power for the agriculture of Andaman and Nicobar Islands the farmers of these islands are allotted with 2 hectares of paddy and 2 hectares of hilly land. Banks The more a country or state economically grows up, the more it feels the need for upgrading its banking facilities. Very recently the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands have developed both commercially and economically. Therefore a lot of banks have set up their branches to provide the peasants and business personnels of those islands with efficient banking facilities. All the Andaman and Nicobar Islands banks provide facilities like money deposition and withdrawal along with their different terms and conditions. Cash credit facility, home and business loan options are also available to the natives of the islands by the various banks in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Short term payable loan, medium or long term loans provided by different banks in Andaman and Nicobar Islands have inspired the local people to engage themselves to put up several small industries there. These loans are repayable in monthly, quarterly and yearly installments. These banks at Andaman and Nicobar Islands have made the investors interested in different schemes offered by them. Financial assistance provided by these banks in Andaman and Nicobar Islands are a great help to the needy people. Security of money is a big factor behind the successful representation of several banks in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Following below is the list of the banks of Andaman and Nicobar Islands: Union Bank UCO Bank Punjab National Bank Allahabad Bank Vijaya Bank Bharath State Bank Canara Bank Indian Overseas Bank Indian Bank Andaman and Nicobar State Co-operative Bank These banks provide financial security along with helping hands for the needy people. Wildlife The tranquil islands of Andaman and Nicobar are blessed with the magnanimous presence of verdant woods and exotic wildlife which will surely captivate you in a state of trance. The forestry and wildlife in Andaman and Nicobar islands constitutes a major attraction for the tourists hailing from all corners of the planet. Approximately 7.171 square kilometers of the terrain is conquered by the vast stretches luscious green forests and falls under the forestry and wildlife in Andaman and Nicobar islands. These forests receive a lot of rain as they positioned on the equatorial belt. The trees that thrive in this heavenly delectable locale include tropical evergreen, mangroves and damp deciduous. As a matter of fact, the regions that come under the forestry and wildlife of Andaman and Nicobar islands are bestowed with the presence of approximately 200 taxonomic groups of plants amongst which only a meager 44 species are gleaned. But a sum total of 29 species are chosen to be utilized in the manufacture of industrial products. Some of the most important species of plants which epitomizes the forestry and wildlife at Andaman and Nicobar islands are mentioned below:- Lal Bombeive White Chuglam Sea Mohwa Pyinma Badam Nabbe Red Dhup Didu or Semul Didu Dhup Bakota Papita Lambapathi Chool Satinwood Thikpot Marblewood It was the year of1883 that saw the dawn of the Forest department. The forestry and wildlife in Andaman and Nicobar islands has other assets as well like wildlife that includes Wild Boar, Barking Deer, Spotted Deer, Sambhar, Feral Elephants and many more intriguing creatures. The chief avian creatures of the Andaman and Nicobar forestry and wildlife include Andaman hawk Owl, Andaman Scops Owl, Andaman Crake, Brown Coucal and many more. Handicrafts Andaman and Nicobar Islands handicrafts industry is mainly dependent upon its shell crafts. Shells of Andaman and Nicobar Islands are one of the most beautiful and fascinating objects found there. They are some unique creatures of these islands which are the assets of these islands. The shell crafted items of Andaman and Nicobar Islands handicraft industry enjoy high demand worldwide. The abundance of small and big shells in the coastal areas have tempted the coastal people to indulge themselves in the practice of shell crafting. Handicrafts industry of Andaman and Nicobar Islands include sea shell handicrafts. Sea shells for their majestic look and colors please the human eyes. The people in general desire to decorate their homes with various shell crafted items which gives a beautiful look to the house. Thus Andaman and Nicobar Islands handicraft industry is a major economic recourse for the local people. They collect the sea shells and then clean them and process them. After processing they cut them in different desired shapes. Mainly shell crafting is done for making decorative items, ornaments, table lamps etc. The shell handicrafts industry in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a big economy recourse for the peasants of this land. But due to the fear of sheer exploitation of these natural recourses the government has banned some of the export business related with this craft.Handicrafts industry at Andaman and Nicobar Islands also enjoys timber and wood work culture. Andaman and Nicobar Islands boasts of a wide collection of timber species among whom some belong to rare families. They cut the timbers in different sizes and thus prepare simple objects giving unique forms to them. A variety of furnitures and other figures are made of these woods. The local craftsmen produce decorative hand made beautiful furnitures which are worthy for interior decoration. Fishing Industry Fishing and pisiciculture has a big market industry in India. India by virtue of its water resources has seen a revolution in this fishing industry mainly after independence.Industry of fishing is a big earning method for the Indian Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. This industry of fishing in Andaman and Nicobar islands is a big support to the economy of that island. Andaman and Nicobar group constitutes 321 islands, which covers a total area of 8293 sq. km. Water recourse is a big way of earning for the people of this island and thus many people are engaged in different water related business over here. The island being surrounded by water provides a great boon to the fishing industry of Andaman and Nicobar islands. As such many other fishing industries have come up with their ventures in this island. Thousands of crocodiles of different species are seen in these islands. And the numerous species of sea fishes have mainly inspired the Industry of Fishing in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Fishes like mackerels, barracuda, mullets, tuna, sardines and flying fishes are found in abundance there. Other than these, seashells of different sizes and shapes are also found there. Shark fishing was also a prime focus of this industry.Fishing Industry at Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a major industry but very recently a ban has been put on the continuous killing of sea sharks. This ban has finally brought a control over the unnecessary killing of various rare species of fish. Tourism Industry A hefty bulk of the revenue earned by the Government of Andaman and Nicobar is through the tourism industry. As a matter of fact, the industry of tourism in Andaman and Nicobar islandshas boomed and prospered into a completely new and advanced level. The varied tourist spots in the tranquil islands of Andaman and Nicobar are so spectacular that people from all over the globe gather at least once to witness its charm and grandeur. There are an amazing variety of conducted tours that are being organized to give the visitors a local taste of the islands and visit the tourist spots. The most prominent are :- Conducted tours by Directorate of Tourism : These are operated from the venues like Andaman Teal House, Port Blair and many more. This constitutes an important wing of the industry of tourism at Andaman and Nicobar islands. They conduct tours to the delectable locales like Mahatma Gandhi National Park, Wandoor, Mount Harriet, Water Sports complex and Gandhi Park, Corbyn's Cove Beach, Jolly Buoy, Red Skin Chidiya Tapi and many more. The vehicle of choice are the bus and the boat. Directorate of Shipping Services : It is another essential appendage of the industry of tourism across Andaman and Nicobar islands and they conduct boat tours to Viper Island, Ross Island and Harbor Cruise. There are also a number of package tours that form an integral part of the industry of tourism of Andaman and Nicobar islands. They include the following :- Adventure Thrill which is a 6 day and 5 nights package tour and visits spots like Corbyn's Cove Beach, Chidiya Tapu and many more. Explore Andaman which is another package tour persisting for 5 nights and 6 days. It covers locales like the Viper island and many more. Others include Historical Adventure, Nature Lovers Trivia and many more. Livestock Andaman and Nicobar Islands livestock is one of the mainstays of the economy of the union territory. The farming of livestock in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is done on the areas that have been cleared from the forest regions of the islands, which have dense vegetation growth of rain forest. Although the total percentage of lands that are used for livestock is small, yet in some areas of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, livestock thrives despite harsh conditions. Distribution of Andaman and Nicobar Islands Livestock Andaman and Nicobar Islands Livestock is not equally distributed over the populated islands of the entire range of islands that comprise the Union Territory of India. The GIS based analysis produced and published the Central Agricultural Research Institute. have isolated the following islands as having the maximum livestock at Andaman and Nicobar Islands: Baratang Car Nicobar Chawra Great Nicobar Havelock Kamorta Katchal Kondul Little Andaman Lon Island Middle Andaman North Andaman South Andaman Teressa Livestock Pattern in Andaman and Nicobar Islands Andaman and Nicobar Islands Livestock is almost exclusively comprised of indigenous varieties (desi), with very few improved varieties available. Cattle, buffalo, goat and pig form the crux of Andaman and Nicobar Islands Livestock. Buffalo is by far the most numerous of the species comprising livestock at Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Poultry also forms an important part of the livestock of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Livestock Intensification Index of Andaman and Nicobar Islands (LII) The Livestock Intensification Index is prepared by the Central Agricultural Research Institute to quantify the improvement in the livestock facilities and infrastructure in the various regions of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Four islands were in the top quarter of marks in a scale of 0 - 1.0, keeping in mind the various factors from arable lands to the other important facilities. Nine ranged between 0.5 to 0.75, and nine more were rated between 0.25 and 0.5. as many as 15 islands were there in the lowest quarter. However, it should be remembered in this context that many islands in the whole of Andaman and Nicobar do not have a wide arable area, and some have to do for the others. Mineral Energy Andaman and Nicobar Islands Minerals and energy are extremely important part of the economy of the state. Although the mineral wealth of Andaman and Nicobar is modest, yet the government of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is committed towards making the best of the available resources. As far as the energy of Andaman and Nicobar Islands go, the state is looking at the possibilities of optimizing non-conventional energy resources along with the conventional forms. Minerals of Andaman and Nicobar Islands Andaman and Nicobar Islands minerals and energy resources feature the minerals found in the islands. Andaman and Nicobar islands are not altogether rich in mineral resources. However, the state is not completely deprived of mineral resources too, and has the potentials of realizing them. The main Andaman and Nicobar Islands mineral deposits islands are copper and chromite. The government has diversified its mining operations through a process of introducing privatization in the system, like other states of India. It has not only proved beneficial for the mining and minerals of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, but has also been a steady revenue earner for the government. Energy in Andaman and Nicobar Islands Energy in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is the other important aspect of Andaman and Nicobar minerals and energy.Andaman and Nicobar Islands energy resources are of extreme importance to the state's financial infrastructure. Although some thermal energy is produces, yet water energy is the mainstay of the energy in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The main source of Energy in the union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is in the form of Hydro-Electricity. The government of Andaman and Nicobar Islands have privatized its power sector. The National Hydroelectric Power Corporation Ltd. Is in charge of protecting the energy resources of Andaman and Nicobar. However, the government of Andaman and Nicobar islands is committed towards broadening its energy base as well as to conserve its available energy resources. Natural Resources The varied natural resources in Andaman and Nicobar islands have metamorphosed the twin islands into one of the most recurrently visited spots in India. The blanket of forests that extends across the terrain of Andaman and Nicobar approximately covers 86% of its total land. The forests constitute such an integral wing of the natural resource of Andaman and Nicobar that it houses 96 Sanctuaries and 9 National Parks which is a spectacular feat in itself. The main objective that primed the construction of so many sanctuaries and natural parks was to preserve those species of animals which are hanging precariously on the verge of extinction. The sanctuaries covers a mammoth area that measures approximately 466.218 square kilometers whereas the national parks cover 1153.938 square kilometers. The primary sanctuaries that form a part of the natural resources of Andaman and Nicobar islands are Narcondum Hornbill Sanctuary that procures a suitable abode for the exotic species of birds known as hornbills, Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park that houses an entire caboodle of aquatic creatures, Nicobar Pigeon Sanctuary, South Sentinel Island Sanctuary which houses humongous robber crabs and North Reef Sanctuary which is principally dedicated to the nurturing of a variety of water birds. The wild animals that wander about in the verdant forests are Crab Eating Macaque, Terrestrial Shrews, Squirrel, snakes, Dolphins, bats, crocodiles, rats and many more which add a lot of variety to the natural resources at Andaman and Nicobar islands. These animals attract majority of the tourists with their charm and constitute the back-bone of the natural resource across Andaman and Nicobar islands. Last Updated on: 2 nd April 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule