Arunachal Pradesh Map Home » Maps » Arunachal Pradesh Map   Arunachal Pradesh अरुणाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Arunachal Pradesh Map Tawang city map Itanagar city map Naharlagun city map Along Map Ziro Map Districts of Arunachal Pradesh Roads Rivers Tehsils Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Places to visit in Arunachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Sports in Arunachal Pradesh Ita Fort in Arunachal Pradesh Ganga Lake in Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Location Physical Map Arunachal Pradesh Forest Map Lat Long Geography Handicrafts Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels Government & Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Arunachal Pradesh History Arunachal Pradesh Mineral Map Society Information Economy Pin Code       Arunachal Pradesh Map Map of Arunachal Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map of Arunachal Pradesh with districts, railways, rivers and major road network. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Arunachal Pradesh Location Map Arunachal Pradesh District Map Cities of Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Tehsil Map         Arunachal Pradesh Road Map Arunachal Pradesh Physical Map Arunachal Pradesh River Map Arunachal Pradesh Travel Map Arunachal Pradesh located in north eastern India has fifteen districts and is called "Land of the Rising Sun". The literary meaning of the "Land of the Rising Sun" is "the land of the dawn lit mountains." The state has its capital in Itanagar, which is also its largest city. The state, known for its natural beauty is backed by a strong agricultural economy- pulses, sugarcane, rice, wheat, maize being its main crops. It has a considerable amount of forest cover which ensures that the forest products also contribute to its economy. The tourism sector of the state, however, has not been fully utilized. Area of Arunachal Pradesh The total area covered by Arunachal Pradesh is 83743 sq km. Arunachal Pradesh Geography Covering an area of 83743 sq km, Arunachal Pradesh extends from the snow covered Himalayas to the Brahmaputra plains. It is located between 26° 30' and 29° 30' North latitude and 91° 30' and 97° 30' East longitude. Lying at the country's north eastern tip, the state is surrounded by Tibet in the north and north east, Bhutan in the west and Assam and Nagaland in the south. The Himalayan range, besides the Himalayan foothills and Patkai hills, covers the majority of the state. Arunachal Pradesh Climate The presence of Himalayas has affected the climate of Arunachal Pradesh to a large extent. The climate of the state varies in accordance with the altitude. The upper regions of the state experience alpine or tundra climate, while the middle Himalayan portions have temperate climate. Humid conditions prevail in the lower regions of the state. Economy of Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh is primarily an agricultural state. The main crops here are rice, pulses, sugarcane, wheat, millets, oilseeds and ginger. The farmers of the state employ various devices to increase their agricultural yield- the Jhum farming and terrace farming are two of these methods. In Jhum cultivation the farmers prepare the land by setting on fire or cutting down the unwanted cultivation. Terrace farming involves the shaping of hilly agricultural lands into multiple terraces in a bid to check soil erosion. The forest cover of Arunachal Pradesh is fairly well exploited. The state boasts of a number of rice mills, fruit preservation departments, horticulture units, and handloom handicrafts. Arunachal Pradesh Government The incumbent Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh is Nabam Tuki. The governor of the state is Nirbhay Sharma. Arunachal Pradesh Demography There are around 1, 091, 117 inhabitants in the state, with a 54.74% literacy rate. Arunachal Pradesh Rivers The major rivers flowing through the state are Subansiri, Lohit, Siang, Kameng, and Tirap. These rivers are snow fed, originating from the Himalayas and splitting the state into five river valleys. Tourism Sector of Arunachal Pradesh and Important Tourist Destinations The snow capped mountains and the beautiful valleys of the state add to the scenic beauty of Arunachal Pradesh, already famous for its natural beauty. These features can serve as major tourist draws if its tourism is fully explored. However there are some places in the state which can draw tourists: Tawang: It is located at a height of 12, 000 feet above sea level. The hill station with some high altitude but inaccessible lakes is a major draw for adventure lovers. Itanagar: the largest city of Arunachal Pradesh has places like Jawaharlal Nehru State Museum, Ganga Lake (Gyakar Siny) and Buddhist Temple which are worth visiting. Aside from these, there are seven wildlife sanctuaries and four National parks in the state. Wild Life Sanctuaries in Arunachal Pradesh Dr. D. Ering Memorial Wildlife Sanctuary Itanagar Wild life Sanctuary Pakhui Wildlife Sanctuary National Parks of Arunachal Pradesh Mouling National Park in Jengging Namdhapa National Park in Miao Arunachal Pradesh State Information Capital Itanagar Date of formation February 20,1987 Governor Nirbhay Sharma Chief Minister Nabam Tuki Tourist attractions Twang Hompa, Dirang, Bomdila Festivals Losar, Si-Donyi, Reh, Mopin and Solung Major dance and music forms Lion and Peacock dance, Ponung, Roppi, Wancho dance Arts and crafts Monpas are especially good wood carvers, women in AP are expert weavers. Languages Monpa, Mild, Aka, Sherdukpen, Apatani, Adi, Hill Miri Size 83,743 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 1,383,727 Rivers Siang, Lohit, Kameg, Dikrong, Tirap, Dibang, Subansiri, Noa-Dihing, Kamlang Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Namdapha NP, Monling NP State animal Mithun State bird Great Indian hornbill State flower Foxtail orchid State tree Hollong Major crops Jhum Factoids The mithun is considered a unit of wealth and is allowed to roam free till it is sacrificed and eaten on special occasions. Monpas, who are Buddhists, live in the mountains of western Arunachal Pradesh No. of District 18 Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Travel to Along Travel to Bhalukpong Travel to Bomdila Travel to Itanagar Travel to Tawang Travel to Ziro Places to visit in Arunachal-pradesh Places to visit in Itanagar Places to visit in Tawang Places to visit in Ziro Last Updated on : November 27, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule