Punjab Location Map Home » Maps » Punjab » Punjab Location Map   Punjab पंजाब का नक्शा Punjab Map Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bathinda Ferozepur                    more Districts of Punjab Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Punjab Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Punjab Places to visit in Punjab Wildlife Sanctuaries Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Punjab Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Telephone Directory Government and Politics Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Geography and History Handicrafts People Culture and Festivals Pin Code Universities In Punjab       Punjab Location Map Location Map of Punjab Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing Punjab location in India Map. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The state of Punjab is located in the northwest of India. The state is bordered by the Jammu and Kashmir to the north, Haryana to the south and southeast, Rajasthan to the southwest and Himachal Pradesh to the northeast. It also shares international border with Pakistan country. The state of Punjab has a total area of 50,362 sq km and extends from 29.30° North to 32.32° North latitudes and 73.55° East to 76.50° East longitudes. The capital of Punjab is Chandigarh, which is also the capital of Haryana and a Union Territory. The major cities of Punjab are Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala, Bathinda, Mohali, Chandigarh and Ludhiana - the largest city. Punjab has a population of 27,704,236 people and the official Spoken language is Punjabi. After the partition of India in 1947, The Indian Punjab was divided in 1966 with the formation of the new states of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, as well as the current state of Punjab. Punjab is the only state in India with a majority Sikh population. The state got its name from Persian words "Panj" and "Ab" which mean "five" and "water". Punjab is called as the "Land of Five Rivers". The five rivers are the Beas, Ravi, Sutlej, Jehlum and Chenab. Punjab has 22 districts which include a number of sub-divisions, tehsils and blocks. The Districts is Punjab are as follows: Amritsar, Barnala, Bathinda, Firozpur, Fazilka, Fatehgarh Sahib (Sirhind-Fategarh), Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Mansa, Moga, Mohali, Muktsar, Patiala, Pathankot, Rupnagar, Sangrur, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr) and Tarn Taran. There are total 14 cities and 157 towns in Punjab. The state of Punjab can be divided into following regions: Malwa region - South to the River Sutlej, the Malwa region consists of 11 districts and makes up the majority of Punjab. Ludhiana, Sangrur, Patiala, Barnala, Firozpur, Bathinda, Moga, Rajpura and Mohali are located in this region. The region is famous for cotton farming. Majha region - It is a historical region which comprising modern districts of Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran. The region lies between rivers Beas, Ravi and Sutlej. The region is called as the 'Cradle of Sikhism' and the heartland of Punjab. Doaba region - As the name Doaba literally means the "land between two rivers", this region lies between the rivers Sutlej and Beas. This region is amongst the largest producers of wheat in the world. It is a fertile region and was the centre of the Green Revolution in India. Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr and Kapurthala are the cities located in this region Last Updated on : 28/06/2013   Cities   Where is Abohar Where is Adampur Where is Ahmedgarh Where is Ajnala Where is Akalgarh Where is Alawalpur Where is Amloh Where is Amritsar Where is Amritsar Cantt. Where is Anandpur Sahib Where is Badhni Kalan Where is Bagha Purana Where is Balachaur Where is Banaur Where is Banga Where is Baretta Where is Bariwala Where is Barnala Where is Bassi Pathana Where is Batala Where is Bathinda Where is Begowal Where is Bhabat Where is Bhadaur Where is Bhankharpur Where is Bharoli Kalan Where is Bhawanigarh Where is Bhikhi Where is Bhikhiwind Where is Bhisiana Where is Bhogpur Where is Bhucho Mandi Where is Bhulath Where is Budha Theh Where is Budhlada Where is Cheema Where is Chohal Where is Daroha Where is Dasua Where is Daulatpur Where is Dera Baba Nanak Where is Dera Bassi Where is Dhanaula Where is Dharamkot Where is Dhariwal Where is Dhilwan Where is Dhuri Where is Dina Nagar Where is Dirba Where is Faridkot Where is Fatehgarh Churian Where is Fazilka Where is Fiozpur Where is Firozpur Cantt. Where is Gardhiwala Where is Garhshanker Where is Ghagga Where is Ghanaur Where is Gidderbaha Where is Gobindgarh Where is Goniana Where is Goraya Where is Gurdaspur Where is Guru Har Sahai Where is Hajipur Where is Handiaya Where is Hariana Where is Hoshiarpur Where is Hussainpur Where is Jagraon Where is Jaitu Where is Jalalabad Where is Jalandhar Where is Jalandhar Cantt. Where is Jandiala Where is Jandiala Where is Jugial Where is Kalanaur Where is Kapurthala Where is Karoran Where is Kartarpur Where is Khamanon Where is Khanauri Where is Khanna Where is Kharar Where is Khem Karan Where is Kot Fatta Where is Kot Kapura Where is Kurali Where is Lehragaga Where is Lodhian Khas Where is Longowal Where is Ludhiana Where is Machhiwara Where is Mahilpur Where is Majitha Where is Makhu Where is Malerkotla Where is Maloud Where is Malout Where is Mansa Where is Maur Where is Moga Where is Moonak Where is Morinda Where is Mukerian Where is Muktsar Where is Mullanpur Dakha Where is Mullanpur- Garibdas Where is Nabha Where is Nakodar Where is Nangal Where is Nawanshahr Where is Nehon Where is Noor Mahal Where is Pathankot Where is Patiala Where is Patti Where is Pattran Where is Payal Where is Phagwara Where is Phillaur Where is Qadian Where is Rahon Where is Raikot Where is Rajasansi Where is Rajpura Where is Raman Where is Ramdass Where is Rampura Phul Where is Rayya Where is Rupnagar Where is Rurki Kasba Where is S.A.S. Nagar (Mohali) Where is Sahnewal Where is Samana Where is Samrala Where is Sanaur Where is Sangat Where is Sangrur Where is Sansarpur Where is Sardulgarh Where is Shahkot Where is Shamchaurasi Where is Shekhpura Where is Sirhind -Fategarh Where is Sri Hargobindpur Where is Sujanpur Where is Sultanpur Lodhi Where is Sunam Where is Talwandi Bhai Where is Talwara Where is Tappa Where is Tarn Taran Where is Urmar Tanda Where is Zira Where is Zirakpur   Districts   Where is Bathinda Where is Fatehgarh Sahib Where is Gurdaspur Where is Jalandhar Where is Ludhiana Where is Moga Where is Nawanshahr Where is Rupnagar   States Location Map   Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Bihar Chhattisgarh Goa Tripura Uttaranchal Uttar Pradesh West Bengal Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu & Kashmir Jharkand Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Tamilnadu Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Orissa   Union Territories Location Map   Andaman and Nicobar Chandigarh Dadra and Nagar Haveli Daman & Diu Lakshadweep Pondicherry Delhi   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule