National Institute of Fisheries Post Harvest Technology and Training, (NIFPHATT) Skip to main contents | Accessibility Options | Screen Reader Access मुख्य सामग्री पर जाएं | अभिगम्यता के विकल्प Home About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Guidelines Dairy Development Fishery Fodder Large Ruminants(Bovine) Livestock Extension Livestock Insurance Livestock Health Piggery Development Poultry Small Ruminants Threatened Breeds Trade Bovine Breeding Trade Conferences Statistics Animal Husbandry Statistics Livestock Census Fisheries Poultry Reports Forms Grievances Public Grievances Contact Us Sunabeda Suratgarh Andeshnagar Breeds Chiplima breeds Dhamrod breeds Hessarghatta breeds Sunabeda breeds CHRS-centre names Suratgarh Breeds Tenders English हिन्दी में Welcome to Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries पशुपालन, डेयरी और मत्स्य पालन विभाग में आपका स्वागत है Search : खोजें : Home / National Institute of Fisheries Post Harvest Technology and Training, (NIFPHATT) National Institute of Fisheries Post Harvest Technology and Training, (NIFPHATT)   Background   The history of National Institute of Fisheries Post Harvest Technology and Training, Cochin (NIFPHATT) coincides with the history of our modern fisheries of the country.  Integrated Fisheries Project, the forerunner of the NIFPHATT was established in the year 1952 at Quilon as the offspring of a tripartite agreement among India, Norway and the UNDP as a fishermen community development programme, further extended its reach and coverage to the present day NIFPHATT.  In 1963, the administration of the Project at Cochin was taken over by the Government of India renaming is as Integrated Fisheries Project and it continued the programmes as a Central Government scheme under the Ministry of Agriculture.  NIFPHATT, with its glorious past as the erstwhile Integrated Fisheries Project, has rendered yeomen service to the country’s fishery economy by spearheading modernization of fishing, processing and marketing industries and the socio-economic development of various stakeholders in their rural midst.  Now, in response to the changed demands of this sector, the Ministry of Agriculture has decided to revalidate the mission and mandate of the Institute and to upgrade, update and fine tune its activities.   Current Mission and Mandate   1.  Post harvest technology upgradation and its transfer to beneficiaries such as rural fishermen community, small scale industries,export processing houses and students through consultancy, job work and training. 2.  Value added product development by way of process and product   diversification from all varieties of fish including low value, unconventional  species and seasonally abundant fishes. 3.   Imparting training in the field of post harvest technology, refrigeration  technology, quality control and value added products. 4.  Providing consultancy services and training for rural development programmes/  women empowerment programmes in fish processing, supporting local fish      farmers, self help groups of fisher community, fishermen’s co-operative societies functioning under Panchayati Raj Institutions. 5.  Popularization and test marketing of value added products from fish varieties including low value, unconventional species and seasonally            abundant fishes. 6.   Extension of the activities through popularization and test marketing of value  added products to new areas and develop markets in all States in a phased manner with added attention to rural areas and enthusing entrepreneurs to enter into sea food-processing industry.   Contact details:  Director, NIFPHAT, Foreshore Road, Cochin-682016. Phone: 0484-2361317 Fax: 0484-2373516. Website: http://ifpkochi.nic.in Help | Terms of Use | Site Map | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer | Hyperlinking Policy | Privacy Policy | Archives | Contact Us This website belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ©  2014 All rights reserved. Designed,Developed & Hosted by NIC