Kanha National Park Map Home » Madhya Pradesh » Kanha National Park   Madhya Pradesh मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Indore Bhopal Jabalpur Gwalior Ujjain Sagar Neemuch Morena                    more... Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Kanha National Park Kanha National Park Map Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing Rest houses, Villages and other important landmarks in Kanha National Park. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. The Jabalpur-Kanha National Forest Reserve tours provide the wanderlust driven traveller the fascinating opportunity to discover the diverse natural heritage of central India. Located in the heart of Madhya Pradesh's Mandla district at a distance of 145 km from Jabalpur city, the excursions from Jabalpur to Kanha National Forest is a must see destination on a Central Indian sojourn. Kanha National park was accorded the distinguished status of a national park in the year 1955. The sanctuary encompasses an area of approximately 1940 sq. km and is famed for housing several endemic species of wild animals. Another claim to the wildlife reserve's fame rests in its Tiger Reserve project. The picturesque sanctuary, enveloped in dense natural foliage is located amid a horseshoe shaped valley and is fringed by the Mekal range. In fact, it was the Kanha National Park that inspired Rudyard Kipling to write the classic Jungle Book. Besides tigers, leopards, bears, chital, sambhar, barasingha, black buck as well as the swamp deer inhabit the glades of the sanctuary. Kanha National Park is the home of 22 species of mammals and over 200 variegated groups of birds and reptiles. The sanctuary is shrouded by tall grasslands and occasionally speckled by the colourful bloom of orchids. The other highlight of the Kanha National Forest Reserve is the spectacular sunset point, the Bamni Dadar which illustrates nature at its best. In fact, a visit to the Kanha National Park as well as Jabalpur, the 'city of marble rocks' opens up a treasure trove of fantastic tourist delights. Places to See in Kanha The most popular tourist attraction in Kanha is the Kanha National Park. Located in the Mandla district of Madhya Pradesh Kanha is considered to be the best maintained tourist friendly park in India. Kanha is supposed to have been the inspiration and setting for the Indian novels of Rudyard Kipling, especially the popular Jungle Book. In 1955 the Kanha Park was converted into a National Park. With the launching of the 'Project Tiger', the park was declared a tiger reserve in 1974.Today Kanha is among the few most scenic and beautiful wildlife reserves in Asia. Kanha National Park is open from November to June, with each season imparting its own beauty to the park. The highpoint of your visit would be the unique privilege of sitting atop an elephant and watching the fascinating Royal Bengal tiger in its natural surroundings. While on the tiger trail you are bound to come across other animals in the open grassy meadows. Kanha National Park also has the Kanha Museum within the premises of the park. It displays the functions of the park and also has exhibits, which portray the tribal culture of the state of Madhya Pradesh. How to Reach Kanha One can reach Kanha by air, rail or road. By Air Nagpur, which is about 266kms away, is the nearest airport. By Train Jabalpur is the nearest railway station and is at a distance of 175 kms. By Road There are regular buses from Jabalpur to Kanha.Taxis are also available for hire from Jabalpur, Bilaspur and Raipur. Tourist Destination Near Kanha Excursions can be made from Kanha National Park to places in and around Kanha. Bamni Dadar, also known as Sunset Point, is one of the most beautiful areas of the park, which affords the spectacular delight of watching a sunset. It also gives a beautiful view of the luxuriant Kanha forests. Animals can also be sighted from here. On your way to Kanha or back you can stop at Nagpur, located at a distance of 260 kms from Kanha National Park. Nagpur is an ancient city which has a number of interesting temples, forts and parks worth visiting. Nagpur is also the orange city, known for its orange orchards. Jabalpur is also another city, which is at a distance of 145 kms via mandla and is known for historical and archeological sites. Jabalpur is also famous for its highly revered Tilwara ghat where Mahatma Gandhi's ashes were immersed. Kanha National Park - Entry Fee, Timing, Address, Official Website Address Nehru Smarath, Mandla, Madhya Pradesh Entry fee: Entry Fee for Indians : 1530 Rs. Entry Fee for Foreigners : 3060 Rs. Entry Fee for Children below 5 years is free. Timings : Visiting Hours - 6:00 AM - 12:00 PM 3:00 PM - 5:30 PM Phone No (Official) +91 9811275279 / +91-7642-250760 Official Website www.mponline.gov.in Photography allowed or not Allowed Still Camera Fee : 50-500 Rs. Cam-order Fee : 500-1000 Rs. Nearest railway station Jabalpur Railway Station Last Updated on : May 7, 2015 Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Bandhavgarh Hotels Bhopal Hotels Bina Hotels Gwalior Hotels Indore Hotels Itarsi Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Kanha Hotels Katni Hotels Khajuraho Hotels Khandwa Hotels Kisli Hotels Mandu Hotels Orchha Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Satna Hotels Shivpuri Hotels Ujjain Hotels Travel to Madhya Pradesh Travel to Bhopal Travel to Gwalior Travel to Indore Travel to Jabalpur Travel to Khajuraho Travel to Mandu Travel to Orchha Travel to Sanchi Travel to Ujjain Places to visit in Madhya-pradesh Places to visit in Bhopal Places to visit in Gwalior Places to visit in indore Places to visit in Khajuraho Places to Visit in Mandu Places to visit in Orchha Places to visit in Sanchi Places to visit in Ujjain               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule