Chera Dynasty Map, Chera Kingdom Home » History » Chera Dynasty Map   Indian Dynasties Chola Dynasty Chalukya Dynasty Pallava Dynasty Chera Dynasty Pandyan Dynasty                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Chera Dynasty Map Map of Chera Dynasty Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing major cities and current country boundaries during the Chera period.The kingdom of Chera reigned over south India. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. One of the most important dynasties, Chera Dynasty is the most prominent Tamil dynasty which ever flourished in the country. The Cheras, the Pandyas and the Cholas together constituted as the main warring Iron Age Tamil kingdoms. The Cheras established their rule in the 3rd century BC and ruled till the twelfth century AD. The inscriptions of Ashoka, the great Mauryan Emperor also talks about the megalithic phase of the Cheras along with Pandyas, Satyaputras and Cholas. In the Sangam age, the Chera Dynasty was popularly known as Malaiyar, Villavar and vanavar. This dynasty was as important as the Cholas and the Pandyas in the Christian age. The Chera Empire was ruled by two important lines of rulers. The first line begins from Uthiyan Cheralathan whereas; the second line begins from Irumporai. It is believed that the father of the Chola King Karikala, Ilamcetcenni was killed by the Cheras, but even the then Chera king died later in the action. Also, for a shot period the Cheras developed friendly relations with the Cholas, conducting matrimonial alliances but soon they joined hands with the Pandyas against Cholas. However the Cheras and the Pandyas together were defeated by the Cholas. The severely injured Chera ruler, Uthiyan Cheralathan committed suicide. The Chera Empire began to decline in the third century AD when the Kalabhra Interregnum interrupted the reign of Cheras. This dynasty came to be known as the Kulashekharas of Mahodayapuram after the reign of the Chera king Kulashekhar Varman. The first Chera dynasty ruled till the fifth century AD whereas the second Chera dynasty initiated its rule from the ninth century AD. Not much is said and known about the gap between the fifth and the ninth century AD. The present day's Kerala , Dharmapuri and salem are said to be the parts of the former Chera rule. After the wedding of the first Chera king into the Chola royal family even the southern Nagapattanam and Thiruvarur were added to their reign. Also successful trade relations were developed with Rome under the Chera rule. Muziris was the famous sea port of ancient India. Spices, timber, pearls, ivory and gems were exported to the kingdoms of Middle East and southern Europe from this Indian port. The coasts of Karur, Malabar and Coimbtore conducted heavy foreign trade as well. The capital of the Cheras was first Vanchi Muthur but later it was shifted to Karuvur in the second century AD. All religions were given equal importance and respect in the Chera rule and Jewish, Christian and Muslim immigrants were found in their reign. The Kulashekharas, belonging to the second Chera dynasty initiated their rule form the outskirts of Muziris, which is located on the banks of river Periyar. They had put in great efforts to conquer the old Chera statues but couldn't. They were constantly at fight and conflict with their neighbours. It was finally in twelfth century AD that due to the frequent invasions by the Cholas their dynasty collapsed and faced their downfall. Last Updated on : 5/16/2012               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule