CAS, Chemical Abstracts Service Home Page A division of the American Chemical Society ACS Journals C&EN CAS Languages Chinese Japanese GO Log In To: SciFinder STN on the Web new STN STN Easy STN Viewer GO Products SciFinder PatentPak STN STN Support STN User Resources STN Database Summary Sheets STNews Science IP NCI Global Other CAS Products Client Services Content Chemical Substances References Reactions Chemical Suppliers Regulated Chemicals Chemical Industry Notes Markush At a Glance Training SciFinder STN Contact Us CAS Customer Center News Media Releases Product News Mentions Tradeshows Video ACS on Campus About CAS Careers FAQs Directions Quotes CAS History CAS Fact Sheets CAS is the only organization in the world whose objective is to find, collect and organize all publicly disclosed substance information. We build and maintain the world's largest collection of molecular substances, reactions, and related  content that is vital to the work of researchers. More >> Preserve Your Time with PatentPak A robust new patent workflow solution available in SciFinder. A Regulatory Solution for Those Who Manufacture, Import or Export Chemicals. 2015 SciFinder Future Leaders in Chemistry Our 2015 SciFinder Future Leaders in Chemistry will be announced in May! Latest Feature: Hydrogels A look at recent patenting activity in Hydrogels.   CAS Celebrates World Intellectual Property Day Innovation at the Intersection of Chemistry and Music.   SciFinder provides access to CAS content and delivers the information they need to: increase productivity achieve faster breakthroughs make better decisions With SciFinder you get: more reactions more substances more biomedical content at your fingertips than with any other source. And now PatentPak TM , a robust new patent workflow solution, offers instant access to hard-to-find chemistry in full-text patents directly in SciFinder. Intellectual property professionals and patent examiners worldwide rely on STN for their scientific and technical information needs because STN delivers: unique content collection unparalleled search power proven reliability STN provides an information advantage that empowers you to: answer business-critical questions mitigate risks of missed information protect valuable intellectual property   No one else has more... A global team of scientists is continually adding substance information from the world's disclosed chemistry to the CAS REGISTRY SM , the gold standard for chemical substance information. Latest News New Content Provides Regulatory Professionals with Additional Value March  17th,   -2015- Major New STN ® Release Delivers Essential Biomedical and Patent Content to IP Professionals February  9th,   -2015- Subscribe to news RSS More Updates CAS Video   Contact Us E-mail   Phone & Fax help@cas.org   800-753-4227 (North America)     614-447-3700 (Worldwide)     614-447-3751 (Fax)             Important Information for Chemical Suppliers Connect with CAS Twitter You Tube Facebook Linkedin RSS Sitemap FAQs Legal Careers Contact Us Copyright © 2015 American Chemical Society Accessibility 京ICP备13013560号