Senior Citizens - status in India — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Social Welfare / Senior citizens Welfare / Senior Citizens - status in India Share Views View Edit Suggest Contributors State: Open for Edit Info Senior Citizens - status in India This topic covers Information related to Senior Citizens - status in India Contents Status in India According to the law, a "senior citizen" means any person being a citizen of India, who has attained the age of sixty years or above. A report released by the United Nations Population Fund and HelpAge India suggests that India had 90 million elderly persons in 2011, with the number expected to grow to 173 million by 2026. Of the 90 million seniors, 30 million are living alone, and 90 per cent work for livelihood. According to a report titled "Situation Analysis Of The Elderly in India" by Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation, Government of India, the elderly population account for 7.4% of total population in 2001. For males it was marginally lower at 7.1%, while for females it was 7.8%. Among states the proportion vary from around 4% in small states like Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Nagaland Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya to more than 10.5% in Kerala. About 65 per cent of the aged had to depend on others for their day-to-day maintenance. Less than 20% of elderly women but majority of elderly men were economically independent. Nearly 40% of persons aged 60 years and above (60% of men and 19% of women) were working. In rural areas 66% of elderly men and above 23% of aged women were still participating in economic activity, while in urban areas only 39% of elderly men and about 7% of elderly women were economically active. The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, as the name suggests, is to ensure equitable treatment to such sections of society which has suffered social inequalities, exploitation, discrimination and injustice. The Social Defence Bureau of the Ministry mainly caters to the requirements of Senior Citizens, besides victims of alcoholism and substance abuse. The programmes and the policies of the Bureau aim at equipping this group to sustain a life of respect and honour and to become contributing citizens. In this process, the Bureau plays the role of a catalyst and has promoted voluntary action. The State governments, autonomous bodies, NGOs and even the corporate world are involved in formulating and implementing the policies. All the programmes are meant to aid, prevent neglect, abuse and exploitation and provide assistance to those deprived and mainstream them. The National Policy on Older Persons was announced by the Government of India in 1999. It was a step in pursuance of the UN General Assembly Resolution 47/5 to observe 1999 as the International Year of Older Persons and in keeping with the assurances to older persons contained in the Constitution. The well-being of senior citizens is mandated in the Constitution of India under Article 41. ‘The state shall, within the limits of its economic capacity and development, make effective provision for securing the right to public assistance in cases of old age’. The Right to Equality is guaranteed by the Constitution as a fundamental right. Social security is the concurrent responsibility of the central and state governments. Subsequent international efforts made an impact on the implementation of the National Policy on Older Persons. The Madrid Plan of Action and the United Nations Principles for Senior Citizens adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2002, the Proclamation on Ageing and the global targets on ageing for the Year 2001 adopted by the General Assembly in 1992, the Shanghai Plan of Action 2002 and the Macau Outcome document 2007 adopted by UNESCAP form the basis for the global policy guidelines to encourage governments to design and implement their own policies from time to time. The Government of India is a signatory to all these documents, thus, demonstrating its commitment to address the concerns of the elderly. Pensions, travel concessions, income tax relief, medical benefit, extra interest on savings, security of older persons through an integrated scheme of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment as well as financial support was provided for Old Age Homes, Day Care Centres. Medical Vans, Help Lines etc are extended currently. The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment coordinates programmes to be undertaken by other Ministries in their relevant areas of support to older persons. The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment piloted landmark legislation the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens‟ Act 2007 which is being promulgated by the States and Union Territories in stages. Concessions and Facilities given to Senior Citizens Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment is the nodal Ministry responsible for welfare of the Senior Citizens. It has announced the National Policy on Older Persons covering all concerns pertaining to the welfare of older persons. The National Policy on Older Persons recognizes a person aged 60 years and above as a senior citizen. The Ministry is also implementing following schemes for the benefit of Senior Citizens: An Integrated Programme for Older Persons (Plan Scheme) - This Scheme has been formulated by revising the earlier scheme of "Assistance to Voluntary Organisations for Programmes relating to the Welfare of the Aged". Under this Scheme, financial assistance upto 90% of the project cost is provided to NGOs for establishing and maintaining Old Age Homes, Day Care Centres, and Mobile Medicare Units and to provide non-institutional services to older persons. The Scheme of Assistance to Panchayat Raj Institutions / Voluntary Organizations / Self Help Groups for Construction of Old Age Homes / Multi-Service Centres for older persons (Non Plan Scheme) - Under this Scheme, one time construction grant for Old Age Homes/Multi-Service Centre is provided to non-governmental organizations on the recommendation of the State Governments / UT Administrations. Ministry of Finance Income tax rebate upto an income of Rs. 3 lakh p.a. Higher rates of interest on saving schemes of senior citizens. A Senior Citizens Savings Scheme offering an interest rate is 9% per annum on the deposits made by the senior citizens in post offices has been introduced by the Government through Post Offices in India doing savings bank work. Ministry of Road Transport and Highways Reservation of two seats for senior citizens in front row of the buses of the State Road Transport Undertakings. Some State Governments are giving fare concession to senior citizens in the State Road Transport Undertaking buses and are introducing Bus Models, which are convenient to the elderly. Ministry of Health & Family Welfare Separate queues for older persons in hospitals for registration and clinical examination. Department of Telecommunications Faults/complaints of senior citizens are given priority by registering them under senior citizens category with VIP flag, which is a priority category. Senior citizens are allowed to register telephone connection under N-OYT Special Category, which is a priority category. Ministry of Railways Indian Railways provide 30% fare concession in all Mail / Express including Rajdhani / Shatabadi / Jan Shatabadi trains for senior citizens aged 60 years and above. Indian Railways also have the facility of separate counters for Senior Citizens for purchase / booking / cancellation of tickets. Wheel Chairs for use of older persons are available at all junctions, District Headquarters and other important stations for the convenience of needy persons including the older persons. Ramps for wheel chairs movement are available at the entry to important stations. Specially designed coaches with provisions of space for wheel chairs, hand rail and specially designed toilet for handicapped persons have been introduced. Ministry of Civil Aviation Indian Airlines is providing 50 per cent Senior Citizen Discount on Normal Economy Class fare for all domestic flights to Indian senior citizens who have completed the age of 65 years in the case of male senior citizens and 63 years in the case of female senior citizens subject to certain conditions. Air India is offering discount to senior citizens of 60 plus on flights to USA , UK and Europe . Further, Air India has now decided to reduce the age of 60 plus for discount on their domestic routes as well with immediate effect. Sahara Airlines is offering 50% discount on basic fare for travel on its domestic flights only to senior citizens who have attained the age of 62 years. Discount is applicable in economy class only. Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Under the Antyodaya Scheme, the Below Poverty Line (BPL) families which also include older persons are provided food grains at the rate of 35 kgs. per family per month. The food grains are issued @ Rs.3/- per kg. for rice and Rs.2/- per kg. for wheat. The persons aged 60 years above from the BPL category were given priority for identification. Under the Annapoorna Scheme being implemented by the States/UT Administration, 10 kgs. of food grains per beneficiary per month are provided free of cost to those senior citizens who remain uncovered under the old age pension scheme. Instructions to State Governments for giving priority to the Ration Card holders who are over 60 years of age in Fair Price Shops for issue of rations. MCD, Delhi MCD, Delhi, has opened a separate counter to facilitate the senior citizens for submission of property tax bills. A rebate of 30% of the property tax due on the covered space of a building up to one hundred sq. mtrs. of the covered space has been allowed by the corporation in the case of any self-occupied residential building singly owned by a man who is 65 years or more in age. Miscellaneous Courts in the country accord priority to cases involving older persons and ensures their expeditious disposal. Under the Old Age Pension Scheme, monthly pension is given at variable rates to the destitute old by various State Governments/UT Administrations. International Day of Older Persons The 1st October is observed every year as the International Day of Older Persons internationally. Being the nodal Ministry for the welfare of senior citizens, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment has been celebrating the occasion every year by organizing a series of programmes and felicitating the distinguished senior citizens with Vayoshrestha Samman. The main idea behind these celebrations is to reiterate the government's commitment towards welfare of the elderly and to ensure that the services rendered by the elderly get its due recognition in the society. The programmes that are organized by the Ministry on the occasion of 1st October comprises of two events viz. Morning 'walkathon' which is participated by the Senior Citizens and School Children to highlight the concept of "promotion of intergenerational bonding" An evening programme consisting of Felicitation of senior citizens who rendered distinguished services to the society with Vayoshreshta Samman (there are 10 categories under the Vayoshreshta Samman); and A cultural programme Source: Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment Page Rating (2 votes) 3.5 RKBhatig Jan 22, 2015 12:45 PM Well complied information. No doubt Govt is concerned with the welfare of the senior citizens. However, Govt officials are still not showing sensitivity towards them. Also there is a need to publicise t t suman purakayastha Apr 18, 2015 06:59 PM I want to In current year March 2015 the elderly population in India ? Post Your Suggestion (If you have any comments / suggestions on the above content, please post them here) Name Your Message   Type the word given below Navigation Women and Child Development Scheduled Caste Welfare Scheduled Tribes Welfare Backward Classes Welfare Unorganised Sector Welfare Differently- abled Welfare Community power Financial Inclusion Unorganised Sector Minority Welfare Senior citizens Welfare Senior Citizens - status in India Policies and Acts Schemes Jeevan Pramaan Varishta Pension Bima Yojana Rural Poverty Alleviation Urban Poverty Alleviation NGO-Voluntary Sector Disaster Management Fight against social evils Skill development Social Security Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme Discussion Forum - Social Welfare Related Items Schemes e-Commercial Services Gujarat Jharkhand more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM