 Guidelines for translating video | Access Agriculture Skip to main content Access Agriculture Login | Register Home About us What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Sponsors Core sponsors Associates Contribute and make a difference Using this site How to use this website Submitting videos Translating videos Radio stations DVD packs information Useful technical information FAQ Contact us Forum Quotes Job Vacancies Awards User facts World map Video use Impact studies User login E-mail * Password * Create new account Request new password Languages English Français Custom FAQ Search All languages Adioukrou Adja Arabic Ateso Attié Bambara Bangla Baoulé Bariba Bassa Berba Bomu Buli Burmese Chichewa Dagaari Dagbani Dendi Dioula Ditammari Ebrié English Ewe Fon Frafra French Gonja Gourmantche Hausa Hindi Idaatcha Ife Indonesian Kabye Kannada Khmer Kikuyu Kiswahili Kpelle Krio Kusaal Lao Lobiri Luganda Lugbara Luo Malagash Mende Moba Mooré Nago Nepali Persian Peulh Fulfuldé Portuguese Runyakitara Sena Sisaala Spanish Temne Thai Twi Vietnamese Wolof Yao Yoruba Zarma Secondary menu How to use this website Submitting videos Translating videos Radio stations DVD packs information Useful technical information FAQ Home › Using this site Guidelines for translating video Guidelines for translating video scripts Guidelines for recording voice-overs Guidelines for creating new language versions of videos Guidelines for translating video scripts Contact Access Agriculture and we will send you a copy of the script (in English or French). The script will be in landscape format and will be in sections (shots). Each section will have a time beside it in seconds, this is the duration. Read the script aloud to get an overall idea of the content, style and language used. If you do not understand some sections or words, contact a subject matter specialist even before trying to translate. If the intended audience is farmers, you must think like a farmer and not use complicated words or phrases. If something is technical, ask yourself if there a simpler way to say it. Type out the translated script with 1.5 or double space in the second column. This is to make it easy to read when recording the voice over. Make sure you translate the TITLE of the programme as this will need to be recorded. If your alphabet is very different from the Roman alphabet, spell out the words phonetically in a third column, so that anyone who will work on the audio can follow the script, irrespective of their knowledge of your language. Use punctuation effectively so that when others read out your translated script they know where to pause and where sentences stop. Video scripts are written for the spoken word, so they do not always follow strict grammatical rules. Try to maintain the style of the original script. Simplify and reduce the words as much as possible. Timing is all important – make sure the translation is the same duration or less than the original. Keeping to the timing of each section (shot) is VERY important. The timings listed after each shot indicate the maximum length for the person reading out the voice over. It MUST NOT be any longer, otherwise you will have to do the translation again. Not every word needs to be translated but the original meaning must be conveyed in an easy to understand way. Read out the translated script to staff working with the target audience. Do the words ‘flow’ when they are spoken out loud? Will the intended audience understand what is being said? Change any words or phrases that may be unclear to your target audience. Always ask someone to check the translated script before recording, to ensure it is technically accurate. Top Download PDF version Guidelines for recording voice-overs The person recording the voice over of the new language should be skilled in recording with their voice, usually it is best to use someone from a radio station. If the person recording has not translated the script then allow time for them to read the script. They may need to make a few adjustments so the script flows for the spoken word. Record all the voice over for one programme at the same time, including the translated title . Otherwise the tone of the person’s voice and/or the acoustics in the room may change. Have plenty of water available for the voice-over person. If you are using an audio recorder such as the Zoom H1 Handy recorder, first find a suitable location to do the recording. If you are not in a studio, use soft items such as cushions and blankets in the area around the microphone to provide better acoustics. Ideally record the audio files as WAV 48KHz 16bit. Read the instruction leaflet – know your audio recorder. Use headphones to listen during the recording. The quality of the recording is YOUR responsibility. Check the audio recording level. Record at good volume with no distortion . Distortion cannot be corrected. Keep the microphone slightly to one side of the voice over person to avoid any “popping”. Make sure the voice is conversational and NOT JUST READING. First do a test recording and listen back to the recorded file before proceeding with recording the full programme, so you are certain that the audio recorder is working correctly. The duration of each section of voice should be as close to the timing indicated on the script – certainly no longer. If there is a mistake during the recording or loud noises, stop the recording and re-record it. Make a note on the script that you have recorded another version of that shot. Stand the microphone on a tripod, if you hold the microphone you will probably record noise from your hand. Press the button to start the recording, allow 2 or 3 seconds BEFORE the voice starts. At the end of that shot allow 2 or 3 seconds before pressing the button to stop the recording. Once you have finished the recording, switch off the recorder to save power on the battery (always ensure you have a spare battery). If you are recording more than one programme, it is a good practice to copy the files from the first programme onto a computer before starting to record the second programme. By working in this way you know exactly which files are for which programme. Place the files in a folder that is named according to the language and programme. If you are recording the voice in a studio, apply the same principles as above for the audio recorder. Always ask the sound engineer to wear headphones during the recording – or wear them yourself. Always check the quality of the recording before you leave the studio, it will be more difficult to correct any mistakes once you have left. It is best practice to rename the audio files with the programme name, language and shot number. Send Access Agriculture the WAV files, or, if you have VIDEO EDITING EXPERIENCE, please see the Guidelines for creating new language versions of videos . Top Download PDF version Guidelines for creating new language versions of videos IF YOU HAVE VIDEO EDITING EXPERIENCE Transfer the files from the audio recorder to the editing computer. Place them in a folder that has been named for the language and programme. It is best practice to rename the audio files with the programme name, language and shot number. Open your video editing software and import the folder containing the new language files. From Access Agriculture download the video file for the programme. Contact Access Agriculture and we will also send you an additional audio file for that programme that has just the background sound and interviewees talking. It will be exactly the same length as the video programme you have downloaded. Import both these files into your video editing software. On the video editing sequence (timeline), place the files as shown below: Video 1 Video programme with guide track (English or French) Audio 1 Video programme with guide track (English or French) Audio 2 Audio file with background sound and interviewees Audio 3 Audio files for the new language Use the video with the guide track to position the audio files of the new language, do not forget to place the audio that has the title of the programme. DO NOT alter the length of the video programme. When the new language audio files are in position, ‘switch off’ (mute) the audio track with the guide voice (Audio 1). Check and alter the levels of the new voice on Audio 3. Now make any adjustments to the levels on the audio with the background and interviewees (Audio 2). Wear headphones when you check the balance of the audio. When you are satisfied that the audio is good, export the audio (from audio tracks 2 and 3 only) as a WAV 48Khz 16 bit audio file. In addition export the audio from Audio 3 only (the new language) also as a WAV 48Khz 16 bit audio file (mute Audio tracks 1 and 2). Send BOTH the audio files you have exported to Access Agriculture, we will then put the new language version of the programme on the website. For your own use, you can export the new language video (with audio tracks 2 and 3 active). Top Download PDF version REMEMBER! Pay the attention to detail at every stage. Always aim to produce a QUALITY programme.   Using this site How to use this website Submitting videos Translating videos Radio stations DVD packs information Useful technical information FAQ Sponsored by