Patent - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Patent From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search For other uses, see Patent (disambiguation) . Patent law Overviews Patents History Economics Societal views Basic concepts Application Prosecution Licensing Infringement Valuation Patentability Novelty Inventive step and non-obviousness Inventorship Industrial applicability Patentable subject matter Person skilled in the art Prior art Utility Additional requirements Sufficiency of disclosure Unity of invention By region / country Patent Cooperation Treaty Australia Canada China Europe Germany Japan United States By specific subject matter Biological Business method Chemical Insurance Software Tax See also Category Glossary v t e U.S patent Part of a series on Capitalism Concepts Business Business cycle Capital Capital accumulation Capital markets Capitalist mode of production Central bank Company and Corporation Competitive markets Economic interventionism Fictitious capital Fiscal policy Financial market Free price system Free market Invisible hand Intellectual property Copyright & Patent Liberalization Money Monetary policy Private property Privatization Profit Regulated market Supply and demand Surplus value Wage labour Economic systems Corporate Anglo-Saxon Free market Laissez-faire Mercantile Mixed Nordic Regulatory Rhine Social market State Welfare East Asian Economic theories American Austrian Chicago Classical Institutional Keynesian Marxian Modern Monetary Monetarist Neoclassical New institutional New Keynesian Supply-side Origins Age of Enlightenment Atlantic slave trade Capitalism and Islam Commercial Revolution Feudalism Industrial Revolution Mercantilism Primitive accumulation Physiocracy Simple commodity production Development Advanced Consumer Corporate Crony Finance Global Late Marxist Merchant Rentier State monopoly Techno People Adam Smith John Stuart Mill David Ricardo Thomas Malthus Jean-Baptiste Say Milton Friedman Friedrich Hayek John Maynard Keynes Alfred Marshall Karl Marx Ludwig von Mises Murray Rothbard Joseph Schumpeter Thorstein Veblen Max Weber Ronald Coase Related topics Anti-capitalism Black capitalism Capitalist state Consumerism Corporatism Crisis theory Criticism of capitalism Cronyism Culture of capitalism Exploitation Globalization History History of theory Market economy Periodizations of capitalism Perspectives on capitalism Post-capitalism Speculation Spontaneous order Venture philanthropy Ideologies Anarcho-capitalism Democratic capitalism Dirigisme Eco-capitalism Humanistic capitalism Inclusive capitalism Liberalism  ( economic ) Libertarianism Neo-Capitalism Neoliberalism Objectivism Ordoliberalism Social democracy Capitalism portal Economics portal Philosophy portal Politics portal v t e A patent ( / ˈ p æ t ən t / or / ˈ p eɪ t ən t / ) is a set of exclusive rights granted by a sovereign state to an inventor or assignee for a limited period of time in exchange for detailed public disclosure of an invention . An invention is a solution to a specific technological problem and is a product or a process. [ 1 ] :17 Patents are a form of intellectual property . The procedure for granting patents, requirements placed on the patentee, and the extent of the exclusive rights vary widely between countries according to national laws and international agreements. Typically, however, a granted patent application must include one or more claims that define the invention. A patent may include many claims, each of which defines a specific property right. These claims must meet relevant patentability requirements, such as novelty , usefulness , and non-obviousness . The exclusive right granted to a patentee in most countries is the right to prevent others, or at least to try to prevent others, from commercially making, using, selling, importing, or distributing a patented invention without permission. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] Under the World Trade Organization 's (WTO) Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights , patents should be available in WTO member states for any invention, in all fields of technology, [ 4 ] and the term of protection available should be a minimum of twenty years. [ 5 ] Nevertheless, there are variations on what is patentable subject matter from country to country. Contents 1 Definition 2 History 3 Patent Infringement 4 Law 4.1 Effects 4.2 Enforcement 4.3 Ownership 4.4 Governing laws 4.5 Application and prosecution 4.5.1 Costs 4.6 Alternatives to applying for a patent 5 Economics 5.1 Rationale 5.2 Criticism 6 See also 7 References 8 External links Definition [ edit ] The word patent originates from the Latin patere , which means "to lay open" (i.e., to make available for public inspection). More directly, it is a shortened version of the term letters patent , which was a royal decree granting exclusive rights to a person, predating the modern patent system. Similar grants included land patents , which were land grants by early state governments in the USA, and printing patents , a precursor of modern copyright. In modern usage, the term patent usually refers to the right granted to anyone who invents any new, useful, and non-obvious process, machine, article of manufacture, or composition of matter. Some other types of intellectual property rights are also called patents in some jurisdictions: industrial design rights are called design patents in the US, [ 6 ] plant breeders' rights are sometimes called plant patents , [ 7 ] and utility models and Gebrauchsmuster are sometimes called petty patents or innovation patents . The additional qualification utility patent is sometimes used (primarily in the US) to distinguish the primary meaning from these other types of patents. Particular species of patents for inventions include biological patents , business method patents , chemical patents and software patents . History [ edit ] Main article: History of patent law The Venetian Patent Statute , issued by the Senate of Venice in 1474, and one of the earliest statutory patent systems in the world. Patents were systematically granted in Venice as of 1450, where they issued a decree by which new and inventive devices had to be communicated to the Republic in order to obtain legal protection against potential infringers. The period of protection was 10 years. [ 8 ] These were mostly in the field of glass making. As Venetians emigrated, they sought similar patent protection in their new homes. This led to the diffusion of patent systems to other countries. [ 9 ] The English patent system evolved from its early medieval origins into the first modern patent system that recognised intellectual property in order to stimulate invention; this was the crucial legal foundation upon which the Industrial Revolution could emerge and flourish. By the 16th century, the English Crown would habitually abuse the granting of letters patent for monopolies. [ 10 ] After public outcry, James I of England was forced to revoke all existing monopolies and declare that they were only to be used for "projects of new invention". This was incorporated into the Statute of Monopolies (1624) in which Parliament restricted the Crown's power explicitly so that the King could only issue letters patent to the inventors or introducers of original inventions for a fixed number of years. The Statute became the foundation for later developments in patent law in England and elsewhere. James Puckle 's 1718 early autocannon was one of the first inventions required to provide a specification for a patent. Important developments in patent law emerged during the 18th century through a slow process of judicial interpretation of the law. During the reign of Queen Anne , patent applications were required to supply a complete specification of the principles of operation of the invention for public access. [ 11 ] Legal battles around the 1796 patent taken out by James Watt for his steam engine , established the principles that patents could be issued for improvements of an already existing machine and that ideas or principles without specific practical application could also legally be patented. [ 12 ] Influenced by the philosophy of John Locke , the granting of patents began to be viewed as a form of intellectual property right, rather than simply the obtaining of economic privilege. The English legal system became the foundation for patent law in countries with a common law heritage, including the United States, New Zealand and Australia. In the Thirteen Colonies , inventors could obtain patents through petition to a given colony's legislature. In 1641, Samuel Winslow was granted the first patent in North America by the Massachusetts General Court for a new process for making salt. [ 13 ] U.S. patents granted, 1790–2010. [ 14 ] The modern French patent system was created during the Revolution in 1791. Patents were granted without examination since inventor's right was considered as a natural one. Patent costs were very high (from 500 to 1500 francs). Importation patents protected new devices coming from foreign countries. The patent law was revised in 1844 - patent cost was lowered and importation patents were abolished. The first Patent Act of the U.S. Congress was passed on April 10, 1790, titled "An Act to promote the progress of useful Arts". [ 15 ] The first patent was granted on July 31, 1790 to Samuel Hopkins for a method of producing potash (potassium carbonate). Patent Infringement [ edit ] Patent infringement occurs when a defendant, without authorization from the patentee, usurps the patentee’s rights by making, using, or selling the patented invention. Because the Patent Act does not have an extraterritorial reach, the allegedly infringing activities must have occurred within the United States in order for a valid infringement claim to be triggered. The making of an item that would infringe a U.S. patent if the item were made within the United States will not constitute infringement if the item is made, for instance, in China. However, a provision of the Patent Act potentially allows infringement liability to be imposed on a party who ships components of the patented invention from the United States with the intended result that the components are assembled, in another country, to produce an item covered by the terms of the patent. [ 16 ] Law [ edit ] Intellectual property law and Intellectual rights Primary rights Copyright Patent Trademark Trade secret Geographical indication Sui generis rights Authors' rights Database right Indigenous intellectual property Industrial design right Mask work Moral rights Plant breeders' rights Related rights Supplementary protection certificate Utility model Related topics Anti-copyright Bioprospecting Limitations and exceptions to copyright ( Fair dealing Fair use Right to quote ) Orphan works Public domain Societal views Traditional safety valves Outline of intellectual property v t e Effects [ edit ] A patent does not give a right to make or use or sell an invention. [ 17 ] Rather, a patent provides, from a legal standpoint, the right to exclude others [ 17 ] from making, using, selling, offering for sale, or importing the patented invention for the term of the patent , which is usually 20 years from the filing date [ 5 ] subject to the payment of maintenance fees . From an economical and practical standpoint however, a patent is better and perhaps more precisely regarded as conferring upon its proprietor "a right to try to exclude by asserting the patent in court", for many granted patents turn out to be invalid once their proprietors attempt to assert them in court. [ 3 ] A patent is a limited property right the government gives inventors in exchange for their agreement to share details of their inventions with the public. Like any other property right, it may be sold, licensed, mortgaged , assigned or transferred, given away, or simply abandoned. A patent, being an exclusionary right, does not necessarily give the patent owner the right to exploit the invention subject to the patent. For example, many inventions are improvements of prior inventions that may still be covered by someone else's patent. [ 17 ] If an inventor obtains a patent on improvements to an existing invention which is still under patent, they can only legally use the improved invention if the patent holder of the original invention gives permission, which they may refuse. Some countries have "working provisions" that require the invention be exploited in the jurisdiction it covers. Consequences of not working an invention vary from one country to another, ranging from revocation of the patent rights to the awarding of a compulsory license awarded by the courts to a party wishing to exploit a patented invention. The patentee has the opportunity to challenge the revocation or license, but is usually required to provide evidence that the reasonable requirements of the public have been met by the working of invention. Enforcement [ edit ] Patents can generally only be enforced through civil lawsuits (for example, for a U.S. patent, by an action for patent infringement in a United States federal court), although some countries (such as France and Austria ) have criminal penalties for wanton infringement. [ 18 ] Typically, the patent owner seeks monetary compensation for past infringement, and seeks an injunction that prohibits the defendant from engaging in future acts of infringement. To prove infringement, the patent owner must establish that the accused infringer practises all the requirements of at least one of the claims of the patent. (In many jurisdictions the scope of the patent may not be limited to what is literally stated in the claims, for example due to the doctrine of equivalents ). An accused infringer has the right to challenge the validity of the patent allegedly being infringed in a countersuit . A patent can be found invalid on grounds described in the relevant patent laws, which vary between countries. Often, the grounds are a subset of requirements for patentability in the relevant country. Although an infringer is generally free to rely on any available ground of invalidity (such as a prior publication , for example), some countries have sanctions to prevent the same validity questions being relitigated. An example is the UK Certificate of contested validity . Patent licensing agreements are contracts in which the patent owner (the licensor) agrees to grant the licensee the right to make, use, sell, and/or import the claimed invention, usually in return for a royalty or other compensation. It is common for companies engaged in complex technical fields to enter into multiple license agreements associated with the production of a single product. Moreover, it is equally common for competitors in such fields to license patents to each other under cross-licensing agreements in order to share the benefits of using each other's patented inventions. Ownership [ edit ] In most countries, both natural persons and corporate entities may apply for a patent. In the United States, however, only the inventor(s) may apply for a patent although it may be assigned to a corporate entity subsequently [ 19 ] and inventors may be required to assign inventions to their employers under an employment contract. In most European countries, ownership of an invention may pass from the inventor to their employer by rule of law if the invention was made in the course of the inventor's normal or specifically assigned employment duties, where an invention might reasonably be expected to result from carrying out those duties, or if the inventor had a special obligation to further the interests of the employer's company. [ 20 ] The plate of the Martin ejector seat of a military aircraft, stating that the design is covered by multiple patents in Britain, South Africa, Canada and "others". Dübendorf Museum of Military Aviation. The inventors, their successors or their assignees become the proprietors of the patent when and if it is granted. If a patent is granted to more than one proprietor, the laws of the country in question and any agreement between the proprietors may affect the extent to which each proprietor can exploit the patent. For example, in some countries, each proprietor may freely license or assign their rights in the patent to another person while the law in other countries prohibits such actions without the permission of the other proprietor(s). The ability to assign ownership rights increases the liquidity of a patent as property. Inventors can obtain patents and then sell them to third parties. [ 21 ] The third parties then own the patents and have the same rights to prevent others from exploiting the claimed inventions, as if they had originally made the inventions themselves. Governing laws [ edit ] See also: