Places to Visit in Maharashtra and Tourist Destinations near Maharashtra Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Maharashtra Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Maharashtra Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Places to Visit in Maharashtra Chowpatty Beach Juhu Beach Marine Drive Gateway of India Elephant Caves Shaniwar Wada Parvati Hill Ajanta Ellora Caves Mahabaleshwar Temple Essel World Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Cities to Visit in Maharashtra Aurangabad Travel Lonavala Travel Mumbai Travel Nagpur Travel Nashik Travel Pune Travel Mahabaleshwar Travel Khandala Travel Maharashtra Hotels Lonavala Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Mumbai Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Pune Hotels Navi Mumbai Hotels About Maharashtra Geography and History Climate Home » Maps » Maharashtra Map » Places to Visit in Maharashtra Places to Visit in Maharashtra Maharashtra the third largest state in India and has tremendous wealth in the form of tourist places. Numerous caves, attractive hill stations, virgin beaches, and wildlife in plenty, revered holy places- you name it and state of Maharashtra has it. However, it is Bollywood that gives Maharashtra an edge over other states of India. Maharashtra is a complete tourist destination in itself and a delight for those fond of traveling. With all its attractions, Maharashtra exudes a mesmerizing aura which is hard to ignore. Travel Maps Ashtavinayak Yatra Route Map Maharashtra hill station Maharashtra Tourist Map Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Beaches In Mumbai Places to See in Maharashtra Mumbai Mumbai is the capital city of Maharashtra. The city is known to give shape to dreams of many because of its plentiful resources, this is the reason it is often termed as the 'Dream city of India'. Mumbai is also the financial capital of India. The places worth a view in the city are Gateway of India, Hanging Gardens, Mahalaxmi Temple, Haji Ali Shrine, Marine Drive and beaches of Juhu and Chowpathy. The city of Mumbai is a headquarters of the Bollywood. A drive at the newly opened Bandra-Worli sea link at night is bound to leave you with long lasting memories. Essel World is a most sought after place by the children in the country. The entry ticket varies from children to adult. There is also a discount on the ticket for the senior citizens. A ticket may cost you anywhere from 300-500 on weekdays. However, the prices almost double up during the week-ends. Elephanta Caves Only 10kms off the Mumbai Coast, a host of caves are located in an island amid the Arabian Sea. The caves, dating back to 450 to 750 AD display fine sculptures depicting the glory of Lord Shiva. Regular motorboats from the boat jetty in from of the Gateway of India would take you to the islands. The caves are declared an UNESCO World Heritage. Aurangabad The city of Aurangabad is particularly famous for the heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora. A plethora of 29 rock cut Cave Mountains, these caves stand tall as an important symbol of architectural achievements of the country. The mural paintings in Ajanta and the sculptures in Ellora along with their picturesque location would cast a spellbinding effect on you. The city owes its name to Aurangzeb, the Mughal emperor, who made it a viceregal capital to rule over Deccan. Here, the emperor built Bibi-ka-Maqbara as a tribute to his mother. It is an imitation of the famous Taj Mahal. Pan Chaaki and the Darwazaas are examples of exceptionally skilled architecture of the bygone days. Ganapatipule Ganapatipule is a small village in Maharashtra which has a long stretch of beautiful beaches. A beach itself named Ganapatipule is the most beautiful and stunning of all the beaches. Sun kissed beaches and lush greenery seem to be in an eternal love affair in chaste lands of Ganapatipule. There are also some water sports facilities here. Besides, a Ganpati (Lord Ganesha) temple is also located at the beach. Mahabaleshwar , Lonavala and Khandala Most of us have witnessed breath taking beauty of the hill stations of Maharashtra at least on television, if not in reality. Thanks to Bollywood and Aamir Khan, Khandala has been immortalized through a popular song in the conscience of every Indian. Mahabaleshwar is known as much for a temple as it is for being a renowned spot of honeymoon. The clean air, calm surrounding, placid lake and cascading waterfalls offer a retreat in striking contrast with the bustling cities. Panchgani Surrounded by five hills, Panchgani is a heaven on earth. The place has absolute beauty and picturesque surroundings. This hill station is quite popular among travelers. You will find farm houses of many rich and famous personalities in Panchgani. Pench National Park Sprawling over an area of 257 sq km in the lower southern reaches of the Satpura hill ranges, it offers a splendid opportunity to see a wide variety of wildlife in the spectacular natural setting. Pench is also home to tigers, panthers, chital sambhar, barking deer, nilgai, black buck, gaur, wild boar, chausingha, sloth bears, langurs, monkeys, mouse deer, hyenas and flying squirrels, to name a few. Shirdi Shirdi is a town located in Ahmednagar District of Maharashtra. Devotees from across the world visit the Shirdi Sai temple, built over the Samadhi of Shri Sai Baba. Besides this temple, Shani Mandir, Narsimha Mandir, Kandoba Temple, Sakori Ashram and Changdev Maharaj Samadhi can be visited when one travels to Shirdi. Pune Well known as the "Queen of the Deccan" and "Oxford of the East", Pune is one city in Maharashtra worth visiting for its rich historic past as well as dazzling modern charm. The green hills and beautiful lakes of Pune surely mesmerizes the visitors. Tourist Destinations Near Maharashtra The state of Maharashtra is surrounded by states of Gujarat to the West, Madhya Pradesh to North-East, Chhattisgarh to the East and Karnataka to the South. If you have time, don't miss a chance to visit either one or all of these places. The state of Gujarat has several temples and forts which serve an important source of attraction for the tourists. These include Palitana Temples at Bhavnagar, Akshardham Temple and Sun Temple among many others. Gir Forest in Gujarat is renowned for its wide variety of protected animals. Tirumala Venkateshwara Temple in Andhra Pradesh is the most visited temple in the world by pilgrims. Jogg waterfall, Bannerghatta and Bandipur National Parks and Hoysala temples make for important places of tourist interest in the state of Karnataka. However, there is a lot more to these states which can only be discovered once the person visits these places in original. Last Updated on : January 20, 2014 Hotels in Maharashtra Ahmednagar Hotels Alibaug Hotels Amravati Hotels Aurangabad Hotels Baramati Hotels Bordi Hotels Chandrapur Hotels Chikhaldara Hotels Chiplun Hotels Jalgaon Hotels Karad Hotels Karjat Hotels Khandala Hotels Kolhapur Hotels Kopergaon Hotels Lonavala Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Matheran Hotels Mumbai Hotels Murud Janjira Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Navi Mumbai Hotels Panvel Hotels Patalganga Hotels Pune Hotels Raigad Hotels Shirdi Hotels Shrirampur Hotels Sinnar Hotels Solapur Hotels Thane Hotels Thane West Hotels Trimbakeshwar Hotels Umbergaon Hotels Travel to Maharashtra Travel to Ajanta Travel to Aurangabad Travel to Ellora Travel to Khandala Travel to Mahabaleshwar Travel to Lonavala Travel to Haji Ali Travel to Mumbai Travel to Nagpur Travel to Nashik Travel to Panchgani Travel to Pune Travel to Shirdi Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Ajanta Places to visit in Aurangabad Places to visit in Khandala Places to visit in Lonavala Places to visit in Mahabaleshwar Places to visit in Mumbai Places to visit in Nagpur Places to visit in Nashik Places to visit in Pune Places to visit in Shirdi About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule