Farming project to target 4,500 families , National, Phnom Penh Post Search form Search Login - Register | FOLLOW US ON Tweet Email Phnom Penh Post - Farming project to target 4,500 families Home National Business Lifestyle Sport Post Weekend Post Plus Property Multimedia Post jobs Farming project to target 4,500 families Thu, 30 April 2015 Shaun Turton A project helping villagers to farm fish, vegetables and other protein-rich food on their land to boost their nutrient intake will be massively upscaled, it was revealed this week. Started as a research project in 2012, the “Fish on Farm” project involved Cambodian and Canadian researchers working with 900 households in Prey Veng province to reduce their reliance on rice. The two-year study, led by researchers from the University of British Columbia and from the local chapter of Helen Keller International, helped villagers integrate aquaculture, poultry farming and home gardening into their farming, and offered education on healthy eating. Following the successful two-year study, the initiative has been given a $2.5 million budget and will be rolled out to 4,500 households in Kampong Cham, Kampot and Phnom Penh, Helen Keller International agriculture, food security and nutrition expert Zaman Talukder said the project would indirectly benefit 22,500 families who could learn from their neighbours. Talukder said the first phase had shown impressive results, increasing income in 50 per cent of the households through the sale of fish and produce. He said health benefits delivered by small nutrient-rich fish grown by families for consumption were particularly important. “Cambodian people’s diet is very much rice-based, so there is a problem with malnutrition of children under 5; 55 per cent are anemic and 44 per cent are stunted. It’s a serious problem in Cambodia,” he said. “One of the main reasons is the intake of quality food is lacking; that’s why this kind of intervention really improves family health. “It is particularly important for the children, who are the most vulnerable group.” Although the research phase was completely funded by donors, the next phase will run under a “cost share” model, with a microfinance organisation helping those involved with loans, Talukder said, adding the fish ponds cost about $200. He said the selection process – set to take place over the coming months – would target the most vulnerable and disadvantaged families. Backing the project is Canada’s International Development Research Center and Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development Canada. It is among work funded by the $103 million Canadian International Food Security Research Fund. The Ministry of Agriculture Forestry and Fisheries is also involved in the project, along with local NGOs, which will be launched in Phnom Penh on May 5. Username * Password * Contact author: Shaun Turton 0 Comments Please, login or register to post a comment Related articles Education critical in addressing nutrition problems Fish tale: A million released An expert’s guide to good aquaculture Fish farmers in south riel in small fortunes Fish business booms, farmers desperate for fry to fill their ponds Correction Fish and rice, together at last Overfishing risks food security Latest Video Diving for bombs In the murky waters of the Mekong, brave men recover a 500-pound Vietnam War-era bomb and defuse it. Mayaguez remembered Seven former US servicemen revisit the site in Cambodia of the disastrous final battle of the Vietnam War 40 years later. Hanuman statue returned 10th-century statue depicting the Hindu god Hanuman returned after evidence of theft. Post Media Co Ltd 888 Building F, 8th Floor, Phnom Penh Center Corner Sothearos & Sihanouk Blvd Sangkat Tonle Bassac 120101 Phnom Penh Cambodia Tel: +855(0) 23 214 3 11-17 Fax: +855(0) 23 214 318 Company About us Staff list Advertising Contact Privacy policy Refund Policy Supplements 7Days LIFT Real estate Siem Reap Insider Special reports Sections Business Lifestyle National Sport Facebook Twitter Google + Copyright © 2013 The Phnom Penh Post. All Rights Reserved. Web design by IConsulting