Future Students — College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Search OKSTATE.EDU... Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Academic Depts Ag Economics Ag Education, Communications & Leadership Animal Science Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resources Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences Multidisciplinary Programs Environmental Sciences Master of International Agriculture Program Future Students Student Services Visitors CASNR Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Now Be an OSU Cowboy! Undergraduate Admissions Graduate College College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Navigation Home Academic Departments Future Students Student Services CASNR Scholarships Applications Study Abroad Farm to Fork News Events Alumni Employers Faculty Resources Personnel Request for Information Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Search Advanced Search…   Login You are here: Home / Future Students Info College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Future Students Future Students Current students, staff and faculty in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources (CASNR) want you to become part of our family. You are not a number at Oklahoma State; you are an individual with unique interests, wants, needs and goals. Our faculty and staff work closely with you in and out of the classroom to create a family atmosphere so you feel this is a place you can call home. Our advisers are faculty members who advise, teach courses and are professionally involved in the area you are studying. Faculty advisers assist you in planning an individual program of study that considers your interests, background and future plans. CASNR faculty and staff have an “open-door policy,” inviting students to stop by their offices if they need assistance with academic or personal challenges. We feel it is our job not only to help you in your academic pursuits, but also to assist in your total student development – from the transition to college and selecting a major, to developing your leadership skills and preparing career and life plans. If you have any questions about CASNR academics, residential life, scholarships, or student involvement feel free to contact me. Kristi Bishop 103 Agricultural Hall Stillwater, OK 74078 405-744-9464 or  Email     Commitment to Excellence CASNR is committed to providing students both depth of knowledge in their chosen field of study as well as breadth of knowledge outside their major. CASNR’s academic programs prepare students to analyze information, communicate effectively, think critically, problem solve, and assume leadership roles in their respective fields of study. CASNR students come from both traditional agricultural roots and urban settings. This diversity adds strength to the college experience for all CASNR students. Active international programs, including study abroad opportunities, are available to students in every CASNR major and add a unique dimension to the college experience. Academic Advising All students in CASNR have the advantage of being advised by a faculty member working in the individual  student’s academic discipline from day one. Academic advisers are readily available to students and work closely with the students throughout their academic careers. Student Involvement CASNR has more than 60 student clubs, organizations and competitive teams for you to get involved in. These groups will provide you with tremendous leadership and career development opportunities. Networking with industry leaders, getting to know faculty, social interaction and a sense of belonging are just a few of the things you will experience by joining student organizations. CASNR Scholarship Opportunities CASNR and its departments annually award more than $1.4 million in scholarships to students enrolled in and entering the college. When awarding scholarships, CASNR looks at several areas of a student’s background including (but not limited to): scholastic standing in high school or college; leadership qualities; financial need; and sincere interest in the various CASNR disciplines. In addition to the college and departmental level, scholarships are also offered at the university level. Freshmen in Transition Freshmen in Transition (FIT) is a residential living-learning community in CASNR Village. FIT focuses on helping students make the most of their freshman year experience by asking them to make a commitment to become actively engaged in all aspects of college life. Students selected for the program live with other CASNR freshman students. Student academic mentors encourage involvement, assist in building the community and live with freshman students. FIT provides students with leadership opportunities on campus, participation in leadership/professional development workshops, and ways to contribute to the community through service activities. Helpful Links CASNR Links Academic Departments Majors Minors "Finish in 4" Resources Graduate Programs Freshmen in Transition (FIT) Scholarships Student Success Center Career Services Student Involvement Study Abroad and International Opportunities Outreach & Distance Learning CASNR Student Tech Fee Committee Request Information OSU Links Apply Now! Be an OSU Cowboy! Office of Undergraduate Admissions Schedule a Visit (Office of Undergraduate Admissions) Admission Requirements (Office of Undergraduate Admissions) Cost of Attendance (Tuition and Fees, Office of the Bursar) Scholarships and Financial Aid New Student Orientation and Enrollment Campus Life Honors College Graduate College Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Accessibilty Safety Legal and Trademarks Webmaster © 2015 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved