Wildlife Sanctuaries in Goa Home » Maps » Wildlife » Wildlife Sanctuaries in Goa   Goa Weather History Culture गोवा का नक्शा Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Cities Panaji Calangute Vasco da Gama Margao Mapusa Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Wildlife Sanctuaries in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries in Goa Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the location of Wildlife Sanctuaries in Goa. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Bhagwan Mahavir Sanctuary The Bhagwan Mahavir Sanctuary at Mollem covers an area of 240 square kilometers and is the largest wildlife preserve in Goa. This sanctuary lies on the eastern border of the state, close to the village of Mollem at the foot of the Western Ghats. The Bhagvan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary is 53 kilometres away from the state capital, Panaji. The sanctuary primarily consists of evergreen forests and deciduous trees. Within the Bhagvan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary is the Molem National Park. Herds of deer and gaurs (Indian bison), clusters of monkeys, Malayan giant squirrels, cobras and pythons are housed in the sanctuary. There are also elephants and tigers, but spotting them could be a tough job. The sanctuary is also home to a few black panthers; and spotting them is not an easy task either. Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary The Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary lies 10 kms northeast of the Usgao Tisk village in north Goa and is 52 kms from Panaji, and 38 kms from Margao. Away from the coast, the landscape breaks into the dramatic and green foothills of the Western Ghats. These foothills shelter the Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary; which is the smallest wildlife reserve in Goa. The Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary is spread over an area of 80 sq kms. The sanctuary is home to the sambar, gaur (Indian bison), the black-faced langur, jackal and wild boar, amongst others animals. Elephants have also been spotted here at times. The Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary houses several species of deer as well. Cotigao Wildlife Sanctuary At a distance of 60km south from Panaji, is located the Cotigao Wildlife Sanctuary. The Cotigao Wildlife Sanctuary was established in 1969. It is the second largest sanctuary in Goa and covers an area of 86 sq kms. The Talpona River flows through this preserve. Getting to the Cotigao Wildlife Sanctuary is a little tedious. The forested land provides shelter to a number of birds and animals. However, the number of animals in this sanctuary has decreased over the years. Yet one still comes across sloth bears, deer, wild boars, hyenas, and Indian bisons. Reptiles and monkeys too can be easily spotted. Birds like the rufous woodpecker, white-eyed eagle and the Malabar crested eagle form a part of the avian life that abounds here. But, apart from the animal life, the expansive forestland also comes as a welcome change. Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary Also known as Dr. Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary - The sanctuary is named after one of India's most prominent ornithologists, Dr. Salim Ali - the Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary is spread over an area of 1.78 sq kms. The Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary is located at the western tip of the Chorao Island along river Mandovi near Panaji. It is fully covered with mangrove species. A variety of local and migratory birds can be found on this island. This sanctuary can be visited any time of the year. However, permission from the Chief, Wild Life Warden (Forest Department, Junta House, Panaji-Goa) is required. One needs to take a bus or a cab from Panaji to the Ribandar ferry wharf and then take a ferry across the Mandovi River to the island of Chorao. The sanctuary is within walking distance from the ferry wharf at Chorao. There are also some private parties who take tourists around in their canoes fitted with outboard motors. Goa is a land whose major portion is allotted to forests and wildlife. Due to deforestation and extinction of certain species of animals becoming a serious issue, the wildlife sanctuaries in Goa are doing their best to preserve their flora and fauna. Presently there are six wildlife sanctuaries in Goa: The Bondla Wildlife sanctuary at Bondla (8 sq km) The Bhagvan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary at Mollem (133 sq km) The Cotigao Wlidlife Sanctuary at Cotigao (86 square km) The Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary at Chorao Island (1.78 square km) At Madei (208 square km, proposed) At Netravali (211 square km, proposed) The Mollem national park at Mollem (107 square km) Together these wildlife sanctuaries in Goa cover an area of 755 square km 2 that is, around 60 per cent of forest area and 20 per cent of the geographical area of the state. Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary: the Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary is located 38 kms from Margao. It is more an ideal jungle resort than a sanctuary. It is a big favourite with school children and people who love nature. This wildlife sanctuary in Goa houses mini zoos, sprawling deer park in natural habitat, botanical and rose gardens that attract people throughout the year. Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary: The Bhagvan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary covers around 240 sq kms. Out of this, the forest-clad slopes of the Western ghats and its valleys are the biggest attractions. It is also the biggest of the three sanctuaries of Goa. The sanctuary is rich in wildlife. It is a paradise for bird watchers. There are also many important geological and historical features in this sanctuary. Cotigao Wildlife Sanctuary: The Cotigao wildlife sanctuary in Goa is the second largest of all the wildlife sanctuaries in Goa. It covers an area of 105 sq km. It is covered with dense forest. As a result of which a varied wildlife, avian fauna and reptiles thrive and flourish. The ancient Jeevottam Partagal Math too lies near the sanctuary. Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary: The Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary is spread over 1.78 sq kms. It is located at the western tip of the island of Chorao along river Mandovi near Panaji. It is fully covered with species that thrive in mangrove areas. Varieties of local as well as migratory birds frequently visit there. Last Updated on : 05 April 2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule