Travel to Andhra Pradesh - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andhra Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Mosques & Shrines in Andhra Pradesh Parks in Andhra Pradesh Caves in Andhra Pradesh Churches in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Temples in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Museums in Andhra Pradesh Cities to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Travel to Srisailam Travel to Tirupati Travel to Visakhapatnam Travel to Vijayawada Travel to Hyderabad Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Srikakulam Hotels in Kurnool Hotels in Tirupati Hotels in Vijayawada Hotels in Nellore About Andhra Pradesh History Climate Home » Maps » Andhra Pradesh Map » Travel to Andhra Pradesh Travel to Andhra Pradesh Travel to Andhra Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map Showing Major Tourist Locations in Andhrapradesh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Andhra Pradesh Tourism Andhra Pradesh offers a heady mix of history, pilgrimage, natural wonder, scenic beauty. Of late, it has started drawing huge number of tourists from across the world. Andhra Pradesh Travel Guide highlights the reasons why one should travel to Andhra Pradesh, how to reach there comfortably and what all does the state offers to its tourist so that they have a memorable vacation. Andhra Pradesh is one place which has something for everyone. Right from enthralling beaches, historical places, sacred temples and mosques which also are architectural wonders in themselves, the city has it all. Andhra Pradesh is the only state in India where most of the tourists are the pilgrims who visit the state with an aim of offering prayers at the numerous temples and mosques of the state. The capital city of Andhra Pradesh is Hyderabad, which also is the largest city in the state. Andhra Pradesh Demographics Latitude Between 12°41' and 22° North Longitude Between 77° and 84°40' East Area 2,75,069 sq km Climate The state has tropical hot and humid climate and witnesses 2 rainy seasons in a year: mid June till September and October-November. Coastal areas are prone to Cyclones Max temperature 42 degrees Min temperature 16 degrees Average annual rainfall Between 87.5 - 31 cm Population 84,655,533 Languages Telugu, Hindi, Urdu Clothing Light Cottons are favourable throughout the year due to the climatic conditions. Time Zone IST (UTC+05:30) Best Time to visit Andhra Pradesh If you are allured by the beauty of Andhra Pradesh and are scheduling a trip to the state, it is very important to keep an account of weather conditions of the state so that you can make maximum out of your visit without being bothered by climatic conditions. The weather in the state of Andhra Pradesh is at its best in the months between October and February when otherwise hot and humid state receives some winter rainfall which makes it cool and comfortable. It is advisable not to travel to the state in summers and monsoons as the humidity and hotness can make you really uneasy. The state is well connected with rest of India and you will easily find good accommodation options suiting your budget. Travelling to Andhra Pradesh is, therefore, not cumbersome. Andhra Pradesh Food The state of Andhra Pradesh is famous for its spicy Andhra and Hyderabadi cuisines. Known as the 'Rice Bowl of India', Andhra Pradesh has rice as a major food crop and it is used quite liberally in the cuisine of the state. When in Andhra Pradesh do try the Hyderabadi Biryani, famous all across the world for its rich and traditional flavor. The spicy curries of Hyderabad are absolutely not to be missed. You can also try various other Mughal delicacies that will transpose you to the royal Mughal Era through their taste. Along with traditional dosas and idlis, the pickles and chutneys found in the state are also quite popular for their mouth watering taste. Andhra Pradesh Travel Tips Avoid going to the beaches alone after late in the evenings. There may not be a lifeguard available at that time in case of an emergency. It is advisable for female travellers not to travel alone to any place at night. Always travel with a guide approved by the State Government to ensure your safety. Never pass any racial or religious comments in public places. Presence of people from various religions and communities in the state makes it absolutely necessary to keep this in mind. Always keep a water bottle handy if travelling to the state in summers as the humid climate may leave you drained and dehydrated. There is a large conglomeration of people in numerous temples and mosques of the state and there have been incidents of chaos which have resulted in many fatal accidents. Do not panic in any situation and let the authorities take the essential measures in any chaotic situation. How to Reach Andhra Pradesh Andhra Pradesh is the most visited tourist destination in India. Numerous temples and architectural wonders, beaches and panoramic sights are some of the factors that attract tourists to the state of Andhra Pradesh. The state is well connected by air, rail and road thus making it easily accessible. 'How to Reach Andhra Pradesh' will help you reach the state. By Air Andhra Pradesh has one international Airport in the capital city - Hyderabad. Other important airports are located at Tirupathi and Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry and Vijayawada. Several Airlines operate regular flights to and from Andhra Pradesh to the other important cities and states in India. By Rail Nearly 5,085 km of the railways route cover the state Andhra Pradesh out of which 4,362 km is broad-gauge, 686 km is metre-gauge and 37 km is narrow gauge. The major Railway Station at the capital city- Hyderabad receives trains from all parts of the country, thus, connecting the state to rest of India. By Road Around 4,104 km of the National Highways network pass through the state of Andhra Pradesh. State highways measure up to nearly 60,000 km and there is another 1, 04,000 km of Panchayati Raj road network. Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) operates regular buses to and from the state to other important cities and states in the country. Tourists can also hire private taxis or cabs to reach the state. Shopping in Andhra Pradesh Along with the great holidays, shopping in Andhra Pradesh is also an exciting experience. Andhra Pradesh boasts of its exquisite jewellery of pearl and diamond, amazing handicrafts by the rural artisan, old antiques reminding of a bygone era and the fantastic silk and cotton weaves which would leave you spoilt for choice. Before going into a shopping spree, please take look at the striking range of specialties of Andhra Pradesh : Pearls: Pearls of Hyderabad are the most famous all over India and the world. Silver Filigiri: extremely intricate designs on polished silver demanding great patience and craftsmanship Banjara Mirror Work: mirror work done by the local Banjara gypsies on clothes and other cloth products Aatar: Exotic perfumes of Hyderabad are world famous Fabric: Himroo, Ikat, Uppada, Mangalagiri sarees are distinguished fabrics of Andhra Pradesh Hand-woven carpets are also available with exotic designs Kalamkari: Pen-painted fabric from Machilipatnam embellished with mythological depictions on clothing Bidri : Art of inlaying silver on black metal originally from Bidar (now in Karnataka) Nirmal Toys: Brightly coloured life like replicas of vegetables, fruits, animals, dolls carved out from locally available soft wood The colourful bazaars along the streets or the swanky shopping malls make shopping in Andhra Pradesh a delightful experience. Governments Emporia and the private shops abound in Hyderabad and other cities. In Hydearabad Laad Bazaar and Shilparamam, The Arts & Crafts Village are popular shopping joints, which houses a number of shops. Hotels of Andhra Pradesh Andhra Pradesh is home to some of the finest hotels. Ranging from five star to deluxe, to budget hotels, the state is dotted with all kinds of accommodation options. Catering to the needs of all tastes and pockets, the hotels in Andhra Pradesh are known for their warmth and hospitality. Read More..... Places to See in Andhra Pradesh Andhra Pradesh is visited by different types of tourists. Be it the beach holidays or the hill stations or the temples of Andhra Pradesh, the state has plethora to offer to the tourists. Charminar, Hyderabad Golconda Fort, Hyderabad Qutb Shahi Tombs, Hyderabad Osmania University, Hyderabad Ramoji Film City, Hyderabad The Salar Jung Museum, Hyderabad The Nizam's Museum, Hyderabad Araku Valley and Borra Caves, Vishakhapatnam Belum Caves, Belum Nagarjuna Konda, Nagarjunasagar Amaravati, Vijaywada The Statue of Lord Buddha, Hyderabad Lord Venkateswara Temple, Tirupati The Beaches of Andhra Pradesh The South Indian state of Andhra Pradesh has many exotic "Beaches" within its area, that overwhelm the tourist with its captivating and enchanting beauty. Many tourists visit the state to experience the rich gift of nature. All the beaches of Andhra Pradesh are unique in its own ways. The state can boast of housing numerous beaches within its area. Read More..... Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh The Hill Stations in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh are a boon for not only the tourists but also for the local people. The solitary and serene hill stations are a fresh relief from the heat and dirt of the plain lands. Away from the hustle and bustle of daily lives, a trip to the beautiful hill stations of Andhra Pradesh is an invigorating and enlivening experience. Read More..... Temples of Andhra Pradesh There are a number of temples in this state and for this reason, Andhra Pradesh is also considered as a popular pilgrimage centre in India. Some popular temples in India are Alampur Navabhrama Temples, Ghanpur Temples, Birla Mandir, Malleswaraswami Temple, Amaravati Temple, Amareswara Temple, Tirupati Venkateswara Temple, Undavalli Cave Temple, Ramappa Temple, Ramalingeswara Temple, Tiruchanur Padmavati, Sri Kalahasteeswara temple, Vijayeswara Swami Temple, and Veerbhadra Temple. Last Updated on : August 19, 2014 Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Adoni Hotels Kurnool Hotels Puttaparthy Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Srikakulam Hotels Eluru Hotels Nellore Hotels Puttaparti Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Kakinada Hotels Ongole Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Vizianagaram Hotels Travel to Andhra Pradesh Travel to Hyderabad Travel to tirupati Travel to Vizag Travel to Vijayawada Travel to Warangal Places to visit in Andhra-pradesh Places to visit in Vizag Places to visit in Hyderabad Places to visit in Tirupati Flights to Andhra Pradesh Flights to Hyderabad Flights to Rajahmundry Flights to Tirupati Flights to Vijayawada Flights to Visakhapatnam Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Elevation Map Outline Map Physical Map District Map Railway Map Road Map Latitude Longitude Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel Map Proposed Andhra Pradesh Map Sriharikota Location map Andhra Pradesh About Climate History Geography Languages Population Districts Factsheet Distance Chart Pin code STD code About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule