Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Academic    Academic Milestones Academic Milestones ACADEMIC - MILESTONES The Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT) is a pioneer Research and Development and Educational Institution under the Ministry of Food Processing Industries, Government of India. The Institute offers academic programmes in food process engineering and food science and technology; B Tech (FPE), M Tech (FPE), M Tech(FST) and Ph D(FPE) affiliated to TNAU. The academic programmes commenced at IICPT since 2009.   The students graduated from the institute have achieved a great success in their career. Some students have opted for jobs and others are pursuing their higher education in the field of food processing, food science and management in different parts of the globe.  The M Tech students of academic year of 2010-11 and 2011-2012, 8 students opted for higher studies and 6 students were placed in the industry. In the academic year 2012-2013 with a total of 33 students (B.Tech and M Tech), 21 students are placed in reputed companies and 11 students have opted for higher education in national and international institutes. In the year 2013-2014 with a total of 46 students (B Tech and M Tech), 15 have been placed in reputed institutes and 26 have gone for higher studies.  Click to download....... No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com