Amaranth Seed - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Amaranth Seed Amaranth Seed Buy directly from supplier Request Price Description Product Description Amaranth seeds were known as the “Super Grain” of the Aztecs because they felt that it gave them mystical, supernatural energy and power. Modern science confirms that amaranth seeds truly are a “Super Grain.” It is a powerhouse of protein, calcium and rich amino acids such as lysine for building strong muscles, bones and reflexes. New crops of this product come in February and stay till April. In this way February to April is its prime season. Description This low fat, high-energy grain has three times the fiber and fives times the iron of wheat and has a deliciously rich, nutty flavor. Amaranth seeds are an ancient secret that has recently been rediscovered and is growing more and more popular as barriers are being brought down and health consciousness rises exponentially. These seeds are tall plant with very broad leaves; it produces many thousands of tiny seeds. The leaves and the seeds are edible. They are closely related to pigweed, spinach, beets, and other plants in the goosefoot family, Chenopodiaceae. Although the amaranth is sometimes classified in the goosefoot family, it is most commonly classified in its own family, Amaranthaceae. Its flour has a pleasant, nutty taste. Uses Amaranth seed is the kind of grain used on days of fasting. It makes good tasting bread, muffins, bagels, pasta, milk, imitation nut butter, cookies, gravies, sauces, pancakes, flatbreads, doughnuts, dumplings, and who knows what else. (Recipes are supplied with the flours). All recipes are made without wheat or other grains, without yeast, and without milk, eggs, or sugar. If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: RO3 . Category: Farm Output . Tag: amaranth . Social share Related Products Free Read More Request Price Quick View Farm Output Giriraja chicks and chicken for sale Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Output Coir Products Free Read More Request Price Quick View Farm Output Natti chicken (koli) egg Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Output Indian Spices Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Output Organic Sunrise Natural Products Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Output Organic Aloevera Wheatgrass Juice Rs.480.00 Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics irrigation magazine medicinal plants net pots npk organic fertiliser packaging