Amritsar Massacre Home »» Amritsar » Massacre   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Amritsar Massacre Probably the most fateful and petrifying day in the History of Indian Freedom Movement is the day of the Amritsar Massacre. The date was 13th April, 1919. It was a Sunday afternoon and about ten thousand people, including many women and children, gathered in the Jallianwala Bagh, a garden in the city of Amritsar. The people assembled there to conduct a meeting, peacefully protesting against the arrest of two leaders of the Indian National Congress. It was a peaceful protest and the people who gathered there were all unarmed. Jallianwala Bagh had already become by that time, a public square, a place for the Indians to meet for meetings and protests against the oppression. At that time, Edward Dyer was the British General and on seeing the crowd, he ordered his men to open fire on the unarmed and non-violent group of innocent people. The design of the Jallianwala Bagh was such that it only had narrow gate for moving in and out of the place. General Dyer placed his soldiers at the only opening of the Jallianwala Bagh and without any kind of warning, ordered to fire on the Indian crowd. The Amritsar Massacre, also known as the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre, is an extremely dishonorable and disgraceful event because of the kind of brutality that was practiced by the British on the helpless Indians. For a long time, the soldiers unloaded the bullets ruthlessly and brutally on the crowd that was trapped to death. Nearly four hundred people were killed and more than a thousand were severely injured. This appalling and horrifying event of the massacre at Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar resulted in the mass Indian uprising and insurgence and ultimately led to the Indian Freedom. But, the tragic day of the massacre in Amritsar will always bring a bloodcurdling and terrifying memory in the minds of all Indians. About Amritsar History Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries     Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule