Course Offerings | Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering University Home About OSU Academics Faculty and Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Growing Oklahoma Search... Division Home Calendar Campus Map OSU Quicklinks Local Weather Menu           Division Home People Faculty (All) Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Resources CEAT Giving Page DASNR Giving Page CASNR Alumni Page OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation Hire OSU Grads BAE Newsletters OSU Job Search Employment Opportunities Student Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Degree Options Degree Sheets and Flowcharts Recruitment and Application Process Scholarships and Financial Aid Senior Design Projects Study Abroad Student Projects Student Links Graduate Student Welcome Graduate Programs Biomechanical Systems Bioprocessing and Biotechnology Environment and Natural Resrouces Food Processing BAE Graduate School Application Process Assistantships BAE Graduate Courses BAE Research Labs Graduate Student Links Accreditation Research BAE Research Labs Advanced Technology Research Center BioEnergy BioEnvironmental BioTechnology BioPhysical Properties Bioprocessing Lab Environmental Preperation FAPC Ground Water Machine Testing Machine Vision Research Shop Sensors Lab SPREC Welding and Engines class Wind Tunnel BAE Research Shop Bio Products and Energy Hydraulic Engineering OK-FIRE EPSCoR Extension Extension News Agriculture Machinery Systems AgWeather Applications Engineers BAE Fact Sheet Biobased Products and Energy Center OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Stored Products Research and Education Center (SPREC) Stormwater and Low Impact Development SUNUP Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Program News and Events News Events BAE Newsletters Publications and Outreach Impact Statements – April 2014 Archive Links Professional organizations American Society of Agriculturaland Biological Engineers North American Benthological Society American Society of Civil Engineers Energy Management Institute American Meteorological Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Automotive Engineers Collegiate organizations Alpha Epsilon ASABE student club ASABE Facebook page Cowboy Motorsports BAE Sites AGMACH$ Agricultural Machinery Systems Agweather BAE Extension fact sheets BAE Labs OSU Biobased Products and Energy Center Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit OK EPSCoR BREOI Oklahoma Mesonet OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Poultry Waste Management Stormwater and Low Impact Development Sun Grant Initiative – South Central Region Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Programs DASNR Sites DASNR OCES county office directory Robert M. KerrFood & Agricultural Products Center SUNUP CEAT OSU Sites OSU Home Hire OSU Grads News OSU Athletics Stillwater Resrouces Oklahoma Resources Oklahoma Departmentof Agriculture, Food, and Forestry Oklahoma Bioenergy Center Oklahoma Departmentof Environmental Quality Federal Resources Agriculture Research Service ARSGrazinglands Research Laboratory ARS, Conservationand Production Laboratory USDA U.S. Departmentof Energy – Bioenergy U.S. National Science Foundation U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency, Region 6 Other Resources Worldwide Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Directory The Environmental Working Group Microsoft Research Maps (formerly Microsoft Terra Server – satellite photos) Ground Water Protection Council, GWPC Center for Advanced Spatial Technologies, CAST Contact Us BAE Links BAE Home About BAE Archive People Undergraduate Resources Graduate Students Resources Research Extension News and Events Links and Resources Alumni Resources Contact Us Course Offerings The Department of Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering is administered jointly by the  College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources  and the  College of Engineering, Architecture and Technology . Biosystems engineering courses integrate engineering sciences, physical sciences, and biological sciences and teach students to address real-world challenges. With the guidance of experienced faculty, students work both as individuals and in teams to design creative solutions to complex problems. The program culminates in a senior year design course in which students integrate the analysis, synthesis and other abilities they have developed throughout the earlier portions of their study into a capstone experience. Academic flow charts and degree sheets BAE 1012 Introduction to Biosystems Engineering.  Lab 2. Prerequisite(s): Engineering major. Introduction to the Biosystems Engineering discipline; use of computers in solving engineering problems; and the application of computer software in engineering analysis and reporting. BAE 1022 Experimental Methods in Biosystems Engineering.  Lab 2. Prerequisite(s): 1012 or consent of instructor. An introduction to the basics of instrumentation, measurement techniques, and data analysis, with an emphasis on written communication skills. Lecture and laboratory exercises that address measurement principles, including accuracy, precision and error analysis. BAE 2012 Engineering Applications in Biological Systems.  Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1114, MATH 2144. Introduction to the engineering aspects of various biological systems. Case studies that emphasize the interface between engineering and biology in plant systems, mammalian systems, bioenvironmental systems and industrial biological processes. BAE 2023 Physical Properties of Biological Materials.  Lab 2. Prerequisite(s): 1022, BIOL 1114, PHYS 2014. Basic engineering fundamentals applied to characterization and determination of physical properties of biological materials, including water relations, rheological, thermal, and electromagnetic properties, materials drying concepts, fans, psychrometrics and refrigeration. BAE 3013 Heat and Mass Transfer in Biological Systems.  Prerequisite(s): ENSC 3233. Mechanisms of heat and mass transfer, with specific applications in transport processes of biological systems. Introduction to steady state and transient heat conduction and convection, radiation, diffusion, simultaneous heat and mass transfer, and generation and depletion of heat and mass in biological systems. BAE 3023 Instruments and Controls.  Lab 2. Prerequisite(s): ENSC 2613, MATH 2233. Design of control and instrumentation systems, including sensor and actuator principles, interface electronics, system identification, modeling, and performance specification. Applications in biological and agricultural systems. Design project required. BAE 3113 Microbial Technologies in Biosystems Engineering.  Prerequisite(s): 2012, ENSC 2213, 3233, MATH 2233. Introduction to engineering applications of industrial microbiology. Technologies covered include fermentation systems, enzyme kinetics, wastewater treatment and bioremediation. BAE 3213 Energy and Power in Biosystems Engineering.  Lab 2. Prerequisite(s): 1022, ENSC 2143, 2213, 2613. Analysis and design of energy generation, transmission, and utilization in the production and processing of biological materials. BAE 3313 Natural Resources Engineering.  Lab 3. Prerequisite(s): 2023 and ENSC 3233 or concurrent enrollment. Principles and practices of engineering analysis and design applied to hydrology, water quality, erosion and sedimentation, air quality, irrigation and animal waste management. BAE 4001 Professional Practice in Biosystems Engineering.  Prerequisite(s): Concurrent enrollment in 4012. Preparation for professional practice through case studies about ethics, legal liability, safety, and societal issues. Practical professional communications experience. BAE 4012 Senior Engineering Design Project I.  Lab 2. Prerequisite(s): 3013, 3023, 3113, 3213, 3313, 4001 and ENSC 2143. Team work on professional level design projects, using design procedures to develop specifications, propose alternative solutions, consider external constraints, develop drawings or plans, construct, test and evaluate designs. BAE 4023 Senior Engineering Design Project II.  Lab 4. Prerequisite(s): 4012. Second of two-semester sequence of senior design courses. BAE 4213* Precision Agriculture.  Lab 2. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1513, senior standing. Introduction to the concepts of precision agriculture including analysis of spatial variability, relationships of fertility and crop response, geographical information systems, variable rate technology, optical sensing, global positioning systems, and yield monitoring. Case studies included for detailed analyses. (Same course as SOIL 4213) BAE 4224* Machinery for Production and Processing.  Prerequisite(s): 3213. Analysis and design of machine components and machine systems for production and processing of biological materials. Soil dynamics with emphasis on traction and soil compaction. Interactions of machines with biological systems. BAE 4283* Bioprocess Engineering.  Prerequisite(s): 3113 or consent of instructor, ENSC 3233. Application of fundamental engineering principles to biochemical and biological processes. Introduction to cellular processes, fermentation technology, biological mass transfer and kinetics, bioreactor design and scale-up and downstream processing. (Same course as CHE 4283) BAE 4313* Hydrology.  Prerequisite(s): 3313, ENSC 3233. Basic principles of surface and groundwater hydrology and their application in engineering problems. The hydrologic cycle, weather and hydrology, precipitation, evaporation, transpiration, subsurface waters, stream flow hydrographs, hydrologic and hydraulic stream routing, probability of hydrologic events and application of hydrologic models. BAE 4353* Mechanical Design II.  Prerequisite(s): ENSC 2013, ENSC 2122, MAE 3323. Design of power transmission systems, including belts, chains and gears. Selection of electric motors, actuators, encoders, and related electromechanical components. Selection and application of hydraulic and pneumatic components in machine design applications. Design practice in the form of short projects integrating the various segments covered in the course. (Same course as MAE 4353) BAE 4400 Special Problems.  1-4 credits, max 8. Investigations in specialized areas of biosystems engineering. BAE 4413* Food Engineering.  Prerequisite(s): 3013 and ENSC 3233, 2213. Analysis and design of various unit operations in food processing including thermal processing, drying, evaporation, freezing, processing non-Newtonian fluids and quality changes during processing. BAE 5000* Thesis and Research.  1-6 credits, max 6. Prerequisite(s): Consent of major professor. BAE 5030* Engineering Practice.  1-12 credits, max 12. Prerequisite(s): BS degree in biosystems and agricultural engineering. The identification, analysis and synthesis of an authentic problem in agricultural and biological engineering. Solution of the problem will involve making engineering decisions tempered by real-time restraints, economic realities, and limited data with due consideration for environmental and social implications. BAE 5213* Renewable Energy Engineering.  Prerequisite(s): ENSC 2213, ENSC 3233 or consent of instructor. Renewable technologies such as solar, wind, geothermal, hydroelectric, and biomass to generate energy for electricity, heating, transportation, and other uses. BAE 5283* Advanced Bioprocess Engineering.  Prerequisite(s): Consent of instructor. Application of fundamental engineering principles to biochemical and biological processes. Introduction to cellular processes, fermentation technology, biological mass transfer and kinetics, bioreactor design and scale-up and downstream processing. (Same course as CHE 5283) BAE 5313* Watershed Modeling and Water Quality.  Lab 6. Prerequisite(s): 4313 or equivalent. A computer modeling course with an emphasis on chemical and physical processes governing nonpoint source pollution (nitrogen, phosphorus, sediment) at the basin scale. The laboratory use of state-of-the-art models applied to a variety of agricultural systems. “Hands on” use of comprehensive hydrologic water quality models that utilize spatial data in a geographic information system. Models and parameter uncertainty, digital data sources, parameter estimation and model testing, calibration and validation. For students with advanced personal computer skills. BAE 5324* Modeling and Design in Storm Water and Sediment Control.  Lab 3. Prerequisite(s): 4313 or equivalent. Analysis and design of storm water, sediment and water quality systems with a focus on application to urban areas and developments in the urban-rural fringe. Advanced concepts in hydrologic modeling with kinematics, diffusion and dynamic modeling of flow; soil erosion, sediment transport and sediment control; storm water quality modeling and the impact of best management practices. In laboratories, use of hydrologic, sediment, and water quality models in analysis and design for re