ESSO-INCOIS-Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services ESSO - Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (An Autonomous Body under the Ministry of Earth Sciences, Govt. of India) Menu Hindi Home Vacancies Tenders Library Feedback Sitemap Contact Us Menu Organisation Organisation About Us Mission Activity Spectrum Structure Human Resources Director's Desk Quality Policy Contact Us Services Services Marine Fishery Advisories Potential Fishing Zone Tuna Fishing Advisories Ocean State Forecast Tsunami Early Warnings Storm Surge Warnings Indian Seismic and GNSS Network Coral Bleaching Alerts Coastal Geospatial Applications Vulnerability Index Multi hazard Vulnerability Mapping Updates Of Climate Indices SST Anomaly ElNino IOD Data & Information Data & Information Insitu Data Remote Sensing Live Access Server Tropflux Data QC Manuals Project Datasets Publications Contact Us Ocean Observations Ocean Observations Modelling & Research Ocean Modelling & Research HOOFS HYCOM INCOIS-GODAS MOM TSUNAMI STORM SURGE Satellite Oceanography Satellite Oceanography ChloroGIN SATCORE ITCOocean ITCOocean Quick Links Quick Links International Interface International Interface IOGOOS SIBER IIOE Employee's Corner Employee's Corner INCOIS Mail Employee Self Service Portal INCOIS - INTRANET Weather Bulletins Weather Bulletins Visakhapatnam Chennai Kolkata Awards Immovable Properties Story of the Oceans Ocean Tutor Vacancies Vacancies Regular Temporary Tenders Annual Reports Photo Gallery News News News Clipings Ocean News Letter Library Library ESSO-INCOIS Knowledge Resource Centre eprints@ESSO-INCOIS eprints@MoES Users Feedback Home Satellite Oceanography SATCORE Satellite Coastal and Oceanography Research (SATCORE) The ocean colour analysis also has proven to be an efficient tool for determining health of the ocean by measuring oceanic biological activity through optical means. Phytoplankton pigment acts as an indicator of the equilibrium of CO2 concentration between atmosphere and ocean. The other optical aquatic component such as Chromophoric dissolved organic matter (CDOM) and total suspended matter (TSM) also acts as an ecological indicators. The oceanic colour change due to chlorophyll_a provides the level of primary productivity whereas the colour change due to CDOM can be attributed to the level of pollution and higher particulate matter in suspension can be directly linked to wave and current energy. The advent of the satellite technology has given a substantial boost to the ocean colour research. The ability of optical sensor to map the spatial and temporal patterns of ocean colour over regional and global scales has provided important insights into the fundamental bio-optical properties and bio-physical processes occurring in the aquatic media. However the satellite based retrieval of ocean colour parameters demands an accurate bio-optical algorithm especially in the coastal waters and such algorithm require large in situ database for a specific area. Figure: Locations for SATCORE Time series To address these issues Satellite Coastal and Oceanographic Research (SATCORE) programme was initiated. INCOIS started coordinating SATCORE programme from XI-five year plan with an aim of long term measurements of bio-optical properties in the Indian coastal waters. The principle aim was to validate the satellite derived ocean products in coastal waters and subsequently application in operational services such as location of potential fishing zone (PFZ) and detection and monitoring of Algal Blooms (ABs). Apart from these, the other objectives of SATCORE programme are to develop new algorithms for ocean colour satellite sensor, improve atmospheric correction schemes and application of ocean colour data for modelling primary productivity. SATCORE also supplements the global initiative Chlorophyll Global Integration Network (ChloroGIN) which aims towards generation of ocean colour data products from operational satellite sensors at near real-time (NRT) for operational applications. Data availability from SATCORE program Figure: Schematic showing the sampling locations at which the data was generated as a part of SATCORE programme A valuable data set of physical, optical and bio-geo-chemical was generated from SATCORE programme for the period from 2008 - 2013. The measured parameters include: Chlorophyll_a (Chl-a), Coloured Dissolved Organic Matter (CDOM), Total Suspended Matter (TSM), Inherent Optical Properties (IOP) including absorption and scattering coefficients, Apparent Optical Properties (AOP) measured using hyperspectral radiometer, measurement using Conductivity-Temperature-Depth (CTD) instrument, Nutrients, Aerosol Optical Thickness (AOT) and Meteorological parameters (Met) measured using Autonomous Weather Station (AWS). SATCORE Menu Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Copy Right © ESSO- Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), Govt of India. All Rights Reserved.