Welcome :: Institute Of Forest & Productivity Ranchi About Us Divisions Forest Ecology & Land Management Division Silviculture & NTFP Management Division Forest Physiology & Molecular Biology Division Agroforestry & Extension division Information Technology & GIS Division Forest Genetics & Breeding Division Forest Protection Division Projects ICFRE Projects Other Than ICFRE Projects Infrastructure Forest Chemistry Lab Herbal Garden Library Lead Garden Molecular Biology and Tree Physiology Laboratory Soil Laboratory Seed Laboratory Tissue Culture Laboratory Services Consultancy Seedlings, Plantlets and Seeds Services Consultancy Charges Research Centers Environmental Research Station, Sukna Forest Research Center, Mandar RTI Application Form Draft Citizen Charter Our People Orgaizational Structure Publications Books Brochure Reports Research Paper Seminar/Workshop Proceedings Technical Bulletin Director General's Message Dr. Ashwini Kumar, IFS Director General, ICFRE It gives me immense pleasure to welcome you to the official webpage of Institute of Forest Productivity (IFP), Ranchi. The Institute has taken up a number of research and training programmes for the benefit of different stakeholders and user agencies, NGOs, research organizations, the States of Bihar, Jharkhand, Orissa, West Bengal and the public at large. I hope, the information given in the website will be of great help to the viewers. Director's Message Dr. S. A. Ansari Director, IFP Ranchi It’s a matter of great pleasure for me to welcome you on our official website. IFP caters the forestry research needs of the eastern region of the country for the states of Jharkhand, Orissa, West Bengal and Bihar. Since coming into existence in 1993, institute has initiated steady steps to address a wide range of problems borne and accentuated by vast stretches of degraded forests, dwindling species richness especially those of medicinal plants, bamboos and canes; heavy pressure of mining and numeral industrial development processes.  Read More  IFP Circular/Order/Notice Result of Walk-in-Interview held on December 5, 2014 at IFP, Ranchi. Posted On: 10-12-2014 List of candidates approved by the selection committee for the position of "Senior Research Fellow"   read more List of selected candidates under "Bamboo Genetic Evaluation, Improvement and Propagation" project Posted On: 22-04-2014   read more News & Update Visit of trainees of Quality Improvement Programme on "Applications of Biotechnology in Modern Pharmacognosy" from Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra at IFP Ranchi Posted On: 17-12-2014 Fifteen pharmacognosy trainees of 'Quality Improvement Programme on Applications of Biotechnology in  read more Proceedings of the XVI Research Advisory Group Meeting 18th - 19th November 2014 at Institute of Forest Productivity, Ranchi Posted On: 21-11-2014 The XVI - RAG Meeting was held in the Conference Room at IFP Headquarters at Lalgutwa Campus on 18t  read more वन उत्पादकता संस्थान में हिन्दी पखवाड़ा का आयोजन – 2014 Posted On: 19-09-2014 संघ सरकार की राजभाषा निति के संबंध में संवैधानिक उद्देश्यों की पूर्ति को प्रमुखता देते हुए राजभाषा ह  read more Vigilance Awareness Week Inaugurated at IFP Ranchi Posted On: 01-11-2013 Dr S A Ansari, Director, IFP on 28th October, 2013, inaugurated the vigilance awareness week at inst  read more INTERPRETATION CENTRE OF LEAD GARDEN INAUGURATED AT IFP RANCHI Posted On: 27-09-2013 An Interpretation Centre of the Lead Garden for Jharkhand established under the Ministry of Envi  read more Farmers received payment under Direct to Consumer scheme Posted On: 20-03-2013 In a simple ceremony held at IFP, Ranchi on 15th March, Director,IFP, Ranchi distributed the payment  read more Tribal Farmers Reaping Rich Benefit from Lac Cultivation Posted On: 20-03-2013 Under the leadership of Dr V K Bahuguna, DG, ICFRE, country wide Direct To Consumer scheme has been   read more IFP, Ranchi connected to NKN, Network Posted On: 26-10-2012 IFP, Ranchi is now connected with National Knowledge Network (NKN). This enables availability of hig  read more Upcoming Events Photo Gallery Video Education Training Important Links Tender/Recruitments Web Team Copyright © 2012 www.ifpranchi.co.in. All Right Reserved. Web solution : JAI INFOWAY Site Can Be Best Viewed on Internet Explore 8.0 or above