Maps of Chennai, Chennai Map Home General Information Business and Finance Travel Education Hotels Follow us Ripon Building Chennai Click to View Large Map of Chennai Map of Chennai Vanacome to Chennai! Didn't get it? Vanacome is the Tamil term for welcome. Tamil is the main language of Chennai, the fourth most densely inhabited city of India. But you need not worry as the Chennai people are good in communicative English as well. Being one of the largest metropolises of the country, Chennai is also known as Madras. Chennai is fortunate to have the Bay of Bengal by its side. The city, though now full of razzmatazz, is surrounded by serene beauty of lush green. The city economy is largely based on large industries like automobiles, technology, hardware etc. The people of Chennai are gracious in nature and the city has been a tourist attraction for decades. Climate Chennai falls in typical tropical zone therefore has a wet and dry type of weather. The city has a hot and humid weather throughout the year. In May and June, the maximum temperature rises to 38 to 42 degree Celsius and in January, it goes down to 18 to 20 degree Celsius. From October to December, the city enjoys seasonal downpour. Administration Corporation of Chennai is the city administrative body in Chennai. It is the oldest municipal corporation of the country. 155 councilors representing 155 wards constitute the city corporation. The mayor and deputy mayor head the six standing committees. Greater Chennai Police department which is a part of Tamil Nadu police is the law enforcement authority of the city. The Madras High Court is the top legislative body of the Chennai city. How to Reach By Airway Chennai International Airport which is the third busiest in the country is well connected to the other parts of the country and the world as well. If you are flying from Europe and North America, opt for Jet Airways. They offer regular flights to Chennai. From various places of South East Asia, you can take flights to Chennai that are offered by Silk Air, Singapore Airlines, Air Mauritius and several other reputed airlines. If you are from Middle East or Africa, Air India Express, Gulf Air, Qatar Airways and many other airlines will offer you flights to Chennai. Needless to say that this important metro is also linked to other major parts of the country. By Railway Chennai has two major stations, Chennai Central and Egmore that are allied to all other metros of the country including Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Bangalore. By Roadway The CMBT and Omni Bus terminuses are the two major bus-stations of the city of which CMBT takes pride in being one of the largest bus terminuses of the world. you can get in the city of Chennai by taking buses from any metro of the country and they will take you to one of these bus stands of Chennai. What to See The Birla Planetarium (Kotturpuram), MGR Memorial House (T.Nagar), Elliots Beach (Besant Nagar suburb), National Art Gallery (Pantheon Road), Marina Beach, St.Thomas Basilica are some of the astonishing tourist destinations of the city. Chennai is a city where colonial and pre-colonial will speak to you apart from all the state-of-the-art facilities encasing your stay. Where to Stay There are more than a few good places to stay in Chennai but if you want ultimate luxury and comfy, get in any of these luxury hotels in Chennai. Asiana Hotel, Chennai Chola Sheraton, Chennai The Trident, Chennai The Ambassador Pallava, Chennai Rain Tree, Chennai What to Eat Try the ethnic dishes like Dosa, Idli and Uttapam. If you don't have a knack, don't be morose. There are several eateries out there that will offer you all types of dishes. News & Events Shopping Entertainment Health & Fitness Download Maps of Chennai PDF Fact file of Chennai Area 174 sq. km Altitude 60 m above sea level Geographical Location 13 degrees North Latitude 80 degrees East Longitude Total Population 42,16,268 (2001 Census) Total Population (Male) 21,61,605 (2001 Census) Total Population (Female) 20,54,663 (2001 Census) Total Literates 30,79,004 (2001 Census) Female Literacy rate 75.32% (2001 Census) Male Literacy rate 84.71% (2001 Census) Average annual Rainfall 1,272 mm Temperature Summer: 37°C (Max) 21.10°C (Min) Winter: 32°C (Max) 19.81°C (Min) Climate Tropical Religion Hindus, Christians, Muslims Important Festivals Pongal, Navratri, Diwali, Eid-ul Fitr, Christmas, Arubathimoovar Festival, Chithirai Festival, Dance Festival, Kanthuri Festival, Kavadi Festival, Music Festival, Mahamagam Festival, Natyanjali Dance Festival, Tayagaraja Festival Languages Tamil, English, Hindi, Urdu, Malayalam Major Tourist Attractions Marina Beach, Snake Park, St. George Fort, Kapaleeshwar Temple, Santhome Cathedral, National Art Gallery, etc Best Time to Visit November to March Home   |   General Information   |   Business and Finance   |   Travel   |   Education   |   Hotels Follow us Compare Infobase Limited (ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) Copyright mapsofindia.com All right reserved solutions@mapsofindia.com