Coco Peat Blocks Offered by Green India Exports India | ID - 810823 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Green India Exports Member Since : 2008 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Coconut Shell Ice Cream Cups, Natural Vanilla Beans, Coconut Milk Home » Product » Coco Peat Blocks Coco Peat Blocks Coco Peat Blocks are procured from the superior quality coconut husks. Our Coco Peat Blocks are free from weeds, stones, sand and other undesirable foreign bodies. The Coco Peat Blocks find applications in horticulture and agricultural applications to enhance the healthy growth of plants. Clients can avail these Coco Peat Blocks in different specifications as per their needs. We are well-known Manufacturer, Exporter and Supplier of Coco Peat Blocks based in Tamil Nadu. What is Coco-Peat? Coco-peat, also known as coir pith or coir dust is a bi-product of the coconut industry and is produced when coir fibre is extracted from the coconut husk. It is a spongy, peat like residue. It is a direct substitute to mined peat and hence is used extensively as a substrate in the horticulture sector. Coco-peat when first produced is light tan colour, but darkens with age to a dark chocolate brown colour. Advantages of Using Coco-Peat : Coco-peat is a 100% organic material and using it for hydroponic growing is not hazardous to the environment Coco-peat is an alternative for soil, peat, perlite and rockwool Using coco-peat assures better root development and also makes transplanting easier Coco-peat has a very high air holding capacity In spite of having a very high air holding capacity, coco-peat does not dry up very fast as it can hold moisture, up to eight times its volume Coco-peat can be named as the most sustainable growing medium of all times It is free of bacteria, fungi and weeds Coco-Peat Packing : Coco-peat is packed and exported as compressed 5 kilogram blocks and 650 gram briquettes and palletized during shipment. Additional Information : Minimum Order Quantity : 20 FCL container SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mr. R. K. Raghunandan Telephone : +91-4259-224827 Fax No : +91-4259-223951 Mobile Phone : +91-9786019319,+91-9787709119 » More detail Product Range » Coco Peat Blocks » Coco Peat Grow Bags » Coconut Husk Chips » Coconut Shell Bird Feeders » Coconut Shell Ice Cream Cups Yes No Related Catalogs Rajsons Exports glucose biscuits, cream biscuits, confectionery, lollipop, candy, safety matches, woven sacks, non basmati rice, sugar, pulses, motor cycles,... Subodh Brothers Pvt. Ltd. black tea, green tea, oolong tea, organic tea Ideal Icecream ice creams, vanilla ice cream, strawberry ice cream, butterscotch ice cream, mango ice cream, banana ice cream, chocolate ice cream,... Alpha Overseas dairy products, milk powders, dairy whiteners, milk product, ghee, milk fats, edible casein, edible lactose, milk Suggested Companies National Egg Centre Gulf Processing Industries Grace Supermarket Gananayaka Exports B. N. Exports. Pvt. Ltd Siva Krishna Traders Unity Exports Related category Match Milk Milk Powder Bird Feeder Coco Peat Blocks Coconut Husk Chips Coconut Milk Powder wild bird feeders Vanilla Beans Coconut Areca Leaf Plate Coco Peat Grow Bag Coconut Milk Natural Vanilla Bean WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com