Tirunelveli_RVS-Krishi Vigyan Kendra-Tirunelveli_RVS District-The Krishi Vigyan Kendra is an innovative science based institution, which undertakes vocational trainings for farmers, farm women and rural youths, conducts On farm research (OFR) for technology refinement and Front Line Demonstration to promptly demonstrate the latest technologies in the field of agriculture and allied disciplines to the farming community and extension workers Home About Tirunelveli KVK Infrastructure Programs On Farm-Trail Front Line Demonstration Training Programs Demonstration Unit Collobrate Programs Monitoring Evlouation Staff & Faculty Publications Others Success Stories FAQ Gallery Contact Bridal Jewellery Bridal Bangles Bridal Necklace Sets Bridal Earings Bridal Nail Arts Bridal Nail Arts Welcome to RVS KVK The Krishi Vigyan Kendra is an innovative science based institution, which undertakes vocational trainings for farmers, farm women and rural youths, conducts On farm trail (OFT) for technology refinement and Front Line Demonstration to promptly demonstrate the latest technologies in the field of agriculture and allied disciplines to the farming community and extension workers. The RVS Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Tirunelveli was established in the year 1994 by RVS Educational Trust, Sulur in memory of Rathinavel Subramanium and headed by Dr. K.V. Kuppuswamy, Chairman. This institute is running by the financial assistance of Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India, New Delhi. Introduction Of KVK Starting one KVK in each district is the recommendation given by the Mohan Sinha committee. As per the recommendation, the KVK have grown over the years and at present, there are more than 360 KVKs in our country. Well-experienced and qualified staff in various disciplines of Agronomy, Agricultural extension, Animal Husbandry, Agricultural Engineering, Horticulture, Home Science and Plant protection with the support of administrative and supporting staff team running the RVS KVK. The KVK team is working towards the attainment of the mandates. KVK is guided by the Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC) for planning, implementation and evaluation of various activities by convening regular meetings. This committte is constituted by the Chairman of the host institution and the officer in charge of KVK, as member secretary. The Zonal Project director, The Director of Extension Education(TNAU), representatives from all line departments, Farmers and Farm womens are the members. Mandate Of KVK 1. The Mandate Of is to develop and disseminate location specific technology Assessment, Refinement and Demonstration and to act as Knowledge and resourse Centre for agriculture and its allied activities. Specific activities to carry out this mandate are:  2. Conducting On-Farm testing to identify the location specific agricultural technologies under various farming systems. 3. Organizing Front Line Demonstrations to establish production potential of various crops and enterprises on the farmers' fields. 4. Organizing need based training for farmers to update their knowledge and skills in modern agricultural technologies related to technology Assessment, Refinement and demonstration and training of extention personal to orient in the frontier areas to technology development. 5. Creating awareness about improved technologies to larger masses through appropriate extension programmes. 6. Production and Supply of good quality seeds and plating materials, Livestock, poultry and fisheries breeds and products and various bio-products to the farming community. 7. Works as resourse and knowledge centre of agricultural technology for supporting initiatives of public, private and voluntary sector for improving agricultural economy of the district Home About Us Staff & Faculty Contact Us