Grow Tech - Construction of greenhouses - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Grow Tech – Construction of greenhouses Home Grow Tech – Construction of greenhouses Pune company engaged in the construction of greenhouses Grow Tech offers single and multi-span gutter connected green houses for flowers and hardening of tissue culture plants; tunnels for vegetables and plant nurseries; systems inside the green houses fogging, misting and over-head micro irrigation systems; evaporative cooling system with automation; heating systems with automation; and internal shading systems, thermal screen and external shading systems.  The company was established in 1994 by Mr. Dilip Deshmukh. It is headquartered in Pune. Grow Tech installations are used by farm owners for commercial production of flowers like carnation, gerbera, calalliy, and roses, besides others, and for exotic vegetables like green peas, colored capsicum, and tomato, besides others. Shade net houses are being used by nurseries, universities and research institutes for hardening of tissue culture products. [hidepost] Explaining the difference between greenhouses, poly houses and shade nets, Mr. Deshmukh says, “Greenhouses are frames of inflated structure covered with a transmitting material in which crops are grown under controlled environment conditions. A poly house is a type of green house where polyethylene film is used as a transmitting material. In shade houses, shading net is used.” Poly Houses Explaining about poly houses, he says, “Poly houses mainly have three designs: naturally ventilated, evaporative cooling (i.e. fan and pads), and tunnel. In naturally ventilated poly houses there is a permanent open vent at the top and curtains on all four sides. These curtains can be opened and closed manually for ventilation, whereas in evaporative cooling systems exhaust fans are used to take out the hot air inside the poly houses and draw air from cooling pads. Naturally ventilated poly houses are being used for commercial purposes because of the cost matters on viability of the crop produced inside the poly houses. Fan and pad systems poly houses are necessary where climatic conditions are very critical for crops to grow like hardening of tissue culture plants, or crops under research stages. Hence theses poly houses are required at commercial units of tissue culture plats, R & D institutes and universities. Advantages of Greenhouses Speaking about the advantages of greenhouse cultivation, Mr. Deshmukh says, “Greenhouse cultivation as well as other modes of controlled environment cultivation have been evolved to create favorable micro-climates, which favors the crop production all through the year or part of the year as required.” He adds, “Greenhouses and other technologies for controlled environment plant production are associated with the off-season production of ornamentals and foods of high value in cold climates where outdoor production is not possible. The primary environmental parameters traditionally controlled are light, temperature, humidity, carbon dioxide levels, water, plant nutrients and pest control. Greenhouse is the most practical method of achieving the objectives of protected agriculture, where natural environment is modified by using engineering principles to achieve optimum plant growth and yield. The selection of poly houses and shade net houses depends upon the crops.” He further adds, “Greenhouse/Poly house technology has potential to produce more per unit area with increased input use efficiency. Productivity of vegetable crops can be increased by 3-5 times as compared to open environment. Besides productivity, the quality of produce is also better.” Material Used The different materials used in constructing of greenhouses are wood/ bamboo, M. S. pipes and G. I. pipes for construction of framework for greenhouses. “Every material has its own advantages and disadvantages but over the years G.I. pipes have proven as the best material for construction of the frame. The main reasons behind the use of G.I. pipes have been Indian standard specifications, the pipes can be bent easily; the fixing of film is appropriate and since the material is galvanized, it helps resist corrosion,” says Mr. Deshmukh. Floriculture Mr. Deshmukh maintains poly houses are essential for floriculture.  “It has been proven that use of poly film for cultivation has greater advantages against the use of shade net. The poly films absorb specific wavelengths of light to control the micro climate, acting as antifungal or antivirus agents. Insects that carry plants virus and bacteria use this UV radiation to orient themselves. Antivirus UV absorbers in this film absorb UV radiation up to 350 nm, which disorients the insects. Blocking this short wave UV radiation also prevents fungal spore formation. Other UV ranges that are diffused by the film passes through having PAR (photosynthetic active radiation). 400 nm to 700 nm is necessary do develop better plant growth. UV absorbers are hydro gels which absorb and retain large quantize of water and nutrients when dripped into the growing media.” The company prefers turnkey projects. The company provides its services all over India and also abroad. “We have tie ups with reputed export house with whom we jointly work on overseas projects,” maintains Mr. Deshmukh. There are 30 people working in the company. Future Plans Speaking about their future plans, Mr.  Deshmukh says, “We are developing new designs of poly houses which are based on the local conditions. We are developing removable top of the poly houses where rainfall is minimum. Also we are working on suitable economic design so that this technology can be made profitable even for cultivation of local vegetables.” Mr. Deshmukh is a mechanical engineer by qualification. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr.Dilip Deshmukh, Grow Tech, 11, Vishakha, Kale Park, Near Hotel Rajwada, Off Baner Marg, PUNE 411 008 Tel; +91 20 25897252  Cell phone: +91 98 222 52 989 E mail: info@growtechgreenhouses.com; growtechgreenhouses@gmail.com. Web: www.growtechgreenhouses.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Grow Tech – Construction of greenhouses Related – articles, consultants, downloads Gayatri Agrotech – greenhouses Getting Started with Greenhouse Farming Hi Tech Agro – irrigation system design and installations Satyabhama Engineers – green house You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water