Uttarakhand Information Home » Uttarakhand »Uttarakhand Information   Information Major Cities Population Railways उत्तराखंड का नक्शा Uttarakhand Uttarakhand Map Places to visit in Uttarakhand Travel to Uttarakhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Jim Corbett National Park Mussoorie Tourist Map Tourist Map of Rishikesh Cities in Uttarakhand Districts of Uttarakhand Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Uttarakhand Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Uttarakhand Forests Industrial Map Assembly Poll Uttarakhand Lok Sabha Elections History Geography Information Newspapers Hotels in Uttaranchal Nainital Hotels Srinagar Hotels Mussoorie Hotels Haridwar Hotels Dehradun Hotels Rishikesh Hotels                    more... Society Important Numbers Education Universities in Uttarakhand Government Uttarakhand Images Haridwar Location Map Uttaranchal Hills Map District Map in Hindi Pin Code       Uttarakhand Information Location of Uttarakhand, we can summarize the following points: Area - 53,484 square kilometers. Latitude - 28°4' to 31°27' North. Longitude - 77°34' to 81°2' East. Population - 70.45 lakhs. Capital of Uttarakhand Uttarakhand's capital is Dehradun, the majestic city which is also known as the 'Abode of Drona'. It goes without saying that Uttarakhand capital is the most favorite destination of the tourists who come to this place drawn by its tranquility and serenity. Districts in Uttarakhand Districts of Uttarakhand presents the panoramic view of the lesser Himalayas. In fact, the districts of Uttarakhand is an escape to the scintillating hills, majestic valleys, beautiful lakes and the marvelous hill-resorts. Districts and cities of Uttarakhand is a delight for the tourists craving for the serenity in nature. The districts and cities of Uttarakhand are really a delight to the sightseers as it offers a wide range of scope for the tourists. More Details >> State Bird of Uttarakhand The Himalayan monal is the state bird of Uttarakhand . The state bird of Uttarakhand is also deemed as the national bird of Nepal. The state bird of Uttarakhand, the Himalayan Monal, is also known as the Imperial Monal. Another name that is given to the state bird of Uttarakhand is the Imperial Pheasant. The state bird of Uttarakhand belongs to the 'Lophophorus' of the Pheasant family (Phasianidae). The state bird of Uttarakhand is famous for its white rump: but the male Himalayan Monals lack the white rump, instead they have a green rump. The Himalayan Monals, the Uttarakhand state bird, are basically large sized bird, which is about 70 centimeters in length. The weight of the Himalayan monal varies between 1980 to 2380 grams in case of males, and 1800 to 2150 grams in females. State Flower of Uttarakhand Brahma Kamal is the state flower of Uttarakhand. The state flower of Uttarakhand is also known as Sauseurea Obyallata. The state flower of Uttarakhand, the brahma kamal, belongs to the Sunflower Family. The flower grows at a high altitude of about 3,000 to 4.600 meters, and is mainly found in the high mountains. The boat-shaped, membranous flower bears two to six to sessile or short bouncy and hairless heads, bearing purple or bluish flowers. A characteristic feature of the state flower in Uttarakhand is that it blossoms in the cold air of the ice-bound arena. Uttarakhand state flower blooms due to the warm space created by the leaf-cover; and it is due to this attribute of the brahma kamal, it is considered sacred among the flowers of Uttarakhand and is also offered at the shrines of Badrinath. Another remarkable feature of Uttarakhand state flower is its smooth, toothed leaves that are 10 to 21 centimeters long. The leaves of the state flower are incurved, and possesses a veined, translucent, globose or hemispheric pale head. The diameter of the leaves of Brahma Kamal is 7.5 centimeters to 15.5 centimeters. State Tree of Uttarakhand Rhododendron is the state tree of Uttarakhand. Rhododendron, the state tree of Uttarakhand, is also known as 'Buransh'. The state tree in Uttarakhand, viz. Rhododendron is an interesting genus characterized by shrubs and, rarely, trees. The smallest species of the state tree of Uttarakhand grows up to 10 to 20 centimeters; whereas the largest species, known as R. arboreum, grows up to 50 meters in height. The leaves of the state tree of Uttarakhand are spirally arranged, and the leaves' size of the tree ranges from 1 centimeter to 2 centimeters: the exception being R. sinogrande with a leaf size of 100 centimeters. In some species of the state tree at Uttarakhand, the upper side of the leaf is covered with scales, known as lepidote, or hairs called indumentum. Uttarakhand state tree can be either evergreen or deciduous. Moreover, alpine species of the state tree is also available, which bear small flowers and have small leaves. Furthermore, the tropical species of the state tree grow as epiphytes. The tropical species of the small tree consists of the sub-genus Vireya. State Animal of Uttarakkhand The state animal of Uttarakhand is Musk Deer. This state animal of Uttarakhand is also known as 'Kasturi Mrig'. It is said that Musk Deer, the state animal of Uttarakhand, is the most primitive among the deer family. It is believed to be even more primitive than the 'true deer' belonging to the family Cervidae. The state animal of Uttarakhand belongs to the genus 'Moschus': it is only genus of family 'Moschidae'. The physiology of the Uttarakhand's state animal is said to be reminiscent of that primitive anatomy. It does not possess antlers or facial glands. It is also said to possess a single pair of teats, a gall bladdar, a caudal gland, a pair of tusk-like teeth and a musk gland. It is this musk gland that makes the Musk deer, Uttarakhand state animal, economically important to the humans. Demography Demography of Uttarakhand gives us an insight into the population distribution and growth of the state. It also indicates the rate by which temporary changes are recorded in the population due to birth, death, migration and aging. As per the census conducted in the year 2001, the demography of Uttarakhand shows the total population is 84.89 lakhs which includes 43.26 lakhs males and 41.63 lakhs females. The male to female ratio is 1000 : 962. The density of the total population of Uttarakhand is 159 people in per square kilometer. The decennial growth rate of the population in Uttarakhand is 19.34%. Airports Airports in Uttarakhand are the means of communication with the outside world. Uttarakhand has a rugged terrain, thus railways fail to be of optimum use to the tourists. Todays world is all about competition and speed and there is no other means which serves the notion of 'speed' other than the airports. The rugged and undulating topography of Uttarakhand hinder, in many instances, the smooth movement of the tourists in the different parts of the state. It has been found that the topography of Uttarakhand produces a lot of variations near the Himalayan foothills. Thus, sometimes traveling through railways becomes hazardous; at such places. Airlines seems to be more feasible and safe. Last Updated on 4 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule