World, US, China, India Economy, Investment, Finance, Credit Cards | Economy Watch Economy Watch Follow the Money Primary-links World Economy Italy's Weekend Election May Reject the Status Quo Read more Featured Articles News Desk ECONOMICS Economics Theory Economic Systems Economists Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Inflation Interest Rates Unemployment Political Economy FEATURED ECONOMIES World US China Japan Germany France UK Brazil Russia Italy India Canada Australia Spain Mexico South Korea Indonesia Nigeria Pakistan Singapore South Africa ECONOMIC STATISTICS DATABASE Country Economic Statistics Economic Indicators Price Index Indicators All Regions & Countries Industry Running a Business not the Same as Running a Country Read more Featured Analysis News Desk INDUSTRIES Aerospace Industry Agriculture Automobile Industry Biotechnology Industry Chemical Industry Construction Industry FMCG Industry Food Industry Hospitality Industry IT Industry Nanotechnology Industry Oil & Gas Industry Pharmaceutical Industry Renewable Energy Industry Steel Industry Tourism Industry INDUSTRY RESOURCES Industrial Policy Trade Organisations International Organisations BUSINESS TODAY Business Leaders Business Finance Business Schools Business Etiquette Marketing Mergers & Acquisitions Investing A Penny for your Thoughts on the Pound Read more Featured Articles News Desk COMPANIES & STOCKS Fortune 500 Companies Forbes 2000 Companies Major Companies Stock Exchanges World Stock Markets FUNDS Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) Mutual Funds Pension Funds CURRENCIES & COMMODITIES Commodity Markets Commodity Trading Foreign Exchange Rates Forex Trading Investing in Commodities Money Market BONDS Types of Bonds Bond Markets Corporate Bonds Government Bonds Municipal Bonds Savings Bonds OTHER ASSET CLASSES Fixed Income Futures Gold Investing Individual Savings Account (ISA) Options Private Equity Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) Venture Capital INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Capital Investment Investment Planning Modern Portfolio Theory Portfolio Analysis Wealth Management Personal Finance What is Your Sovereign Credit Rating? Read more Featured Analysis News Desk CREDIT CARD TOOLS & RESOURCES Credit Card Companies Credit Card Application Guide Credit Card Comparison Credit Card Guide Credit Card Payment Online Amex Credit Cards Mastercard Credit Cards Visa Credit Cards INTERNATIONAL CREDIT CARDS Australia Credit Cards Canada Credit Cards India Credit Cards Malaysia Credit Cards Singapore Credit Cards UK Credit Cards US Credit Cards INTERNATIONAL BANKS Australia Banks Canada Banks India Banks Malaysia Banks Singapore Banks UK Banks US Banks BANKING Central Banks Certificates of Deposit (CDs) Commercial Banks Investment Banking Online Banking Personal Banking INSURANCE Accident Insurance Automobile Insurance Dental Insurance Fire Insurance General Insurance Health Insurance Home Insurance Life Insurance Sports Insurance Structured Settlements Travel Insurance Insurance Companies Insurance By Country LOANS & MORTGAGES Loans By Category Mortgages By Country Statistics Search Political Economy Italy's Weekend Election May Reject the Status Quo There is a specter haunting Europe. A specter that rejects the status quo.  Last weekend, Spain's ruling PP lost majorities in all key municipalities and regional governments.  The opposition itself is fragmented, and nine of the ten major municipalities will be run by what appears to be loose coalitions. One wag said that it was as if Spain got Italian political results with the Italians to manage it.  Currency A Penny for your Thoughts on the Pound Indian Economy India PM Modi's Reforms are Gaining Traction, but the Road is Long Global Challenges Can Jokowi's Government Offer Hope for Indonesia's Ethnic Minorities? Europe Economy Greater Integration Through Crisis Featured Articles Markets Chinese Equities Turn Lower and the Reasons Rush In There are two main talking points today.  The first is the dramatic break of the seven-day rally in Chinese stocks.  It ended today with a 6.5% slide in the Shanghai Composite and a 5.5% drop in Shenzhen.  The drop in Shanghai is the second largest daily decline this year, while Shenzhen's loss is the third largest in the past five years.  Shanghai shares stop trading after losing 10% intraday drop.  Reports suggest that more than a quarter of the 1083 hit the circuit breaker today.  Read more Markets Short-term Memory Loss is Dangerous in the Financial Markets Something happens between the bubbles, bailouts, boom and bust cycles that we can’t afford to ignore, and it’s happening right now in the US and Europe. It is a kind of collective amnesia that lulls investors into forgetting exactly what and who caused the last financial crisis. Read more International Forex Is the Dollar Gaining or the Yen Losing? The US dollar had been in a broad trading range against the yen since last December. The marginal new high seen in March to about JPY122 proved to be a false break, and the dollar returned to its well-worn ranges. After testing the lower end of an even narrower range around near JPY119 on May 14, the greenback has rallied about 4% to approach JPY123.80 earlier today. This is the highest level the dollar has reached against the yen since June 2007 (~JPY124.15), which itself was the highest since the end of 2002 (JPY125.70). Read more Debt is the fatal disease of republics, the first thing and the mightiest to undermine governments and corrupt the people. Wendell Philips He who controls the money supply of a nation controls the nation. James A. Garfield The moment that government appears at market, the principles of the market will be subverted. Edmund Burke US Economy The United States of America (US or USA) is the largest and most important economy in the world. In 2012, the US economy was responsible for 18.87 percent of the world’s total GDP (PPP) or US$15.684 trillion. Read more China Economy China is the 2nd largest economy in the world according to both GDP (current prices, US dollars) and GDP (PPP). In 2012, China’s GDP (current prices, US dollars) was US$8.227 trillion and its GDP (PPP) was US$12.405 trillion. Read more Canada Economy Canada is the 9th largest economy in the world based on GDP (current prices, US dollars) and the 14th largest based on GDP (PPP). Since the 2008 global financial crisis, the Canadian economy has re-emerged as one of the strongest advanced economies in the world. In 2010, Canada’s GDP growth (constant prices, national currency) stood at 3.071 percent – the highest it had been since 2004. Read more Oman Economy Oman is a country in the Middle East whose population as of 2010 stands at 2.981 Million. Unlike it’s neighbours, Oman doesn’t have immense oil resources. Read more Japan Economy Japan is the 3rd largest economy in the world behind the US and China. In 2010, Japan's GDP (Current Prices, US dollars) was US$5.458 trillion and its GDP (PPP) was US$4.309 trillion. Read more Saudi Arabia Economy Saudi Arabia is the world’s largest exporter of petroleum and is an important member of the OPEC. Saudi Arabia’s economy is largely oil-based, with strong government controls on most economic activities. Read more News Desk Asia Brief: Fair Yuan, Korean Outlook, Singapore Surge Singapore Economy Surpasses Expectations in the First Quarter Peeking Behind the Curtain of the Cuban Economy South African Economy Underwhelms in the First Quarter Could India be the New Economy to Watch? Study Links Reduction in Alcohol-Related Car Crashes and US Economic Growth More Newsletter Signup We respect your privacy Contributors               Head of Global Currency Strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. Marc Chandler , EconomyWatch Contributor Italy's Weekend Election May Reject the Status Quo A Penny for your Thoughts on the Pound Greater Integration Through Crisis View all contributors An English journalist who, when he's not exploring the social consequences of political actions, likes to write about cricket for some light relief. David Smith , Investigative Journalist British Labour Party Faces Identity Crisis in Face of Multiple Threats Nepalese Government ‘not capable of handling the crisis’ Undercover Investigators Risk Lives to Expose Illegal Wildlife Syndicates View all contributors Chancellor of the Exchequer of the United Kingdom from 1992 to 2007. Prime Minister of the UK between 2007 and 2010. Inaugural 'Distinguished Leader in Residence' at New York University. Advisor at World Economic Forum Gordon Brown , EconomyWatch Contributor The G-20 Must Get Its Act Together: Gordon Brown What Will Make the Great Financial Crisis Look Like Child's Play? The Next One: Gordon Brown View all contributors Analysis of economics, politics and public policy in East Asia and the Pacific. East Asia Forum , EconomyWatch Contributor India PM Modi's Reforms are Gaining Traction, but the Road is Long Can Jokowi's Government Offer Hope for Indonesia's Ethnic Minorities? Myanmar Will Likely Hold an Election, but Can it Have a Meaningful Outcome? View all contributors Dr Steinbock is an internationally recognized expert of the multipolar world. He focuses on international business, international relations, investment and risk among all major advanced economies and large emerging economies. In addition to advisory activities (www.differencegroup.net), he is affiliated with India China and Amer