Welcome to DGCI&S JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics Ministry of Commerce and industry, Govt. of India Home FAQ Contact Us Home Organization Profile History Foreign Trade Statistics Ancillary Statistics Indian Trade Journal Commercial Intelligence Commercial Library Press Notes Data Summary Trade Data Priced Detail Data Price Information System Notice Publications Registration Trade Directory Feedback Contact Us RTI FAQ Sitemap Data Dissemination Policy Data Privacy Policy Dynamic Data Revision Policy Quick Estimate Commercial Library Services Recruitment Rules Events / Announcements Media Gallery Highlights Latest 24-months Export final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website Latest 24-months Import final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website DGCIS has introduced 168 new commodity groups for publication of principal commodity level foreign trade data Are you interested in doing business with the Government of India Organizations? Click Here Visit the Related sites RFD CITIZEN'S CHARTER Grievance Redressal This site has been visited 995701 times on Saturday, May, 30, 2015 PUBLIC GRIEVANCES Home Downloads and Plug-ins Downloads and Plug-ins The information provided by this Web site is available in various file formats, such as Portable Document Format (PDF), Word, Excel and PowerPoint. To view the information properly, your browser need to have the required plug-ins or software. For example, the Adobe Flash software is required to view the Flash files. In case your system does not have this software, you can download it from the Internet for free. The table lists the required plug-ins needed to view the information in various file formats. Note:  To view Microsoft Office 2007 files, install the Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack along with the respective viewer. Plug-in for alternate document types Document Type Plug-in for Download Portable Document Format (PDF) files Adobe Acrobat Reader (External website that opens in a new window) Convert a PDF file online into HTML or text format (External website that opens in a new window) Word files Word Viewer (in any version till 2003) - External website that opens in a new window. Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Word (for 2007 version) - External website that opens in a new window Excel files Excel Viewer 2003 (in any version till 2003) - External website that opens in a new window . Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Excel (for 2007 version) - External website that opens in a new window PowerPoint presentations PowerPoint Viewer 2003 (in any version till 2003) - External website that opens in a new window . Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for PowerPoint (for 2007 version) - External website that opens in a new window Flash content Adobe Flash Player (External website that opens in a new window) Related Sites :: Contact Us :: Feedback :: Sitemap Source : Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Last Updated on 19-05-2015 Home Downloads & Plug-ins Help Accessibility Statement Accessibility Options Privacy Policy Hyperlinking Policy Copyright Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Contents of this website is published and managed by DGCI&S , Government of India. For any queries regarding this website please contact Web Master. © Copyright reserved by Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 565, Anandapur, Ward No. 108,Sector - 1 , Plot No. 22, ECADP, Kolkata - 700107