Agriquest | Pesticides Home Seeds Agri Inputs Agriculture Horticulture Sericulture Animal Husbandary Organic Farming Info Agri Jobs Blog Contact Agriquest Language Agri Inputs Fertilizers Fertilizers Suppliers Crop deficiency symptoms and Management Pesticides Pesticides Suppliers Pests -Symptoms and Management Diseases - Symptoms and Management Bio Control of Pests and Diseases Seeds Seed Suppliers Sponsored Link Pesticides   What Is A Pesticide? A pesticide is a substance, mixture or organism made or used for destroying any pest. As well as insects, a pesticide may be used for eliminating weeds or moulds, preserving woods and regulating plant growth. A pesticide is designed to destroy organisms that you don't, and avoid harming those that you do want. So a weedkiller will selectively kill unwanted plants whilst leaving the crop unharmed. Pesticides become an issue when they affect food, wildlife, the environment and the safety of people who come into contact with them. What makes their use acceptable is when they only harm unwanted pests, weeds and diseases, are used in low doses and increase crop yields. These are some common types of pesticides, and their purposes: Algicides Control/kills algae Antimicrobials Kills microorganisms (such as bacteria and viruses). Attractants Attractants are traps containing a pesticide and food to lure insects or rodents inside. However, food is not a pesticide even though it certainly attracts pests... Disinfectants and sanitizers Kills disease-producing microorganisms Fumigants Produce gas or vapor intended to destroy pests in the house or in the ground. Fungicides Kill fungi (including blights, mildews, molds, and rusts). Herbicides Kill weeds. Insecticides Kill insects and other arthropods. Miticides /Acaricides Kill mites that feed on plants and animals. Microbial pesticides Microorganisms that kill or inhibit pests, including insects or other microorganisms.  Sometimes microorganisms get rid of pests simply by growing larger in numbers, using up the pests' food supply, and invading the pests' environment. Molluscicides Kill snails and slugs. Nematicides Kill nematodes (microscopic, worm-like organisms that feed on plant roots). Pheromones Biochemicals used to disrupt the mating behavior of insects. Repellents Repel pests, including insects (such as mosquitoes) and birds. Rodenticides Control mice and other rodents.   Sponsored Link Powered by Sri Avaneesh Software .