TANHODA | Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home About Us TANHODA TANHODA Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency has been registered as a Society under Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975. The Governing Council of the Society consists of the Chairman, Managing Director, and six official members. TANHODA has been conceived as a "Special Purpose Vehicle" for the purpose of implementing schemes like National Horticulture Mission, Micro Irrigation, National Bamboo Mission and National Mission on Medicinal plants. The State Horticulture Farms also function under the control of TANHODA. The following schemes are being implemented through TANHODA S.No Name of the Scheme Financial Assistance GOI Share GOTN Share 1 National Horticulture Mission 85% 15% 2 Micro – Irrigation Scheme (SF/MF) Other farmers 50% 40% 50% 35% 3 National Bamboo Mission 100% -- 4 National Mission on Medicinal Plants 100% -- 5 Tamil Nadu – IAMWARM ---- 100% 6 State Horticulture Farms -- 100%   Schemes shared between State and Centre 1. National Horticulture Mission: The scheme is implemented in 22 districts viz, Ariyalur, Coimbatore, Erode, Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Cuddalore, Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Trichy, Tirunelveli, Sivagangai, Thiruppur, Ramanathapuram. Nilgiris, Perambalur, Vellore, Pudukottai, Villupuram, Kanyakumari and Thanjavur. The Scheme covers the crops viz Mango, Aonla, Banana, Cashew, Cocoa, Chillies, Turmeric, aromatic plants and flowers which are promoted through a cluster approach. The scheme is implemented through District Mission Committees headed by the District Collectors and Joint Director / Deputy Director of Horticulture of the district is the member Secretary of the committee. 2.Micro Irrigation Scheme With increasing demand on water from various sectors, the availability of water is under severe stress. Agriculture sector is the largest user of water. While irrigation projects (Major and medium) have contributed to the development of water resources, conventional methods of irrigation are inefficient and lead to wastage of water. It has been recognized that the use of modern irrigation methods like drip and sprinkler irrigation are the ways for the efficient use of surface as well as ground water resources.This scheme is now implemented by providing 100% subsidy for small/marginal farmers and 75% subsidy for other category farmers. 3. Bamboo Mission in Tamil Nadu Bamboos are a fast growing species. Bamboo is a much preferred material because of its qualities and cheaper cost, in sectors like pulp wood industries, housing, arts, crafts etc. Bamboo is estimated to have about 1500 uses. The scheme is being implemented through departments of Horticulture, Agriculture, Forest and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Tamil Nadu Horticultural Development Agency (TANHODA) is the nodal agency for National Bamboo Mission Scheme. In Tamil Nadu, Bamboo is cultivated in an extent of 1000 ha in non forest area. Externally Aided Project 4. IAMWARM PROJECT The objective of the scheme is to bring Crop Diversification and Area Expansion with high income-generating horticultural crops, in 63 river sub basins of Tamil Nadu.The project started implementation during the year 2007 – 08, as 1st Phase in 9 sub-basins and extended in 2008 – 09 as II phase in 16 sub basins, and as III phase in 30 sub basins during 2009-10 and in 5 sub basins in 2011-12 as phase IV and final phase as phase IV-2 in one sub basin. Totally 61 sub basins have been covered till date Besides providing planting materials, inputs development of irrigation infrastructure like Drip & Sprinklers by AED & Agriculture Marketing facilities, etc will be made available to the farmers by convergence with line-departments. 5. State Horticulture Farms There are 57 State Horticulture Farms including 7 parks and gardens. Pedigree planting materials are being produced from these State Horticulture Farms and distributed to the horticultural crop cultivating farmers under various schemes. They also serve as “Model Demonstration Farm” to the local growers.The Botanical Garden and Parks serve as “Study Centers” for the students and attract many tourists.About 175 lakh numbers of planting materials are produced in the farms every year. TANHODA Visitor Counter: 843625 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015