Public Executive Apartment | HLH Group Ltd Home Company Company Profile History Board of Directors Management Team Events Photo Gallery SGX Announcement Local Overview Residential Properties Commercial Properties Industrial Properties Overseas Overview Public Executive Apartment Public Prime Apartment Announcements Agriculture Overview Land Sales & Development Crop Sales Contact Contact Us Feedback Toggle navigation Learn More About Us Home Company Company Profile History Board of Directors Management Team Events Photo Gallery SGX Announcement Local Overview Residential Properties Commercial Properties Industrial Properties Overseas Overview Public Executive Apartment Public Prime Apartment Announcements Agriculture Overview Land Sales & Development Crop Sales Contact Contact Us Feedback Public Executive Apartment Q&A for the Upcoming Public Executive Apartment Project in Sihanoukville! Question : Why did we choose Cambodia for this Project? Answer : With Cambodia continuing to enjoy steady GDP growth, and in turn leading to more jobs creation and better living standard, the Group plans to focus in the development of public executive apartment for the locals, especially the young educated executives and entrepreneurs who yearn to have their own property. Question : Where will HLH launch its 1st Public Executive Apartment? Answer : HLH will be launching its 1st Public Executive Apartment in Sihanoukville. The Land is a freehold land located at Phum 1, Sangkat No 3, Khan Mitapheap, Preah Sihanouk Province, Kingdom of Cambodia, which HLH plans to developed Cambodia’s 1st Public Executive Apartment and Shop Houses. The land is directly behind independence beach and facing the sea and walking distance to Soka Beach resort. Question : When will HLH launch its 1st Public Executive Apartment? Answer : End of May 2015, if you are interested in our public executive apartments and would like to be among the early birds to get the queue numbers, please act fast and click here to contact us! We will be updating the website with more information soon. Please stay tuned! In the meantime, you may want to read our announcements here . COMPANY Company Profile History Board of Directors Management Team Events Photo Gallery SGX Announcement LOCAL Overview RESIDENTIAL D'Fresco D'Almira D'Castilia D'Ecosia COMMERCIAL D'Lithium D'Kranji Farm Resort INDUSTRIAL D'Centennial Clementi Factory OVERSEAS Overview Public Executive Apartment Public Prime Apartment Announcements AGRICULTURE Overview Land Sales & Development Crop Sales CONTACT Contact Us Feedback Locate Us 10 Neo Tiew Lane 2 #01-05 Singapore 718813 Contact Us Tel : (65) 6861 0330 Fax : (65) 6861 7746 Email : general@hlh.com.sg : Like us on Facebook &copy 2015 HLH Group Limited. All rights reserved. &copy 2015 HLH Group Limited. All rights reserved.