Abdul Kadhar discusses about Bio Fertilizers and other farming inputs - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Abdul Kadhar discusses about Bio Fertilizers and other farming inputs Home Abdul Kadhar discusses about Bio Fertilizers and other farming inputs Webinar-Online Education Forum at www.agricultureinformation.com Manufacturer and supplier of bio fertilizers and other farming inputs SAFS Organic Enterprises, founded by Mr. Abdul Khader at Puducherry offers a wide range of industry proven bio fertilizers, biocides, bio pesticides, bio fungicide, bio insecticides and bio growth promoter products for agricultural purposes and home gardens. All products are eco-friendly and support environment. These are manufactured and quality tested with RomVijay Biotech, Puducherry under different geographical conditions. Also, these bio agriculture inputs are compatible with latest technology in agricultural industry. Products are certified by Indian Society for Certification of Organic Products (ISCOP). Mr. Abdul Kadhar, Founder and Chief Operating Officer is science graduate, holds diploma in electrical electronics and masters in business management. The excerpts: What are components presents in bio-fertilizer? Bio fertilizer is natural nutrients for the soil. It is a substance which contains living microorganisms which, when applied to seed, plant surfaces, or soil, colonizes the rhizosphere or the interior of the plant and promotes growth by increasing the supply or availability of primary nutrients to the host plant. How does bio fertilizer enrich the soil? Bio-fertilizers add nutrients through the natural processes of nitrogen fixation, solubilizing phosphorus, and stimulating plant growth through the synthesis of growth-promoting substances. Bio-fertilizers can be expected to reduce the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides. The microorganisms in bio-fertilizers restore the soil’s natural nutrient cycle and build soil organic matter. What are the advantages of using Biofertilizer? With the use of bio-fertilizers, healthy plants can be grown, while enhancing the sustainability and the health of the soil. Since they play several roles, a preferred scientific term for such beneficial bacteria is “plant-growth promoting rhizobacteria” (PGPR). Therefore, they are extremely advantageous in enriching soil fertility and fulfilling plant nutrient requirements by supplying the organic nutrients through microorganism and their byproducts. Hence, bio-fertilizers do not contain any chemicals which are harmful to the living soil. What is vermicompost? Vermicompost has naturally available nitrogen so chemical fertilizer cost is reduced. Our products are available in Cuddalore, Pondicherry and we are trying to expand to Tamil Nadu. Our Mother company is run by a group of Doctors. Can we switch from chemical fertilizer to organic fertilizer? When switching to organic or bio fertilizer from chemical it is advisable to go for gradual conversion over minimum period of three years. Are SAFS products certified? All SAFS products are certified and approved by Central Government. These are available in powder and liquid formulations. What are the tests to be carried on soil? Micronutrients and comprehensive testing is used. NDK Component is also tested. Are your products suitable for drip irrigation? Yes they are water soluble and can be used in drip irrigation. How long do plants take to grow when we switch from chemical to organic fertilizer? It totally depends on soil and adaptability. Organic matter is necessary, especially for newly planted trees. When bio-fertilizer is used then do not combine pesticide. Use it and leave a gap of 7 days before next use of bio-fertilizer. It has to be used gradually so the nutrients for plants are used as per requirement. What is the difference between Bio fertilizers and growth promoters? Bio Fertilizers are basic inoculate products for the plants required N P K to fix / solubilise naturally or biologically using bacteria’s. Growth regulators are the products to enable those bacteria’s to grow more in the soil to get a regulated growth of the plants. Bio Fertilizers: Azospirillum, Phosphobacterium, potash Solubiliser, Silica Solubiliser and Zinc Solubiliser. Growth Regulators: Bio Boost hum (Treated HA). Vermi Compost and Farmyard Manure. We observe, in rural areas in summer blindly tons of lake bed mud will be dumped to all commercial gardens as well as to the open agricultural lands to enrich (believing and without any getting tested the lake bed mud). How much it is correct? Lake Sediment Mud will have good organic matter level. Adding it into irrigation soil is a good Idea. Considering the present situation of Impurity Lake due to many aspects, it is good to test this mud in a lab before we apply into irrigation soil to protect from hazardous metals like lead or mercury. Is it good to add any plant growth promoters to the Bio-slurry stored tanks itself or it should be added only at the time of application to the plant or fields? You can use compost enhancer product into slurry. Better to use Growth regulator during the application and not on the slurry. How to make use of any bio-inoculate without use of a culture? Use Vermi compost which is a bio inoculate without Culture. Complete presentation available at – http://bit.ly/12oQaVY Our Correspondent SAFS Organic Enterprises, No. 169, Vazhudavur Main Road, Kaundanpalayam,Puducherry- 605 009. Phone : 0413 – 2271915.Mobile: 9944022345 email: lakshmanan.safsorg@gmail.com Website:www.safsorganic.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Abdul Kadhar discusses about Bio Fertilizers and other farming inputs Related – articles, consultants, downloads Bharath Agro Sales Corporation – Organic farming inputs Garden Nutrient Prashant Chaturvedi discusses about Aloe Vera Plantations Why organic farming has not yet taken off? You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water