Modern Dairy Farming Hand Book & Project Report AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Project Reports Modern Dairy Farming Hand Book & Project Report Page 1 of 26 1 2 3 11 ... Last Jump to page: Results 1 to 10 of 259 Thread: Modern Dairy Farming Hand Book & Project Report LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… July 24th, 2012 #1 agri2win Join Date May 2012 Posts 129 Modern Dairy Farming Hand Book & Project Report Info Hand Book & Financial Project report on Modern Dairy Farming Prepared on 2014 Data (20 Cattles) Project value for 20 Cattles Investment Rs 16 to 17 Lakh (Even can start with 5 Lakh) 2nd Year Profit Minimum Rs 18 Lakh Break Even Point Below 2 Year Total Profit Minimum Rs 10.00 Lakh per year Customization: Customized based on investment and also size of Dairy farm. Useful to new and existing farm owners to increase your profit. Language: Simple English, Step by Step Procedure with slide presentation. Topics covered in Info Hand Book & Project Report Introduction to Dairy Farming Market Survey Advantages of Dairy Farming Types of Breed Dairy and Breed selection Animal Selection steps with picture Cattle selection score card Land Requirement Land selection parameters About Modern Israel Loose house farm Farm shed layout and material details Equipment details with local equipment seller Age Detection steps with picture Vaccination Schedule Reproduction cycle with picture Care of new born calves De-corning, De-worming and Tagging Different Types of Feeds Feeding Ratio based on Age and Litre of milking Home made Concentrate feed making Green Fodder cultivation step by step details Dry fodder preparing method Calf Replacer Silage making steps with picture Feed sellers (Even we teach making concentrate feed at home) Farm cleaning and Normal Practice in Farm Workers daily working schedule in farm Record Maintenance for extra profit Insurance premium and Company details Present farms list for free visit Dairy Farm Training centers Nabard Contact Details Economic Report Includes the following Building cost Equipment cost Cattle cost Insurance cost Veterinary cost Green/Dry Fodder cost Concentrate Feed cost Salary and Maintenance Total Project Cost Total Turnover Total Profit Break even point and other economic parameters EMI and Interest repayment schedule Finance and subsidy options Stock value and depreciation Cash flow and financial projection for 5 years Hand Book & Project report cost : Rs 1000 (No Discount) Delivery mode/Time: Email and in 24 to 48 hours Project Report with us: Stall Fed Goat Farming | Teak, Agar & other trees Plantation | Banana Cultivation | UHD Mango Farm | ETC Last edited by agri2win; January 28th, 2014 at 08:24 AM . Reply With Quote July 25th, 2012 #2 roman_s Join Date Jul 2012 Posts 5 Originally Posted by agri2win Info Hand Book & Financial Project report on Modern Dairy Farming Prepared on June 2012 Data (20 Cattles) Project value for 20 Cattles Investment Rs 16 to 17 Lakh (Even can start with 5 Lakh) 2nd Year Profit Minimum Rs 18 Lakh Break Even Point Below 2 Year Total Profit Minimum Rs 10.00 Lakh per year Customization: Customized based on investment and also size of Dairy farm. Useful to new and existing farm owners to increase your profit. Language: Simple English, Step by Step Procedure with slide presentation. Topics covered in Info Hand Book & Project Report Introduction to Dairy Farming Market Survey Advantages of Dairy Farming Types of Breed Dairy and Breed selection Animal Selection steps with picture Cattle selection score card Land Requirement Land selection parameters About Modern Israel Loose house farm Farm shed layout and material details Equipment details with local equipment seller Age Detection steps with picture Vaccination Schedule Reproduction cycle with picture Care of new born calves De-corning, De-worming and Tagging Different Types of Feeds Feeding Ratio based on Age and Litre of milking Home made Concentrate feed making Green Fodder cultivation step by step details Dry fodder preparing method Calf Replacer Silage making steps with picture Feed sellers (Even we teach making concentrate feed at home) Farm cleaning and Normal Practice in Farm Workers daily working schedule in farm Record Maintenance for extra profit Insurance premium and Company details Present farms list for free visit Dairy Farm Training centers Nabard Contact Details Economic Report Includes the following Building cost Equipment cost Cattle cost Insurance cost Veterinary cost Green/Dry Fodder cost Concentrate Feed cost Salary and Maintenance Total Project Cost Total Turnover Total Profit Break even point and other economic parameters EMI and Interest repayment schedule Finance and subsidy options Stock value and depreciation Cash flow and financial projection for 5 years Hand Book & Project report cost : Rs 1000 (No Discount) Delivery mode/Time: Email and in 24 to 48 hours Project Report with us: Stall Fed Goat Farming | Teak, Agar & other trees Plantation | Banana Cultivation | UHD Mango Farm | ETC Hi, I would like to get the project report please let me the procedure. Regards Swamy Reply With Quote July 26th, 2012 #3 shivayazhi Join Date Jun 2010 Posts 66 Hi am interested to get the details its advance hi tec dairy form project.. like auto milk and milk bar-lour, each cattle wise daily monitoring, fat details each cattle wise ....... regards Last edited by moderator A; July 26th, 2012 at 11:02 AM . Reason: only business members are allowed to post contact info. please click My Account to upgrade Reply With Quote July 26th, 2012 #4 hsbk Join Date Jul 2012 Posts 2 pls tell me how to contact u for this below report? Hand Book & Project report cost : Rs 1000 (No Discount) Delivery mode/Time: Email and in 24 to 48 hours Project Report with us: Stall Fed Goat Farming | Teak, Agar & other trees Plantation | Banana Cultivation | UHD Mango Farm | ETC [/QUOTE] Reply With Quote July 31st, 2012 #5 xaviers Join Date Jul 2012 Posts 1 Request project report Sir,i want project report.Pl contact my mobile number or message ur number,then i will contact u. Thank u. Originally Posted by agri2win Info Hand Book & Financial Project report on Modern Dairy Farming Prepared on June 2012 Data (20 Cattles) Sir,I want the project report.Please contact my mobile number 9444077900. or pl message your no,i will contact you. Thank u. Project value for 20 Cattles Investment Rs 16 to 17 Lakh (Even can start with 5 Lakh) 2nd Year Profit Minimum Rs 18 Lakh Break Even Point Below 2 Year Total Profit Minimum Rs 10.00 Lakh per year Customization: Customized based on investment and also size of Dairy farm. Useful to new and existing farm owners to increase your profit. Language: Simple English, Step by Step Procedure with slide presentation. Topics covered in Info Hand Book & Project Report Introduction to Dairy Farming Market Survey Advantages of Dairy Farming Types of Breed Dairy and Breed selection Animal Selection steps with picture Cattle selection score card Land Requirement Land selection parameters About Modern Israel Loose house farm Farm shed layout and material details Equipment details with local equipment seller Age Detection steps with picture Vaccination Schedule Reproduction cycle with picture Care of new born calves De-corning, De-worming and Tagging Different Types of Feeds Feeding Ratio based on Age and Litre of milking Home made Concentrate feed making Green Fodder cultivation step by step details Dry fodder preparing method Calf Replacer Silage making steps with picture Feed sellers (Even we teach making concentrate feed at home) Farm cleaning and Normal Practice in Farm Workers daily working schedule in farm Record Maintenance for extra profit Insurance premium and Company details Present farms list for free visit Dairy Farm Training centers Nabard Contact Details Economic Report Includes the following Building cost Equipment cost Cattle cost Insurance cost Veterinary cost Green/Dry Fodder cost Concentrate Feed cost Salary and Maintenance Total Project Cost Total Turnover Total Profit Break even point and other economic parameters EMI and Interest repayment schedule Finance and subsidy options Stock value and depreciation Cash flow and financial projection for 5 years Hand Book & Project report cost : Rs 1000 (No Discount) Delivery mode/Time: Email and in 24 to 48 hours Project Report with us: Stall Fed Goat Farming | Teak, Agar & other trees Plantation | Banana Cultivation | UHD Mango Farm | ETC Last edited by moderator A; July 31st, 2012 at 10:41 AM . Reason: only business members are allowed to post contact info. please click My Account to upgrade Reply With Quote August 19th, 2012 #6 gsr2 Join Date Aug 2012 Posts 3 new dairy farm Originally Posted by agri2win We offer best info on Goat/Sheep/Dairy Farming Business Project Report and Hand book with latest data. Also we offer Hi-Tech Green House Gerbera/Capsicum Cultivation & High Density Banana & Mango Cultivation Project report with technical details. hi i would like to start the new dairy farm with 30-50 buffallos in a village. i would like to know the details.. get me ur contact details Reply With Quote August 22nd, 2012 #7 shreesaiagro Business Member Join Date Feb 2012 Posts 23 Dairy farm Dear please send me how to i will give you payment and this project report is able to bank loan as per nabard bank thanks Regards hanumant Hinge Shree sai agro +918888811124 Reply With Quote August 23rd, 2012 #8 beeyem Join Date Aug 2012 Posts 1 Originally Posted by agri2win Info Hand Book & Financial Project report on Modern Dairy Farming Prepared on June 2012 Data (20 Cattles) Project value for 20 Cattles Investment Rs 16 to 17 Lakh (Even can start with 5 Lakh) 2nd Year Profit Minimum Rs 18 Lakh Break Even Point Below 2 Year Total Profit Minimum Rs 10.00 Lakh per year Customization: Customized based on investment and also size of Dairy farm. Useful to new and existing farm owners to increase your profit. Language: Simple English, Step by Step Procedure with slide presentation. Topics covered in Info Hand Book & Project Report Introduction to Dairy Farming Market Survey Advantages of Dairy Farming Types of Breed Dairy and Breed selection Animal Selection steps with picture Cattle selection score card Land Requirement Land selection parameters About Modern Israel Loose house farm Farm shed layout and material details Equipment details with local equipment seller Age Detection steps with picture Vaccination Schedule Reproduction cycle with picture Care of new born calves De-corning, De-worming and Tagging Different Types of Feeds Feeding Ratio based on Age and Litre of milking Home made Concentrate feed making Green Fodder cultivation step by step details Dry fodder preparing method Calf Replacer Silage making steps with picture Feed sellers (Even we teach making concentrate feed at home) Farm cleaning and Normal Practice in Farm Workers daily working schedule in farm Record Maintenance for extra profit Insurance premium and Company details Present farms list for free visit Dairy Farm Training centers Nabard Contact Details Economic Report Includes the following Building cost Equipment cost Cattle cost Insurance cost Veterinary cost Green/Dry Fodder cost Concentrate Feed cost Salary and Maintenance Total Project Cost Total Turnover Total Profit Break even point and other economic parameters EMI and Interest repayment schedule Finance and subsidy options Stock value and depreciation Cash flow and financial projection for 5 years Hand Book & Project report cost : Rs 1000 (No Discount) Delivery mode/Time: Email and in 24 to 48 hours Project Report with us: Stall Fed Goat Farming | Teak, Agar & other trees Plantation | Banana Cultivation | UHD Mango Farm | ETC Sir I am from kerala. i am interested in the new projecr of diary farming. i wish to start that in coming months. how can i get the project and how can i pay for it Reply With Quote August 26th, 2012 #9 kavundan Join Date Jul 2012 Posts 53 Blog Entries 6 land required Hi Sir. What is area of land required for 20 cattle? The investment you said of Rs 16 lakhs is including land or without land? Thanks for your reply in advance Regards Sebastian peter Originally Posted by agri2win Info Hand Book & Financial Project report on Modern Dairy Farming Prepared on June 2012 Data (20 Cattles) Project value for 20 Cattles Investment Rs 16 to 17 Lakh (Even can start with 5 Lakh) 2nd Year Profit Minimum Rs 18 Lakh Break Even Point Below 2 Year Total Profit Minimum Rs 10.00 Lakh per year Customizat