Next Generation Farmers - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Next Generation Farmers Home Next Generation Farmers We profile five families where the next generation joins farming after education and jobs in cities. They talk about their ideas, challenges, dreams and achievements. The future of our farming, villages, rural values and why even this country’s very character depends on them. Vikram V Prasad, R Raj Kumar, Sameer Deshpande, Yuvrajsinh Jadeja and Anil Rana are the five men who created success stories through agriculture. Policy makers, scientists and politicians stop talking and listen now. Vikram V Prasad Managing Partner – Agrone Vikram V Prasad is an engineer by profession. After having studied MS from USA, he started working with Tempel Steel Company. He returned back to India for a project in Chennai with a desire to join his ancestral farm at Vettaikaranpudur. While in Chennai, he started frequenting his farm. In 2011, he resigned his job and established his company Agrone in India. Agrone is a company that exports eco-friendly products. Since Vikram’s ancestral farm, Ramu Farms, is an integrated coconut and cocoa farm, he allied his company to the same field. The company currently exports coco peat to USA. Speaking of his farm, he says, “The farm was established, say 90 years back. Our family is an agrarian family. I had a great great grandma who cleared all forests during the British era to convert it into farmland”. The farm has 45 acres of coconut and 40 acres cocoa farming. The customers of the farm for cocoa include Cadbury, Lotus, Campco and Morde whereas coconut is sold in India to the traders. “We are facing price exploitation from these middlemen. To solve this issue, I am working on slowly establishing Agrone in the agri market. We will definitely want to get into a coop type. I read an article about coop type farming in USA. The farmer takes a fair share and the marketing company charges a small transaction amount. I want to try that here. It is a win-win-win situation for the farmer-trader-buyer,” Mr. Vikram adds. With Mr. Vikram joining Ramu farms, there has been considerable change in the farm. Better equipment and better seeds are now used. Inter-cropping has been an added advantage. Rajkumar R Works in MNC – Passion in Farming R Rajkumar, hailing from a traditional farming community, decided to stick to his agricultural roots while establishing a career in an MNC . His family owns around 60 acres of agricultural land in Theni, Tamil Nadu. His farm grows coconuts, maize and horticultural crops. A mechanical engineer by profession, he holds 13 years of experience in dealing with farm machinery. He works with an MNC in Chennai in the farm equipment division selling farm equipment to countries like Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Burma, Thailand, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Malawi and more. Despite travelling to various countries as part of his job, he is still involved with the development of his farm. The farm grows crops such as pomegranate, sapota, guava, maize and sugarcane. Simple technologies such as drip irrigation, auto starters for motors are adopted. Rajkumar transitioned his farm from the one that ploughed with sickles and bulls to one that is now well-versed with modern technology. Rajkumar blends his passion and profession well to give his best in both. Sameer A. Sirdeshpande – Started off as the first grape farm in Northern Karnataka by his grandfather is now home to various crops such as Maize, Sapota, Aonla, Jamun, Banana, Sunflower, and much more…. Another success story of a young man choosing to stick to his roots and continuing agriculture in ancestral property is that of Sameer A. Sirdeshpande. What started off as the first grape farm in Northern Karnataka by his grandfather is now home to various crops such as Maize, Sapota, Aonla, Jamun, Banana, Sunflower, and much more. Integrated management is applied in production of both agricultural and horticultural crops. With nutrient, disease and pest management being tactfully carried out, this 45 acre farm yields good production year by year. Horticulture department has extended their help to the farm towards the purchase of drip Irrigation and banana planting material. For other farm machinery like Power Tiller, HTP sprayer, and Tractor implements, subsidies were availed from Agriculture Department. “For technical help and guidance we are regularly in touch with scientists of Dharwad and Bangalore Agriculture Universities, University of Horticultural Sciences, Bagalkot and Indian Institute of Horticulture, Bangalore,” Sameer shares. All Horticultural crops are sold on the spot in the farm on contract basis and the price is calculated on per kg unit basis. Sameer’s parents started Alka Amla products to generate awareness among people about the exceptional medicinal value of Amla. With continuous experiments and dedication, the farm’s Amla products are now a huge success. Sameer, having always been inclined towards the farm’s activities, took up Masters in Post Harvest technology to be able to better serve the family business. His educational background that he uses to give his best in his field stands testimony to his dedication towards farming. Yuvrajsinh Jadeja is another such man worth applauding for his decision to opt for farming in a world where people prefer comforts of modern day professions over agriculture. Yuvrajsinh first showed interest in a farm owned by his father and uncle at a young age. He aims to continue learning farming techniques from his father. Their farm adopts traditional methods of farming whilst embracing latest technology. Cotton, groundnut, wheat, sugar cane, cumin seed and vegetables are grown in their farm. While the farm uses a mix of jaggery and millet flour mix to fight pesticide, they use certified seeds and modern equipment for cotton picking and pesticide spraying, thus maintaining the right balance between modern and traditional methods. The farm’s produce is either sold in the market or yarn business men, depending on the profit factor. When both the options do not show signs of profit, the produce is stored in godowns with neem leaf protecting its quality. It is then sold after a few months when there is a scope of getting the right price. Anil Rana from Haryana stands distinct as a next generation farmer who takes ancestral farming a step ahead with his commitment and efforts. Anil’s family has a wheat and dhaan farmland operated by his father and uncles. 20 to 25 quintals of wheat and 15 to 23 quintals of dhaan are generated here. While Anil’s farm grows Pusa 1121 wheat, fellow farmers grow sharbati and duplicate variety of wheat. The farm uses their own seeds and avoids duplicate seeds that are sold as hybrid seeds. The produce is sold to middle men who resell the produce as per government fixed prices. With the third generation of the family taking over the farm, they have diversified into dairy farming on a small scale. Eucalyptus trees are also planted in the farm. In an attempt to grow in the field, they constantly study other agro products to start a new business with the same. Anil wishes to improve the production of the farm on a large scale and grow as many trees as possible. Motivation Jadeja Yuvrajsinh Karnubha – Joins farm owned by father and uncle. Pursues higher education to contribute more using latest technology! Having born in farming oriented families, these farmers were inclined to join the same line of work. Vikram Prasad never took a green card in the USA because he always knew he would get back to his farming roots in India. Yuvrajsinh was in 11th Standard when he first got involved with his farm. “I was always inclined to join my farm since my birth. It was my natural inclination and my family members’ active participation in this occupation that always motivated me,” Sameer shares. Challenges These next generation farmers often face challenges when it comes to awareness among the public regarding their products and receiving the right value for their products. “With respect to Amla, I found it very difficult to market and was literally on the verge removing the entire established orchard. The basic reason for this is that there was no awareness among the people about the importance of this medicinally rich fruit,” shares Sameer. Rajkumar states that the cost of the produce sold in the market varies as per market demands. Most times cost of production equals cost of selling, thus resulting in zero profit margin. Anil points lack of labor as a major concern. According to Anil most farmers in Punjab suffer huge losses due to high production costs and less returns. The Government fixed prices only make this burden heavier on debt-ridden farmers. Pit Holes Apart from the various challenges faced, the farmers also face various challenges such as deception by middle men and devious quality seeds. A common problem faced by most of these farmers have been the duplicate low quality seeds being sold as hybrid seeds. Anil brings light to the fact that market is flooded with duplicate seeds sold at high price to dupe poor farmers. Yuvrajsinh hopes to put an end to these woes faced by farmers after spending a considerable amount on such seeds. Vikram Prasad sees a need for better education on agriculture in India. Organic v/s Chemical Farming “As per our experiments and personal experience 100% organic farming is not commercially viable and it varies with crop to crop,” shares Sameer. Anil highlights organic fertilizer is not available in bulk quantity and is insufficient as per the farm requirements. Vikram has noticed a drop in his yield since he started organic farming. However, he believes that this is due to lack of sufficient knowledge of the process. He continues to face this challenge and hopes to overcome the same with time and knowledge. Rajkumar’s farm uses chemical fertilizers. However along with the same, organic manure such as neem oil cake and cow dung are also used depending on the need. It is hence evident that these farmers opt for organic or chemical farming depending on their interest and the need of the farm. Organic farming can yield better results when implemented properly and with patience. Anil Rana – Anil Rana from Haryana stands distinct as a next generation farmer who takes ancestral farming a step ahead with his commitment and efforts! Future Plans Vikram Prasad wishes to pursue Organic farming and encourage farmers to do the same. He hopes to combine organic farming and automation to get best results. Rajkumar dreams of starting a mandi in the future after earning a substantial amount from his current job. With such a step, he aims to trade not just the produce of his own farm but also of other farmers. His ambition stretches to setting up food processing industry that will process the agricultural produce arriving at his mandi. Yuvrajsinh hopes to start a seed business to provide authentic seeds of superior quality to farmers. He also wishes to see his farm produce being sold not just in Indian market but also in the international market through export of groundnut and cotton. Anil Rana aims at improving the production of the farm and grow more trees rich in medicinal value. One thing common among all the five farmers is the fact that they don’t just wish to grow in their field, but also want to extend their help to fellow farmers. People like the five mentioned above grace agriculture with their non-conventional thinking and constant dedication. Next generation farmers like them are bound to inspire many. Kudos to these men, and many such next generation farmers tucked in various corners of the country for having preserved one of the least celebrated professions in the country-Agriculture. Contact Details Vikram V Prasad Ramu Farms/Agrone, 59 Sethumadai Road,Vettaikaranpudur Post,Pollachi 642129 Mobile – 9976050215 vikramvp@agrone.com  www.ramufarms.com, www.agrone.com R Rajkumar 2/8 Arulagam,  2nd Cross Street, Velachery, Chennai -42 Mobile – 91 8939633561 Email – rajkumar_swaraj@yahoo.co.in Sameer A.Sirdeshpande (Lingdhal) Alka Amla Products, Shop No.8, Taluka Panchayat Complex, Ramdurg-591123, Dist: Belgaum, Karnataka Mob: +91 99722 18328 sameerhort@gmail.com Anil Rana C/o Geeta Niketan School Chaura (Karnal) V.P.O. – Arainpura,Teh. – Gharaunda Dist. – Karnal (Haryana), Pin  – 132114 Mobile – 9996660355 , 8222842000 rana.anil19@gmail.com Yuvrajsinh Jadeja 9 Neels Bunglow, Near Prashil Park, University Road, Rajkot 360005, Gujarat Mobile: +91 9925801504 Email – yuvi141190@gmail.com Our Correspondent Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Next Generation Farmers Related – articles, consultants, downloads Indian Organic Farmers Producer Company Bank Officials Become Organic Farmers! Nalla Keerai- Helps farmers in organic farming Aditi Organic Certifications You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013