Languages in Goa Home » Maps » Goa » Quick Facts on Goa » Languages in Goa   Facts about Goa History Culture Weather Area Pin code STD code Languages Dance गोवा का नक्शा Liberation of Goa Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Cities Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Languages in Goa Goa boasts about a fusion of languages. Portuguese was widely spoken until Goa was liberated from the Portugal regime in 1961. In fact, the older generations can still speak Portuguese. However, the main languages spoken now in Goa are Konkani and Marathi. Marathi is widely taught in schools too. Yet almost everyone in Goa can speak in English and Hindi. Thanks to its chequered history, Goa is a multi-lingual state. Having had people of various regions, ethnic races and religions from India and abroad settling in Goa, their language too has inflected accordingly. So, the total number of languages used in Goa are English, Portuguese, Konkani, Hindi and Marathi. Konkani, however, is the official language of Goa. Konkani is written in the Devanagri script. The other main languages spoken in the state are Marathi, Kannad and Urdu. Gujarati and Hindi are also spoken by a considerable number of people in the state. In major towns, English is widely used in writing and conversation. Goa being a major tourist place offers a tourist-friendly medium of interaction through English. Portuguese was the language of the colonial rulers and the official language until before liberation, in 1961. Notwithstanding the official patronage and a compulsory medium of study, Portuguese failed to make a dent in the mind of the majority of Goans. It remained only the language of the elite but alienated the masses. Thus just after the departure of the Portuguese, the Portuguese language lost all its favor and usage. Konkani and Marathi survived in Goa by secret studies at home, in temples and public places in villages. Last Updated on: 8/06/2013 About Goa Weather History Area Pincode STD code Facts Liberation of Goa Languages Culture Dance Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival Goa Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Tehsil Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map Goa Travel Map Wildlife Map Beaches Map Forest Map Shopping Centres             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule