Tripura Districts Map Home » Maps » Tripura » Tripura Districts Map   Tripura Districts Map South Tripura Dhalai West Tripura North Tripura त्रिपुरा का नक्शा Tripura Tripura Map Agartala City Map Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Tripura Location Lat Long Map Travel to Tripura Places to visit in Tripura Wildlife Sanctuaries Bhuvaneswari Temple Tripura Sundari Temple Agriculture Map Tripura Forests Parliamentary Constituencies-   East Tripura Parliamentary Constituencies-   West Tripura Economy Government Geography Society and Culture Hotels in Tripura Attractions History STD Code PIN Code Assemblypolls Sex Ratio Universities In Tripura       Tripura Districts Map Tripura District Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Tripura District Map showing showing all districts of Tripura. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Tripura is located in the North East of India and is the third smallest state in the country. With Agartala as its capital, more than half of Tripura is under forest cover, providing an important source of livelihood to many tribals in the area. Bamboo and cane forests are the important forests in the area. Tripura has a population of 3,671,032 and the state covers an area of 10,491.69 km sq. Districts and Administration in Tripura: Tripura has been divided into 8 districts, 23 sub divisions and 45 development blocks. Each district is governed by a District Magistrate or a Deputy Commissioner from the Indian Administrative Service, who is responsible for the smooth running of the district. A Superintendent of Police, an officer from the Indian Police Service is responsible for the law and order functioning of the district. Tourism in Tripura: A former princely state, Tripura has a lot to offer tourists, right from natural beauty to religious and archeological tourism. Here are a few places of interest in Tripura, Tripura Government Museum, Nehru Park, Nazrul Kalashetra, Trishna Wildlife Sanctuary, Jampui Hilla, Tripura Sundari Temple, Laxmi Narayan Mandir, Bhuvaneshwari Temple and Boxnagar among others. List of Districts in Tripura S No. District Headquarters Population (Census 2011) Sex Ratio (per 1000) Average Literacy 1 Dhalai Ambassa 378,230 944 85.72% 2 Gomati Udaipur       3 Khowai Khowai       4 North Tripura Kailashahar 693,947 967 87.5% 5 Sipahijala Bishramganj       6 South Tripura Udaipur 876,001 957 84.66% 7 Unakoti Kailashahar       8 West Tripura Agartala 1,725,739 962 88.69% Last Updated on : August 2, 2014   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule