Areas of Goa, Goa Areas Home » Maps » Goa » Quick Facts on Goa » Areas of Goa   Facts about Goa History Culture Weather Area Pin code STD code Languages Dance गोवा का नक्शा Liberation of Goa Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Cities Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Areas of Goa Goa Areas Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing all the different hospitals, airports, temples, hotels falling under the Goan Area. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The area of Goa is 3,702 square kilometers. The area of Goa is divided into two Revenue districts, namely North Goa and South Goa . These districts have their headquarters at Panaji and Margao respectively. Boundaries of Goa State are defined in the North by the Terekhol River, which separates it from Maharashtra , in the East and South by Karnataka State and West by Arabian Sea. Goa lies in Western Coast of India and is 594 Kms (by road) away from Mumbai city. The area of Goa comprises 11 talukas. For the purpose of implementation of development programs the State is divided into 12 community development blocks. Administratively the State is organized into two districts North Goa comprising six talukas with a total area of 1736 sq. kms, and South Goa comprising five talukas with an area of 1966 sq. kilometers. There are 383 villages in total of which 233 are in North Goa district and 150 in South Goa district. As per the 2001 census, there are 44 towns of which 14 are Municipalities and remaining are census towns. Get some more details on Location of Goa Last Updated on: 25/07/2013 About Goa Weather History Area Pincode STD code Facts Liberation of Goa Languages Culture Dance Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival Goa Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Tehsil Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map Goa Travel Map Wildlife Map Beaches Map Forest Map Shopping Centres   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule