Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana | Department of Financial Services | Ministry of Finance X X Tweets by @PMJDY X Hindi Screen Reader Access PMJDY Mission Financial Literacy RTI Contact Us Bouquets Bank Login Home Circulars Progress Report Press Release Who's Who Follow @twitterdev Branch-Locator National Toll Free 1800 11 0001 1800 180 1111 Terms of Use This website is designed & developed by IDBI INTECH Ltd. and hosted by National Informatics Centre (NIC). The content of this website is published and managed by the Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance, Government of India. Though all efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy and correctness of the content on this website, the same should not be construed as a statement of law or used for any legal purposes. In case of any ambiguity or doubts, users are advised to verify / check with the Department(s) and / or other source(s), and to obtain appropriate professional advice. Under no circumstances will this Department be liable for any expense, loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any expense, loss or damage whatsoever arising from use, or loss of use, of data, arising out of or in connection with the use of this website. These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Indian Laws. Any dispute arising under these terms and conditions shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of India. The information posted on this website could include hypertext links or pointers to information created and maintained by non-Government / private organisations. Department of Financial Services is providing these links and pointers solely for your information and convenience. When you select a link to an outside website, you are leaving the Department of Financial Services website and are subject to the privacy and security policies of the owners / sponsors of the outside website. Department of Financial Services does not guarantee the availability of such linked pages at all times. Department of Financial Services cannot authorise the use of copyrighted material contained in linked websites. Users are advised to request such authorisation from the owner of the linked website. epartment of Financial Services does not guarantee that linked websites comply with Indian Government Web Guidelines. Terms of Use Accessibility Options Site Map Privacy Policy Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Copyright Policy Hyperlink Policy Feedback Website is developed & managed by IDBI Intech Ltd Hosted by National Informatics Centre (NIC) and contents provided by the Department of Financial Services , Govt. of India. This site can be best viewed in Firefox 3.5 and above, IE 8 and above, chrome 18 and above. To check your browser version click here