HORTIVAR - Cultivars Performance Database English Live Chat Support Data search Actual field performances of cultivars Standard cultivar descriptions Data input Performances of cultivars Standard cultivar descriptions Data update Performances of cultivars Standard cultivar descriptions Statistics, graphs Hortivar statistics Graphs Analytical reports and tools Cultivar photo gallery Seed and plant material sources Species names Country fact sheets Species fact sheets Partner fact sheets FAO Project fact sheets Nutrient composition LocClim climate information Partner network Individual partners Partner institutions Species/country gatekeepers FAO projects Hortivar partnership Advocacy and training materials Minibriefs PowerPoint presentations Newsletters Data entry forms Horticulture knowledge platform Good morning Hortivar FAO websites and information systems Other websites and information sources Contacts Address Ask Hortivar Tell a friend Credits Hortivar is FAO´s database on the performances of horticultural cultivars over the world. Hortivar is also a platform for exchange of know-how among scientists and a tool to safeguard, retrieve and exchange information related to horticulture. Information can be retrieved regarding six groups of crops: fruits, vegetables, root and tuber crops, herbs and condiments, ornamentals and mushrooms. The database has two primary functions which are interdependent: data retrieval and data entry. Access and use of the database is free of charge. Good morning Hortivar ISUPS 2015 - India... The focus on a few widely used species has helped to sustain the explosion in human population over the last twenty five decades. But it has narrowed down dramatically the number of species upon which... Hortivar serves as a standard methodology for data collection and record keeping on the performances of horticulture cultivars. It is a a powerful search engine for easy retrieval and comparison of information. It is also a template for educational purposes and a gateway to horticulture knowledge/statistics. Hortivar addresses the needs of producers, public and private sector, seed companies and horticultural research centres for information management related to horticultural crop cultivars in different agro-climatic environments and allows users to identify cultivars and cropping practices adapted to their specific requirements and environment. While FAO maintains and develops this programme and software, it relies on its members to feed it with information either as individual or as institutional partners. Hortivar is not a static programme but it is continuously being adjusted to meet the requirements of its users. To learn more about HORTIVAR ( click here ). Statistics:   Terms and conditions Disclaimer © Hortivar  version 3.9,  Last updated:  June 2014 AGPML, FAO - MTF/GLO/697/MUL © FAO, 2014 This is a mandatory field. Please, fill it out before submit See data entry details. Leaving this page will require executing a new search for proper data visualization Filtered data based on existing entries This option is only available for Hortivar administrators After reseting the values through the icon, submit the page to persist the data Translation is temporarilly disabled. La traduction est temporairement d&eacutesactiv&eacute. La traducci&oacuten es desactivado temporalmente. A tradu&ccedil&atildeo est&aacute temporariamente desabilitada.