Home Page   Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine & Storage                COPYRIGHT © Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine & Storage Material on this site is subject to copyright protection unless otherwise indicated. The material may be downloaded to file or printer without requiring specific prior permission. Any other proposed use of the material is subject to the approval of Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine & Storage . Application for obtaining permission should be made to Plant Protection Adviser , Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine & Storage, Ministry of Agriculture PRIVACY STATEMENT As a general rule, this web site does not collect Personal Information about you when you visit the site. You can generally visit the site without revealing Personal Information, unless you choose to provide such information. Any Personal information collected shall be used only for the stated purpose and shall NOT be shared with any other department/organization (public/private). This site may contain links to non-Government sites whose data protection and privacy practices may differ from ours. We are not responsible for the content and privacy practices of these other websites and encourage you to consult the privacy notices of those sites. HYPERLINK DISCLAIMER This Link shall take you outside our web space and you shall be visiting an external website. The Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine & Storage is not responsible for the contents or reliability of the linked websites and does not necessarily endorse the views expressed within them. Listing shall not be taken as endorsement of any kind. We can not guarantee that these links will work all the time and we have no control over availability of the linked pages. LINKING POLICY We do not object to you linking directly to the information that is hosted on our site and no prior permission is required for the same. However, we would like you to inform us via e-mail to Plant Protection Adviser , Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine & Storage, Ministry of Agriculture about any links provided to our site so that you can be informed of any changes or updation therein. Also, we do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on your site. The pages of our website must load into a newly opened browser window of the user.                      