Frequently Asked Questions | Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Can Panchakavya be used to supply nutrients through drip irrigation systems? How can I induce flowering in mango? What is the optimum time to rejuvenate Guava and Mango? How many years will the mint crop yield economically? How Green Manuring and Green Leaf Manuring differ ? How to manage Damping Off disease in nurseries? What is the optimum time for grafting of Mango? Give the source of soil testing for analysis of macro/micro nutrients? How to reclaim Hard pan soil? How can we propagate Aloe vera?   Can Panchakavya be used to supply nutrients through drip irrigation systems? Yes, It can be used. This technique is already proved successful by the farmers. How can I induce flowering in mango? During February 0.5% Urea (5 g/lit.) or 1% Potassium Nitrate (10g/lit.) may be sprayed to induce flowering in mango. What is the optimum time to rejuvenate Guava and Mango? July – September How many years will the mint crop yield economically? Under good management conditions, the crop will give economic yield for about four years. How Green Manuring and Green Leaf Manuring differ ? Green Manuring is growing of leafy legume crop of short duration and ploughing it in the same field before they form seeds. Eg: Cowpea, Sesbania etc.Green Leaf Manuring is manuring the field by adding the lopping from legume trees and Ploughing it in the field. Eg: Pongamia, Glyricidia. How to manage Damping Off disease in nurseries? The nursery site should be changed every year. The nursery beds should be treated with 1:7 ratio of Formaldehyde. Seeds should be treated with 0.3% of Captan before sowing. During seedling stage drench with 0.1% of Carbendazim followed by frequent irrigations. What is the optimum time for grafting of Mango? July – August. Give the source of soil testing for analysis of macro/micro nutrients? District Soil Testing Laboratories (State Department of Agriculture), Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and its Institutions, KVK's. How to reclaim Hard pan soil? Soils with hard pan can be reclaimed by ploughing with chisel plough once in three years. Ploughing should be done first in one direction and then in a direction perpendicular to the previous direction. How can we propagate Aloe vera? Aloe vera   is propagated through suckers. The suckers are dipped in 0.1% carbendazim for five minutes and planted in the field. 10,000 suckers are required to plant one Hectare of land. Visitor Counter: 843641 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015