Qutubuddin Aibak India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » History » Qutubuddin Aibak   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Qutubuddin Aibak Qutubuddin Aibak, a ruler of medieval India, was the first ruler of the Delhi Sultanate and also the founder of the Slave dynasty. He was a Turkish of the Aybak tribe and was the sultan for only four years, 1206-1210. He was captured in his childhood and sold as a slave to the chief Qazi of Nishapur, a town situated in the northeastern Iran. He was very well treated by the Qazi and imparted good education, including training in archery and horsemanship in his childhood. However when the master died, his jealous sons, sold Qutubuddin Aibak to a slave merchant. He was finally purchased by the ruler of Ghor in central Afghanistan, Sultan Muhammad Ghori. Qutubuddin Aibak, gradually rose to the rank of General and became one of the most trusted nobles of Sultan Ghori. The conquests of northern India were executed mainly by Qutb-ud-din Aibak, which helped Ghori to consolidate his position there. Gradually, as Sultan Ghori concentrated on Central Asia after 1192, he was given the independent charge of the conquests in India.. Muhammad Ghori established himself as strong ruler with his empire extending over Afghanistan, Pakistan, and northern India. Qutubuddin Aibak, crowned himself the Sultan of Delhi in 1206, when Muhammad Ghori was killed in the battlefield. After his death when Aibak came to throne he ruled over those places where he was appointed as the local receiver-general of Sultan Ghori. Despite the rebellions by nobles like Taj-ud-din Ildiz and Nasir-ud-din Qubachah, he strengthened the administrative system, which was established by Ghori. Though Qutb-ud-din Aibak started the construction of the Quwwat-ul-Islam mosque and the Qutub Minar , which were among the earliest Muslim monuments in Delhi, he couldn't complete them. This mosque was built by destroying the Hindu temple, which was built by Prithvi Raj, and certain parts of the temple were kept intact outside the mosque. These architectures were later completed by his successor Iltutmish. In 1210, Qutb-ud-din Aibak died in an accident while he was playing polo. He fell from the horseback and was severely injured. He was buried in Lahore near the Anarkali bazaar. He was succeeded by Iltutmish, another slave who rose to the level of a Sultan, thus extending the Slave Dynasty.   Related Links   Medieval India Alivardi Khan Krishna Deva Raya Rana Sanga Kautilya Ibrahim Lodhi Jehangir Noor Jehan Iltutmish Mumtaz Mahal Harihar and Bukka Muhammad Bin Tughlaq Ghiasuddin Balban Jijabai Aurangzeb Chatrapati Shivaji Allauddin Khilji Bairam Khan Akbar Rana Pratap Babar Birbal Humayun Tanaji Prithviraj Chauhan Shah Jahan Sher Shah Suri Samudragupta Tansen Razia Sultana Qutubuddin Aibak Rajendra Chola Rajaraja Chola Raja Todar Mal Raja Man Singh Last Updated on : February 1, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule