How Does Quarry Deal with Dust When Process Gravel AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS General Questions & Answers How Does Quarry Deal with Dust When Process Gravel Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: How Does Quarry Deal with Dust When Process Gravel LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 2 Days Ago #1 vipeakapril Join Date Jan 2015 Posts 19 How Does Quarry Deal with Dust When Process Gravel In the production process of Mobile Construction Waste Crushing Plant and other mining resources will produce a lot of dust, the dust only pollute the environment and gave health workers caused tremendous damage, so dust and gravel processing equipment when imminent, we must first deal with the dust to find the source of the dust, so as to remedy, is currently in production quarry crusher, dust prone areas in the following areas: Broken down spout: No matter what kind of crusher broken adopted, and because the first stone has been broken, broken corners to increase material, will produce a lot of dust in the crushing, the stone in the mud almost always in this session crushed into dust, where the dust is mainly stone in clay content; because the finished feed yard has a certain height, especially when relatively empty yard, cutting height is sometimes more than 10 meters, if the stone contains a lot of dust, A little breeze, it looks like a disaster. As long as the feed and cutting has a certain height, stone dust will be divided up there, because at this time to the amount of feed powder is the largest. In figure out a few more crusher dust generation source around, we can take targeted measures of dust. First, take the necessary measures to seal crusher, dust generated at these three points with sealed enclosures sealed to dust control and not spread in a small area. Secondly, as far as possible without gap, crusher process design small gap by reducing the gap, and other measures to reduce the angle of the chute, the potential difference can be highly effective in preventing accelerated dust flying, which is conducive to collect dust. Finally wet dust, exhaust dust, vacuum dust combined at the discharge port and a discharge port crusher, belt conveyor transfer points, such as the erection spray wet dust removal device (need to pay attention to controlling the amount of water in order to avoid the material moisture too large), thereby reducing the generation of dust and dirt from the root. sand making machine: Sand making machine,artificial sand making machine plant,Sand maker equipment-Vipeak Heavy Industry Mining Machine Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 12:18 AM .