Agriculture in Thailand - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Agriculture in Thailand From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search Thai farmer with a bundle of young rice plants Agriculture in the rural areas of Bangkok . Land cultivated by the Karen tribe in Northern Thailand : controlled burn in the foreground and agricultural terraces . The agriculture in Thailand is highly competitive, diversified and specialised and its exports are very successful internationally. Rice is the country's most important crop ; Thailand is a major exporter in the world rice market. Other agricultural commodities produced in significant amounts include fish and fishery products, tapioca , rubber , grain , and sugar . Exports of industrially processed foods such as canned tuna , pineapples , and frozen shrimp are on the rise. Contents 1 History 2 Agriculture in transition 3 Effect of climate change on Thai agriculture 4 Use of toxic pesticides 5 See also 6 References 7 External links History [ edit ] Thai agriculture may be traced through historical, scientific, and social aspects which produced modern Thailand's unique approach to agriculture. Following the Neolithic Revolution , society in the area evolved from hunting and gathering , through phases of agro-cities , and into state-religious empires . Immigration of the Tai produced a distinct approach to sustainable agriculture compared with most other agricultural practices in the world. From about 1000 CE, the Tai wet glutinous rice culture determined administrative structures in a pragmatic society that regularly produced a salable surplus. Continuing today, these systems consolidate the importance of rice agriculture to national security and economic well being. Chinese and European influence later benefited agribusiness and initiated the demand that would expand agriculture through population increase until accessible land was expended. Recent developments in agriculture have meant that since the 1960s, unemployment has fallen from over 60% to under 10% in the early 2000s. [ 1 ] In the same period: food prices halved, hunger decreased (from 2.55 million households in 1988 to 418,000 in 2007) and child malnutrition have greatly reduced (from 17% in 1987 to 7% in 2006). [ 1 ] This has been achieved (a) through a mixture of a strong and positive state role in ensuring investment in infrastructure , education and access to credit and (b) successful private initiatives in the agribusiness sector. [ 1 ] This has supported Thailand's transition to an industrialised economy. [ 1 ] Agriculture in transition [ edit ] Agriculture was able to expand during the 1960s and 1970s as it had access to new land and unemployed labour. [ 1 ] Between 1962 and 1983, the agricultural sector grew by 4.1% on average a year and in 1980 it employed over 70% of the working population. [ 1 ] Yet, the state perceived developments in the agriculture sector as necessary for industrialisation and exports were taxed in order to keep domestic prices low and raise revenue for state investment in other areas of the economy. [ 1 ] As other sectors developed, labourers went in search of work in other sectors of the economy and agriculture was forced to become less labour-intensive and more industrialised. [ 1 ] Facilitated by state laws forcing banks to provide cheap credit to the agricultural sector and by providing its own credit through the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC). [ 1 ] The state further invested in education, irrigation and rural roads. [ 1 ] The result was that agriculture continued to grow at 2.2% between 1983 and 2007, but also that agriculture now only provides half of rural jobs as farmers took advantage of the investment to diversify. [ 1 ] As agriculture declined in relative financial importance in terms of income with rising industrialization and Americanization of Thailand from the 1960s, but it continued to provide the benefits of employment and self-sufficiency , rural social support, and cultural custody. Technical and economic globalisation forces have continued to change agriculture to a food industry and thereby exposed smallholder farmers to such an extent the traditional environmental and human values have declined markedly in all but the poorer areas. Herding water buffalo in Chaiyaphum Province . Agribusiness , both privately and government-owned, expanded from the 1960s and subsistence farmers were partly viewed as a past relic from which agribusiness could modernise. However, intensive integrated production systems of subsistence farming continued to offer efficiencies that were not financial, including social benefits which have now caused agriculture to be treated as both a social and financial sector in planning, with increased recognition of environmental and cultural values. 'Professional farmers' made up 19.5% of all farmers in 2004. [ 1 ] Unique elements of Thai agriculture include irrigation technologies which spanned a millennium. It also had administrative structures which originated with agricultural water control . Thailand has global leadership in production and export of a number of agricultural commodities, and its agribusiness sector includes one of the world's largest multinational corporations . There still remains potential for further large increases in productivity from known technologies. Thailand leads the world in producing and exporting rice, rubber , canned pineapple , and black tiger prawns . It leads the Asian region in exporting chicken meat export and several other commodities, and feeding more the four times its own population from. Thailand also seeks to expand its exports in livestock . Thailand is unlikely to rapidly industrialise except in concert with the People's Republic of China , and will remain one of the world's major agricultural countries in social, environmental and economic terms for the foreseeable future. Effect of climate change on Thai agriculture [ edit ] Looking ahead into the trend of the climate change, it is projected that temperature will continue to rise at a steady rate in every region of Thailand within a range of between 1.2-2° Celsius. Annual rainfall is projected to decrease in the central area but increase in the northern and northeastern regions. Volume of rainfall is projected to be around 1400 mm per annum in the next 5 years. [ 2 ] Farmers of Thailand need to be aware of the impact that climate change will have on their produce. Heavy rain may damage the roots of cassava plants in the north, while a decrease in rain might damage cane sugar and rice in the central region. Temperature and quality changes of water might lead to a reduction in the viability of livestock due to heat stress, survival rates of the new born animals, and immune system impacts. [ 2 ] Climate change has and will continue to harm rice yields. A study by Okayama University in Japan found that grain yield declines when the average daily temperature exceeds 29° C (84° F), and grain quality continues to decline linearly as temperatures rise. [ 3 ] Thailand has made several adaptations to climate change. Since the rise of temperature started, policies and task forces were created to support Thailand's farmers. These include the "National Strategy for Climate Change Management" and the "Climate Change Alleviation Plan for Agriculture". These groups and policies created the "Climate Change Knowledge Information Center" which disseminates knowledge, on the subject; "Water Resource Management in Agriculture Sector", which projects water consumption and provide useful regulation on the quality of water in many regions; and "Natural Disaster Management", a committee that predicts incoming natural disaster and provides some relief to persons affected by natural disaster. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 2 ] Use of toxic pesticides [ edit ] In July 2012 consumer action groups demanded 4 unlisted toxic pesticides found on common vegetables at levels 100 times the EU guidelines (which are banned in developed countries) be banned. Chemical companies are requesting to add them to the Thai Dangerous Substances Act so they can continue to be used, including on exported mangoes to developed countries which have banned their use. [ 7 ] In 2014, Khon Kaen University concluded after a study, that Thailand should ban 155 types of pesticides, with 14 listed as urgent: Carbofuran , Methyl Bromide , Dichlorvos , Lambda-cyhalothrin , Methidathion-methyl , Omethoate , Zeta Cypermethrin , Endosulfan sulfate , Aldicarb , Azinphos-methyl , Chlorpyrifos-ethyl , Methoxychlor and Paraquat . [ 8 ] See also [ edit ] Rice production in Thailand Coconut production in Thailand Native starch industry of Thailand Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (Thailand) Lindsay Falvey , (2000). Thai Agriculture, Golden Cradle of Millennia , Kasetsart University Press. ISBN 974-553-816-7 . Also available in the Thai language as karn kaset thai , and full text of both languages are available at [1] [ dead link ] History: 1970s peasant revolts in Thailand References [ edit ] ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Henri Leturque, Henri Leturque; Wiggins, Steve (2011). Thailand’s progress in agriculture: Transition and sustained productivity growth . London: Overseas Development Institute.   ^ a b c Supnithadnaporn, Anupit; Inthisang, Jirapa; Prasertsak, Praphan; Meerod, Watcharin. "Adaptation to Climate Change and Agricultural Sector in Thailand" (PDF) . Asian Development Bank Institute (ADBI) . Asian Development Bank . Retrieved 2015-01-10 .   ^ Kisner, Corinne (Jul 2008). "Climate Change in Thailand: Impacts and Adaptation Strategies" . Climate Institute . Retrieved 29 Mar 2015 .   ^ NNT (2 Mar 2013). "Special Report: Thailand faces threat of climate change against local agriculture" . Pattaya Mail . Retrieved 2 Jul 2013 .   ^ Marks, Danny. "Climate Change and Thailand: Impact and Response" . Academia.edu . Retrieved 2015-01-10 .   ^ Thailand's climate change master plan nears completion [ dead link ] ^ http://www.bangkokpost.com/news/local/302017/cancer-causing-chemical-residues-found-in-vegetables ^ http://www.biothai.org/node/302 External links [ edit ] Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives Wikimedia Commons has media related to Agriculture in Thailand . v t e Thailand   topics History Prehistory Peopling Khun Borom Tai peoples Early history Initial states Sukhothai era Ayutthaya era Thonburi era Rattanakosin era Siamese Revolution Military period Democratic period Geography Cities and towns Climate Ecoregions Environmental issues Islands Mountains Protected areas Regions Rivers Volcanoes Wildlife World Heritage Sites Politics Constitution Monarchy ( list ) Elections Parliament Government Prime Minister ( list ) Cabinet Ministries Administrative divisions Foreign relations Human rights Judiciary Law Localism Military Police Political parties Economy Agriculture Banks central bank Baht (currency) Car industry Energy Stock Exchange Telecommunications Internet telephone numbers Tourism Transport Society Crime Demographics Education Ethnic groups Languages Health Religion Women LGBT Culture Architecture Art Birth Cinema Cuisine Dance Etiquette Folklore Literature Names Marriage Media television Music Thai people Prostitution Public holidays Sports Symbols anthem emblem flag Time lunar calendar solar calendar Outline Index Book Category Portal WikiProject v t e Agriculture in Asia Sovereign states Afghanistan Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Burma (Myanmar) Cambodia China Cyprus East Timor (Timor-Leste) Egypt Georgia India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Japan Jordan Kazakhstan North Korea South Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Malaysia Maldives Mongolia Nepal Oman Pakistan Philippines Qatar Russia Saudi Arabia Singapore Sri Lanka Syria Tajikistan Thailand Turkey Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen States with limited recognition Abkhazia Nagorno-Karabakh Northern Cyprus Palestine South Ossetia Taiwan Dependencies and other territories British Indian Ocean Territory Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Hong Kong Macau Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Agriculture_in_Thailand&oldid=654018672 " Categories : Agriculture in Thailand Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from January 2015 Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces