Kuru Dynasty Map Home » History » Kuru Dynasty Map   Indian Dynasties Chola Dynasty Chalukya Dynasty Pallava Dynasty Chera Dynasty Pandyan Dynasty                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Kuru Dynasty Map Map of Kuru Dynasty Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing Kuru Dynasty with Boundaries and Cities where they ruled. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. The Kuru Dynasty evolved in the early Vedic period and in the later Vedic period it developed into a republican Mahajanapada state. In the Iron Age Vedic India, an Indo-Aryan Clan was known as Kuru. The areas around modern Haryana , Delhi and some other western parts of the Northern India (the region of Doab, till Prayag/Kaushambi in Uttar Pradesh ) formed the main location of this clan. The Kuru clan is segregated into two parts on the basis of the ancient texts, according to which, between the Rigvedic River Saraswati and river Ganges lays the territory of the Kurus. These two parts are Kuru-Jangala and Kuru Proper. Initially the Kurus, the Indo-aryans ruled the Ganga-Jamuna Doab and the earlier Eastern Punjab region. Although in the early Vedic period, the focus of this civilization turned to Punjab . The Doab region was covered by thick dense forests then and wasn't completely inhabited. In the later Vedic period, the focus completely shifted to Punjab for several reasons. The reasons could be many, one being the drying up of the Saraswati River since the civilization had flourished around its banks. Also the other reason that comes to notice is the increase in the population during the later Vedic period. This population increase was certainly due to the expanded economy which was based on agriculture. The Kuru-Land is originally known as Aryavarta. This name to the Kuru-land is given by the Indo-Aryans. Although the Aryavarta spread over many other regions as well, the Doab remained the centre not only for the Vedic civilization but also for the Hindu culture, customs and religion. It is said by Aitareya Brahmana that another clan, known as the Northern Kurus of the Himalayas also existed. The result of the merging and alliance of two famous tribes, Bharata and Puru in the early Vedic time was the Kuru tribe. It was in 1200 to 800 BCE that the first political center of the Vedic period was formed, with its capital being Hastinapur. The Kuru capital was shifted to Kaushambi (lower Doab) after the floods and family upheavals of the Kuru family destroyed Hastinapur. The capital was shifted towards the end of the early Vedic period. A titular chieftain (king consul) namely Korayvya ruled over the Kuru country at the time of the great Gautama Buddha. Though the same position was not maintained by the Kurus of the Buddhist period in contrast to their position in the Vedic period, they enjoyed great reputation which they had for their deep wisdom and sound health throughout. Matrimonial relations and treaties were developed between the Kurus and the Yadavas, the Bhojas and the Panchalas. Also it is said that king Dhananjaya was introduced as a prince, who belonged to the race of Yudhishtra (of Mahabharata). The Kurus, earlier were successful monarchial people but they are known to have changed their government type, during the sixth to fifth century BCE, to republican form of government. Kautiliya's Arthashastra, in the fourth century BCE, also presents clear evidence of the Kurus following the constitution of Rajashabdopajivin (king consul). Last Updated on : 28 May 2012               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule