Goat Farm Solutions - Page 59 AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Goat Farming - Mohsin Shaikh Goat Farm Solutions Page 59 of 59 First ... 9 49 57 58 59 Jump to page: Results 581 to 582 of 582 Thread: Goat Farm Solutions LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… April 2nd, 2015 #581 smy82482 Join Date Mar 2012 Posts 2,324 At least you have to provide water once in a week for fodder crops which are cultivated in 4 acres of land.Fodder crops doesn't requires too much watering,they can be well raised in minimum water supply too. There will no be no impact on fodder,only your transportation charges will raise.Also You have to transport the fodder 365 days,in rainy, winter and in summer.Calculate the transportation charges which are going to be expense through out the year,two year or for five years.It will surely cut your profit rate. Regards, DR.Shaikh Reply With Quote 1 Week Ago #582 smy82482 Join Date Mar 2012 Posts 2,324 For transporting of goats for longer distance say above 1000 km,you requires skillful persons who has some experience of previous transporting of animals for longer distance.Transporting of goats below 1000 km is not a bit problem and doesn't requires any special documentation of carriage of animals, any one can travel the goats without any previous experience.But above 1000 km you requires the document(permit) to carry the animals.You will get the animal carrying permit at RTO office at minimal cost. The cost of transportation of animals depends on type of vehicle and distance. Yes transportation of goats is possible via railways too.If there are large number of goats,railway department will arrange an extra compartment for placing of goats.Just visit your nearest station,and inquire about it to an experience officer. Regards, DR.Shaikh International Goat Farm Expert www.goatfarm.co.in Originally Posted by jaypees How to buy goats from other states??? how to transport it???what wud b the cost to transport in small no and large no???is it possible through railways??? plz help Reply With Quote Page 59 of 59 First ... 9 49 57 58 59 Jump to page: « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 01:15 AM .