Central Food Technological Research Institute Director’s Message Departments R & D Output Publications Technologies Staff Information Recruitments ಕನ್ನಡದಲ್ಲಿ हिन्दी में Message Profile R & D Support Resource Centres Technologies Patents Performance Report Library e-bulletin Monographs CFTRI Brochure JRF/Project Positions Project Assistant Shortlisted Candidates Recruitment Results  Ph.D. under AcSIR    Call For Research Fellows    M.Sc. Food Tech Course   Wheat Milling Tech. Course  Short Term Courses  UNU @ CFTRI    Pilot Plant  C S I R  CSIR - 800  AcSIR   N K N  CFTRI Alumni  Peptide Database  Institutional Repository (IR)   Free Technologies   About CFTRI Central Food Technological Research Institute(CFTRI), Mysore (A constituent laboratory of Council of Scientific and Industrial research, New Delhi) came into existence during 1950 with the great vision of its founders, and a network of inspiring as well as dedicated scientists who had a fascination to pursue in-depth research and development in the areas of food science and technology. The Institute has geared up its R&D and impact of the globalisation has given very good dividends with a large number of externally funded projects from national and international agencies. The present scenario in the country is very vibrant with rising capital investment in food industry, which is expanding at a rapid pace in urban markets for processed foods, especially for the traditional foods through eco-friendly technologies. The role of CFTRI has always been on a high pedestal in the areas of human resource development and R&D partnerships cherished through the international linkages with institutions such as the Institute of Food Technologists (USA), UN University (Tokyo), European Economic Commission (Belgium), National Science Foundation (USA) and many more. CFTRI is an ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 organisation and NABL accredited for chemical and biological testing of samples.   Readmore..   Total Hits :   NEWS & EVENTS   Walk-In-Interview for an Executive Consultant post at AcSIR, CSIR-CFTRI on 17th June, 2015     One Day Workshop on Value Added Agriculture & Food Processing     Retirees in MAY-2015   Admission for DBT sponsored MSc-Ph.D. programme in the area of Nutrition Biology under AcSIR at CSIR-CFTRI     Admission for Ph.D. programme under AcSIR & University of Mysore     Admission notice for 12 months programme in Flour Milling Technology at International School of Milling Technology (ISMT) scheduled for the year 2015 − 2016     Lab Fee for students undertaking project work at CSIR-CFTRI