Biomechanical Systems | Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering University Home About OSU Academics Faculty and Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Growing Oklahoma Search... Division Home Calendar Campus Map OSU Quicklinks Local Weather Menu           Division Home People Faculty (All) Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Resources CEAT Giving Page DASNR Giving Page CASNR Alumni Page OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation Hire OSU Grads BAE Newsletters OSU Job Search Employment Opportunities Student Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Degree Options Degree Sheets and Flowcharts Recruitment and Application Process Scholarships and Financial Aid Senior Design Projects Study Abroad Student Projects Student Links Graduate Student Welcome Graduate Programs Biomechanical Systems Bioprocessing and Biotechnology Environment and Natural Resrouces Food Processing BAE Graduate School Application Process Assistantships BAE Graduate Courses BAE Research Labs Graduate Student Links Accreditation Research BAE Research Labs Advanced Technology Research Center BioEnergy BioEnvironmental BioTechnology BioPhysical Properties Bioprocessing Lab Environmental Preperation FAPC Ground Water Machine Testing Machine Vision Research Shop Sensors Lab SPREC Welding and Engines class Wind Tunnel BAE Research Shop Bio Products and Energy Hydraulic Engineering OK-FIRE EPSCoR Extension Extension News Agriculture Machinery Systems AgWeather Applications Engineers BAE Fact Sheet Biobased Products and Energy Center OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Stored Products Research and Education Center (SPREC) Stormwater and Low Impact Development SUNUP Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Program News and Events News Events BAE Newsletters Publications and Outreach Impact Statements – April 2014 Archive Links Professional organizations American Society of Agriculturaland Biological Engineers North American Benthological Society American Society of Civil Engineers Energy Management Institute American Meteorological Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Automotive Engineers Collegiate organizations Alpha Epsilon ASABE student club ASABE Facebook page Cowboy Motorsports BAE Sites AGMACH$ Agricultural Machinery Systems Agweather BAE Extension fact sheets BAE Labs OSU Biobased Products and Energy Center Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit OK EPSCoR BREOI Oklahoma Mesonet OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Poultry Waste Management Stormwater and Low Impact Development Sun Grant Initiative – South Central Region Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Programs DASNR Sites DASNR OCES county office directory Robert M. KerrFood & Agricultural Products Center SUNUP CEAT OSU Sites OSU Home Hire OSU Grads News OSU Athletics Stillwater Resrouces Oklahoma Resources Oklahoma Departmentof Agriculture, Food, and Forestry Oklahoma Bioenergy Center Oklahoma Departmentof Environmental Quality Federal Resources Agriculture Research Service ARSGrazinglands Research Laboratory ARS, Conservationand Production Laboratory USDA U.S. Departmentof Energy – Bioenergy U.S. National Science Foundation U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency, Region 6 Other Resources Worldwide Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Directory The Environmental Working Group Microsoft Research Maps (formerly Microsoft Terra Server – satellite photos) Ground Water Protection Council, GWPC Center for Advanced Spatial Technologies, CAST Contact Us BAE Links BAE Home About BAE Archive People Undergraduate Resources Graduate Students Resources Research Extension News and Events Links and Resources Alumni Resources Contact Us Biomechanical Systems M.S. and Ph.D. programs are available in Biomechanical Systems within the Department of Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering. Students engage in a challenging program of study and in original and innovative research in machines and mechanisms which directly interact with biological materials. Research includes work with soil, plants and animals, with the objective of producing useful products. Research encompasses machinery, mechanisms and related systems with the objectives of establishing and growing both traditional and non-traditional crops, in fields, in greenhouses and in bioreactors, as well as the harvesting and processing of these products for consumption by humans or animals, or for use in industrial applications. DEGREE REQUIREMENTS All plans of study are tailored to individual students based on their interests and the guidance of the advisory committee. M.S. students must complete 24 credit hours of course work and 6 credit hours of research including a thesis. A minimum of 36 credit hours of course work and 24 credit hours of research beyond the M.S. degree is required for each Ph.D. student. Each student’s advisory committee must individually approve the plan of study and research. This plan of study should include BAE courses with additional courses in engineering, mathematics, computer science, statistics, agriculture and related science. These high-quality, advanced-level courses, taught by BAE faculty and supported by well-equipped laboratories, provide students with a strong background for addressing problems in Biomechanical Systems. Students initially take three classes per semester, completing major area and mathematics classes first. M.S. students generally take one and a half years to two years to complete their programs. Ph.D. students who are expected to complete their programs in no more than three years, usually complete their course work by the end of the second year. No less than six months before the degree is granted, Ph.D. students take a qualifying examination. This comprehensive examination is both written and oral, covering the entire area of the student’s graduate study. In addition, M.S. and Ph.D. thesis must be successfully defended before the advisory committee at the completion of the research program. A non-thesis degree option is available requiring a creative component and extra courses. A final report must be written over the creative component and defended before the student’s committee. AREAS OF RESEARCH Optimizing Environments for Crop Establishment Meeting increasing demand for environmentally acceptable practices associated with crop establishment while maintaining productivity requires the development of advanced, efficient agricultural machinery. Innovative biomechanical technology must allow for new production practices such as seed priming, adaptability to newly genetically engineered and alternative crops, and the ability to establish crops in an optimum environments while being compatible with new and existing environmental regulations. Specific topics related to these issues include: Developing precision high-density planting technology and equipment to optimize production while reducing dependence on certain inputs such as pesticides. Determining the effects on the seed and plant environment by external factors such as compaction from grazing cattle and developing practices to relieve the adverse effects. Applying new production practices such as seed priming, together with newly developed planting practices, to optimize stand establishment of alternative crops and to change plant morphology and fruiting patterns to enable the development of improved harvesting equipment and/or the mechanization of new crops. Sensor and Control Technology Development of a resource-efficient sustainable agriculture that produces superior quality is vital to our local and national interests. One approach in pursuit of those interests is development of sensing and actuation systems that allow the direct use of computer technology to control agricultural machines and processes. Computer capabilities are growing without apparent bounds. Potential exists to leverage this capability in improving efficiency and quality of agricultural production and processing systems. The greatest barrier preventing increased application of computer technology directly in agricultural systems is the lack of effective methods of sensing. Potential research topics include: Developing soil moisture sensing systems based on thermal diffusion using incident solar radiation to supply thermal energy to the sensor. Developing design processes for networked control systems. Developing sonic and optical systems for detection of plant material properties. CORE COURSES BAE 5413: Instrumentation in Biological Process Control Systems. Analysis of transducers for online measurement and control of biological processes. Applications to agricultural production equipment. BAE 6540: Problems in Farm Power and Machinery. Literature review and analytical studies of selected farm power and machinery problems. Written report required. FACULTY Michael Buser ,  Associate Professor Design and evaluation of machinery used in hay, forage and bioenergy production; system logistics Raymond L. Huhnke, Professor and Director of the Biobased Products and Energy Center Carol Jones , Associate Professor Stored product engineering, packaging, storage, transportation, and logistics of biofeedstocks and physical properties of feedstock Randy Taylor , Professor and Extension Machinery Specialist Agricultural machinery, no-till seeding equipment, spraying equipment, precision agriculture Ning Wang , Associate Professor Mechatronics and instruments and controls Paul Weckler , Associate Professor Sensors, instrumentation and controls; image processing and machine vision; food and crop processing FACILITIES Student and faculty research in the Department of Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering is supported by well-equipped facilities on campus and at extension sites. The main laboratory is a 28,000 sq. ft. facility, equipped with electronic, electric and machine shops. Three computer laboratories and a wide range of instrumentation are available for graduate research. Click here to learn more about our research and lab facilities. Oklahoma State University - Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Home