Nutrition — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Health / Nutrition Share Views View State: Open for Edit Info Nutrition This topic covers the detailed information related to Nutrition Nutrition and Health Describes the importance of nutrition in daily life and dietary guidelines for various age groups of Indians, recommended by NIN, ICMR The Goodness of Greens Importance of green leafy vegetables in our daily diet is explained here Coarse grains and their nutritive values This topic deals with information related to various coarse grains and their nutritive values. Food items and their nutritive value This topic Discuss about Food items and their nutritive value like banana and Oats. Low Cost Nutritious Supplements This topic covers food needs for Infants, Pre school childrens, Recipes for preparing various low cost supplements and nutritious snacks Nutritive value of Pulses, Seeds and Nuts This topic deals with information related to various pulses, seeds and nuts and their nutritive values. Nutrition Transition The topic covers aspects related to nutrition transition and compliance to recommended dietary allowances. Functional foods and Non-communicable diseases The topic covers about functional foods and its role in management of non-communicable diseases. Role of Maternal Nutrition and adherence to RDA on pregnancy outcomes This topic emphasizes on the role of Maternal Nutrition and adherence to recommended dietary allowances on pregnancy outcomes. Fenugreek reduces blood sugar and cholestrol Use of fenugreek seeds in nutrition and health is explained here Common nutrition terminologies This topic explains some of the common terminologies used with respect to nutrition. Dietary Guidelines of Indians This topic covers the Information on Variuos Guidelines issued by NIN Types of vitamins and minerals This topic deals with the types of vitamins and minerals that are mostly found in a humanbody. Small Millets: Not ‘Small’ in Nutrition! This topic describes the importance of small millets in human nutrition and how consumption of small millets can ensure nutritional security. Navigation Women Health Child Health Policies and Schemes AYUSH Nutrition Nutrition and Health The Goodness of Greens Coarse grains and their nutritive values Food items and their nutritive value Low Cost Nutritious Supplements Nutritive value of Pulses, Seeds and Nuts Nutrition Transition Functional foods and Non-communicable diseases Role of Maternal Nutrition and adherence to RDA on pregnancy outcomes Fenugreek reduces blood sugar and cholestrol Common nutrition terminologies Dietary Guidelines of Indians Types of vitamins and minerals Small Millets: Not ‘Small’ in Nutrition! Diseases & disorders Sanitation and Hygiene Mental Health First Aid Facts for Life Organ donation Health Directory Discussion Forum - Health Related Items Celiac disease Treatment Hygenic and Healthy Foods for the Growing Baby Nutrition for Pregnant and Lactating Women Balanced Diet more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare