Chhattisgarh Area Home » Chhattisgarh » Area   Chhattisgarh छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Chhattisgarh Map Cities in Chhattisgarh Naya Raipur Surajpur Kondagaon Baloda Bazar Ambikapur Pendra Kirandul Baikunthpur                      more... Districts of Chhattisgarh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Chhattisgarh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Chitrakoot Waterfall Haat Bazaars Indravati National Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Chhattisgarh Forests Parliamentary Constituencies Economy History Government Politics How to Reach Geography People Culture Festivals Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Area Chhattisgarh at a Glance Capital City Chief Minister Governor Pincode Population Telephone Code Chhattisgarh Factsheet District Map in Hindi Universities in Chhattisgarh       Area of Chhattisgarh The state of Chhattisgarh was formed by integrated 16 districts of Madhya Pradesh that held together by a strong linguistic barrier. The state came into being in the new millennium on 1st November 2000. The area of Chattisgarh is estimated to be 1,35,000 sq. km. Chhattisgarh stretches across the latitudinal expanse of 17°46' North to 24°05'North on one hand to the longitudinal meridian of 80°15' East to 84°20' East on the other. Dense forests that cover 44% of the state's area mark the divergent topography of the state. Chattisgarh claims nearly 12% of India's total forest area that accounts for tremendous biodiversity as well as a rich collection of timber and variegated species of wildlife. Popularly known as the "rice bowl" of India, Chhattisgarh is responsible for more than 70% of the country's production of rice. Apart from rice kodo-kutki, maize, pulses, millets, oilseeds and sunflower are also grown aplenty. A majority of Madhya Pradesh's crop production comes from Chhattisgarh itself. In fact, prior to Chhattisgarh's recognition as an autonomous state, nearly 5800 to 6000 acres fell under its agricultural area and that contributed to 23% of undivided Madhya Pradesh's cultivation area. In the year 2004, Chhattisgarh reached a remarkable Gross State Domestic Product of over 12 billion US Dollars. The strategic location, abundant power supply and rich storehouse of minerals augment the state's industrial and economic potential. The industrial area is centered on the cities of Borai, Anjani, Sirgitti, Urla and Siltara in the districts of Bilaspur, Raigarh, Raipur and Durg/Rajnandgaon. Some of the significant industries housed within the territorial area of Chhattisgarh include: NTPC Korba (National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd) S.E.C.L. (South Eastern Coalfields Limited) Bhilai Steel Plant S.E.C.Railway Zone BALCO Aluminium Plant (Korba) Last Updated on: 29 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule