Official Website:: Indian Veterinary Research Institute A+   |   A   |   A- About IVRI Preface Milestone Mandate Past Directors IVRI Administration Research Milestone Organogram Link & Collaboration Honours & Awards Location Map Contact Directory Research Joint Directorate of Research Preface from Joint Director(Research) Mandate Activities Research Projects Patents Technologies Transfered Technologies for Transfer Contact Details Academic IVRI Deemed University Message from Joint Director(Academic) Deemed University Administration Academic Session Cources Offered MVSc PhD National Diploma Admission Procedure For Sponspred Candidate Fellowship Medals & Awards Facilities Available University News IVRI Alumini Divisions Animal Health Divisions Division of Animal Biotechnology Division of Bacteriology & Mycology Division of Biological Products Division of Epidemiology Immunology Section Division of Medicine Division of Parasitology Division of Pathology Divison of Pharmacology & Toxicology Division of Standardization Division of Surgery Division of Veterinary Public Health Division of Virology Animal Production Divisions Animal Genetics Div. Animal Nutrition Div Animal Reproduction Division Livestock Production & Management Section. Division Physiology & Climatology Divison of Temprate Animal Husbandray Basic & Social Sc. Divisions Biochemistry & Food Sc. Section BEMI Section Extension Education Div Liv. Eco., Statistics & IT Div. Liv. Products & Tech. Div Sections ARIS Cell Bioinformatics Centre Centre Data Cell Communication Centre Engineering Section Farm Section Farm Machinery and Power Workshop Institute Technology Management Unit (I.T.M.U.) Laboratory Animal Resources Feed Technology Unit Germ Plasm Centre Humal Hospital National Library for Vety. Science Wildlife Section Games & Sports Section राजभाषा अनुभाग Extension Joint Directorate (EE) Preface Objectives Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Infrastructure/Facilities Research Projects Scientific Staff Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - Single Delivery Window Kisaan Mela 2011 Training Programmes Contact Details Disease Diagnosis Joint Directorate (CADRAD) Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Scientific Staff Training Programme Contact Details Services Biological Products Diagnostics & Examination Vety. Polyclinic Livestock Products Disease Diagnosis Vermi Biocomposting Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - IVRI Single Window ITMU-Technology Transfer IVRI Publications Campuses Regional Campus Bangaluru Regional Station Kolkata Regional Station Mukteswar Regional Station Palampur Loading » IVRI Deemed University National Diploma Cources at IVRI Continuing veterinary education received due attention from the early days of establishment of the Imperial Bacteriological laboratory. However due to the pressing and ever increasing demand for trained field veterinarians a scheme was launched in 1904 for training the officers from Army and Civil Veterinary Departments in Comparative Pathology, Bacteriology and Microscopy. Subsequently, to meet the requirements and conditions in the field, this course was modified and designated as 'Post-graduate Refresher Course'. To keep pace with the new developments in animal health and animal production activities, the course was reorganised, from time to time in 1922, 1930 and 1950.To meet growing demands of the livestock industry and animal husbandry in the country, the Post-graduate Course was completely overhauled and designated as "National Diploma Course". Commensurate with the ever changing canvas of the livestock industry and animal husbandry in the country, the National Diploma Course syllabi are revised from time to time. To date, IVRI has awarded National Diplomas to 2062 officers from Army and State Animal Husbandry Departments. The institute conduct the following National Diploma Cources of 10 months duration. National Diploma in Animal Husbandry (NDAH) Division of Animal Nutrition National Diploma in Animal Reproduction (NDAR) Division of Animal Reproduction National Diploma in Veterinary Biological Products (NDBP) Division of Biological Products National Diploma in Equine Husbandry, Medicine and Surgery (NDEHMS) National Diploma in Fodder and Feed Technology(NDFFT) Division of Animal Nutrition National Diploma in Meet and Meat Products Technology (NDMPT) Division of Livestock Products Technology National Diploma in Poultry Husbandry (NDPH) CARI National Diploma in Preventive Veterinary Medicines (NDPVM) Div. of B & M National Diploma in Zoo and Wild Animal Health Cure and Management (NDZWA) Wild Life Centre National Diploma in Animal welfare Div. of Medicine Admission Notice for National Diploma Cources for session 2014-15 Application Form for National Diploma (Session 2014-15) Courses Offered PhD MVSc National Diploma Quick Links IVRI Deemed University Messages from JD(Acad.) University Mandate University Administration Academic Session Admission Procedure For Sponsored Candidate FellowShip Medals & Awards Facilities Available University News Alumni Download Format Related to Deemed University Admission 2015-16 Admission Notice Information Bulletin Application Form Staff Corner IVRI Mail HRMS Self Service Portal Important Circular Downloads ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute भा कृ अनु प-भारतीय पशु-चिकित्सा अनुसंधान संस्थान Visitor number: 1245238 Site Last Updated on: 07 April 2015 at 16:54:59 Disclaimer Privacy Policy Linking Policy Developed and Maintained by ARIS Cell, IVRI. © 2014 reserved with IVRI