India Political Map in Oriya, Map of India in Oriya Home » India Political Map in Oriya   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       India Political Map in Oriya Political Map of India in Oriya Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing All the States of India in Oriya Language. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. India political map in Oriya is a useful resource for the people who know the Oriya language or are the residents of the state of Odisha to know the political subdivisions of India. The major political subdivisions of India include both states and union territories. At present, there are 28 states and seven union territories in India. An India political map in Oriya will help the Oriya-speaking people understand these subdivisions and become aware about the states, union territories, and their capitals as well. Oriya is the formal language of the state of Orissa and an important regional language in some other parts of India. Hence, these people will find this map helpful. Locating the important states and union territories of India together with the capitals becomes an easy task altogether. Since India houses a large number of popular tourist destinations most of which are capitals of different states, this India political map in Oriya language will help the Oriya-speaking travelers explore the country in a simpler way. If you want to take the map along with you while touring India, just get a printout of this map and it will be just a matter of minutes. Oriya speaking people who are keen to know India will find it as a better informational resource. Last Updated on : 10 January 2012 View India Map in Gujarati Bengali English Malayalam Oriya Sanskrit Hindi Marathi Tamil Punjabi Kannada Nepali Telugu Urdu Assamese              