The Latest Updates | India For SafeFood About Us | Contact | FAQs Home Know Your Food Toxic Farming Hope & Relief Resources News Events You are here Home » The Latest Updates The Latest Updates Can India break its dependence on pesticides? 25 September 2014 Last updated at 07:30 BST New recommendations on dealing with the residues of pesticides in food are expected to be made by the UN's food and health agencies. Read More Government as well as Tea, Food & Pesticides Industry Should Prioritise Public Concern Around Toxic Pesticides and Act Positively: ASHA New Delhi, August 27, 2014 In a media statement put out today, ASHA (Alliance for Sustainable & Holistic Agriculture) welcomed the understanding and analysis of Union Minister for Fertilisers Mr Ananth Kumar who said that he will recommend banning of pesticides that are hazardous to our Nature and biodiversity. The Union Minister also said that pesticides that have been banned in other countries could also be banned in India... Read More 60 peacocks found dead Shiva Kumar Pinna,TNN | Jul 21, 2014, 11.05 AM IST WARANGAL: Nearly 60 peacocks were found dead in Chitur village of Lingala Ghanapur mandal early on Monday morning. The peacocks died as a result of drinking poisonous water. It is learnt the farmers... Read More New Report demands that government act against main culprit in Bihar MDM tragedy New Delhi, July 15th 2014 On the first anniversary of the terrible tragedy that claimed 23 children's lives in Saran district in Bihar due to pesticide poisoning of their school mid day meal, a new report released by India For Safe Food points out that government is not acting decisively on the big culprit here: pesticides, which are not inevitable... Read More Differences between organic and non-organic food Home - Organic is different New findings - organic crops, such as fruit, vegetables and cereals, and crop-based foods are up to 60% higher in a number of key antioxidants than non-organic crops. The findings shatter the myth that how we farm does not affect the quality... Read More Pesticides impair bumblebees' ability to forage Press Trust of India | London July 11, 2014 Last Updated at 12:54 IST Long-term exposure to pesticides harms bees' ability to forage for pollen and may be changing their choices of which flowers to visit, a new study has found. Scientists used Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tags, which are similar to those used by courier firms to track parcels, to monitor the day-to-day behaviour of bumblebees... Read More Will educate people about pesticides in food: Govt to HC Written by Aneesha Mathur | New Delhi | May 22, 2014 1:48 am Summary The Delhi government had claimed that it did not have adequate laboratories and could currently test for only 28 varieties of pesticides. The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has issued draft regulations for food imports and may soon make it mandatory for importers of food and vegetables to produce test reports from authorised labs to ensure pesticide remains in fruits and vegetables were within prescribed limits. Read More Lab testing of potatoes, green chillies before export mandatory: APEDA Friday, June 13, 2014 08:00 IST Libin Chacko Kurian, Mumbai Due to the ban imposed by Saudi Arabia on Indian green chillies and Russia\92s displeasure about contaminated potatoes from India, the Agricultural and Processed Food Export Development... Read More Punjab farmers try religious route to shun pesticides Image upload:  Author(s): Alok Gupta @alok227 Date:Jun 15, 2014 Ask religious institutions to grow organic crops and accept organic crops as donation for langars... Read More 10 ways to find out if your food is organic Image upload:  Sunday, 15 June 2014 - 2:50pm IST | Agency: DNA Tired of eating stuff laden with chemicals but don't know how to go about choosing right? Jayashree Joshi Eashwar, co-founder, Dubdengreen, and Mridu Mahajan Pogula... Read More Saudi Arabia bans import of Indian chili peppers Last Updated: Friday, May 09, 2014, 21:37 Riyadh: Saudi Arabia, the fifth-largest importer of fresh vegetables from India, has banned the import of Indian chili due to the presence of high pesticide residues in it, media reported Friday. Read More Pesticide scam exposed by Khemka to be probed Image upload:  Today's Paper \BB NATIONAL NEW DELHI, March 29, 2014 In a rare act, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Agriculture has come to whistleblower Ashok Khemka\92s support, ordering a Central government inquiry into the pesticide scam that the Haryana IAS officer uncovered. Read More New French law will ban non-agricultural use of pesticides from 2020 The French parliament has adopted a law which prohibits the private or public use of pesticides from 2020 in green areas, forests or public space. The law which is to start from 1 January 2020 for private individuals and the public excludes the use of pesticides on railways, airport runways or motorways. Read More Pesticides affect unborn babies' brain Image upload:  ANI | Dec 18, 2013, 05.41 PM IST Pesticides are not only responsible for a decline in bee populations but they can also affect human health and harm the brain development of unborn babies, according to European safety experts. Read More Fresh veggies exports to Saudi Arabia under threat Image upload:  The fifth largest importer finds pesticides residues higher than permissible level, warns to take action soon Dilip Kumar Jha | Mumbai November 8, 2013 Last Updated at 16:38 IST Faced with higher than permissible level of pesticides residues in fresh vegetables, Saudi Arabia, India\92s fifth largest importer, has threatened to take strong action in the near future. Read More Plates loaded with pesticides Image upload:  Garima Prasher , TNN | Nov 8, 2013, 05.50 AM IST BANGALORE: Probably it's time to take a closer look at what's on your platter. Cypermethrin, heptachlor, quinalphos, aldrin, chlorodane, dichlorvas, cypermethrin \97 these banned pesticides could well be a part of your regular diet. Okras, leafy green cabbages and other vegetables, bananas or oranges and apples that you so relish may be overloaded with some of these harmful pesticides. Read More Pesticide scan on store food Image upload:  OUR LEGAL CORRESPONDENT New Delhi, Oct. 22: The Supreme Court today directed all states and Union territories to conduct periodic checks on the markets within their territories for high levels of pesticides and insecticides in the foodstuff they sell. Read More Pesticides found in cooked food Image upload:  amar tejaswi | DCHyderabad, Sept. 25 As long as farmers continue to use pesticides, it will be hard to avoid consuming them. While it is known that pesticide residues are found in raw vegetables and crops, new rese-arch has shown that even cooked food has residues of pesticides. Read More Pesticide residue found in rice Image upload:  THIRUVANANTHAPURAM, August 24, 2013 Excessive amounts of Malathion, a general use pesticide, have been detected in a rice sample collected for inspection from the Food Corporation of India godown at Valiyathura here. Read More \91Expedite withdrawal of hazardous pesticides\92 Image upload:  Today's Paper \BB NATIONAL \BB NEW DELHI, August 2, 2013 AARTI DHAR Chapra incident an important reminder, says the United Nations organisation The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) on Thursday said the death of 23 children at Chapra in Bihar after eating school meal contaminated with monocrotophos was an important reminder to speed up the withdrawal of highly hazardous pesticides from markets in the developing countries. Read More Weedkillers tied to depression in farmers Image upload:  Kerry Grens Reuters 2:34 p.m. CDT, July 26, 2013 NEW YORK (Reuters Health) - Farmers who used weedkillers were more than twice as likely to be treated for depression than farmers who didn't use the chemicals in a new study from France. Whether the weedkillers are causing depression "is not clear," said Marc Weisskopf, the study's lead author and an associate professor at the Harvard School of Public Health. "But (the result) suggests we should not be ignoring herbicides just because they're targeting plants." Read More The poison pill in India's search for cheap food Image upload:  Sunday, Jul 28, 2013, 11:57 IST | Agency: Reuters In the school tragedy, police suspect the children's lunch was cooked in oil that was stored in a used container of monocrotophos. Nearly a decade ago, the government ruled out a ban on the production and use of monocrotophos, the highly toxic pesticide that killed 23 children this month in a Bihar village school providing free lunches under the government-sponsored mid-day meal programme. Read More Banned pesticide residues found in vegetable samples Image upload:  K. A. Martin The HIndu In public interest: The findings are being made public not to make the people panic but to look to safer alternatives. \97 File Photo The Kerala Agricultural University has found \93dangerous levels\94 of pesticide residue in key vegetables like cabbage, cauliflower, vegetable cowpea (achinga), amaranthus red, small red onions, tomatoes, green chillies and curry leaves, among others. Read More Push supplier states to curb chemical use