Small Farms / Alternative Enterprises - Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Extension Main Page About Us Extension Offices EDIS Publications Conference Info Discover the Cover Expand your knowledge of cover crops and how they can play an integral role in the health of your soil, weed suppression and in increasing the impact of beneficial organisms on managing crop pests. Learn from exciting research carried out at SVAEC and at a local blueberry farm. Join us to explore the world of cover crops and the many benefits they can provide to your farm. To register click here 2015 Suwannee Valley Twilight Field Day We regret to inform you that the Suwannee Valley Twilight Field Day has been canceled. It was scheduled for May 28 at the Suwannee Valley Agricultural Extension Center in Live Oak. We apologize for any inconvenience and we thank you for your support. Florida Small Farms and Alternative Enterprises Conference The annual state-wide Small Farms and Alternative Enterprises Conference has grown into regional events. Currently there are two regional conferences scheduled, one in Northeast Florida, August 14 & 15 at the University of North Florida Student Union, Jacksonville and one in Central Florida, November 6, 2015 at the Mid-Florida Research and Education Center, Apopka. More information and updates on these events to come. Limited Poultry and Egg Farm Operation Permit The Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services Division of Food Safety is accepting applications for Limited Poultry and Egg Farm Operations. To learn more about the requirements and fees read the Limited Poultry and Egg Farm Operation Frequently Asked Questions document. Florida Cattle Identification Rule The Cattle Identification Rule (Chapter 5C-31, Florida Administrative Code) has been published with an effective date of September 4, 2014. To learn more about this rule please click here . About this Website Explore topics related to the production, marketing and economics of specific small farm enterprises. More... Events Calendar Organic Pest Management Training May 26-27, 2015 Managing Your Queen and Expanding Your Apiary May 29, 2015 Discover the Cover June 4, 2015 Many More... 2005-2013 Small Farms & Alternative Enterprises Program Summary Our Small Farms & Alternative Enterprises UF-IFAS and FAMU-CAFS Extension Team Program Summary is now available. Click here to view our newsletter. Florida MarketMaker Offers Free, Easy Marketing Solutions MarketMaker links producers and consumers via customized profiles, powerful search engines, direct forums and innovative market analysis tools...all just a click away. Register today! Small Farmers Networks Extension Agents and Small Farmers working together to share information. More... Farm Pocket Notebook This Farm Pocket Notebook contains record forms and information.  More... Virtual Field Day The Virtual Field Day is a web site that allows visitors to see first hand new crops and alternative enterprises featured at field days & workshops. More... Planning & Management Getting Started , Agriculture Loans and Grants , Community Supported Agriculture , Enterprise Budgets , Farm Safety , Farmers' Markets , Marketing , Regulations , Success Stories , Ag Measures and Conversions Food Safety Postharvest Handling Livestock & Forages Livestock , Forages Crops Agronomics , Flowers & Foliage , Fruits & Nuts , Herbs , Hydroponics , Aquaponics , Ornamentals , Vegetables , Wildflowers IPM Farm Maps , Farmscaping , IPM Strategies , Ecosystem Services , Bats\Birds\Bees , Trap Cropping , Intercropping , Cover Crops , Weed Management , NRCS IPM Policy Forest Product, Environmental & Recreational Uses Forestry , Tourism , Wildlife & Hunting Freshwater Aquaculture & Farm Ponds Aquatic Weed Management , Farm Ponds , Fish Production , Pond & Lakefront Revegetation , Recreational & Youth Fishing Organic Production National Organic Program , The Organic System Plan , Marketing , Vegetables , Fruit , Citrus , Livestock , Pest Management , Fertility, Soil, & Irrigation Management , Cover Crops & Forages Other Enterprises Beekeeping , Cane Syrup , Renewable Energy , Shiitake Mushrooms , Spanish Moss , Worms State & Federal Agencies FDACS , Florida Department of Environmental Protection , Florida Farm Bureau , Florida Fish & Wildlife , USDA Agricultural Weather Florida Automated Weather Network (FAWN), AgroClimate, Florida Climate Center, Florida Division of Emergency Management, National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration, Accuweather, Intellicast, The Weather Channel Copyright 2006 | University of Florida | Site Feedback | EOI