stevia cultivation consultancy under buy back agreement AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Medicinal Plants stevia cultivation consultancy under buy back agreement Results 1 to 2 of 2 Thread: stevia cultivation consultancy under buy back agreement LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 2 Weeks Ago #1 aloeveraskpvt Join Date Jun 2011 Posts 1,231 stevia cultivation consultancy under buy back agreement stevia cultivation consultancy under buy back agreement STEVIA METERIAL AVILABLE stevia plant & seeds stevia dry fresh green leaf stevia green powder stevia liquid stevia tablete stivoside powder STEVIA CULTIVATION UNDER BUY BACK AGREEMENT PROJECT Stevia is one of the most profitable crops for coming future. As the crop is only source of natural sugar free / calorie free sweetener. People are being less hard worker that why they need calorie free substitute of sugar. Artificial sweeteners are problematic for long term consumption. In the countries like Japan and Korea stevia sweetener contribute 50% market share. Stevia crop is propagated by seedlings. We can provide you stevia seedling (plants) .You will require 30,000 seedlings per acre. We provide complete consultancy from cultivation technology, planting material supply, nutrient management (manure), water management (drip irrigation installation), and the most important one the Buy back. We can also provide buyback facility before starting the cultivation to the growers so that they can be ensuring at marketing side. In the consultancy we will assist you in Understanding the basics of Stevia crop Farm visit Soil and water sampling of your farm Land Development Manure and other farm input supply Irrigation system installation Planting material supply Pest management Drying of the leaves, Buyback facility Export market development Processing of the leaves. We are leading Agro Technology and Agribusiness consultancy provider. We strongly believe in business ethics. We have highly professional team of subject matter specialist of agriculture and allied disciplines. We believe in truly consultancy with independent and profitable solutions. For us agriculture is the base of development, height of development, strength of development, depth of development. For a long term sustainable social & economical development agriculture must be the axel. Agriculture development must environment friendly, sustainable, efficient use of available resources and non hazardous. We provide Agro technology and Agribusiness consultancy through better utilization of your resources, value of your money, independent consultancy, cost effective, profitable solutions and complete satisfaction without any deviation. from S.K.PVT.LTD. ISO 9001-2008 CERTIFIED COMPANY UDAIPUR RAJASTHAN CON.9602635727 WEBSITE-www.amritsanjeevani.com email-amritstevia@gmail.com Reply With Quote 1 Week Ago #2 rekhapatil2006 Join Date Feb 2015 Posts 4 what will be the rate, I am from maharashtra Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 02:56 PM .