Delhi Map Home » Maps » Delhi Map   Delhi History of Delhi Geography of Delhi Weather in Delhi दिल्ली का नक्शा Delhi Map Location Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District in Delhi                  (Hindi) Delhi Road Map Delhi Railway Map Tehsils of Delhi Localities Map Sex Ratio Map Delhi Zone Map Delhi-NCR Map Delhi Forest Map Delhi Tourism Tourist Places in Delhi Delhi Shopping Centre India Gate Red Fort Jama Masjid National Museum Adventure island Parliament Museum How to Reach Delhi IGI Airport Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Delhi Metro Utilities Delhi Distance Chart Delhi Pin code Delhi STD code Delhi Government Delhi Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Education in Delhi Schools in Delhi Colleges in Delhi Universities in Delhi Information on Delhi Delhi Jal Board MCD Circle Rates Hospitals in Delhi Markets in Delhi Hotels in Delhi New Delhi Hotels Industries in Delhi       Delhi Map दिल्ली का नक्शा Map of Delhi Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * The Map illustrating the important areas, roads, hospitals, hotels, airports, places of interest, landmarks etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Delhi is the capital city of India. It is the second most populated city in the country. The city has a population of over 22 million people and is spread out over an area of 1484 km. Delhi is situated on the banks of Yamuna and the city is bordered by the states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The city of Delhi is the largest commercial center in the northern part of India. The culture of this place has been influenced by its extensive history and its momentous association as the capital of India. Delhi lies at an altitude of between 700 and 1000 feet (213 and 305 m) and covers an area of 1,485 square kilometers. It is situated on the Yamuna River and is bordered on the east by the state of Uttar Pradesh and by Haryana on the north, west and south.   Quick Facts   Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Governor Najeeb Jung Size 1483 sq km population (Census 2011) 16,787,941 population (UN report 2014) 25 million Rivers Yamuna Languages Hindi, Punjabi, Urdu State Bird Sparrow STD Code 011 Time Zone IST (UTC+5:30) Neighbouring States Haryana, Uttar Pradesh No. of District 11 Geographical Area and Location Delhi covers an area of more than 1484 sq km. The River Yamuna is the only major river flowing through Delhi. The Delhi ridge which reaches a height of 1043 ft originates from the Aravalli Range in the south and surrounds the West, North East and North West parts of the city. Delhi is lies in India's seismic zone-IV, which makes it vulnerable to earthquakes. The city is situated in Northern India at 28.61°N 77.23°E and is bordered in the East by Uttar Pradesh and in the West, South and North by Haryana.   More Details... Demographics According to the census of 2011, the population of Delhi is 16,314,838 and the number of females per 1000 males is 867. The literacy rate of Delhi is 86.43%. As per the area, Delhi is the largest metropolis and according to the population, it holds the second position in the list of largest metropolises in India. Government & Administration Delhi is officially known as the National Capital Territory of Delhi (NCT). It has always been an important cultural, commercial and political hub of the country. Currently Delhi has 11 districts. Delhi is divided into the New Delhi Municipal Committee (NDMC), the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) and the Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB). The capital has four important satellite cities namely, Gurgaon, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad. Delhi has 7 Lok Sabha constituencies and 70 assembly constituencies. The Rashtrapati Bhavan, the Parliament of India and the Supreme Court of India are all situated in Delhi. The National Capital Territory of Delhi is divided into nine districts. Initially in 1997, nine districts were formed. Prior 1997, there was only one district for the entire Delhi. The districts of Delhi and their headquarters (in brackets) are - Central Delhi (Daryaganj), North Delhi (Sadar Bazar), South Delhi (Saket), East Delhi (Preet Vihar), North East Delhi (Shahdara), South West Delhi (Vasant Vihar), New Delhi (Connaught Place), North West Delhi (Kanjhawala) and West Delhi (Rajouri Garden).   More Details... Transportation Delhi has its own Indira Gandhi International Airport, which is situated to the southwest of Delhi. It is maintained by the GMR Group and is one of the busiest airports in South Asia. Delhi is the headquarters of the Northern Railway in India. There are five main railway stations in Delhi; they are the New Delhi railway station, Old Delhi railway station, Nizamuddin Railway Station, Anand Vihar Railway Terminal and Sarai Rohilla railway station. There is also a suburban railway system in the city. Delhi has five National Highways running through it, the National Highway Number 1, 2, 8, 10 and 24. All public transport vehicles in Delhi are fuelled by compressed natural gas (CNG). The state-owned Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) is the major bus service provider and operates the world's largest fleet of CNG-fuelled buses. Apart from these taxis, radio cabs, auto rickshaws and cycle rickshaws (in some localities) are easily available in Delhi The Delhi Metro rapid transit system built and operated by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), is another means of transportation in Delhi. It serves many parts of Delhi and the neighbouring NCR cities like Gurgaon, Noida and Ghaziabad. History Delhi bears the stamp of a rich historical background and has been home to many ancient empires like the Mauryan Empire, Mughal Empire and renowned dynasties like the Tomara dynasty, Slave dynasty, Tughluq dynasty, Khilji dynasty etc. It is believed that Delhi is the land of Indrapastha, the capital seat of the Pandavas in the epic Mahabharata. Delhi was also an important place for Sufism. After India's independence, Delhi was declared the capital of India.   More Details... Culture Delhi has a rich cultural background. It consists of large number of significant monuments, heritage buildings and other famous architectural buildings like the Red Fort, Jama Masjid, India Gate, Qutub Minar, Jantar Mantar, Laxminarayan Temple and Akshardham to name some. These are also the major tourist spots in Delhi that you can visit and enjoy. All the major events like the Republic Day, etc and festivals of all religion are celebrated in Delhi with great zeal and excitement. In Delhi, one can enjoy all types of Indian and international cuisines and delicacies besides the typical mouth watering local fast food collection like Dahi Bhalla and Papri Chaat. Delhi offers a wide variety to shop till you drop. From jewelry, to saris to all sorts of electrical gadgets to all other different variety of products, Delhi has it all.   More Details... Places to Visit Delhi Metro Tour Yamuna Expressway Jantar mantar Janpath Dilli Haat Red Fort India Gate Safdarjung Tomb Qutub Minar Jama Masjid Lodi Garden Humayuns Tomb Purana Qila Delhi Facts City Name Delhi State Delhi District North West Delhi, South Delhi, West Delhi, South West Delhi, North East Delhi, East Delhi, North Delhi, Central Delhi, New Delhi, Shahdara, South East Delhi Tehsil/Taluk Daryaganj, Karol Bagh, Paherganj, Gandhi Nagar, Preet Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Chanakyapuri, Connaught Place, Parliament Street, Civil Lines, Kotwali, Sadar Bazar, Seelampur, Seemapuri, Shahdara, Model Town, Narela, Saraswati Vihar, Defance Colony, Hauz Khas, Kalkaji, Delhi Canttoment, Najafgarh, Vasant Vihar, Patel Nagar, Punjabi Bagh, Rajouri Gargen Ward MCD-272, Delhi Cantonment -09, NDMC-09 Zone South Delhi Zone, North Delhi Zone, East Delhi Zone Lat Long 28.633074, 77.219543 Area 1,483 km2 (573 sq mi) population as per 2011 16,787,941 population (UN report 2014) 25 million Official Languages Hindi, English, Punjabi and Urdu Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) STD Code 011 Transport Air, Road, Railway, Metro Vehicle registration DL-1, DL-2, DL-3, DL-4, DL-5, DL-6, DL-7, DL-8, DL-9 Food and Cuisine Mughlai Cuisine, Kebab, Biryani, Tandoori, Butter Chicken, Aloo Chaat, Chaat, Dahi Vada, Kachori, Chole Bhature, Jalebi, Lassi, Street Food , South Indian Food, Delicious Paranthas, Paneer Tikka, Tandoori Fish etc. Religion Hindu, Muslim, Sikhism, Jainism Festival Republic Day, Independence Day, Gandhi Jayanti, Diwali, Mahavir Jayanti, Parkash Utsav Dasveh Patshah, Guru Nanak Gurpurab, Martyrdom of Guru Tegh Bahadur, Durga Puja, Holi, Lohri, Karva Chauth, Krishna Janmastami, Maha Shivratri, Eid ul-Fitr, Moharram, Buddha Jayanti, Qutub Festival, International Mango Festival, Vasant Panchami and World Book Fair etc. Monuments Red Fort, India Gate, Purana Qila, Qutab Minar, Iron Pillar etc. Places of interest Jama Masjid, Red Fort, Qutab Minar, Humayun's Tomb, India Gate, Jantar Mantar, Laxminarayan Temple, Akshardham Temple, Lotus Temple, ISKCON Temple, Raj Ghat, The Secretariat, Rajpath, Vijay Chowk. Safdarjung's Tomb, Mughal Gardens, Lal Bangla, Mutiny Memorial, Sunehri Masjid (Red Fort), Tomb of Safdarjung, Jahaz Mahal, Tomb of Adham Khan, Iron Pillar etc. Hospital All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Moolchand Medcity, BLK Super Speciality Hospital, Batra Hospital & Medical Research Centre, Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Rockland Hospital, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Sant Parmanand Hospital, Aruna Asaf Ali Govt. Hospital, Acharyaashree Bhikshu Hospital, Attar Sain Jain Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital, Dr. N.C. Joshi Hospital, Govind Ballabh Pant Hospital, Guru Govind Singh Govt. Hospital, Guru Nanak Eye Center, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Janakpuri Super Speciality Hospital, Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, Lok Nayak Hospital, Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, Rao Tula Ram Memorial Hospital, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital, Satyawadi Raja Harish Chandra Hospital, Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Sushrut Trauma Centre, B R Sur Homeopathic Medical College, Nehru Homeopathic Medical College, Vardhman Mahavir Medical College, Apollo etc. Hotels Le Meridien, The Oberoi, Imperial Hotel, The Metropolitan Hotel, Hotel Delhi City Centre, Hyatt Regency Delhi, Taj Palace Hotel, The Park, Ashok Hotel, Hotel Ajanta, The Connaught, Hotel Grand Godwin, Hotel City Park, Taj Palace Hotel, Hotel La Suite, Piccadily Hotel, The Lalit etc. Markets Connaught Place (CP), Chandni Chowk, Dilli Haat, Palika Bazaar, Greater Kailash, Karol Bagh, Lagpat Nagar, Khan Market, South Extension, Hauz Khas, Green Park, Greater Kailash, Kamla Nagar, Janpath, Sarojini Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Vasant Kunj, Vasant Vihar, Rajouri Garden, Khari Baoli, Ghanta Ghar, Bhajanpura and DLF Emporio - Vasant Kunj, Select Citywalk - Saket, Pacific Mall - Tagore Garden, Ansal Plaza - Andrews Ganj, DLF Promenade/Ambience Mall - Vasant Kunj, ect. Industries Area Anand Parbat Industrial Area, Badli Industrial Estate, Bawana Industrial Area, Dilshad Garden Industrial Area, Flatted Factory Complex Jhandewalan, Friends Colony Industrial Area, GTK Industrial Area, Jhilmil Industrial Area, Kirti Nagar Industrial Area, Lawrence Road Industrial Area, Mangol Puri Industrial Area, Mayapuri Industrial Area, Mohan Co-Operative Industrial Area, Moti Nagar Industrial Area, Najafgarh Road Industrial Area, Nangloi Dsidc Industrial Area, Naraina Industrial Area, GT Road Industrial Area Shahdara, Okhla Indl. Area, Okhla Industrial Estate, Patparganj Industrial Area, Rajasthan Udyog Nagar Industrial Area, Samaipur Industrial Area, Shahzada Bagh Industrial Area, SMA Industrial Area, Ssi Industrial Area,Udyog Nagar Industrial Area, Wazirpur Industrial Area, Dilshad Garden Industrial Area, Directory Of Industries In Delhi, Friends Colony Industrial Area, Mohan Co-Operative Industrial Area, Moti Nagar Industrial Area, Shahzada Bagh Industrial Area, Udyog Nagar Industrial Area, Wazirpur Industrial Area etc. University/College National Institute of Technology, Indian Institute of Technology, Indian Institute of Mass Communication, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Delhi, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Jamia Millia Islamia, Indira Gandhi National Open University, TERI University, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidyapith, School of Planning and Architecture, Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan, National University of Educational Planning and Administration, National Museum Institute of History of Art, Conservation and Musicology, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Jamia Hamdard, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Indian Law Institute, Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, South Asian University, Institute of Professional Education & Entrepreneurship, National Law University, Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology, Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, Delhi Technological University (Formerly known as Delhi College of Engineering), Bharat Ratna Dr. B. R. Ambedkar University, National School of Drama Notable people Anuj Nayyar - Indian Army, Arjun Rampal, Shahid Kapoor, Shakti Kapoor, Sunidhi Chauhan, Bipasha Basu, Priyanka Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Ishant Sharma - Cricketer, Virender Sehwag - Cricketer, Gautam Gambhir - Cricketer Virat Kohli - Cricketer, Amit Mishra - Cricketer, Ratish Nanda etc. Blogs about Delhi Enjoy Your Day out at Splash – The Water Park : Splash – The Water Park, a one-of-its-kind amusement park in North Delhi, is a perfect place to retreat and enjoy a day with family and friends. This park offers fun and entertainment in the form of water slides, wave pools, rides and simulated rain dances. Splash is a well-maintained park where one can enjoy a day out in meticulously clean waters. Key Highlights of Splash – The Water Park • The Water Park has two… read more... Which are the Best Cities in India to Live? : The development of cities and increasing urbanisation in India has transformed the Indian society and culture. A change in terms of occupation, living standards, thinking, education, culinary preferences etc is apparent. Cities, which are the hub of trade and commerce, attract everyone as growth rate here is higher as compared to small towns and villages. The wish to live a better life results in internal migration. People migrate from town and villages to cities and… read more... Which is the worst city to live in India? : Defining just one city as the worst city to live in India would not be appropriate. Some score good on one index and low on the other. Take a look at the capital of India. Every year Delhi welcomes hundreds of thousands of people from all across India as it has an edge over other cities in terms of infrastructure and employment opportunities. On the other hand, it also tops the list when crime and… read more... Aam Aadmi Party: The Sting and The Split : Just over a month has elapsed since the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) routed all opposition and secured an absolute majority (67 of the 70 seats) in the Delhi Legislative Assembly elections. While one might think that any party,which has been given a precious second chance at governing the national capital, would utilise the early months to consolidate its position and show quick and smart administrative changes to win the hearts of the electorate, AAP seems… read more... Air Pollution in Delhi Is Alarming – Vehicles the Culprit : The World Health Organization has ranked Delhi as the most polluted city for air pollution in the world. It surveyed 1,600 cities and released a report stating that air pollution is putting residents at the risk of cancer, heart-disease and stroke. Though India has rejected the findings it cannot be neglected altogether. Poisonous particulates are certainly being added in the air by growing traffic and industries. Among all, growing number of vehicles is the major… read more... Last Updated on: February 14, 2015 Famous and Notable People from Delhi Arts and Entertainment Nandita Das Shahid Kapoor Bipasha basu Shah Rukh Khan Salman Khan Poetry Ghalib Sports Virender Sehwag Gautam Gambhir Virat Kohli Shikhar Dhawan Ajay Jadeja Mohinder Amarnath Chetan Chauhan Manoj Prabhakar Union Territories Of India Andaman and Nicobar Pondicherry Dadra and Nagar Haveli Daman and Diu Delhi Chandigarh Lakshadweep Places to Visit in Delhi India Gate Red Fort Jama Masjid Bangla Sahib in Delhi Jantar Mantar Qutub Minar Lotus Temple Akshardham Temple Rajghat Old Fort Lodhi Garden Humayun's Tomb Safdarjang's Tomb Delhi Haat Laxmi Narayan Temple Iskcon Temple Tughlaqabad Fort National Agricultural Science Museum Rashtrapati Bhawan National Museum Akshardham Temple in Delhi Delhi Zoo (Chidiya Ghar) The Iconic Dolls Museum in Delhi The Garden of Five Senses National Rail Museum, New Delhi             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder