Ritu Kumar India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Health & Lifestyle » Ritu Kumar   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Ritu Kumar Ritu Kumar is one of the country's leading fashion designers who has a major contribution in the revival of traditional Indian craft and design. Ritu Kumar along with some like-minded designers attempted to blend the best of East and West. Ritu Kumar took the initiative to present India's rich heritage to the whole world in a way that would be beneficial to both the Indian craftsmen and the modern customers worldwide. Ritu Kumar has pioneered the term 'fashion' in Indian context. Indeed she is the one who put forth the importance of hand-made products as it can be as cost-effective as machine-made clothes and even more gorgeous than those. She started with hand block printers in a village near Kolkata . That was twenty-eight years ago. Ritu Kumar with her team of committed designers has come a long way. She has worked mainly on cotton, silk and leather and produced some of the country's most magnificent garments. Ritu Kumar's specialty is traditional Indian clothes, which highlights on the textile and embroidery heritage of India. But the mix and match of the Indian and western wear also holds a prime position in her work. Ritu Kumar designed the wardrobes of the Miss India's like Manpreet Brar, Rani Jeyraj, Ruchi Malhotra, Lara Dutta for their participation in the International Beauty Pageants. All of them have won the award for the Most Outstanding Evening Gown in International pageants. Ritu's Buotique, which was later named only Ritu, has many outlets all over the country. Moreover, she has launched her book ' Costumes and Textiles of Royal India' published by Christie's, London. The leading lady designer has been awarded many a times: Lifetime Achievement Award set by NIFT Outstanding Woman Entrepreneur Award by PHDCC Lifetime achievement award at the Kingfisher Fashion Fantasia, July 2000 in Bangalore.   Related Links   Designers Ritu Kumar Abu Jani Rohit Bal JJ Valaya Manish Malhotra Tarun Tahiliani Sabyasachi Mukherjee Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule