Gifts Trade Shows,Handicraft Trade Fair,Gifts & Crafts Exhibition,Gifts Trade Expos JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Gifts & Crafts Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Gifts & CraftsTrade Shows Date : 05 Sep - 13 Sep 2015 Feria Internacional de Muestras -  Spain Feria Internacional de Muestras de Valladolid is characterized by constant evolution for its dynamism and ability to present to its visitors products and services sectors as diverse as automotive, leisure and tourism, culture, food . each section.... Venue : Feria de Valladolid Spain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Sep - 06 Sep 2015 Ceranor Expo -  Portugal World famous event for producers and suppliers of gift and decoration products including Ceramic Decorative Articles, Crystal and Decorative Glassware, Ceramic Tableware, China Tableware, Basketwork Goods, Wooden Products, Silverware, Gifts,.... Venue : Exponor - Feira Internacional Do Porto Portugal Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Jul - 06 Jul 2015 Trendset MÜnchen -  Germany TrendSet – International Trade Fair for Living, Dining and Lifestyle“ takes place in Munich. Trendset Munchen offers wide opportunities to new artists for exhibiting their antique jewelry, furniture, antique clocks etc. Venue : Messe Munchen ,München Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Aug - 19 Aug 2015 Seattle Gift Show -  United States Worldwide Exhibition of Gift Shops, Furnishing Stores, Jewelry and Stationery Stores Venue : Washington State Convention & Trade Center ,Washington United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Sep - 11 Sep 2015 Gifts Show -  Romania GIFTS SHOW is one of the most important events on the Eastern European promotional products market and the first Romanian trade show addressing this industry. Gifts Show is a dedicated event showcasing the finest in giftware and homeware.... Venue : Romexpo Exhibition Centre ,Marasti Blvd Romania Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Oct - 16 Oct 2015 IFEX : International Flower Expo Tokyo -  Japan IFEX : International Flower Expo Tokyo 2015 is asia's largest and most significant business-generating trade venue in the industry. flower and garden industry professionals such as florists, garden centers, home center buyers, wholesalers,.... Venue : Makuhari Messe Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Sep - 06 Sep 2015 Craft & Quilt Fair -  New Zealand Craft & Quilt Fair- 2015 is unique products for stamping, scrapbooking, knitting, embroidery, sewing, quiltmaking, jewellery-making show, which is providing an exellent platform the related industry. Venue : Claudelands Event Centre New Zealand Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Jul - 15 Jul 2015 Promotional Goods Expo-Japan -  Japan Unique premium & novelty products have been in great demand and highly sought after by leading sales promotion agencies, advertising agencies, and corporate users in order to maximise their every sales promotion activity.PROMOTIONAL GOODS.... Venue : Tokyo International Exhibition Center (tokyo Big Sight) ,Tokyo Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Jul - 10 Jul 2015 Baby & Kids Expo-Japan -  Japan Baby & Kids Expo is the unique and attractive Japanese trade fair, that provides a wide range of shopping opportunities for kids and their parents. The show is dynamic, and keeps into consideration the ever-increasing demand levels for.... Venue : Tokyo Big Sight ,Tokyo Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Jun - 17 Jun 2015 Fine Design Residential Furnishings Show-NeoCon -  United States Fine Design Residential Furnishings Show-NeoCon 2015 show is largest design center, encompassing showrooms and product lines of luxury furnishings, fabrics, wall and floor coverings, casual/outdoor furnishings, art, antiques, accessories and.... Venue : The Merchandise Mart ,IL United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Dec - 06 Dec 2015 The One of a Kind Show-Chicago -  United States The One of a Kind Show-Chicago show 2015 is an extraordinary holiday shopping show featuring the best in fine art and fine craft which is ideal place to find unique gifts, clothing, jewelry and accessories. Venue : The Merchandise Mart ,IL United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Nov - 15 Nov 2015 Greater Cincinnati Holiday Market -  United States Cincinnati’s most exciting extravaganza gives “Shop till you drop” a whole new meaning! If you are ready to get into the holiday spirit this season, The Greater Cincinnati Holiday MarketSM is the place to be! Venue : Duke Energy Convention Center ,Ohio United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Jun - 07 Jun 2015 American Gem Expo-Birmingham -  United States American Gem Expo-Birmingham 2015 is one of the famous Jewelry, Gift Item, Fashion Accessories show which is providing best platform for the related industries like jewellery prducts manufacturers in the world. Venue : The Pelham Civic Complex ,AL United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Sep - 15 Sep 2015 Gifts and Premium Dubai -  United Arab Emirates Gifts and Premium Dubai 2015 is one of the leading corporate gifts, giftware, medals show which is showing there quality products and show will providing and best place for the related industries in the country. Venue : Dubai World Trade Centre ,UAE United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Aug - 06 Aug 2015 Summer 2015 Las Vegas Market -  United States Las Vegas Market is the most comprehensive furniture, home décor and gift market in the United States, presenting a unique cross-section of 2,000+ resources in an unrivaled market destination. With two markets each year, retailers and designers can.... Venue : World Market Center Las Vegas ,NV United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 May - 17 May 2015 American Gem Expo-Charlotte -  United States American Gem Expo-Charlotte 2015 is one of the international trade event dedicated to fashion jewellery, fashion accessories industry, gift items which is providnig the chances for the vendors, exhibit, exhibitor, person, promotion, activity,.... Venue : Metrolina Expo Center ,NC United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 30 Apr - 03 May 2015 ASIAMANIA! -  Korea, Republic of Discover all Asia has to offer, including K-Pop, cosmetics and beauty, fashion, film, food, technology, and more! Satisfying both B2B and B2C needs, the ASIAMANIA! expo represents true convergence between culture and business, in the heart of the.... Venue : Coex ,Korea Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Apr - 28 Apr 2015 Gifts & Home China Spring, 2015 -  China Reed Huabo’s Gifts and Home China Fair is the largest trade show of its kind in Mainland China. Held in Shenzhen during the best buying seasons in April and October every year, the fair offers the widest selection of business gifts, premiums and.... Venue : Shenzhen Convention & Exhibition Center ,Guangdong China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 Zak Interior Exterior Expo Chennai -  India Zak Interior Exterior Expo will provide an excellent platform to the exhibitors to exhibit a wide range of interior and exterior design accessories. Zak Interior Exterior Expo is an international meeting point where companies will present the.... Venue : Chennai Trade Centre ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 Art Cologne -  Germany ART COLOGNE will offer painting, sculpture, installations, video art, photography, works on paper, editions and multiples in a select presentation of the healthy variety of the modern and contemporary art trade in Europe and overseas. Venue : Exhibition Centre Cologne Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 American Gem Expo-Lexington -  United States American Gem Expo-Lexington 2015 is one of the leading Jewelry, Gift Item, Fashion Accessories show which is providing an ideal place for the related industries, related professionals like jewellery exporters, manufactures in the country. Venue : Lexington Center ,KY United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Apr - 18 Apr 2015 Vietnam Expo -  Viet Nam With the topic Vietnam - Enhancing Co-Operation in Asean Economic Community, Vietnam Expo 2015 sponsored by the Ministry of Industry and Trade of Vietnam will take place from 15th to 18th April, 2015. Vietnam Expo 2015 is expected to cover 800.... Venue : Vietnam Exhibition & Fair Center ,Hanoi Viet Nam Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Apr - 12 Apr 2015 Antiques For Everyone -  United Kingdom Antiques for Everyone is the UK’s largest antiques, interiors and collectables fairs held three times a year at the NEC in Birmingham. Venue : National Exhibition Centre ,England United Kingdom Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Apr - 02 Apr 2015 Mega Style Souk -  India The Mega Style Souk is an exclusive exhibition cum sale of 14 designers from all over India, at Taj Coromandel venue- organized by Vimonisha gallery with more than 50 successful shows behind them. The event will be taking place between 01-02.... Venue : Hyatt Regency Chennai ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Mar - 31 Mar 2015 Boston Gift Show -  United States Boston Gift Show is unique among industry shows. Its universe of exhibitors extends well beyond the usual gift category manufacturers found at most other shows to include independent wholesalers and direct gift, decorative.... Venue : Boston Convention & Exhibition Center ,MA United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Mar - 28 Mar 2015