Privacy Policy | Corporate Policies - Compusoft Technologies   Home     Contact Us     Sitemap +91-22-4122 6029    info@compusofttechnology.com home why us? services clients careers reach us Blog Website Design Website Designing Content Management System Ecommerce Web Marketing Search Engine Optimization Social Media Optimization graphic Design Brochure Designing Press Ad Designing Logo Designing Business Card Design Letterhead Designing Corporate Identity Envelope Designing Poster Designing CD Cover Designing Mailer Designing Multimedia Flash Presentation Flash Banner Stall Design Hosting Domain Name Registration Privacy Policy     Privacy Policy You can visit Compusoft Technologies websites without telling us who you are and without revealing any information about yourself. There are times, however, when we may need information from you. Compusoft Technologies does not rent, sell, or share personal information about you with other people or non affiliated companies except to provide products or services you've requseted, when we have your permission, or under the following circumstances: We provide the information to trusted partners who work on behalf of or with Compusoft Technologies under extremely strict confidentiality agreements. These companies may use your personal information to help Compusoft Technologies communicate with you about offers from Compusoft Technologies and our marketing partners. However, these companies do not have any independent right to share this information. We respond to subpoenas, court orders, or legal process, or to establish or exercise our legal rights or defend against legal claims; We believe it is necessary to share information in order to investigate, prevent, or take action regarding illegal activities, suspected fraud, situations involving potential threats to the physical safety of any person, or as otherwise required by law. We transfer information about you if Compusoft Technologies is acquired by or merged with another company. You may choose to give us personal information, such as your name and address or e-mail id that may be needed, for example, to correspond with you, to download our white papers or to provide you with a subscription. If you tell us that you do not want us to use this information as a basis for further contact with you, we will respect your wishes. We intend to protect the quality and integrity of your personally identifiable information. We will make a sincere effort to respond in a timely manner to your requests to correct inaccuracies in your personal information. To correct inaccuracies in your personal information please return the message containing the inaccuracies to the sender with details of the correction requested. AntiSpam Policy Compusoft Technologies recognizes the receipt, transmission or distribution of spam emails (unsolicited bulk emails) as a major concern and has taken reasonable measures, to minimize the transmission and effect of spam emails in its computing environment. All emails received by Compusoft Technologies, are subject to spam check, in coordination with “COMPUSOFTTECHNOLOGYPUREMAIL” subscription service. Any email identified as spam will be rejected with sufficient information to the Sender for taking necessary action. With this measure, along with other technical spam reduction measures, Compusoft Technologies hopes to minimize the effect of spam emails. Compusoft Technologies reserves the right to reject and/or report any suspicious spam emails, to the authorities concerned, for necessary action, from time to time. Compusoft Technologies Web site may contain links to other sites such as Compusoft Technologies partners and affiliates. While we try to link only to sites that share our high standards and respect for privacy, we are not responsible for the content or the privacy practices employed by other sites                         Services       Need Help?                       - Website Designing - Content Management System - Ecommerce - Flash Presentation - Flash Banner - Stall Design - Ad Design - Logo Design - Corporate Identity - Business Card Design - Brochure Design - Letterhead Design - Envelope Design - Poster Design - CD Cover Design - Mailer Design - SEO - SMO - Hosting - Domain Name Registration - Why Us - Clients - Careers - Privacy Policy - Legal Disclaimer - FAQ's - Resources - Testimonials - Articles - Sitemap - RSS Feed - XML Sitemap Follow Us on     "TRADEMARK & LOGOS APPEARING ON THIS SITE ARE THE PROPERTY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OWNERS" Site Best Viewed in 1024 x 768 Resolution, and Internet Explorer 5.0 & ABOVE Copyright @ 2012 Compusoft Technologies