IT Initiatives » Central Silk Board Loading... Screen Reader Access Who's who | Contact Us | Intranet Login Central Silk Board Ministry of Textiles - Govt of India Home About Us Vision & Mission Mandate Organization chart Composition of the Board Act & Rules Citizen's charter FAQ Silk-Sericulture Silk Sericulture Silks of India Services R & D Training Seed Production Consultancy Schemes Central Sector Centrally Sponsored MKSP Projects for Tasar MGNREGA with CDP NER Textile Promotion Statistics Silk Flash Silk Bulletin Silk Exports & Imports Publications Indian Silk Books Videos Annual Report Downloads RFD Note on sericulture Training Calendar Evaluation Reports Regd. Stake holders Silk Exporters Minutes of Meetings Gallery   IT Initiatives mKisan CSB has widened the outreach of scientists and experts  to disseminate information  to provide scientific advisories to farmers through their mobile telephones using  mKisan Web Portal .... mkisan.gov.in MyGov CSB has initiated an open discussion forum in MYGOV portal on the topic “How to increase the demand of Indian Silk products in the country as well as abroad”   .... www.mygov.in SILKS web portal A web portal Sericulture Information Linkages & Knowledge System (SILKS) has been developed covering 108 districts spread over to 26 states using Remote Sensing & GIS for analysis and selection of potential unutilized land for promoting sericulture  ... silks.csb.gov.in SILKS project received e-Governance SILVER award for the year 2014-15 under the category  “ Innovative use of  GIS Technology ”   SERI5K  SERI5K is designed and developed as a database of  Bi-voltine cluster farmers of all over India. Rate by SMS Sericulture products rates are made available by SMS.  .....   Please click here  for complete details Silk Mark e-Market Portal Social Market place for Silk Weavers and Enterprises of Silk Clusters to promote Indian Silk ...... silkmark.gocoop.com Sitemap Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2015 Central Silk Board. All Rights Reserved.   This is the official Website of Central Silk Board, a statutory body of Government of India under the Ministry of Textiles Last updated: 27/04/2015