Museums of Mizoram Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Mizoram Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to reach Places to Visit in Mizoram Museums of Mizoram Caves Wildlife Sanctuaries Tomb of Vanhimailian Mangkahia Lung Vantawng Falls Phawngui Activities Tourist Destinations Near Mizoram Aizawl Travel About Mizoram History & Geography Climate Home » Mizoram » Tourism » Museums Museums of Mizoram The museums of Mizoram form an important part of tourism at Mizoram. The museums in Mizoram contain a number of artifacts that enable the tourists to capture the cultural heritage of Mizoram . Mizoram State Museum is one of the most important museums of Mizoram. Located in Aizwal, Mizoram State Museum was established in 1977. Mizoram State Museum is located at Macdonald Hill and remains open from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. except on Monday and Saturday. Mizoram State Museum houses a number of items that reflect the cultural heritage of Mizoram. The items displayed in the museum reflect the rich past of Mizoram. Among the items stored in the Mizoram State Museum are: Arms and Weapons Natural history specimens Photographs Archaeological objects Tribal textiles Utensils Stone sculptures Musical instruments Mizoram Science Centre is another important museum of the state. Mizoram Science Centre enables the tourists to enjoy the marvels of science. The museum aims at providing general awareness through fun and amusement. Mizoram Science Centre is among the most popular sites of Mizoram that attracts visitors of all age groups. Mizoram State Museum Mizoram State Museum was established in 1977. It is an ethnological museum that has a separate gallery dedicated to the tribes of Mizoram. The State Museum of Mizoram is a multi purpose museum that is located on Macdonald Hill. Mizoram State Museum, situated in Aizwal, remains open from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. from Tuesday to Friday. On Monday and Saturday, the museum remains open from 10 A.M. to 2 P.M. Like the other museums of India, the State Museum at Mizoram remains closed on Sunday and public holidays. Mizoram State Museum houses a number of items that reflect the cultural heritage of Mizoram. The total collection of Mizoram State Museum is about 2500 items. The items displayed in the museum reflect the rich past and the ethnic background of Mizoram. Among the items stored in the Mizoram State Museum are: Photographs Musical instruments Arms and Weapons Utensils Tribal textiles Archaeological objects Stone sculptures Natural history specimens Mizoram State Museum possesses a separate section that displays the textiles of the tribes of Mizoram. This is the most popular section of the museum that helps the tourists to learn more about the ethnicity of Mizoram. Last Updated on : 27/06/2013 Mizoram Tourism Museums of Mizoram Sightseeing in Mizoram Mizoram Caves Mizoram Wildlife Sanctuaries Activities in Mizoram Accommodation in Mizoram About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule