Fowl - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Fowl From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search For other uses, see Fowl (disambiguation) . Galloanserans Temporal range: Early Cretaceous – Holocene , 105–0 Ma PreꞒ Ꞓ O S D C P T J K Pg N [ 1 ] Australian brushturkey ( Alectura lathami ) Scientific classification Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Clade : Carinatae Class: Aves Infraclass: Neognathae Superorder: Galloanserae Sclater , 1880 subgroups Anseriformes Pangalliformes Fowl are birds belonging to one of two biological orders , namely the gamefowl or landfowl ( Galliformes ) and the waterfowl ( Anseriformes ). Studies of anatomical and molecular similarities suggest these two groups are close evolutionary relatives; together, they form the fowl clade which is scientifically known as Galloanserae (initially termed Galloanseri). [ 2 ] This clade is also supported by morphological and DNA sequence data [ 3 ] as well as retrotransposon presence/absence data . [ 4 ] Contents 1 Terminology 2 Characteristics 3 Systematics and evolution 4 References 5 Further reading 6 External links Terminology [ edit ] As opposed to "fowl", " poultry " is a term for any kind of domesticated bird or bird captive-raised for meat, eggs, or feathers; ostriches , for example, are sometimes kept as poultry, but are neither gamefowl nor waterfowl. In colloquial speech, however, the term "fowl" is often used near-synonymously with "poultry," and many languages do not distinguish between "poultry" and "fowl". Nonetheless, the fact that the Galliformes and Anseriformes most likely form a monophyletic group makes a distinction between "fowl" and "poultry" warranted. The historic difference is due to the Germanic/Latin split word pairs characteristic of Middle English ; the word 'fowl' is of Germanic origin (cf. Old English " fugol ", German Vogel , Swedish fågel , Danish/Norwegian fugl ), whilst 'poultry' is of Latin via Norman French origin. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] Many birds that are eaten by humans are fowl, including poultry such as chickens or turkeys , game birds such as pheasants or partridges , other wildfowl like guineafowl or peafowl , and waterfowl such as ducks or geese . Characteristics [ edit ] While they are quite diverse ecologically and consequently, in an adaptation to their different lifestyles, also morphologically and ethologically , some features still unite water- and landfowl. Many of these, however, are plesiomorphic for Neornithes as a whole, and are also shared with paleognaths . [ citation needed ] Galloanserae are very prolific; they regularly produce clutches of more than five or even more than 10 eggs, which is a lot for such sizeable birds. For example, birds of prey and pigeons rarely lay more than two eggs. While most living birds are monogamous , at least for a breeding season, many Galloanserae are notoriously polygynous or polygamous . To ornithologists , this is particularly well known in dabbling ducks , where the males literally band together occasionally to "gang rape" unwilling females. The general public is probably most familiar with the polygynous habits of domestic chickens , where usually one or two roosters are kept with a whole flock of females. Hybridization is extremely frequent in the Galloanserae, and genera , not usually known to produce viable hybrids in birds, can be brought to interbreed with comparative ease. Guineafowl have successfully produced hybrids with domestic fowl and Indian peafowl , to which they are not particularly closely related as Galliformes go. This is an important factor complicating mtDNA sequence -based research on their relationships. The mallards of North America , for example, are apparently mostly derived from some males which arrived from Siberia , settled down, and mated with American black duck ancestors. [ 7 ] See also Gamebird hybrids . Galloanserae young are remarkably precocious . Anseriform young are able to swim and dive a few hours after hatching, and the hatchlings of mound-builders are fully feathered and even able to fly for prolonged distances as soon as they emerge from the nest mound. Systematics and evolution [ edit ] From the limited fossils that have to date been recovered, the conclusion that the Galloanserae were already widespread—the predominant group of modern birds—by the end of the Cretaceous is generally accepted nowadays. Fossils such as Vegavis indicate that essentially modern waterfowl, albeit belonging to a nowadays extinct lineage, were contemporaries of the nonavian dinosaurs . As opposed to the morphologically fairly conservative Galliformes, the Anseriformes have adapted to filter-feeding and are characterized by a large number of autapomorphies related to this lifestyle. The extremely advanced feeding systems of the Anseriformes, together with similarities of the early anseriform Presbyornis to shorebirds , had formerly prompted some scientists to ally Anseriformes with Charadriiformes , instead. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] However, as strong support for the Galloanserae has emerged in subsequent studies, the fowl clade continues to be accepted as a genuine evolutionary lineage by the vast majority of scientists. Apart from the living members, the Gastornithidae are probably a prehistoric member of the Galloanserae. References [ edit ] ^ Van Tuinen M. (2009) Birds (Aves). In The Timetree of Life , Hedges SB, Kumar S (eds). Oxford: Oxford University Press; 409–411. ^ Sibley, C, Ahlquist, J. & Monroe, B. (1988) ^ Chubb, A. (2004) ^ Kriegs et al. (2007) ^ "Online Etymology Dictionary" . Etymonline.com . Retrieved 2013-02-22 .   ^ "Online Etymology Dictionary" . Etymonline.com . Retrieved 2013-02-22 .   ^ Kulikova, I. et al. (2005) ^ Benson, D. (1999) ^ Feduccia, A. (1999) Further reading [ edit ] Benson, D. (1999): Presbyornis isoni and other late Paleocene birds from North Dakota. Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology 69 : 253-266. Chubb, A. (2004): New nuclear evidence for the oldest divergence among neognath birds: the phylogenetic utility of ZENK(i) . Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 30 : 140-151 Feduccia, A. (1999): The Origin and Evolution of Birds, Second Edition . Yale University Press, New Haven. Kriegs, Jan Ole; Matzke, Andreas; Churakov, Gennady; Kuritzin, Andrej; Mayr, Gerald; Brosius, Jürgen & Schmitz, Jürgen (2007): Waves of genomic hitchhikers shed light on the evolution of gamebirds (Aves: Galliformes) . BMC Evolutionary Biology 7 : 190 ( Fulltext ). Kulikova, Irina V.; Drovetski, S.V.; Gibson, D.D.; Harrigan, R.J.; Rohwer, S.; Sorenson, Michael D.; Winker, K.; Zhuravlev, Yury N. & McCracken, Kevin G. (2005): Phylogeography of the Mallard ( Anas platyrhynchos ): Hybridization, dispersal, and lineage sorting contribute to complex geographic structure . Auk 122 (3): 949-965. [English with Russian abstract] DOI : 10.1642/0004-8038(2005)122[0949:POTMAP]2.0.CO;2 PDF fulltext . Erratum: Auk 122 (4): 1309. DOI : 10.1642/0004-8038(2005)122[0949:POTMAP]2.0.CO;2 Sibley, C.G.; Ahlquist, J.E. & Monroe, B.L. (1988): A classification of the living birds of the world based on DNA-DNA hybridization studies . Auk 105 : 409-423. External links [ edit ] Look up fowl in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   " Fowl ". Collier's New Encyclopedia . 1921.   Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fowl&oldid=641147405 " Categories : Galloanserae Hidden categories: Articles with 'species' microformats All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2011 Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from Collier's Encyclopedia Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية বাংলা Català Čeština Deutsch Eesti Español Esperanto فارسی Français 한국어 Italiano עברית Latviešu Magyar Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Nouormand Português Русский Simple English Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Svenska Tiếng Việt ייִדיש 中文 Edit links This page was last modified on 5 January 2015, at 22:06. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view