Agriquest | Generation Home Seeds Agri Inputs Agriculture Horticulture Sericulture Animal Husbandary Organic Farming Info Agri Jobs Blog Contact Agriquest Language Seeds Seed Evolution and Seed Devlopment Seed Dormancy and Seed Germination Quality seed and its importance in agriculture Seed Technology -Defination, Objective and its role Causes for varietal deterioration, Maintenance of genetic purity and principles of seed production Generation system of seed production Methods for hybrid seed produciton Maintanence of parental lines Seed Certification Seed Production of different crops Seed Act and Seed Rules Seed processing Seed Storage Seed testing Seed marketing Seed deterioration and enhancements Synthetic seeds Sponsored Link Generation system of seed production   GENERATION SYSTEM OF SEED MULTIPLICATION Generation system of seed multiplication is nothing but the production of a particular class of seed from specific class of seed up to certified seed stage. The choice of a proper seed multiplication model is the key to further success of a seed programme. This basically depends upon, a. The rate of genetic deterioration b. Seed multiplication ratio and c. Total seed demand (Seed replacement rate) Based on these factors different seed multiplication models may be derived for each crop and the seed multiplication agency should decide how quickly the farmers can be supplied with the seed of newly released varieties, after the nucleus seed stock has been handed over to the concerned agency, so that it may replace the old varieties. In view of the basic factors, the chain of seed multiplication models could be., a. THREE - Generation model - Breeder seed - Foundation seed - Certified seed b. FOUR - Generation model- Breeder seed - Foundation seed (I)- Foundation seed (II) - Certified seed c. FIVE - Generation model Breeder seed - Foundation seed (I)- Foundation seed (II) -Certified seed (I) - Certified seed (II) For most of the often cross pollinated and cross pollinated crops 3 & 4 generation models is usually suggested for seed multiplication .e.g. Castor, Red gram, Jute, Green gram, Rape seed, Mustard ,Sesame , Sunflower & most of the vegetable crops. Opel Green Classes of seed The four generally recognized classes of seeds are: Breeder's seed, foundation seed, registered seed and certified seed. a) Nuclus seed: The initial hand full of seeds obtained from selected individual plants of a particular variety, for the purpose of purifying and maintain that variety, by originating plant breeder. b) Breeder's seed: Progeny of Nucleus seeds, its production is directly controlled by the originating or the sponsoring breeder or institution, providing for the initial and recurring increase of foundation seed. b) Foundation seed: The Progeny of breeders or foundation seed handled to maintain specific genetic purity and identity. This seed is the source of all other certified seed classes. d) Certified seed: The progeny of foundation or certified seed that is handled so as to maintain satisfactorily genetic identity and purity and that has been approved and certified by the certifying agency. DIFFERENCES BETWEEN CERTIFIED SEED AND TRUTH FUL SEED Certified seed Truthful labelled seed Certification is voluntary Truthful labelling is compulsory for notified kind of varieties Applicable to notified kinds only Applicable to both notified and released varieties It should satisfy minimum field and seed standards Tested for physical purity and germination Seed certification officer, seed inspectors can take samples for inspection Seed inspectors alone can take samples for checking   Sponsored Link Powered by Sri Avaneesh Software .