Open India Open India 2.0 W F T L M S Project Search D D About the data R Read the full report D IBRD/IDA Indicators D Grievance Mechanisms Engagement Areas Outcomes Indicators Projects Overview Engage F Updates B The World Bank Group goals: End extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity India is home to one-third of the world’s poor, yet the country is poised to lift millions out of poverty in the coming years. By focusing on three engagement areas , the World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategy for India for 2013-2017 strives to achieve country-level development outcomes that are measured by result indicators . The projects and knowledge activities in the strategy apply transformational and innovative solutions to address India’s most pressing challenges, especially in the poorest, least developed, and most isolated states . Challenges With 8 million people entering the labor force every year, India could reap a substantial demographic dividend. This will require tackling challenges across these broad areas, and the World Bank Group, in partnership with the Government of India, is addressing them through its financing and knowledge activities. Details Platforms for Growth Details Spatial Transformation Details Human Potential Focus States The strategy calls for a stronger focus on low-income and special category states, where a majority of the poor and the vulnerable people live. Over time, these states should benefit from up to 30% of total World Bank financing, and an increasing number of knowledge activities. Total World Bank Financing to Focus States FY 2013 30% State Details Gender The strategy affords special consideration to gender equality. These are projects and knowledge activities that include gender analysis and track gender-specific results. Gender-informed Projects 18 FY 2013 Urbanization With an additional 10 million people migrating to cities each year, India is undergoing the largest rural to urban transformation in history. The strategy puts special focus on projects and knowledge activities that improve the livability of Indian cities. Urbanization Projects M Questions? Back to top recent updates Updated 2 Progress on results X Others Not all projects and activities have found their place within the larger strategy yet. X 1 engagement area $ Committed (IBRD/IDA) Description Intended to help address 0 Financing Projects 0 Knowledge Activites Focus Gender Funding Sources States with most projects M Questions? Back to top X o outcome Engage F Short Description will go here $ Committed (IBRD/IDA) Description In response to: 0 Financing Projects 0 Knowledge Activites Focus Gender Funding Sources States with most projects M Questions? Back to top X i indicator Updated 0 Financing Projects 0 Knowledge Activites Focus Gender Funding Sources Contributing Projects States with most projects M Questions? Back to top X p IBRD/IDA project New $ Committed 0 Description Also related Implemented by O Focus Funding Sources Progress 0 Impacted States M Questions for the World Bank? O Project Grievances? Back to top f IFC project New $ Description Also related Company Focus Funding Sources States M Questions for the IFC? O Project Complaints? Back to top d IBRD/IDA knowledge New Description Focus States M Questions for the World Bank? Back to top a IFC Advisory New $ Estimated Budget Description Focus States M Questions for the IFC? Back to top W Country Partnership Strategy for India This app is optimized for desktop and tablets in landscape mode. If your device is smaller than 1024x600 pixels, please try exploring the app on your desktop or tablet in landscape mode. about the world bank The World Bank Group is a vital source of financial and technical assistance to developing countries around the world. Our focus is on helping the poorest people in the poorest countries by using our financial resources, staff, and extensive experience to aid countries in reducing poverty, increasing economic growth, and improving quality of life. For more information, visit the World Bank Group website. X Challenge areas Engagement Area Outcomes e low income state e special category state e other state Poverty Rate min max india state Avg State GDP per capita ($) Population   Funding   Financing projects Knowledge activities Platforms for Growth Spatial Transformation Human Potential Platforms for Growth l INDICATOR min max india state Avg Spatial Transformation l Human Potential l See all projects in this state All Projects States Low Income States Special Category States Other States Funding World Bank IBRD IDA Grant International Finance Corporation Investment Loan Guarantee Risk Management Focus Area Activities name partner name partner About the Data The economic and sector-specific data throughout this site is sourced from a wide variety of official Government of India sources. The datasets pertaining to in the India Country Partnership Strategy are available at http://data.worldbank.org/data-catalog/india-cps . : , Projects For World Bank Group’s projects and activities data, refer to the following sources: World Bank Projects and Operations World Bank Project Result Indicators Data (for India) IFC Projects Database World Bank Group Finances (also available in Hindi ) World Bank Documents and Reports Access to Information Terms of Use Legal Grievance Mechanisms The Open India web app provides information on World Bank (IBRD and IDA) project-level grievance redress mechanisms. Where available this includes links to a government websites, maintained by the relevant Project Implementation Unit. Information on grievance redress mechanisms on these government websites may change frequently, and may not be immediately reflected on Open India. Visiting the government project sites is therefore strongly recommended as the first source of information on project-level grievance mechanisms. World Bank The Grievance Redress System is the World Bank’s (IBRD and IDA) complaints mechanism. Through this service, individuals and local groups that may be directly adversely affected by a Bank-supported project can bring their grievances directly to the attention of Bank Management. For information please visit www.worldbank.org/en/projects-operations/products-and-services/grievance-redress-service#1 . International Finance Corporation The Compliance Advisor Ombudsman (CAO) is the independent recourse mechanism for the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). The CAO responds to complaints from project-affected communities with the goal of enhancing social and environmental outcomes on the ground. For more information visit www.cao-ombudsman.org/ . i Engagement Area Name o Outcomes i Indicators p IBRD/IDA Projects f IFC Investments d IBRD/IDA Knowledge works a IFC Advisories