Mata Amritanandamayi India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Religious & Spiritual Gurus » Mata Amritanandamayi   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Mata Amritanandamayi Mata Amritanandamayi is a widely known Indian spiritual leader. Her followers address her as Amma or Ammachi (mother). Due to her hugging habit she is also known as 'The Hugging Saint'. Amritanandamayi was born as Sudhamani in the Indian state of Kerala in 1953.Her family was engaged in the fishing trade. She had to drop out of school at an early age to help her family economically. According to her followers Mata Amritanandamayi had divine experiences when she was a child. She founded Mata Amritanandamayi Mission Trust - a worldwide organization which does charitable work all over the world. She has also addressed the United Nations General Assembly. Swami Amritaswarupnanda was one of her first disciple. She established an ashram which is now known as Amritapuri.Amritapuri Ashram regularly publishes a spiritual monthly magazine-Matruvani. Jan Kounen an award winning filmmaker made the film 'Darshan-The Embrace' on the life of this 'hugging saint' of India . The film was officially selected for screening at the Cannes Film Festival in 2005. 'Mata Amritanandamayi Math' executes various charitable projects all over the world. She has donated a considerable amount of money to people devastated by natural calamities. She has helped the victims of Hurricane Katrina in the U.S. She has also provided relief support to the victims of the 2004 tsunami in India and Sri Lanka and to the survivors of the Pakistan earthquake in 2005. She was one of the Representatives of Hinduism at the 'Parliament of the World's Religions' at Chicago in 1993.   Related Links   Spiritual gurus Abdul Rahim Khan-e-Khana Ramkrishna Paramhansa Gautama Buddha Sri Sathya Sai Baba Mata Amritanandamayi Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Last Updated on : February 3, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule