Development of Human Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action (DHAN) About Us | Projects Water Ooranis Farmponds Tanks PanIIT Biosand Filter Livelihoods Farmponds Tanks Education Primary Education Development Educaiton Vocational Education Energy Electricity Solar Health Anaemia Biosand Filter Community Resource Centre | Friends of DHAN | Corporates | Alumni PanIIT | Volunteer | Products | Events | links | Updates | Contact us Development of Human Action (DHAN) news & events DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. Madurai Walkathon 2013 on the theme of Agricultural Bio-Diversity and Food Security - February 02, 2013. Films selected for screening for 8th Development Film Festival on Climate change and Food security - Jan 28-30, 2013. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category DHAN Foundation bags Jindal Prize under Rural Development and Poverty Alleviation Category. Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy DHAN Foundation works on promoting a 'culture of sharing' by creating meaningful opportunities and partnerships, among poor communities with whom working with, as well as the general public and corporate houses in India and abroad. Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy (CFP) thus develops context-specific philanthropic products and various forms of 'giving' as per the need of the community. It works with the Corporates and Indian Diaspora with a long-term perspective, on a partnership mode, that seeks to build on each other’s competencies and areas of interest to bring about an enduring and lasting benefit to the poor communities. It also established 'Friends of DHAN' Chapters to aid development work in India and in other select countries. The Centre builds awareness among the individuals or a group of individuals to understand the development work through field visits, and motivates them to provide support for such works, which would be mutually beneficial to both the givers, and the poor community. With the resources raised from the individuals and institutions the Centre supports small community projects that have the elements of community contribution, collective action and sustainability. Revive Oorani - Drinking Water for All Ooranis are small pond structures which would meet out the water needs of the people with affordable costs and conserve ground water level. Learn More >> Safe Drinking Water through biosand Filter The most common and widespread health risk associated with drinking-water is microbial contamination; the diseases caused by contaminated water... Learn More>> Eradicate Anaemia Build Healthy Generations Iron deficiency is the most important micronutrient deficiency in India. About half of all pregnant women experience iron deficiency anemia during their pregnancies. Learn More>> Development of Human Action (DHAN) testimonials Ramya Nageswaran from Singapore is one of the indefatigable champions of the oorani who has taken up the cause very close to her heart. I am sure all those whom Ramya has reached out in the last one year and more would attest to. It was her team's contribution as part of the Water Club, Singapore along with AIMS India (Ravi Venkatesh) and NRI Homecoming (Ramkrishnan). Read More... Development of Human Action (DHAN) stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Human Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved