 IMF -- About English عربي 中文 Français 日本語 Русский Español Send us your feedback ﻿ Home About the IMF Research Global Analysis Researchers at the IMF Data Visualization Staff Discussion Notes Latest Working Papers Research Bulletin Economic Review iMFdirect Blog Commodity Prices Countries IMF reports and publications by country A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V Y Z News All News IMF Survey Magazine Communiqués Mission Concluding Statements Press Releases Speeches Statements at Donor Meetings Transcripts Views & Commentaries See Also: iMFdirect Blog Article IV Consultations Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) Seminars, Conferences, & Other Events For Journalists Press Center The IMF Press Center is a password-protected site for working journalists. Login or Register Information of interest Videos Data IMF Finances Additional Data Sources World Economic Outlook Databases IMF eLibrary-Data International Financial Statistics Principal Global Indicators Public Sector Debt Statistics Online Centralized Database Currency Composition of Official Foreign Exchange Reserves Financial Access Survey Publications IMF eLibrary IMF Bookstore Documents & Publications Policy Papers Staff Discussion Notes World Economic Outlook Global Financial Stability Report Fiscal Monitor Regional Economic Reports IMF Annual Report Finance & Development Advanced search Social Media Hub IMF Podcast IMF Twitter IMF LinkedIn IMF RSS IMF YouTube IMF Flickr IMF Email Notification IMF Social Media Hub IMF App for iOS IMF App for Android About the IMF About the IMF The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is an organization of 188 countries, working to foster global monetary cooperation, secure financial stability, facilitate international trade, promote high employment and sustainable economic growth, and reduce poverty around the world. Created in 1945, the IMF is governed by and accountable to the 188 countries that make up its near-global membership. Factsheets IMF at a Glance How the IMF Promotes Global Economic Stability Where the IMF Gets Its Money Lending Surveillance More Resources Capacity Development IMF Members For Legislators For Students For Civil Society Job Opportunities Archives Key Issues Fiscal Issues Technical Assistance Low-Income Countries IMF and the Environment Email notification sign-up Sign up to receive free e-mail notices when new series and/or country items are posted on the IMF website. Modify your profile The IMF at a Glance Why the IMF was created and how it works The IMF, also known as the Fund, was conceived at a UN conference in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, United States, in July 1944. The 44 countries at that conference sought to build a framework for economic cooperation to avoid a repetition of the competitive devaluations that had contributed to the Great Depression of the 1930s. The IMF's responsibilities : The IMF's primary purpose is to ensure the stability of the international monetary system—the system of exchange rates and international payments that enables countries (and their citizens) to transact with each other. The Fund's mandate was updated in 2012 to include all macroeconomic and financial sector issues that bear on global stability. Fast Facts Membership: 188 countries Headquarters: Washington, D.C. Executive Board: 24 Directors each representing a single country or a group of countries Staff: Approximately 2,600 from 147 countries Total quotas: US$327 billion (as of 3/13/15) Additional pledged or committed resources: US$ 885 billion Committed amounts under current lending arrangements (as of 3/13/15): US$163 billion, of which US$137 billion have not been drawn (see table ). Biggest borrowers (amounts outstanding as of 3/13/15): Portugal, Greece, Ireland, Ukraine Biggest precautionary loans (amount agreed as of 3/13/15): Mexico, Poland, Colombia, Morocco Surveillance consultations: 122 consultations in 2013 and 129 in 2014 Technical assistance: 274 person years in FY2013 and 285 in FY2014 Original aims: promote international monetary cooperation; facilitate the expansion and balanced growth of international trade; promote exchange stability; assist in the establishment of a multilateral system of payments; and make resources available (with adequate safeguards) to members experiencing balance of payments difficulties. Our Work The IMF’s fundamental mission is to ensure the stability of the international monetary system. It does so in three ways: keeping track of the global economy and the economies of member countries; lending to countries with balance of payments difficulties; and giving practical help to members. Surveillance The IMF oversees the international monetary system and monitors the economic and financial policies of its 188 member countries. As part of this process, which takes place both at the global level and in individual countries, the IMF highlights possible risks to stability and advises on needed policy adjustments. Watch video Lending A core responsibility of the IMF is to provide loans to member countries experiencing actual or potential balance of payments problems. This financial assistance enables countries to rebuild their international reserves, stabilize their currencies, continue paying for imports, and restore conditions for strong economic growth, while undertaking policies to correct underlying problems. Unlike development banks, the IMF does not lend for specific projects. Watch video Technical Assistance The IMF helps its member countries design economic policies and manage their financial affairs more effectively by strengthening their human and institutional capacity through technical assistance and training. The IMF aims to exploit synergies between technical assistance and training—which it calls capacity development—to maximize their effectiveness. Watch video Organization & Finances The IMF has a management team and 17 departments that carry out its country, policy, analytical, and technical work. One department is charged with managing the IMF’s resources. This section also explains where the IMF gets its resources and how they are used. Management The IMF has a Managing Director, who is head of the staff and Chairperson of the Executive Board. The Managing Director is appointed by the Executive Board for a renewable term of five years and is assisted by a First Deputy Managing Director and three Deputy Managing Directors. Staff The IMF’s employees come from all over the world; they are responsible to the IMF and not to the authorities of the countries of which they are citizens. The IMF staff is organized mainly into area; functional; and information, liaison, and support responsibilities. Watch video IMF resources Most resources for IMF loans are provided by member countries, primarily through their payment of quotas. Quotas Quota subscriptions are a central component of the IMF’s financial resources. Each member country of the IMF is assigned a quota, based broadly on its relative position in the world economy. Watch video Special Drawing Rights (SDR) The SDR is an international reserve asset, created by the IMF in 1969 to supplement its member countries’ official reserves. Gold Gold remains an important asset in the reserve holdings of several countries, and the IMF is still one of the world’s largest official holders of gold. Watch video Borrowing arrangements While quota subscriptions of member countries are the IMF's main source of financing, the Fund can supplement its quota resources through borrowing if it believes that they might fall short of members' needs. Governance Governance Structure The IMF has evolved along with the global economy throughout its 70-year history, allowing the organization to retain a central role within the international financial architecture. Country Representation Unlike the General Assembly of the United Nations, where each country has one vote, decision making at the IMF was designed to reflect the relative positions of its member countries in the global economy. The IMF continues to undertake reforms to ensure that its governance structure adequately reflects fundamental changes taking place in the world economy. Accountability Created in 1945, the IMF is governed by and accountable to the 188 countries that make up its near-global membership. Watch video Corporate Responsibility The Fund actively promotes good governance within its own organization. History The IMF has played a part in shaping the global economy since the end of World War II. Cooperation and reconstruction (1944–71) As the Second World War ends, the job of rebuilding national economies begins. The IMF is charged with overseeing the international monetary system to ensure exchange rate stability and encouraging members to eliminate exchange restrictions that hinder trade. Watch video The end of the Bretton Woods System (1972–81) After the system of fixed exchange rates collapses in 1971, countries are free to choose their exchange arrangement. Oil shocks occur in 1973–74 and 1979, and the IMF steps in to help countries deal with the consequences. Debt and painful reforms (1982–89) The oil shocks lead to an international debt crisis, and the IMF assists in coordinating the global response. Societal Change for Eastern Europe and Asian Upheaval (1990–2004) The IMF plays a central role in helping the countries of the former Soviet bloc transition from central planning to market-driven economies. Globalization and the Crisis (2005 - present) The implications of the continued rise of capital flows for economic policy and the stability of the international financial system are still not entirely clear. The current credit crisis and the food and oil price shock are clear signs that new challenges for the IMF are waiting just around the corner. Watch video Home What's New Site Map Site Index About the IMF Research Countries News Events Videos Data and Statistics Publications Social Media Hub Copyright and Usage Privacy Policy How to Contact Us Jobs Glossary Scam Alert عربي 中文 Français 日本語 Русский Español