Beaches in India Home » Tourism » Beaches in India   Tourism Tourist Map Hotels in India Hotel Groups K Raheja Goups ITC Groups Jaypee Groups Oberoi Groups Le-Meridian Groups Casino Group Taj Group Sarovar Park Group ITDC Group Clarks Group Best Western Group Welcome Group Holiday Inn Group Forts and Palaces Trekking in India Hill Stations Religious Places National Parks Wildlife Bird Sanctuaries Tiger Reserves Beach Resorts Buddhist Pilgrimage Tours Major Tourist Circuits Major Tourist Centers Golden Triangle Tour India Deccan Odyssey Route Map World Heritage Sites In India Winter Travel Destinations Ayurveda Resorts Popular Mosques Places related to Mahatma Gandhi 12 Jyotirlinga Shrines Heritage Map Special Trains Palace on Wheels Mumbai Darshan South India Travel National Tourism Awards Celebrate a Perfect Valentine Weekend Unexplored Tourist Places       Beaches in India India Beaches Map Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Map showing Beaches in India. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Popular Beach Destinations in India Boasting of some incredible and unexplored beach destinations, India has earned an acclaim as a popular tourist destination across the globe. India offers some of the most immaculate beaches in the world with splendid environment, activities, solitude, fun, frolic, and parties. Any couple, who is willing to go on a honeymoon, or a family going out for a vacation, has the option of choosing among the most stunning, serene, and peaceful beaches in India. Beaches of Goa Goa is the most popular beach destination in India that attracts tourists from all over the world. There are around 40 beaches in Goa. The beaches are famous for rave parties, sunbathing and beach sports. Some of the popular beaches in Goa are: Anjuna Beach Calangute Beach Dona Paula Beach Benaulim Beach Colvo Beach Baga Beach Miramar Beach Benavali Beach More Detail... Beaches of Kerala Located in South India, Kerala - "God's Own Country", has a long coastline that offers lots of opportunities for those who seek beauty and tranquility. It is a scenic place that lets you revitalise yourself in its relaxing atmosphere. You can unwind on the beaches, swim in the sea, row a dinghy, take a sailboat ride or simply go to a spa. Some of the popular Kerala beaches are: Kovalam Beach Varkala Beach Kumarakom Beach Marari Beach Alaphuzza Beach Kappad Beach Muzhappilangad Beach Thirumullavaram Beach More Detail... Beaches of Andhra Pradesh The beaches of Andhra Pradesh are unspoiled and pure, ideal for a beach holiday. Stretched over 1000 km along the southeastern coastline, there are lots of scenic beaches, green hills, bustling wildlife and beautiful palm trees. Some of the main beaches in Andhra Pradesh are: Ramakrishna Beach Manginapudi Beach Bheemunipatam Beach Rishikonda Beach Mypad Beach Vodarevu Beach More Detail... Beaches of Maharashtra With a coast line of 720 km, Maharashtra is quite fortunate with few of the finest beaches one could find. Beaches of Maharashtra offer lots of activities like sea surfing, sand bathing, swimming, picnics, water sports, etc. The most popular beaches of Maharashtra are: Dahanu-Bordi Beach Ganpatipule Beach Juhu Beach Mandwa and Kihim Beaches Marve, Manori and Gorai Beaches Shriwardhan-Harihareshwar Beach Tarkarli Beach Velneshwar Beach Vengurla - Malvan Beach More Detail... Beaches of Andaman and Nicobar Islands The Andaman and Nicobar Islands are a group of 572 islands consisting of exotic and unexplored beaches. The tropical climate prevails all year round, offering a comfortable holiday experience. The islands are known for its remote and serene atmosphere, beaches with silvery white sand and lots of greenery. Some popular beaches of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands are: Corbyn's Cove And Chirya Tapu Beach Radhnagar Beach Harminder Bay Beach Karmatang Beach Ramnagar Beach More Detail... Beaches of Lakshadweep Islands The Lakshadweep Islands have a set of charming and stunning beaches. The islands are full of coral reefs and palm trees. The beaches provide spectacular lagoons, sea-shores, stretches of sun-drenched sand and lots of swaying palms. Some of the main beaches of Lakshadweep are: Kavaratti Beach Kalpeni Beach Kadamat Beach Bangaram Beach. More Detail... Beaches of Odisha Beaches in Odisha represent golden sand, deep blue sea and pleasant weather. They provide tourists with a wonderful experience of scenic beauty, cool breeze, warm sun and relaxation at sea side. Some of Odisha Beaches are: Aryapalli Beach Balaramgadi Beach Balighai Beach Chandipur Beach Gopalpur Beach Paradeep Beach Puri Beach Ramchandi Beach More Detail... Beaches of Gujarat Gujarat is known for its rich natural resources including forests and beaches. The state has the longest coastline in India and thus comprises many beaches where tourists can enjoy their vacations. Some of the popular beaches of Gujarat are: Mandvi Beach Gopnath Beach Somnath Beach Chorwad Beach More Detail... Beaches in Tamil Nadu The sunny skies and the blue beaches make Tamil Nadu a famous tourist destination. Some of the beautiful beaches of South India are located in the state. Tourists can enjoy water sports and joyrides along these beaches. Some of the beaches of the state are now also popular location for shooting of Kollywood movies. Some of the popular beaches of Tamil Nadu are: Covelong Beach Rameswaram Beach Kanyakumari Beach Marine Beach Thiruchendur More Detail... Beaches in Karnataka There are many alluring beaches in Karnataka which can offer a relaxed beach holiday experience to the tourists. These beaches are not known to everyone and therefore are not much crowded. The tranquil and peaceful beaches can enhance the mood of the visitors. Some of the famous beaches of Karnataka are: Karwar Beach Gokarna Beach Malpe Beach Murudeshwar Beach Kaup Beach More Detail... UBST270215 EBAKB030315 Blogs about Beach Unexplored Beaches in India : The vivid topography of India is a true blessing from God. It introduces us to the boundless beauty of nature and gives us an opportunity to explore its vividness. This vividness makes India a home to a large number of beaches which have acquired a popular name owing to their mesmeric beauty and celestial environment. But due to the popularity of these places, a huge crowd is often seen to be hanging out here, thereby… read more... Five Breathtaking Sunrise and Sunset Beaches of India : It is often said that happiness lies in the small things. While I was thinking about the small things that bring true happiness, one of the immediate thoughts that struck my mind was of beautiful sunrises and sunsets. There is no better way to begin your day other than looking at a sunrise, and nothing more relaxing than spending a quiet evening watching the sunset. Even though this scenic panorama can be witnessed anywhere, the… read more... Dwell in solitude at the Manori Beach in Mumbai : Location: Dharavi Bhet, Northern Mumbai In a bustling city like Mumbai, finding a peaceful spot devoid of rush can seem like a dream sometimes! But as its said, all things are possible to him that believes! Therefore, I somehow managed to discover a place which is not only peaceful but also exceptionally beautiful. One of the least crowded beaches in Mumbai, Manori Beach is a glaringly scenic beach in the Manori Village of Northern Mumbai.… read more... Morjim Beach: The Exotic Turtle Beach of Goa : The Morjim Beach, popularly known as the Turtle Beach, is located in Pernem, north Goa. The beach is bestowed with elegant vistas, including a blossoming, green environment. The Morjim Beach is special as it serves as a hatching and nesting habitat of the Olive Ridley turtles, which are an endangered species. The sight of the tiny hatchlings, turtles and crabs makes your experience at the beach an unforgettable one. Kite surfing is another activity popular… read more... Betalbatim Beach in Goa : Location: South of Majorda Beach, Goa Each one of us has definitely been lucky enough to witness beautiful sunsets sometime but the beauty of the sunsets at the Betalbatim Beach is beyond imagination. Located in the south of the Majorda Beach, Betalbatim Beach is one most beautiful beaches of Goa. Owing to the spectacular sunsets it offers, it is popularly known as the “Sunset beach of Goa”. Not only is it more peaceful than the… read more... Last Updated on : April 3, 2015               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule