Organic coconut - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Organic coconut Organic coconut Buy directly from supplier Request Price Description Product Description The mysterious and delicious Coconut fruit isconsidered one of the wonder foods on earth that provides for all human prerequisites and is known to have multiple health benefits.Rooted in goodness the coconut tree is rightly called the “Tree of Life.” It is used as main ingredient in most of the dishes of South India. Our organic coconut farm creates an ecological balance that allows for biodiversity. The high quality farm coconut that is produced by us ensures that every bit of the coconut is used. As a result we can produce the best organic coconut drink.Since the ancient times, this exotic tall impressive tree with a large fruit and an abundance of health benefits has refreshed and nourished people with lots of love. It holds a unique place among the millions of inhabitants living in South-East Asia, and Pacific islands since it is one of the most sought-after ingredients in the kitchen and is considered versatile and indispensable. It is understood to deliver a complete nourishment rich in calories, vitamins, and minerals.Our organic coconut offers the purity assurance and quality that will ensure you choose us frequently. If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: HF1 . Categories: Fresh Produce , Organic Produce . Tag: coconuts . Social share Related Products Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Fresh Produce , Organic Produce Organic grapes Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Fresh Produce Fresh Vegetables Free Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Inputs , Planting Material Deejay Vishwas – Hybrid Coconut Seedling Free http://www.harvestfresh.in./mango.html Request Price Quick View Fresh Produce , Organic Produce Organic Mango Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Fresh Produce Tender coconut Free Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Inputs , Planting Material Deejay Sampoorna– Hybrid Coconut Seedling Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics irrigation magazine medicinal plants net pots npk