Khurana Dairy Farm - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Khurana Dairy Farm Home Khurana Dairy Farm Producer of high quality dairy livestock was established in Rohtak in 1948.  Since inception, Khurana Dairy Farm has been breeding superior Murrah buffalos as well as other milk producing livestock Deepak Khurana Khurana Dairy Farm, a producer of high quality dairy livestock was     established in Rohtak in 1948 by Mr. Malik Krishanhal Khurana. Since inception, Khurana Dairy Farm has been breeding superior Murrah buffalos as well as other milk producing livestock. Run by generations of the family, Mr. Rajeev Khurana, son of the farm’s founder, joined the family business in 1976. Much later in 2009, Mr. Deepak Khurana, Mr. Rajeev’s older brother, joined the farm after retiring from the army. Getting Started Before the farm could actually start going into full livestock breeding, a lot of groundwork had to be put in for the betterment of the farm. However, instead of focusing on typical things like infrastructure and research, the Khurana family focused on making sure that the farming community noticed their livestock. To achieve this, they ensured that they were breeding superior livestock and showed them off at competitions.  To expound, Mr. Deepak said, “Breeding of top quality livestock has been a passion for the Khurana family and [we] always took pride in winning various competitions at the national, regional, and state levels. Awards included best animal of the show, best milk animal and so on. This was done so that the name of the family got due recognition.” Services and Products Though their husbandry department is well known for it’s breeding of Murrah buffalos and Desi cows, the Khurana Dairy Farm also participates in the breeding of many other kinds of cows. This practice has come to be extremely important as more efforts are now being placed on the preservation of Indian cow breeds. Other kinds of cows being bred on the farm are Sahiwal, Rathee, Tharparkar, and Hariana milk breeds. Additionally, the company also markets Gir cows. Apart fromthe large focus on cow and buffalo breeding, the dairy farm also provides a free service for training individuals interesting in joining the livestock breeding industry. Mr. Deepak said, “[We] provide training to various farmers or their staff at their request by giving them on the job training and guidance in the management of milch animals.” Challenges Like any other business, the Khurana Dairy Farm faced some challenges in the early stages of its operations. Despite large government tenders for export and supply to various states starting to flood in through the farm’s husbandry departments, marketing seemed to be one of the farm’s bigger challenges. “Marketing in the initial years was difficult due to limited means of communication,” Mr. Deepak shared. However, with the emergence of the Internet and sites such as agriculturalinfo.com and Trade India, their problems have lessened and they now enjoy a wider scope of customers. Finance also soon proved to be challenging. Noticing that animals from farmers are always purchased through cash payments, the Khurana family faced difficulties when delays in payments, particularly payments from government departments, began to arise. Managing Dairy Animals The Khurana family takes great pains to ensure the proper management of their livestock. One of the more important things to consider is the management of feed and fodder, which is vital to the health of dairy animals. Mr. Deepak estimates that feed and fodder per cow, on a daily basis, should cost roughly 80 to 100 Rs. per day depending on the type of ingredients included in the feed and fodder. When it comes to feed and fodder management, the Khurana family has shared that dairy animals should be receiving at least half of the total weight of the milk produced per day in feed. Additionally, an extra kilogram of feed should be mixed with 40% husk to maintain a healthy cow or buffalo. Though green fodder is not a requirement for buffalos or Desi cows, if it is available, 5 to 10 kilograms of green fodder can be fed to the animals per day. Indigeneous Cows Besides breeding Murrah buffalos, Desi cows, which are capable of producing up to 23 liters of milk per day, are also bred on the Khurana Dairy Farm, despite the general consensus from the farming community that Desi cows are difficult to manage properly. Mr. Deepak was quick to share the Khurana family’s opinion on the matter. “It’s not at all difficult to manage Desi cows. On the contrary, I would say it is easier because Desi cows are rugged and get fewer diseases. They can sustain themselves even in the Indian tropical climate conditions. They also  require fewer greens and can survive on natural grazing. Furthermore, they don’t require artificial cooling arrangements during the summer,” he said. Competition In India, news recently broke out that the Sahara Group had plans of entering the dairy industry. With such powerful companies joining the mix, there is a huge possibility of the Sahara Group becoming a threat to the Khurana Dairy Farm. Mr. Deepak, however, didn’t feel that way. “We don’t take it as a threat because as Sahara builds up its dairy projects, it is a boom for the industry. It is creating new opportunities for people associated with this industry in terms of the enhancement of dairy equipment and technology as well as creating new opportunities for experienced suppliers like us,” he said. Advice Having been in the dairy business for so many years, Mr. Deepak had a lot of valuable advice to share with people who are planning to join the dairy industry. For example, he recommended M/S Gemini Dairy at Rajahmundry and M/S Fortune Dairy in Shamshabad, Hyderabad as model dairy farms that people could visit them to learn about the dairy business. More importantly, there are two things that Mr. Deepak felt were vital prerequisites for the dairy business. He said, “First, one should be prepared to give the maximum time daily into the farm. Managing Dairy farming is so different from managing poultry and fish farming where everything can be managed by computer software. Also, availability of sufficient water and infrastructure is a must for dairy almost. However, most importantly, patience is required in this business.” When buying cows and buffaloes, Mr. Deepak feels that the Murrah breed of dairy buffaloes is the best in the world due to their high performance in tropical climates. They also have fewer dry periods and have thus been called the best dairy buffalos. In terms of milk cows, the Khurana family also recommends Indian breeds of cows such as Gir, Sahiwal, Ratni, and Tharparkar because of their sustainability and performance in harsh tropical climates. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Khurana Dairy Farm, Bhiwani Hissar Link Road, Rohtak – 124001 Haryana Tel : 01262-267001/265607 Mob : 9812004325/9215450003 Email : deepakkhurana24@rediffmail.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Khurana Dairy Farm Related – articles, consultants, downloads Eva Dairy Farm Satya Sai Dairy Farm Dairy Farm Model Dairy Farm in Kanpur You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water <