Amusement Parks in Ahmedabad Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Ahmedabad Travel Tourist Map How to Reach Shopping Hotels in Ahmedabad Travel Agents Weekend Trips from Ahmedabad Places to Visit in Ahmedabad Gardens in Ahmedabad Law Garden Bal Vatika Victoria Garden Lakes in Ahmedabad Chandola Lake Kankaria Lake Ahmedabad Wildlife Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary The Kamla Nehru Zoological Garden The Runn of Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary Religious Places in Ahmedabad Bhadrakali Temple Hatheesing Jain Temple Sidi Sayed Jhali Rani Sipri's Mosque Ahmed Shah's Mosque Swaminarayan Temple Akshardham Temple Amusement Parks Ahmedabad Metro Map Route Maps Hyderabad to Ahmedabad Mumbai to Ahmedabad Jaipur to Ahmedabad Goa to Ahmedabad Ahmedabad Map Road Map Railway Map District Map Tehsil Map Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Ahmedabad » Places of Interest » Amusement Parks in Ahmedabad Amusement Parks in Ahmedabad There is an entire brigade of amusement parks in Ahmedabad that function together to satiate the needs related to entertainment, put forward by the masses. Like the majority of cities in this country, Ahmedabad is also approaching a point where it will be able to entertain big mobs of fun-hungry people. These amusement parks in Ahmedabad present the eager visitors with a fairly large number of tantalizing rides to opt from. These centers also have a provision for refreshing messages and also a wide variety of health care centers. These amusement parks of Ahmedabad will freshen your spirit and you will feel rejuvenated after spending a few boisterous hours at these venues. Shanku's Water Park :- Being regarded as the largest and earliest Water Park ever built in Eurasia, it is undoubtedly the most famous water park amongst the amusement parks in Ahmedabad. It is set up at Mehsana Highway which is about 60 kilometers away from Ahmedabad. An entire bunch of rides are available to quench your quest for unlimited fun. Different rides are designated for people of different ages. These include drift tours like 'Lazy River' and 'Exciting Tunnels' which take you on a trip through a chilled pool having many twists. This resort also provides sports complex, cottage resorts, hotel, lake shore garden, health clubs and many more amenities. Other amusement parks in Ahmedabad include :- Water Park Resort. Ground Floor, Sun Complex, CG Road, Ahmedabad-380009 Contact: 079-6560655 Hully Gully Games. 2/15, Parasnagar I Sola Road, Naranpura, Ahmedabad-380013. Contact: 079-7474936 Black Diamond Amusement Limited. 298, Pandav Sector-29, Gandhinagar-382029 About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule