Akshayakalpa - New dairy farming business model - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Akshayakalpa – New dairy farming business model Home Akshayakalpa – New dairy farming business model Initiates process for Indian villages make-over! Akshayakalpa Farms and Foods provides complete assistance to dairy farmers for producing organic milk and purchases the milk from them. It works on a model where founders have tried to reposition agriculture as enterprise where farmers are entrepreneurs. Mr. G.N.S Reddy, Managing Director and Co-Founder says, “Like in another enterprise, our dairy farms have all adequate inputs, technologies, skilled man power and has complete control in the market processor and profits. Company registered office is situated at Tiptur, Karnataka. After serving for country’s renowned NGO for almost a decade Mr. Reddy observed that people are working but do not have ownership. Hence he designed a model where people can get the ownership of their work and the foundation of Akshayakalpa Farms and Foods was laid in 2010. Mr. Reddy adds, “When the whole economy is opening up to applications of information technology, we need to provide similar cultural shift in the villages as well. We have to bring use of IT in villages and make rural India to absorb the new potential. We have to provide technology upgradation to the grass root level people in the villages.” Another change he wanted to bring through Akshayakalpa was to hold back Indian youth in India. Mr. Reddy questions, “Why our young and bright youth abandon agriculture, their parents and siblings and move to the cities? People without any skill or drive to excel stay back in the villages!” and adds, “We expect agriculture to contribute to the GDP, agriculture to contribute to food security all these things we talk at a national debate. There are some contradictions in our own economic model. We want all the best and brightest people to be in IT industry who move to America, move to Europe and yet we expect our GDP to grow at a different scale, though the majority of Indian economy sustained by agriculture. How is it possible? At the moment people who are left behind in agriculture are incapable people and old folks. Villages have literally become old age home where no children stay back. This was the most terrible aspect of our economic model.” The change is possible only with IT inputs. “Engineers from Wipro joined me to pilot this whole program. All the farms are remotely monitored hence other founders members bring lot of IT components in the system. RFIB based technology is used to monitor every cow remotely for the temperature and any other problems. All these technical inputs are from these technocrats,” says Mr. Reddy proudly about the crucial contribution of other founder members. 2010 was the year research started. “It took us almost two and a half years to do the background research and the initiatives required like kind of technology, equipments, marketing strategy etc. We are in the market for commercial sales since last two years,” informs Mr. Reddy. In this newly identified model, founders of Akshayakalpa claims no more agriculture shall be left to the mercy of beurecrats, agriculture department, politicians or banks. So far nowhere a farmer could command anything but now things change. Mr. Reddy says, “We thought of re- modeling entire agriculture extension mechanism and introduce Urban Spoke Model.” The model implies Akshaykalpa is an entity that centralizes all the things which the farmer cannot afford while what farmer can afford is decentralized. “For example a farmer cannot employ a veterinary doctor to treat his cow, sell in the market, cannot go to a bank and command a loan so we provide him all these hence centralized. On the other hand farmer needs to focus on raising the cow and producing organic milk.” This initiative surely reduces the burden of a farmer and provides him an opportunity to come up in life financially, “We are expecting the farmer to take the risk day in and day out to feed the million and he goes down with the natural calamities no one is there to support him. No market responds!” says Mr. Reddy and shares, “All the things which the farmer himself cannot do as an individual Akshaykalpa will do centrally at the risk taken by Akshayakalpa.” Akshayakalpa started on this revolution with only one farm but now they are crossing 100 mark. “Most of the farms are in the different stages of development , nearly about 40 are full-fledged operational while others are in the recommendation stage, construction stage, fodder stage and all will be function in next 3 to 4 months,” informs Mr. Reddy. Rs. 21 lakhs is the total expenditure incurred for establishing one farm having 25 cows. Rs. 21 lakhs! It is huge money for farmer. Mr. Reddy responds, “When the farmers become entrepreneurs we have to invest in all aspects. The cost includes setting up advanced cow shed, automatic milking system, a bio-gas plant, a bio-digester, fodder chopper, chilling unit, sprinkler set and fencing. Farmer need to produce electricity using bio gas as there is no power from the state, diesel generator is high cost to the farmer’s pocket and environment. The shift needs investment.” Company has tie-up with nationalized banks for giving loan to farmers. The prerequisites for a farmer to fulfill for his association with Akshayakalpa are land holding of minimum 5 acres, must be living in the village, able to invest 25% of initial capital and should not be debarred from any bank. “It will be a long drawn process as nearly it takes 6 months to induct a farmer into our program,” informs Mr. Reddy. At the farms crossed breeding is preferred precisely Jersey crossed with local or HF crossed with local as it is most suitable for milk production and adaptability. The farmers can use their existing cows but add on must the recommended breeds. Farmers associated with Akshayakalpa produces organic milk. Company provides assistance to produce organic fodder in terms of technology. The appropriate organic feed is given to the cattle hence organic milk is produced. He adds, “Organic milk as the definition should not have any traces of chemicals, no traces of pesticides, no traces of antibiotics, no traces of hormones in the milk that is at one level but in the process level the farmer should feed only the green grass produced without any chemical fertilizer, should not beat the animals for whatever reason, cattle should be completely under comfort including enough walking space, never tied to the pole, adequate water and food and no restriction on animal feeding time.” Milk produced at dairy farms is purchased by Akshayakalpa. Price per liter depends on the fat content of the milk. It varies between Rs 28 and can even go upto Rs 35. Fat content in the milk is identified scientifically. Payments are made directly into saving bank account of farmers. “If they have taken loan then some fixed amount is paid to bank from the sales proceed by Akshayakalpa and rest is deposited in farmer’s account,” he shares. The response is overwhelming for farmers as they never had so much support and returns before. Sharing the figures Mr. Reddy says, “ Our farmers who started with us 3 years back, their net earnings today after all expenses per month is between Rs 50,000-1,00,000.” Milk is collected daily by the vans. Daily milk collection is more than 4500 liters, “We will cross 10,000litres by April after all the new farms will get into the production,” he adds. Company process the procured milk from farmers into value added products like butter, cheese and ghee etc. The processing plant is at Tiptur, Karnataka but the value addition process starts at the farm. Mr. Reddy explains, “Value addition should take place in the villages not in the cities because if raw material migrates the quality reduces and all profits accumulate at the corporate headquarters and nothing is left with the farmer who is producing the raw materials.” When asked how such an infrastructure can be created in village he says, “That is exactly a challenge, all of us should take up the challenge what is the value addition possible for a farmer at the farm level, what the farmer can do and what the farmer cannot do. We have provided chilling machine at the farm where the farmer can chill the milk immediately after milking from the cow. This retains quality of milk, it is 100 times better than what we are getting in the market. Bacteria will not breed at 4 degrees temperature. In this way at least 2 steps value addition benefit goes to farmer’s pocket.” Rest other activities like collection, processing and packaging etc is taken care by centralized system. Company is developing a pooling model where there will be a common infrastructure for 5-6 farmers. Explaining the model Mr. Reddy shares, “Suppose a farmer wants fodder for his cattle he can ask fellow farmer to grow the fodder that will be like an economic farms. Farmers have to pay each other for their services and goods and that can be organized. We are working on this system and this will take some more time to perfect this model.” Presently company is working in Tiptur but once the project is completely operational, plans are to replicate the same model in and around all metros. Mr. GNS Reddy and other founder members of Akshayakalpa Farms and Foods are sure the new researched and formulated Urban Spoke Model shall become national model for rejuvenating Indian agriculture. “This is our mission. Milk is not our mission it is one of our product. We will be working on other products as well but the base would be the same, centralize what farmers cannot afford and decentralize what he can do independently,” shares Mr. Reddy and signs off saying, “We are empowering the villagers to become entrepreneurs we require lot of support from consumers. They must be willing to pay the price for that quality. And most important we are taking agriculture to next level so youth must have agriculture as their first career option.” Contact details- Akshayakalpa Farms & Foods Private Limited 382/2, Sharadanagara, Tiptur – 572202, Karnataka, India Phone – +91 (0)8134 250045/47, Email – info@akshayakalpa.org Web – http://akshayakalpa.org/ Blog – http://blog.akshayakalpa.org/ Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Akshayakalpa – New dairy farming business model Related – articles, consultants, downloads Model Dairy Farm Satya Sai Dairy Farm Eva Dairy Farm Fourseasonz – dairy farm You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics