High yielding Grand Naine (Musa accuminata) BANANA – Virus free plants - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products High yielding Grand Naine (Musa accuminata) BANANA – Virus free plants High yielding Grand Naine (Musa accuminata) BANANA – Virus free plants Buy directly from supplier Request Price Description Product Description It is a popular commercial cultivar grown extensively for table and processing purpose in the states Maharashtra, Gujarat and West Bengal. It is alo popular in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. ‘Basrai’ is the leading commercial variety of Cavendish group and is a leading commercial variety of Maharashtra. The plant stature is Dwarf making it less prone to wind damage. The bunch size, the fruit length and size is quite good though the keeping quality is rather poor. The average bunch weight with 6 – 7 hands and with about 13 fruits per hand is about 15 – 25 Kg. The thick rind of the fruit retains to some extent the greenish color even when the fruits are ripe. Gandevi selection known as ‘Hanuman’ or ‘Padarre’ is gaining importance inspite of its longer crop duration. The selection yield bunches weighing 55 – 60 kg. Performs well under light soils with high inputs. In combination with high-density planting and drip irrigation, Dwarf Cavendish is becoming a highly successful cultivor. It is highly susceptible to Sigatoka leaf spot disease in humid tropics restricting its commercial cultivation. SPECIAL FEATURES : Introduced variety, important for International trade and high density planting Plant type – Dwarf Yield – 40 – 60 Kg per bunch, 12 hands, 150 or more fruits Fruits – large, long curved, thick green peel where the greenish color is retained to some extent even after ripening Pulp – soft, sweet, juicy, delightful aroma If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: GWB2 . Category: Planting Material . Tag: banana . Social share Related Products Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Planting Material Fast growing Dendrocalamus stocksii Bamboo – virus free plants Free Read More Send enquiry Quick View Planting Material Grand Naine Banana plants Free Read More Send enquiry Quick View Fresh Produce Grand Naine Bananas Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Planting Material Herb Seeds Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Planting Material Fast growing Bambusa balcooa BAMBOO – Virus free plants Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Planting Material Fruit Seeds for Agriculture Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics