KISSAN-Kerala   Sitemap | Contact Us | Feedback         Search | About KISSAN | Kerala @ Glance | What's New | Events | FAQs | The Team | Institutions | Home About Project | About Portal | About Online Advisory Service | About Krishideepam About Teleadvisory Services | Other No DATE NAME FEEDBACK ID 1 01.07.2009 Ganesh muthukumar Respected Sir, I am regular viewer of your program.I am happy with your efforts of nurturing the ancient art of agriculture with the new technology.The programme is duly essential for the younger generation to know that what pain and hardship our dear farmers take to feed the world. Ganesh 2 01.08.2009 Anu Tojan Hi, I was watching the kissan deepam program. The kissan deepam program is very good. I love Kerala. I am working in B lore. But i love to come back to Kerala. My feeling towards Kerala is that its a place of goodness and prosperity. Best Regards Anu Tojan Software Engineer, IELTS Trainer Bangalore-68 3 02.07.2011 BHASKERKUMAR I AM LAWYER FROM LONDON,UK. I LIKE YOUR WEBSITE TOO MUCH. SOME SUGGESTION FOR U. FIRST I SALUTE U I SEE KISAN VIDEO ON WWW.YOUTUBE.COM VERY NICE. 1) TRANSLATE YOUR WEBSITE IN ALL INDIAN LANGUAGES SO ALL MALE AND FEMALE OF INDIA GET BENEFIT FROM IT. GUJARATI....HINDI....PUNJBAI....BENGALI....TAMIL. 2) TRANSLATE KISSAN KERALA PROGRAMME IN ALL INDIAN LANGUAGE SO WE GUJARATI PEOPLE UNDERSTAND IT IN GUJARATI. INDIA IS LAND OF HINDUISM....SIKHISM........JAINISM.....BUDDHISM ALL = HINDUISM ISLAM AND CHRISTIAN COMES FROM OUTSIDE INDIA JAY HIND 4 02.08.2008 Prabhakaran E.N. Feed back Dear Sir, Your KISSAN-Kerala Project and the online services are unique and exemplary. The answered query module is highly informative. I think it is proper to bring the following points I observed, to your attention. 1. While typing a question or feedback, the special characters like ampersand, asterisk, hash sign, dollar sign, percentage, parenthesis etc are not accepted. The whole text disappears when it encounters a special character with an error message ? undefined. 2. The answered query module is growing unnecessarily large due to repeated answers. Several people are asking same or similar questions. You answer each question and post it in the answered query module. This causes repetition and monotony to readers. You can either direct the requestor to a previous answer by token number or send the answer by e-mail without adding to the module. One of the nice things about your program is that users can access all the previous questions and answers on any subject by KEYWORD. For example the keyword -mushroom- will bring all the question and answers containing the word -mushroom- and the keyword -rubber- will bring all Q and A containing the word -rubber-. Users can clear most of their doubts and find information they need without bothering you. Many of the users are unaware of this wonderful feature and they prefer asking you. If you add a line or two to this effect in the instructions part of the ?Post Question- module, many of the repeated questions can be avoided and you will receive only new questions. 3. In numerous cases you refer the requestors to the appropriate agencies. This referral has some disadvantages 1. The answer they receive is confined to themselves. The information they receive may be useful to other farmers as well. 2. Those agencies will equally be over-loaded with repeated questions. 3. Your databank will not grow. 4. The golden rule for a service unit is ?Don?t refer the people, refer the case?. Referral service will defeat the purpose of your existence. Therefore, instead of referring each individual, you can refer the more frequent and commonly asked questions directly to the appropriate authority once, get the answer, and post it in the module. This will be readable to everyone . Repetition can also be avoided. 4. I have a feeling that a lot of encouragement is given to the cultivation of Jatropha ? the diesel plant, vanilla, aloe vera, safed musli, pathimugam etc. However I don?t think there is proper infra-structure for transportation, sale, processing or preservation of any of the above produce or the farmers can make a profit out of their new ventures. Several decades ago, a leading chocolate company in Bombay played a trick on the farmers of Kerala. They found that the soil and climate of Kerala are ideal for cocoa cultivation. They encouraged the farmers to cultivate cocoa and offered an excellent price. Some farmers including my father, cut down the rubber trees and planted cocoa. For the first year and second year of yield, the farmers made good profit. When the company got enough stock of their raw materials they slashed the price. Gradually, there came a time, when there was no buyers, no value and no use. Unlike coffee or cashew nuts, cocoa seeds cannot be processed at home. The pods started rotting under the trees, infested with flies, worms, rodents, bats and a new comer called marappatti which after eating the chocolate enriched fruits stole the farmer?s chicken. The precious farm land became wasteland. Will the growers of these fancy crops meet the same fate? Few years ago during my visit to Kerala I noticed extensive inter-crop cultivation of pineapple in rubber plantations. The following year I saw mountains of pineapples rotting on the road-side sometimes abandoned or unattended. There is no wholesale outlet, no retail buyers, no processing or preserving techniques. I don?t know how many farmers are making a living out of vanilla cultivation or how many motors are running on jatropha. In my personal view, there is no substitute for Kerala?s traditional crops like rubber, coconut, arecanut, pepper, tapioca, yams, pulses, rice, vegetables, betel leaf, timber etc. Instead of wasting time on fancy crops like jatropha, vanilla and aloe, if they concentrate on mushroom cultivation and flood the Kerala market with different kinds of mushrooms, it would be beneficial for health especially for diabetic patients. If the farmers have land to waste, why can?t they cultivate tapioca? I paid Rs. 15 for 1 Kg! If you have any comments on my comments, please advise via e-mail to pen11223@hotmail.com Thank you. 5 03.03.2007 krishnamoorthi sir, i am doing my project in natural product extraction for coleus aromaticus.kindly help me for liturature 6 03.05.2011 S.P.Shiva Prakash Dear KISSAN, I would like to congratulate you for your excellent support to our backbone of India, the farmer community. with Best Wishes and Regards S.P.Shiva Prakash Lecturer, Dept. of IS&E SJCE,Mysore-06 ph: +919886361341 7 03.11.2008 George.c.p kissan kerala, Realy this project is good and informative.The online Question and answering also very good.I am presently working in Dubai now I am on my annual leave.Actually I like Agriculture.Every friday Iam watching Krishi Deepam,this program is good. George.c.p 8 04.02.2008 Dr. Charles M. James If anyone is interested in marine fish farming projects they shall contact for more details. 9 04.06.2007 NIRMAL S.C A really helpful project for us, who are on the initial phase of agriculture and cultivation. Thanking all the members behind it and wishing all the best for its future projects. Expecting more helpful topics in the future. 10 05.09.2008 Balasubramanian.A Most of the Farmers are illiterates in villages can you please give an awareness campaign for them and put an assist in Nearest Krishibhavan office. So farmers can push there queries into help line. Most of the farmers are not aware about the recent subsidies provided by the government and what kind of things they are providing like information you can put as stroller message. Thanks. 11 07.01.2007 Sagar shirwale Hello sir, My last token no is 8591.Thank you for answer. As you said I have contacted to Krishi Vigyan Kendra at Baramati, Pune.But I am not satisfied, they have no information about whole sale market. is in India any Animal cutting units like devnar in Mumbai? If not where is its market? Thank you. 12 09.12.2006 Alende Hi People behind Krishidheepam, This is the first time writing to a TV channel. I felt Krishidheepam is one of the most interesting programs and this is the only program I?m watching in Malayalam channels. You guys are showing something real. This is really revealing the beauty of farming and it will really inspire a farmer. This is a small suggestion I felt the sound tracks are not justifying your picture. I really respect your effort to make Krishidheepam happening every week. Thanks, Alende. 13 10.07.2012 Lalith Bambarabotuwa Your website is very good and very usefull for agriculter and livelihood development. it was very good help for my studiees. I like to study more about mushroom cultivation. can you provide me more information about mushroom cultivation. wish you all the best. 14 10.08.2008 T.R.SUBRAMANIAN I AM VERY MUCH OBLIGED TO KISSAN KERALA KRISHIDEEPAM, AND I WATCH THE WEEKLY TV BROADCAST ON ASIANET. HOWEVER, BEING A HOBBY FARMER ONLY IN MY RETIREMENT, WITHOUT ANY IN DEPTH KNOWLEDGE ABOUT AGRICULTURE, I VERY MUCH MISS REGULAR ADVISE ON WHAT TO GROW AND WHEN. I VERY MUCH WISH THAT YOU WILL BRING OUT A MONTHLY LIST OF AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES THAT SHOULD BE CARRIED OUT IN THE FARM, LIKE PLANTING, FERTILISATION, PEST MANAGEMENT AND RELATED ACTIVITIES. I USED TO SUBSCRIBE TO "KARSHAKASHREE" MAGAZINE, AND THEREIN, EVERY MONTH, THERE IS A SECTION FOR AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES FOR THE CURRENT MONTH. SINCE I STOPPED SUBSCRIBING TO KARSHAKASHREE MAGAZINE, I VERY MUCH MISS THIS MONTHLY ADVISE. I WISH THAT KISSAN KERALA WILL BRING OUT SUCH AN ADVISORY. THIS WILL BE HELPFUL NOT ONLY TO REGULAR FARMERS, BUT ALSO TO HOBBY FARMERS LIKE ME, WHO TRY TO DO SOME AGRICULTURAL WORK IN THEIR SMALL PLOT OF LAND, AS A HOBBY. THANKS VERY MUCH IN ADVANCE. REGDS. TRS MANI. 15 10.09.2008 R. Komalan Dear Sir, Thanks a lot for the videos. Please include the video of different kinds of Fish cultivation including last episode (August 29, 2008). Presently there is no videos for fish cultivation. Thanks and appreciated the personnel who behind the Kissan Kerala program. Happy Onam to all of you With best wishes R. Komalan Saudi Arabia 16 11.11.2008 Moideen Thanks lot your reply, if i produce large quantity Coconut pith compost how to sale, who will buy, pls give me detail and contact tele: no. Regards moideen 17 13.03.2009 S DEHALEESAN For Toekn 20979, I have received the reply. Shall perform as advised and get back to you on the results. Regards, S Dehaleesan 18 13.11.2011 E.J. George Sir, I am really interested in agriculture farming projects like piggery, poultry or rabbit etc… therefore I hereby requesting to you to update any information all about this. thanks and warm regards george 19 14.07.2011 sunny some suggestion for u. 1) when u translate your website in all indian language so your good thing spread all over india. gujarati.........marathi.....punjabi.......bengali.......tamil 2) open kishan call centre. 3) go with project gujarat govt. they definitely implement in my state gujarat. 20 15.02.2011 sreeraj menon Dear sir, Very much grateful to team Kissankerala for doing a great job for the farmers and farming loving people like me. I regularly watch the episode on asianet and try to gain maximum knowledge from episode and on your website. Being a layman to farming and the interest to learn more and enter into a large scale farming(both agro and animal)i would request you to provide the english version of all pamphelts and karshakan if possible the softcopy or on your website. Iam not familiar with malayalam languageg(reading and writing) as i am born and boughtup outside kerala. You can also contact me on my mailid (menonsreeraj@rediffmail.com)and on cell 9995757999. kindly look into the same and help me out. 21 15.03.2009 nazreen I have watched the videos online it is a very useful information for a district like Wayanad but the lacuna is connectivity . if the facility in TVM is provided in krishibhavans of these backward districts it would be very useful to our farmers and our society. personally i feel this because instead of giving mere information in data form it will be very useful if they watch the method themselves. this is a very good effort of yours which is appreciable but it should be made available to this district which is purely an agrarian district. i hope this will be considered 22 15.09.2007 K.R.MOHAN SANKAR Dear Sir, Thanks for the quick response. Any how I am interested in various animal rearing programmes, small cultivation programmes like mushrooms cultivation etc. I would like to have some pig rearing programmes plus the scopes. I think piggery may attract some polution crisis and how to overcome that etc. Shortly I may start some farms near Ottapalam. Further is it possible to breed ornamental fish in ponds. We have ponds and I think Angels can be bread in these ponds without any difficulty. If I generate Angels in commercial basis what is the scope of market. Any how Your programmes are very useful and somany times I missed due to time constraints. Hence I request you to introduce video clips in web site for our use. Regards Mohan Sankar 23 17.01.2009 jayachandran km sir, ur project is very much appreciatable in todays need for modern agriculture.try to include adress of pvt. nurserries and experts.thank u. 24 17.02.2009 abdul azeez m.k sir,really i am very happy to hear your new serviece. thank you. 25 17.04.2009 Maj Manoj Kumar It is nice to see the kissan kerela developing day by day. My best wishes to all your endeavors. With best wishes and regards, Maj Manoj Kumar 26 17.11.2008 Sudesh Subramanian It would be better if you can give a better view in the sense of Beginners, like get valid informations regarding say a topic POULTRY FARMING,Rabbit farming & other livestocks-Give a brief about their farming,how to start a poultry from home,the institutions where you can get more informations, regarding farming & all details in one page their advantages,start business at home or for a living. in short all details for starting a poultry farming from home itself, rather than going out so that housewifes can easily know the basic things about it... Otherwise this site is very good & programme on tv is also very informative. regards Sudesh S. 27 18.03.2008 Sam sasidharan hi first of all a hearty congratulations for such an effort and attempt to bring the farmers of the state to public sphere. though the site lacks in many contents such as photos, the episodes aired in asianet is very nice in its content and presentation. being a media research scholar at madras university i wish to contribute to the effort from your side with regards SAM S. 28 21.04.2012 YOGESH Your video documentaries are very educational. I have suggestion to either include english subtitles or the documentary be made in English. Thank You, Yogesh Good Job. 29 21.05.2011 Suresh Manu Hi congrats to Krishideepam show in Asianet. Iam in Singapore and a regular viewer of the show. Here everything including food is imported, and really understand the importance of agriculture in a sustainable way! I visited your youtube site and in youtube your website is given as http://www.kissankerala.in, which doesnt exist. Please correct it. Why not you open a facebook account? More people can know about your activities from facebook liking. People can contribute to your activities by way small funding, words of inspiration to your team, media coverage or by information. Anyway I have provided a link to your website from my facebook page. And I have decide to promote this venture to the best way I can. Congrats once again! 30 21.11.2008 A.P SHIJITH Dear Sir, Firstly I would like to congratulate you for doing such a great job. I feel proud to be a malyali kissan. I was going through most of the queries which I was intrested. It will be great if you can find a trust worthy buyer for all our farmers who cultivate medicinal plants like pathimugham,Mussali etc.I am sure by doing this most of the farmers problem will be solved. There will be no confusions for the farmers who spend years to cultivate and end up in vein with out a proper high end buyer. I am sure you can as you know better than any one. Thanks Shijith A.P 31 22.10.2008 antonio de souza Query Token : 18411 Million thanks for your selfless and promt service. I have succeeded in arranging the spawns at a very reasonable rate with Swadishta mushrooms i have already spoken to them and i am coming to Trivandrum next week to finalise the deal. 32 23.03.2012 Dr Yatin Mehta Excellent 33 23.07.2012 ramchandra rao quail bird documentry or some information if provided in this site it would be great not only quails but other animals also.. 34 25.12.2008 ARUN I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THAT THIS PROJECT SHOULD BE MADE FAMOUS ALL OVER INDIA.THIS IS A SUCCESSFUL PROJECT,SO IT SHOULD BE A GREAT SUCCESS IN INDIA. 35 26.12.2006 pallippad agricultural development society we would like to hear more on the possibilities of implimenting pulses and cereals in the fields of onattukara fields. paddy we know well but about pulses please inform us more. 36 27.05.2011 Biswa Ranjan Choudhury This project is really admirable and inspiring.I watch the programs regularly. But unfortunately I do not understand the language.So if the programs include English subtitles then people like me throughout the India may get benefited and could understand the programs properly. 37 27.11.2009 SUDARSHAN Its a very good project.Especially i want to thank your experts for their valuable suggestions. 38 28.04.2008 MADHAVAN. D. The Co-Ordinator 28/04/2008 Kissan Kerala Projects Govt.of Kerala. Sir, May I introduce myself, Madhavan, belong to Quilon Distt., Village Adichanalloor-Kerala, residing at New Delhi since very long. I am a viewer of Kissan Krishi Deepam Programme thru our family s favourite Channel Asianet I like this programme very much and I would like to congratulate all of its co-ordinators working behind this programme. Those who are watching this programme from outside of Kerala (i.e. a Pravasi Malayalee) certainly they feel that they are....or their mind....is in Keralas Greenery.....they will certainly feel cool and satisfactory..... Sir, as far as I myself being a Pravasy Malayalee residing at New Delhi since very long (1969 onwards)....my feeling is telling you....many thanks and Congratulations....please accept. Sir, my idea of writing this mail is, if there any Publications sending out like KISSAN DIRECTORY or any Publications like this, kindly send me or may please be enlisted in your reply mail. Suppose, any Free Publications coming out, please send me. Besides the above, I shall become a Subscriber for this. Hope you will definitely reply to my mail. With best wishes regards. MADHAVAN. D. B2C/9-C, TOP FLOOR D.D.A. FLATS OPP. H.P.PETROL PUMP JANAKPURI NEW DELHI-110058. 39 28.09.2010 Mansoor CK i like these type of videos, especially in this world.pls add more time attractive visuals to attract the youth and youngsters to farm. i love u all of the team members in this project mansoor ck motion graphic designer www.mtoonz.com 40 29.03.2007 midhilapadman The information had really helped me in knowing the disease ..i would like to get more information regarding fusarium wilt on vanilla and book source if any...am thankful in giving me such valuable information... 41 29.07.2008 Manoj Menon A milestone in the development of agriculture by Kissan Kerala. Kudos to everyone involved in this project.Another first for Kerala. I look forward to seeing valuable information on this site. Best Wishes Manoj Menon 42 29.07.2008 N. Madhu Dear Sirs, Congratulation. Regards, Madhu. 43 29.12.2009 Basanagouda Patil Iam very happy about your project which help the farmers. With thanks, Basu Patil 09739007797 44 31.07.2011 sunny london,uk some suggestion for u. first of all salute for your work. u are doing excellent work for male and female of india. 1) translate your progreamme in all indian languages mostly gujarati....marathi....punjabi....bengali...tamil...assamesse....telegu....so all people get benefit of it. 2) open call centre in kerala and all india ask u question and u answer them. 3) develop software so communication in regional languages become more and more easy. 4) open your work centre in my state gujarat. open your 4 office in gujarat. kutch.....bhavnagar.....rajkot and gandhinagar. 5) start indian agri tv channel 24 hour, indian tourism 24 hour tv channel, indian dance 24 hour tv channel, indian cloth, indian wild life, indian road, railway, avaitation.     View Feedbacks Post Query for Expert Answers Crop Information GIS Based Agri Advisory Farming Practices Fertilizers & Pesticides Kerala Agri Directory Discussion Forum   Farmer Database | Applications Download | Research | Soil & Water | Related Links   KISSAN Kerala Operations Centre, IIITM-K, NILA, Techno park Campus, Thiruvananthapuram Private Policy | Disclaimer  