TNAU Agritech Portal :: Sustainable Agriculture Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact Nutrition :: Frequently Asked Questions 1. What is meant by "Balanced Diet"?  Taking food with all nutrients is called "Balanced Diet". 2. What is the reason for getting "Night Blindness"? Night Blindness is causes due to deficiency of VITAMIN A. 3. What are the food sources available for VITAMIN A? Milk foods, Fish, Cod-liver oil, Eggs, Papaya, Yellow fruits, Carrot, Pumpkin and Green vegetables. 4. What is the cause for Anaemia ? This is due to deficiency of Iron Mineral. So this is available in leafy vegetables, Egg Yellow, Dry Fruits, Mutton. 5. How much content of Haemoglobin should be present in Male & Female? Male 14 -18g / 100ml. Female 11 - 16 g / 100ml. 6. What type of disease will come due to VITAMIN D deficiency? What is the remedy for this  "Rickets" will come in children due to deficiency of Vitamin D & Calcium. Calcium is available in morning sunrays. Green leafy vegetables and Ragi. 7. Every day how much food should take by humans?   For Vegetarians Cereals 400g Dhal 70g Leafy Vegetables 100g  Other Vegetables 75g Tubers 75 g Fruits 30g Milk 200ml Sugar 40g Oil  20ml     For Non - Vegetarians    Egg 50 g Fish, Mutton 50 g                             8. Can diabetics eat pulses? Pulses are among the foods that have a low glycaemic index, and are recommended for diabetic patients to eat: This helps patients to regulate their glycaemia, avoiding glycaemia and insulin-secretion peaks. Foods with a low glycaemic index have a beneficial effect on patients’ fasting blood lipid levels. 9. Do carbohydrates make you fat? How much is acceptable? Carbohydrates are one of the three major macro-nutrients which supply the body with energy (fat and protein being the others). They provide 4 Kcal per gram as does proteins, while fat provides 9 Kcal per gram. A diet containing an optimum level of carbohydrates may help prevent body fat accumulation. 10. Is sugar a source of empty calories? Sugar is exclusively formed of glucose and fructose, and therefore sometimes referred to as providing "empty calories". 11. What are the major sources of carbohydrates and main energy food?  Carbohydrates take the form of sugars, oligosaccharides, starches and fibres. The major sources of carbohydrates are cereals, pulses, potatoes. But also fruit and vegetables contain carbohydrates and even milk. 12. Does caffeine increase the risk of heart disease? Studies have shown that caffeine consumption does not increase the risk of cardiovascular disease and does not raise cholesterol levels or cause irregular heartbeat. 13. Does eating butter give one cholesterol? For people in good health, there is no problem in the normal consumption of butter as part of a balanced diet. It should be realised that several factors are involved in the increase in cholesterol level: heredity, the lack of physical activity, obesity but also an unbalanced diet. 13. I have high cholesterol; how many eggs can I consume each week? It should be realized that only 20% of the cholesterol in the blood is provided by food, and the remaining 80% is synthesized by the organism. Accordingly, persons with high blood cholesterol levels are advised to eat 2 to 3 eggs per week, without allowing for eggs contained in prepared foods. 14. I have problems with high blood pressure. Is it possible to reduce my blood pressure with the right type of diet? High blood pressure, or hypertension, increases the risk of heart disease, angina and stroke. People with high blood pressure are advised to lose weight and reduce their alcohol intake. It may also be helpful not to add salt to food during cooking or at the table and to choose reduced salt convenience foods. It has been estimated that an increase of 2.3 - 3.1g of potassium a day could reduce deaths related to raised blood pressure by as much as 25 per cent. This quantity of potassium, can be found in a banana, a large glass of orange juice and single portions of many other fruits and vegetables. 15. I have got "cholesterol"; can I continue to eat meat? The average cholesterol content of meat is moderate, close to that of fish, less than 80 mg for a 100 g portion. However, the cholesterol content of foods is of less concern than their saturated fatty acid content, which has distinctly more influence on blood cholesterol levels. In practice, this means you should opt for meat cuts with no visible fat, that is to say, those that are not streaked or veined with fat or those in which the fat can easily be removed from the lean. The cooking method should be appropriate, limiting any added cooking fat, and vegetable oils or fats should be preferred whenever they are necessary. 16. Should red wine be consumed to prevent cardiovascular illness? *The standard glass of wine = 10 cl = 10 g of alcohol 17. My daughter has anemia due to an iron deficiency. What kinds of foods contain iron? Iron is needed in order for haemoglobin (the red pigment in blood) to work properly and carry oxygen to all the body`s cells. Red meats are the best source of iron; it can also be found in liver, oily fish, the dark meat of chicken and turkey, some nuts, seeds, dried fruits, dark green vegetables, and fortified breakfast cereals. Phytates (in cereals and pulses), fibre, tannins (in tea and coffee), and calcium can bind non-haem iron, which reduces absorption. The absorption of iron can be improved when accompanied by foods rich in Vitamin C (e.g. citrus fruits, berries, kiwi fruit, peppers and potatoes). 18. What kind of nutrient deficiencies is related with fatigue? A lot of other diseases like cancer, multiple sclerosis, allergies and even diabetes, depression and low blood pressure provoke fatigue also. A lack of iron leads to low iron stores in the body and eventually to iron deficiency anaemia. Iron deficiency anaemia can make people feel tired, irritable and less able to concentrate. 19. Can you please explain the difference between type 1 and type 2 diabetes? Type 1 diabetes typically appears in children and happens because of a lack of insulin. It’s caused when the insulin-producing cells in the pancreas are destroyed by an autoimmune response. This type of diabetes is treated with regular insulin injections and is also known as insulin dependent diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is known as non-insulin dependent diabetes. Insulin is produced, but the muscles that would normally respond by taking up glucose to use as energy storage become insulin resistant, causing glucose levels in the blood to increase. Historically, type 2 diabetes was seen in middle-aged and elderly people and only rarely occurred in young people. 20. Does sugar cause diabetes? When sugar is consumed the hormone insulin is required to bring blood sugar levels back down to normal. Diabetes is caused through a lack of insulin, not an excess of sugar in the diet. 21. How does the sugar content of food influence the blood sugar level? Which fruits should I avoid as a diabetic? A way of ranking carbohydrate-containing foods according to the extent to which they raise blood sugar levels after eating is called the Glycaemic Index (GI). A higher intake of low GI foods results in slower digestion of starches and sugars and slower absorption of sugar into the bloodstream. Fruits provide essential vitamins and minerals, fibre, and other substances that are important for good health. Fruits with a low GI Factor (GI less than 55) Apples/apple juice Pears Oranges/orange juice Grapes Grapefruits Strawberries Fruits with an Intermediate GI factor (GI 55-70) Banana Pineapple Cantaloupe 22. What is the meaning of the “glycaemic index”?             The glycaemic index (GI) is a way of measuring the effects of food on blood sugar levels. After a carbohydrate-containing food is eaten there is a rise, and subsequent decrease, in blood sugar (glucose). This phenomenon is known as the glycaemic response. The glycaemic response after eating different carbohydrate-containing foods can be compared to the glycaemic response after consuming a standard food, such as white bread or glucose. The resulting measurement is called the glycaemic index of that food. Foods that break down quickly during digestion, for example sticky rice, have the highest glycaemic indexes. They raise blood sugar levels higher and more quickly than foods with low GIs. The Glycaemic Index of Some Common Foods compared to glucose Low GI foods (GI less than 55): Noodles and pasta; Lentils Apples/apple juice Pears Oranges/orange juice Grapes Low fat yoghurt Fruit bread Baked beans Chocolate Intermediate GI foods (GI 55-70): Basmati rice Banana Rolled oats Soft drinks Sweet corn Pineapple White sugar High GI foods (GI > 70): Bread (white or whole meal) Baked potato Cornflakes French Fries Honey Mashed potatoes White rice (low amylose or “sticky rice”) 23. Can I lose weight by missing meals? Research shows that missing meals can actually lead to an over-compensation and increased food consumption at the next meal. The result can be a gain, not loss in weight. 24. Can you drop pounds fast if everything you eat is fat-free? "Fat-free" does not mean "calorie free". Body must have some oils because they contain fat soluble vitamins and essential fatty acids. 25. Can you lose weight by becoming a vegetarian? Many vegetarian foods such as vegetarian cheeses and margarine, nuts, seeds and pastry made from flour and vegetarian spreads are relatively high in fat. Simply becoming a vegetarian is not a guaranteed fast route to weight loss. Always read the label for nutritional information (on energy and fat per serving/100 grams). 26. Can you recommend using diet pills to avoid gaining weight during holidays? Taking diet or slimming pills to loose weight or for avoiding weight gain is generally not recommended. drink a glass of water before eating and drink at least 1.5 litres of fluid daily eat regularly and prefer small portions enjoy plenty of fresh salads, vegetables and fruits go as often as possible for a little walk use the stairs and not the lift 27. Does exercise always make you lose weight? When you exercise you build muscle and muscle weighs more than fat. To shed around 1 to 2 pounds of body fat a week you will need to get more active in your everyday life and start to eat less. It is that simple. 28. Does fasting help to shrink the stomach? When you have not eaten for about four hours your stomach will be relatively empty. Fasting can not therefore shrink the stomach; it simply remains in the empty, deflated state. As soon as you start eating and drinking normally again, it expands once more. 29. How can I gain weight? To gain weight you must regularly eat more calories than your body burns away. Essential fats include omega 3 oils like fish oils, flax and nuts. Good sources of protein include meats, fish and poultry. Plan three regular meals, plus two or three snacks such as yoghurt drinks, nuts or raisins. 30. How can you calculate the amount of calories and fat you are allowed to eat in relation to your weight, size and age to actually lose weight? Body uses just to keep its basic systems working (brains, heart, breathing, body warmth, and so on). The equations below are commonly used to get a rough estimate for BMR in kcal per day: Estimated Basal Metabolic Rate in kcal/day = Male 10-17 yr (17.5 x kg) + 651 18-29 yr (15.3 x kg) + 679 30-59 yr (11.6 x kg) + 879 >60 yr (13.5 x kg) + 487 Female 10-17 yr (12.2 x kg) + 746 18-29 yr (14.7 x kg) + 496 30-59 yr (8.7 x kg) + 829 >60 yr (10.5 x kg) + 596 To calculate your total daily energy use, BMR should to be multiplied by the following factors, depending on habitual activity levels. very inactive 1.4 sedentary (office worker, housework, etc) 1.5 add if moderately active at work +0.1 add if moderate leisure activity +0.1 add if very physically active at work +0.2 add if high leisure activity +0.2 31. I have heard about a low carbohydrate diet. Which foods do not contain carbohydrates? The only food group which is free of carbohydrates is fats and oils.Cereal, pulses, potatoes, fruit and vegetables contain starch and/or sugars, which are carbohydrates. 32. I have problems with high blood pressure. Is it possible to reduce my blood pressure with the right type of diet? High blood pressure, or hypertension, increases the risk of heart disease, angina and stroke. People with high blood pressure are advised to lose weight and reduce their alcohol intake. It may also be helpful not to add salt to food during cooking or at the table and to choose reduced salt convenience foods. 33. Is a fat free diet actually good for you? Dietary fats are needed to carry fat soluble vitamins such as A, D, E, and K. Also, a group of nutrients called essential fatty acids, found in plant and fish oils, are absolutely crucial for health. They are needed by every cell membrane in our body to help make them watertight and are vital for the functioning not only of the brain, but also for controlling the production of prostaglandins, hormone-like substances that control several functions all over the body. 34. Is it true that if you take supplements, you don't need to bother about what you eat? It is this kind of diet which supplies a range of protein, fat and carbohydrate sources which themselves provides the body with essential amino acids and fatty acids, vitamins, minerals, phytonutrients and fibre. 35. What are the cut-offs of BMI percentiles to define underweight, normality, risk of obesity and obesity (and its subclasses) in children and adolescents? Underweight                         BMI-for-age   <5thpercentile. Normal weight                      BMI-for-age between 5th percentile and 90 percentile. At risk of overweight            BMI-for-age between 90th percentile and 97th percentile Overweight                            BMI-for-age > 97th percentile. BMI decreases during the preschool years, then increases into adulthood. 36. What are the proper foods to lose weight? 1) Eat a lot of fruits and vegetables: 2) Eat moderately animal products. 3) Be moderate with fat, 4) Drink a lot of energy free fluids 37. What causes more weight gain – fat, calories, or sugar? Which fats are good and which are bad for your health? The energy stored in our food is measured in terms of calories. Technically, one calorie is the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of 1 gram of water 1 degree Celsius (1.8 degrees Fahrenheit). Carbohydrate e.g. sugar contains less than 4 calories, whilst fat contains 9 calories per gram. Therefore a good way to decrease the calories in your food is to lower the amounts of fat. Most saturated fats should be reduced because they raise blood cholesterol. Cholesterol is a fat-like substance found only in animal foods. 38. What is the basis of a healthy diet? Enjoy a wide variety of foods Eat regularly Aim for balance and moderation Eat enough fruits and vegetables Base the diet on foods rich in carbohydrates Drink plenty of fluids Eat fats in moderation 39. What is the definition of the term healthy in terms of healthy food? Food that provides all the nutrients and including a variety of different foods (vegetables, whole grains, fruits, dairy products, legumes, lean meats, poultry and fish and enough fluids like water) and watching portion sizes is key to a healthy diet. Eating a healthy diet will reduce the risk of diseases such as heart disease, stroke, obesity or diabetes. 40. What are the benefits of wholegrain cereals? Regular consumption of wholegrain cereals can reduce the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) and certain cancers by up to 30 per cent. Nutrients found in whole grains include vitamin E, the vitamin B complex, and minerals such as selenium, zinc, copper, iron, magnesium and phosphorus. In addition to these vitamins and minerals whole grains contain protein, complex carbohydrates and protective substances such as lignans (plant phytoestrogens with reported health-promoting properties against heart disease and cancer). 41. Why should I eat fruit and vegetables? How many portions should I eat per day? They also provide vitamins of the B group, beta-carotene (provitamin A) (which could explain why they protect against cardiovascular diseases and certain forms of cancer), an appreciable quantity of minerals and trace elements (potassium, magnesium, calcium, iron, copper etc…) and polyphenols. They are also rich in fibre which optimises bowel movement. 42. Is the calcium content the same in whole, semi-skimmed and skimmed milk? Whole, semi-skimmed or skimmed, milk always contains the same amount of calcium, whole, semi-skimmed or skimmed, milk remains an excellent source of calcium and of proteins of high nutritional value. 43. What is the nutritional value of eggs? 2 eggs provide as much protein as 100 g of meat. The energy value for an average egg (60 g) is approximately 376 kJ (90 kcal). The lipid content is 7 g, most of those lipids being contained in the yolk. An egg also contains 180 mg of cholesterol. An egg is rich in vitamins (A, D, E) and trace elements (iron and zinc). 44. If I eat lots of fruit, will I get all the fibre I need? Fruit and vegetables are a rich source of soluble fibres. These form a gel in the presence of water and seem to help to even out blood sugar and may reduce cholesterol absorbed by the body. Insoluble fibres are found in whole grain cereals. They absorb water and help to form bigger and bulkier stools that help to relieve and prevent digestive disorders like constipation. Whole grain cereals also supply the body with a host of protective antioxidant nutrients such as selenium and vitamin E. 45. What foods contain fibre? Cellulose, hemicellulose, polysaccharides, pectins, gums, mucilages and lignins are dietary fibres. These fibres cannot be digested by the human body. To increase the amount of fibre in your diet, you can include some of the following: whole-grain foods (bran cereals, whole-grain pastas, brown rice) and breads (those made with whole wheat grains) fresh fruits (including the skin and pulp) dried or stewed fruits (such as prunes, raisins or apricots)  root vegetables (such as carrots, turnips or potatoes)  raw or fresh vegetables, such as cabbage broccoli, dried peas and beans (e.g. kidney, lima beans, chick peas, lentils and soy beans), corn Low and no fibre foods are e.g.: white bread, sugar, meats and fish. 46. How much dairy food must one consume in order to absorb enough calcium? The quantities of dairy products to consume each day are calculated on the basis of calcium requirements, dairy products being the principal source of calcium. These requirements vary according to age and physiological circumstances. 46. Is eating meat recommended for elderly people? Meat is part of a balanced diet, since it provides both animal proteins of a high biological value and trace elements including iron, zinc and selenium. 47. Is organic food more nutritious than conventional food? Organic food is derived from crops or animals produced in a farming system that avoids the use of man-made fertilisers, pesticides, growth regulators and feed additives. Organic foods are ‘healthier’ than conventionally produced foods appears to be based on the belief that organic foods have superior sensory attributes, contain lower levels of pesticides and synthetic fertilisers, and have higher levels of nutrients and protective phytochemicals. 48. Does grape juice contain functional components and if so, can they affect our health? Flavonoids are phenolic compounds that are widespread in commonly consumed fruits and vegetables such as apples and onions and beverages derived from plants like tea. 49. What are functional foods and why are they useful? Functional foods are developed specifically to promote health or reduce the risk of diseases. Food Functional Benefit Live fermented milks and yoghurts with probiotic cultures Improve digestive functioning. Margarine, yoghurt, cheese spreads Plant stereols reduce cholesterol and lower the risk of heart disease. Eggs rich in omega-3 essential fatty acids   Breakfast cereals Added folic acid may help reduce the risk of babies being born with spina bifida. 50. Is caffeine a risk factor for osteoporosis? Caffeine intake may increase calcium loss in the urine. Caffeine intake at normal levels does not appear to affect calcium balance or bone density. Caffeine intake is not a risk factor for osteoporosis, particularly in women who consume adequate calcium. 51. Why is meat nutritious? Meat is a good source of : High biological value proteins: which are needed for growth and repair. Other products containing high biological value proteins are meat, fish, eggs, milk and dairy products. Iron: Meat, especially red meat, is also a good source of easily absorbed iron. B Vitamins: especially vitamin B12 (required for blood cells and nerve function) Vitamin D: required for healthy bones Zinc: required for tissue growth and repair Magnesium: which helps the body use energy and is needed for healthy tissues and bones. 52. Which fruits have the most sugar? Which have the least sugar? Citrus fruit and red berries (oranges, strawberries, raspberries) provide between 7 and 10% of carbohydrates, fruits with cores and pipes (apples, pears), between 10 and 15 %. Somewhat more sugar (15 to 20%) is found in grapes, cherries and bananas (when the latter are ripe, otherwise, they mainly contain starches). 53. What are the best food sources of vitamin B1 Vitamin B1 or Thiamin is found in a variety of animal and plant food. Important sources are vegetables, wholegrain products, pluses and nuts. The best animal source is pork meat. Other sources are also milk, cheese, peas, fresh and dried fruit, eggs 54. Is alcohol drinking good for the heart?  Alcohol in moderate i.e. 30-60 ml/day has been shown to be beneficial. Red wines in addition have anticancer effects. But if you are not used to drinking, there is no advantage in starting it now. If you are already used to it then limiting to 30-60 ml/day is beneficial and anything beyond has the opposite effects. 55. Why is a blood sugar test done? Diabetes mellitus is diagnosed based on a high level of glucose (sugar) in the blood. Blood sugar test, done fasting and 2 hours after breakfast, is used for the diagnosis of diabetes. 56. How is the blood sugar test done? Fasting blood glucose : In this test, a person is asked to fast overnight, at least 8 hours, and the level of glucose in the blood is then checked. Post prandial (PP) blood glucose : This is tested two hours after having a meal. It serves as a challenge for the body to regulate the blood sugar after a meal. Random blood sugar or glucose test is that which is done at any other time. The blood glucose can also be tested after giving 75 gm glucose by mouth (glucose challenge test). This is useful for detecting borderline diabetes and a condition called "impaired glucose tolerance". Blood glucose tests are also needed for checking the control in diabetes. 57. What are the normal values? Normal fasting plasma glucose levels are less than 110 mg/dl. Normal PP plasma glucose levels are less than 140 mg/dl. 58. What are the abnormal values? A fasting plasma glucose level of more than 126 mg/dl indicates diabetes mellitus. A level between 110-125 mg/ dl is called "impaired fasting glucose". A PP or random plasma glucose level of more than 200 mg/dl indicates diabetes mellitus.A level between 140-199 mg/ dl is called "impaired glucose tolerance". A blood sugar exceeding the level of 200 mg/dl or higher generally indicates the presence of diabetes. 59. What is the role of insulin? The body breaks down food into glucose (sugar) and uses it as a source of energy. Insulin helps the cells of the body to utilize this glucose for energy, and to store the excess in the liver for later use. Thus insulin regulates the blood glucose (sugar) levels. In diabetics, the body does not produce enough insulin or does not use the produced insulin effectively. This results in a high level of glucose in the blood ("hyperglycemia"). 60. What is diabetic retinopathy? Retina is a light sensitive layer at the back of the eye on which the images are created and from here transmitted to the brain. This layer has a fine meshwork of very small blood vessels that get damaged in diabetes. This is called diabetic retinopathy. The longer the patient has diabetes and the more uncontrolled it is, the greater the risk. 61. What are the symptoms of diabetic retinopathy? A problem is first noted when the abnormal vessels bleed into the jelly of the eye called vitreous. This phenomenon is called vitreous haemorrhage. This presents as noticing black spots in the vision that are floating or as cobwebs. There may loss of vision that may be sudden or gradual. The bleeding into the vitreous leads to development of a scar that pulls on the retina causing it to detach from the eyeball (retinal detachment). 62. Why is exercise important in diabetes? Exercise is good for everyone and is an important tool in managing your diabetes. Regular exercises: Improves blood sugar control and regulation May help reduce the amount of oral insulin medication needed Improves physical fitness Increases your strength and ease of movements Improves blood circulation Reduces risk of heart disease Decreases blood pressure Helps you lose and maintain weight Gives a feeling of well being Relieves stress 63. What is Gestational diabetes?  Diabetes which develops just before or during a pregnancy is called gestational diabetes. Gestational diabetes is usually identified during the second trimester of pregnancy. 64. What are the causes of Gestational diabetes? Maternal age of over 25 years Family history of diabetes, gestational or otherwise Obesity A previous child with birth defects or a still birth Recurrent bladder or urinary tract infections  A prior baby weighing more than 3.75 kg. 65. What are the symptoms of Gestational diabetes? The condition is a difficult to diagnose since the symptoms may be vague and mild in most cases. Some of the common symptoms that may manifest themselves in varying degrees are: Excessive thirst and increased urination Unexplained excessive weight gain or weight loss Constant fatigue and tiredness accompanied by nausea and vomiting Blurred vision 66. Is a laser treatment for Diabetic Retinopathy harmful to eyes? Laser treatment prevents progression of diabetic retinopathy and deterioration of sight. 67. How is (Cataract) lens opacification treated? Cataract surgery is done by a technique called Phako emulsification which is-mistaken for laser. 68. Is glass test and retinal test are same? No, Retinal test is entirely different from the glasses testing. Retinal test should be performed every year after dilatation with eye drops. 69. How often retinal examination has to be done? For Type 1 Diabetes - every year after 5 years of onset of diabetes. For Type 2 Diabetes - at the onset of diabetes and every year thereafter. 70. What is intentional weight loss? Intentional weight loss is the process of consciously making and executing a plan to decrease total body weight. This usually entails the reduction of total body fat. Ideally, dieting should be done by eating a nutritionally balanced low-calorie diet and increasing physical activity. 71 . What do the terms overweight or obese signify? The terms overweight or obese are used to describe excess body weight. Overweight typically refers to weight 10% above the expected body weight for height and build. Obese refers to being 20% over the target. The greater the excess, the more significant the health risk. 72 . What are the methods to lose weight as well as ensuring good health? Eat plenty of vegetables, fruits, and grain products like wheat. Increase the consumption of complex carbohydrates like whole wheat, millet (jowar) and barley (bajra) Restrict refined products such as flour (maida) and its products such as bread, noodles, macaronis and pastas in regular diet Restrict fat and cholesterol rich foods. Only non-vegetarian foods (like eggs and dairy products) are good sources of cholesterol, however saturated fatty acids present in butter, ghee, vanaspati and coconut get metabolised to cholesterol in our body Reduce the amount of sugars consumed Consume raw fruits and vegetables in form of salads and raitas in every meal. These provide adequate vitamins, minerals and fibre. Fibre is essential as it aids in digestion, has an effective role in managing obesity and cardiovascular problems Limit salt intake Have small portions of food at a time Do not skip meals Have regular meal timings Do not eat while cooking and watching television Drink plenty of water (6-8 glasses) in a day Exercise regularly. Do brisk walking at least for 20-40 minutes in a day 73. What is Kidney transplant? Kidney transplant is a surgical procedure in which the damaged kidneys of a person are replaced with a functional kidney from a person who is alive or has recently died. 74. Why Kidney transplantation is done? A kidney transplant operation is done when there is irreversible kidney failure and the patient is on dialysis. Chronic renal failure or CRF may be due to the following causes: Severe and uncontrollable high blood pressure Diabetes Polycystic kidney disease, when the kidney(s) are damaged due to presence of cysts Infection of the kidneys (pyelonephritis) Swelling of the filtering cells of the kidneys (glomerulonephritis). 75. Does excessive eating of salt increase blood pressure? Yes in certain individuals who are salt sensitive, while this does not happen in those who are salt insensitive. 76. What are the foods to be avoided by BP patients (a) Salted snacks e.g. Potato wafers (b) Pickles and papads (c) Ketchups (d) Salted meat / salted sea food (e) Excess of fat  77. Will eating fruits cause cold? Cold is caused by a virus. Most fruits rich in vitamin C (like oranges), in fact can protect against frequent attacks of cold. Some people may be allergic to certain foods which may include fruits. They should find out by trial and error and try and avoid only those fruits.  78. Is it good to drink water while eating? Will it reduce digestion? There is no evidence to suggest this. Some feel that it may dilute the digestive enzymes, but this does not occur, because the intestines produce several times more enzymes than what is actually required for digestion. Water intake may however fill the stomach and thereby give a feeling of fullness. This is common among children. 79. Are artificial sweeteners harmful? Scientific data does not indicate that either saccharine or aspartame are harmful to humans. 80. Which is the best source of calcium? Will calcium tablets prevent fracture? Best source of calcium is milk. To certain extent calcium tablets @ 500 mg/day would help. Women should take calcium well before onset of menopause, as more than 50% of the calcium in the bones is lost during the first 5 years of menopause itself.  81. Which of the cooking oils are good for health? All oils are good in one way or the other. Groundnut oil, mustard oil are very good. It is always suggested to use a combination of oils either blended or by rotation. e.g. Groundnut oil, soya bean oil, sunflower oil, rice bran oil so that you get the benefit of all. Sunflower / any single oil alone is not preferred. 82. Which is the best way to lose weight? A combination of physical activity of at least a 30 minute walk per day with a moderation in calorie intake would do wonders. Drastic weight loss programs can be rarely sustained. Just avoiding refined sugars, disserts, deep fried foods, dairy and bakery products, aerated bottled drinks itself can cut down a large amount of calories. Consuming at least 400 g of fruits and vegetables can also avoid the hunger. 83. Will eating tomatoes and palak cause stones in the kidney? No! These are unfounded fears. Eating tomatoes and palak may be little harmful to those who are prone to the problem of formation of stones in the kidneys.    Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.