Picture Trade: How we can visualize intra-regional trade in South Asia and beyond | The Trade Post English Español Français عربي Русский 中文 EN Español Français العربية Русский 中文 Home About Data Research Learning News Projects & Operations Publications Countries Topics Home About Data Research Learning News Projects & Operations Publications Countries Topics The Trade Post Bloggers Tags Contact Choose Blog All Blogs Africa Can... All About Finance América Latina & Caribe Arab Voices and Views: Middle East and North Africa Development Impact Development in a Changing Climate Development Marketplace East Asia & Pacific on the rise Education for Global Development EduTech End Poverty in South Asia Energy Eurasian Perspectives Future Development Governance for Development Growth and Crisis Information and Communications for Development Investing in Health Jobs & Development Latin America Let's Talk Development Nasikiliza Open Data Opinions People Move People, Spaces, Deliberation Political Risk and Emerging Markets Private Sector Development Blog Prospects for Development Public Private Partnerships Sustainable Cities The Trade Post Transport for Development Voces Voices Water Youthink in English Youthink en français Youthink en español Picture Trade: How we can visualize intra-regional trade in South Asia and beyond Submitted by Siddhesh Kaushik On Wed, 05/27/2015 Tweet Widget Google Plus One Linkedin Share Button Add comment Intra-regional trade constitutes less than 5 percent of total trade in South Asia, according to World Bank analysis . Economic cooperation remains low , despite the Agreement on a South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA). The region’s low level of intra-regional trade is a puzzling phenomenon , and it’s left many interested folks asking questions. Which regions trade more amongst themselves? What are the top products being exported or imported? Who are the top exporting and importing countries in a particular region? Here is a visual representation of regional trade in South Asia in WITS that can help quickly unpack some of these questions as they relate to the region.    South Asia, Export by Region (Click on + sign on left to view country breakdown) After the jump, we break down these numbers and show how you can explore the viz.  Now, if you look at South Asia in 2011 (not all South Asian countries have reported for later years), 25 percent of its exports are to Europe and Central Asia. More than a third of these exports (36 percent) are textiles and clothing. If you click on the plus sign above South Asia in the visual you can see each country and its individual share.  You will see that India is the largest exporter. Twenty-five percent of its exports go to East Asia and the Pacific. If you click on “East Asia & Pacific” you will find that Fuels (22 percent) are the largest export to East Asia and the Pacific. Within South Asia, only Bhutan, Nepal, and Afghanistan export mainly to other South Asian countries. To get an idea as to why intra-South Asia trade is so low and how it can be boosted, check out our World Bank colleague Sanjay Kathuria’s blog on some of the reasons. While you’re at it, use the WITS visualization to explore trends in other parts of the world. You can toggle the regions, year, and trade flow (export/import), as well as flipping between trade by Partner Region or trade by Product. As always let us know what you find, and let us know how we can improve WITS for your use! Tags: WITS Trade The World Region South Asia India Afghanistan Nepal Bhutan Add new comment Your name E-mail The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly. Homepage Comment * More information about text formats Plain text Allowed HTML tags: <br> <p> Lines and paragraphs break automatically. By submitting this form, you accept the Mollom privacy policy . Subscribe by email E-mail: * Enter your email below to receive email notifications when new content is posted About Us The Trade Post brings you observations from the field and reflections on research from the World Bank Group's experts on international trade. Contact us here . World Bank Group International Trade Forum Pose questions, discuss ideas. Most Popular Travel Channel Meets Discovery Channel: How Tourism Can Promote Export Performance and Diversification Why Is Trade More Costly For Poor Countries? A New Database Gives Us Some Answers ​Single Window Systems: What We Have Learned As the Cost of Energy Goes Up, Food Prices Follow Quinoa: The Little Cereal That Could Archive May 2015 (5) April 2015 (5) March 2015 (4) February 2015 (4) January 2015 (4) December 2014 (3) November 2014 (3) October 2014 (5) September 2014 (3) August 2014 (4) July 2014 (6) June 2014 (4) more Bloggers Alan Hall Alberto Portugal-Perez Amir Fouad Anabel Gonzalez Anasuya Raj Ankur Huria Antoine Coste Ben Shepherd Bernard Hoekman Bertram Boie Bill Gain Calvin Djiofack Zebaze Carmine Soprano Catherine Sear Charles Kunaka Christine Qiang Claire H. Hollweg Cornelia Staritz Daniel Lederman Daniel Saslavsky Daria Taglioni Deborah Winkler Donald F. Larson Elizabeth Ruppert Bulmer Erik von Uexkull Gerard McLinden Gonzalo Varela Harun Onder Ian Gillson Jaime de Melo Jean-François Arvis