Kochi Metro Map, Cochin Metro Route Map Home » Maps » Kerala » Kochi Metro Map   Kerala History of Kerala Geography of Kerala Kerala Weather केरल का नक्शा Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Districts of Kerala Road Map Railway Map Rivers of Kerala Tehsils in Kerala Regions Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Forest Map Cities in Kerala Kochi Thiruvananthapuram Ernakulam Munnar Thrissur Economy of Kerala Industries in Kerala Kerala Government Kerala Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Kerala Places to visit in Kerala Backwaters Map Beaches in Kerala Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Kerala Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya Hotels in Kerala Kochi Hotels Kumarakom Hotels Munnar Hotels Trivandrum Hotels Thiruvananthapuram Hotels Guruvayur Hotels Thekkady Hotels Wayanad Hotels Kerala Ayurveda Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Utilities Distance Chart Kerala Pin code Kerala STD code Education Institutes Universities in Kerala Karten von Kerala Ubersichtskarte von Kerala       Kochi Metro Map Metro Map of Kochi Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing metro route of proposed metro in Kochi, Kerala. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Kochi Metro Rail Project Kochi is the first one among the tier-2 cities in the country that have been allotted a metro project under a scheme of the Union Government. The Kochi Metro Rail project began on 13 September 2012, when Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh laid the foundation stone for the project. The Chief Minister of Kerala, Oommen Chandy, inaugurated the construction work of the Kochi Metro Rail project at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium on 7 June 2013. The Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) is working in collaboration with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for the completion of the project on time. The construction of the first phase of the project is underway with an estimated cost of Rs. 5181.79 crore and is expected to be completed by June 2016. Below mentioned are the stations covered under the metro project: Aluva - Pulinchodu - Companypady - Ambattukavu - Muttom - Kalamassery - Cochin University - Pathadipalam - Edapally - Changampuzha Park - Palarivatom - JL N Stadium - Kaloor - Lissie - M.G Road - Maharaja's College - Ernakulam south - Kadavanthra - Elamkulam - Vytila - Thykkoodam - Petta Metro extended till Tripunithura On 27 January 2014, the Kochi Metro Rail project was extended from Petta to Tripunithura. The route was extended for a stretch of 2 km and will incur a cost of Rs. 323 crore. After the extension, the metro will have two more stations - Alliance Junction and SN Junction. The construction of this extended route will be completed within few months once the Aluva-Petta alignment gets commission. Some Features of the Kochi Metro: The sitting capacity of the train will be 140 passengers and the carrying capacity will be 975 passengers. There will be automatic fare collection system with a combination of smart card and computerized paper tickets. The metro train fares will range from Rs. 15 to Rs. 30. Metro Maps Delhi Metro Map Mumbai Metro Map Kolkata Metro Map Ahmedabad Metro Map Chandigarh Metro Map Gurgaon Metro Map Bangalore Metro Map Jaipur Metro Map Kochi Metro Map Patna Metro Map Chennai Metro Map Hyderabad Metro Map Delhi Monorail Route Map Pune Metro Map Metro Rail Projects Kerala Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map Regions Map Kozhikode Monorail Map District Map Rail Map Road Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Travel Map Backwaters Map Beaches Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations Map Pilgrimage Destinations Map About Kerala History Geography Weather Rivers and Lakes Languages Festivals Onam Culture Art Spices Economy Last Updated on : 24 April 2015             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule