Australia Rice Trader Sydney NSW Australia, Yellow Maize Manufacturer & Exporters List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Australia Rice Trader Member Since : 2014 | Country : Australia Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Sella Rice, Golden Sella Rice, Basmati Rice, Non Basmati Rice, Rice Company Information Australia rice trader was established in 2012 in sydney, australia . Under the leadership of the c.e.o., mr. Dharambir singh dhillon, we have become a reputed wholesale supplier and exporter of wide variety of rice, yellow corn & soya. The varieties of rice we offer are basmati rice and ponni rice. team: we have a team of well qualified experts who are known to excel in their field. The team constantly strives to deliver the best, matching the clients’ expectations. Right from procurement of the rice to its processing and delivery, the team members ensure to adhere by the industry standards. Quality assurance : we are known for delivering excellent quality rice ever since its establishment. We give due importance to the quality and the processing process of these rice. Also, we are backed by a team of quality analysts, who constantly test for the quality of rice and their packaging. why Australia rice trader? various reasons that have made us a popular name in the market are :· ethical business practices· highly dedicated teams· good tie-ups with various reliable farmers. excellent logistics system· on time delivery. Company Facts Business Type : Manufacturer / Exporters / Wholesale Suppliers Year of Estd. : 2012 Company Turnover : USD 0.5 to 1 Million Approx. Ownership : LLC (Ltd Liability Corp) Business Markets : all Over the Globe, Australia, New Zealand, India and Uae Website : http://www.australiaricetrader.net Featured Products/Services Yellow Maize Soya Meal Swarna Masoori Rice Sona Masuri Raw Rice Sona Masuri Steam Rice Short Grain Swarna Rice IR-64 Sella Long Grain Rice IR-36 Medium Grain Rice IR-64 Long Grain Rice Search Contact Details Mr. Dhillon Mobile Phone : +61-438872461111 » More detail Hot Products » 1121 Sella Basmati Rice » 1121 White Sella Rice » IR-36 Medium Grain Rice » IR-64 Long Grain Rice » IR-64 Sella Long Grain Rice » Sharbati Golden Sella Rice » Sharbati White Sella Rice » Short Grain Swarna Rice » Sona Masuri Raw Rice » Sona Masuri Steam Rice » Soya Meal » Sugandha Golden Sella Basmati Rice » Sugandha White Sella Basmati Rice » Swarna Masoori Rice » Yellow Maize Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com