Religious Places in Ahmedabad Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Ahmedabad Travel Tourist Map How to Reach Shopping Hotels in Ahmedabad Travel Agents Weekend Trips from Ahmedabad Places to Visit in Ahmedabad Gardens in Ahmedabad Law Garden Bal Vatika Victoria Garden Lakes in Ahmedabad Chandola Lake Kankaria Lake Ahmedabad Wildlife Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary The Kamla Nehru Zoological Garden The Runn of Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary Religious Places in Ahmedabad Bhadrakali Temple Hatheesing Jain Temple Sidi Sayed Jhali Rani Sipri's Mosque Ahmed Shah's Mosque Swaminarayan Temple Akshardham Temple Amusement Parks Ahmedabad Metro Map Route Maps Hyderabad to Ahmedabad Mumbai to Ahmedabad Jaipur to Ahmedabad Goa to Ahmedabad Ahmedabad Map Road Map Railway Map District Map Tehsil Map Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Ahmedabad » Places of Interest » Religious Places in Ahmedabad Religious Places in Ahmedabad Ahmedabad is a prosperous city where you can find a fine blend of the history, art and culture, rich architecture and imposing monuments. The metropolis of Ahmedabad presents a rich and different religious backdrop. Ahmedabad is the home to people following many religions. Consequently a number of religious places in Ahmedabad are noticed which are beautiful and worth visiting. Hinduism is the main religion followed by the people of Ahmedabad. But other religions persist in the city and are flourishing in numbers with years. The other religions are Buddhism, Jainism, Islam, Zoroastrianism and Christianity. The city has a large number of religious places that belong to different religious communities. The famous religious places in Ahmedabad for the Hindus are as follows: Swaminarayan Temple Hatheesing Jain Temple Akshardham Temple Bhadrakali Temple Huthising Temple Narayan Temple Among these Hindu shrines, Swami Narayan temple and Bhadrakali temple are most prominent Hindu religious places in Ahmedabad. Bahai, Akshardham and Isckon Temples are also the Hindu religious places of Ahmedabad that are most visited. Among the Muslim religious places in Ahmedabad, let us list some of the mosques of the medieval India. Ahmed Shah's Mosque Sidi Sayed Jhali Sidi Bashirs Mosque Rani Rupmati's Mosque Jama Masjid Raj Babri Mosque Rani Sipri's Mosque There are a number of Jain temple in Ahmedabad. They are the Palitana, Sankeshwar and Tarang. These temples attract numerous pilgrims from across the country. Churches are yet another religious place in Ahmedabad. Gurudwaras and Synagogues in Ahmedabad brilliantly award the multi religious acculturation observed in the city. Tourists come to Ahmedabad throughout the year and visit these religious places of Ahmedabad. If you wish to know more about the Religious Places in Ahmedabad, click on the following links: Ahmed Shah's Mosque Bhadrakali Temple Jama Masjid Rani Sipri's Mosque Sidi Syed Jhali Akshardham Temple Swaminarayan Temple Hatheesing Jain Temple About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule