The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), Amritsar Home » Amritsar » Education » The Institute of Company Secretaries of India   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), Amritsar The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) has been formed by the Company Secretaries Act of 1980. Company Secretary as a profession became very popular in India. In order to train the aspiring Company Secretaries, ICSI was formed. This organization has its offices located in the major cities of the country. In Amritsar, one of the centers of ICSI has been set up. Among the institutes in Amritsar, The Institute of Company Secretaries of India is a popular name. Candidates, who are interested to undergo the training, are required to pass 10+2 examination. The institute has set different eligibility criteria for candidates with different educational qualifications. The institute conducts an examination and it is only after passing this examination, one is taken as a member of the institute. The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) in Amritsar has provided for job opportunities to many aspiring professionals. During admission to this institute, students are provided with study materials from the respective centers. The students can opt for distance courses or avail of the classes held in the institute. After completion of the course, students are allowed to appear in the examination. The institute besides offering courses also arranges for training of the students. While on a training period, they have to work with a company. The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) trains its students according to the demands in the different sectors of work. The position of Company Secretaries is very important in a company. With proper training and experience, they can acquire very high positions in the company. Amritsar Education BBK DAV College for Women Government Polytechnic Amritsar college of engineering    & technology Government Medical College Spring Dale School DAV International School Baba Kuma Singh Ji    engineering college Kndriya Vidyalaya No. 1 Shiv Shankar Institute of    engineering & technology Delhi Public School Guru Nanak Dev University Schools Colleges and Institutes Central Institute of Plastics    Engineering Technology Khalsa College Government Institute of Garment    Technology DAV College About Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule