Bank Officials Become Organic Farmers! - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Bank Officials Become Organic Farmers! Home Bank Officials Become Organic Farmers! Two former bank officials, Mr. P.Vincent and  Mr. Vikramaditya Kumar, after seeking voluntary retirement, help people to grow vegetables at home organically. Mr. Vincent provides more economical solutions that call for more hard work, patience, and are completely natural, while Mr. Kumar provides solutions which need investment and are technologically sound P.Vincent Growing Healthy Plants through Wastes : Mr. P.Vincent helps people grow vegetables without using any pesticides or insecticides. Tree leaves, twigs and even waste cotton clothes are all that one needs. “Put all the things in a bag. It will emit a bad odor which is natural. Cover it with coir peat that should be below electro-conductivity level one. If you have effective microbes, spray the same on it to quicken the process. You can also use leaf as trees shed leaves every morning which can be collected and kept in the bag. UV protected sheets will be ideal for vermicompost. Once the bag is filled keep it in a place for more than a month, and then just plant a sapling in it. The plant will grow automatically,” shares Mr. Vincent. As microbes and earthworms develop in agro waste, it becomes healthy soil without bad odor. All animal wastes are food for plants. Old trees shedding leaves become food for microbes. These microbes decompose, and plants consume the same. This in turn will become food for animals and human beings. It is a cycle where one’s waste is another’s food. Mr. Vikramaditya Kumar makes use of coco husk and organic manure in the pots for growing flowers and vegetables. He too provides the soilless medium to grow plants in terrace garden. Readymade Flowering Organic Plants Mr. Kumar’s company Go Organic offers organically grown plants (45 to 60 days) with flowers apart from coco peat bags. These plants may grow vegetables within 15 days of purchase. It also offers exchange of plant after its season from their vegetable nursery. The company has hired green houses to garden organically grown plants up to flowering or fruiting stage, so that crop failure is minimized. A person can start a terrace garden with just one plant. “However, we have worked out a model size 200 sq ft. for a family of four persons to get vegetables almost round the year. The prerequisites are a place with 4 to 5 hours of sunlight and passion to grow and eat organic vegetable,” adds Mr. Kumar. Investment Investment on terrace gardens depends on how much vegetables one requires. “If you want greens once in a week, you will need around Rs. 300 to 500,” says Mr. Vincent. Growing space is not a major issue as vertical gardens can fetch good returns. Mr. Kumar’s 200 sq ft. model costs about Rs. 50, 000 to 60,000 with net house structure to protect plants from excess sunlight and animals and birds. The structure lasts for about 10 years, and the bag lasts for 3 years. Plants however have specific life span. Plants Advocated For Terrace Gardening All kinds of vegetables like brinjal, tomato, ladies fingers, and moringa can be grown in terrace gardens. In a single bag, 3 or 4 moringa saplings can grow well in 20 to 30 days. Vertical bag, designed by Mr. Vincent, can grow palak green and around 30 other different plants. It hardly requires one and a half square feet. Furthermore, one can even grow plants on parapet walls. All daily vegetables can be grown easily in grow bag. Mr. Kumar adds, “generally it takes about 45 to 60 days, depending upon the variety. However we supply grown plants at flowering/fruiting stage.” With advancement in plant technology many varieties of plants can be grown for a longer period. Vikramaditya Kumar Coco Peat Bags “Coco peat bags gave us the idea to utilize spaces in urban areas such as terrace and balconies to grow vegetables”, shares Mr. Kumar. Various varieties of coco peat bags are available in the market. UV protected oven bags from 100 GSM to 300 GSM and EM bags are some of the varieties. Some companies offer coco peat bags with or without manure and seed. Coco peat bags can be retained forever if vermicompost and humic acid are added. Coir peat can act as the base material on which vermicompost is added for stability of the plant. “If it is green you need not have soil but if it is a tomato or brinjal plant, you need to add soil or effective microbes for stability of the plant,” Mr. Vincent shares. Do’s and Dont’s Mr. Kumar informs, “at the change of plant after its natural life span, the growing medium should be enriched with fresh sand and necessary fertilizers, be it organic or synthetic. Plants in pot should not be over-watered.” It is only moisture which helps plants to grow. Look for any bacterial infection or pest. Take immediate steps to prevent the same. Use certified seeds only for better results. For a good root add vamp so that the plant will be as healthy as required. Disease and Pest Management Home gardens are free of chemical pesticides. Simple tools like tooth brush or an old cloth can help eradicate bugs. Small pumps of water help in getting rid of pests. “You can use yellow sheets and apply castor oil on both sides, and if you hang it inside your garden, the pests will automatically come and stick to it. If you do the same with LED light during night time the pests will be attracted by the light, stick to the sheet, and so it will not trouble the plants,” Mr. Vincent further adds. Water Management Kitchen gardening does not require much water. Drip irrigation or micro sprinklers are advisable for plants placed in lawns. Placing a saucer beneath plants placed inside will help collect excess water that can then take care of the plants’ water needs for the next 3 or 4 days. When you grow a Moringa tree in a bag, putting a pipe near the root can minimize the water requirement for the plant. Increased Demand for Organic Kitchen Gardens People have more disposable income which they want to utilize for better living. Kitchen gardening is like a preventive step to reduce medical bills without side effects. Lots of people have been inspired by Mr. Vincent’s farming and are trying to implement the same within their houses. Vertical gardening saves space. “People are excited about the concept. They want to eat organic food but there is no availability in market. They want to ensure about the supply. A farmer may be growing organic food, but when the farm’s surrounding area is filled with rain water and seepage, he cannot grow 100 % organic food. We participated in Organic Food Exhibition under the aegis of Shrusti, a yearly event at IIM Ahmedabad under Dr. Anil Gupta, during December 2013. We received so many inquiries that we are unable to cater to them even after 30 days of its closing,” says Mr. Kumar. Mr. P.Vincent Mr. Vincent was with Indian Bank when he opted for VRS and became a secretary with Coimbatore District Herbal and Tree Growers association. It has been 10 years since then. The organization successfully conducts surveys on the farmers’ yield for the past five years. Having been associated with a bank, Mr. Vincent understood the problems faced by farmers. After VRS, he purchased a piece of land and did agriculture there but simultaneously had to operate from the city. He then developed a small terrace garden which was developed using kitchen and garden waste. Coimbatore district alone has 600 to 800 tons of waste. One way of recycling the waste was to automatically convert it into organic manure. He started with ornamental plants. Rising vegetable prices forced him to move on to vegetables and now he tries his hands on millets. Barnyard millets are 50 times more fibrous than Ragi. Growing your food grains does not require much water and care. He is currently into educating people in groups and farmers. He also takes classes in colleges. He educates people on organic farming through his classes in Pasumai Vikatan, a popular magazine in Tamil. Mr. Vincent also conducts workshops on every second Sunday in Coimbatore. His consultation services are open to people in Chennai also. Mr. Vikramaditya Kumar Mr. Kumar started his career as a probationary officer with Indian Overseas Bank and worked in branches on PAN India basis. He resigned after 15 years and joined Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd. (GIIC) – a Government of Gujarat (GoG) undertaking and worked for 10 years before opting for VRS in 2000. Mr. Alkesh Rajput, a young man in 30’s with wide experience in insurance, real estate, and contract farming, shared his idea of home-grown vegetables with him six months ago and asked him to join the concept. Since then the duo have been working together on the project and soon plan to turn their company into a private limited company. They have been successful in penetrating the idea of home-grown vegetables in the mind of urbanites of Ahmedabad and some places in Mumbai and New Delhi. Future Plans Mr. Vincent wishes to educate more people in colleges to spread the idea of organic farming on a larger scale. “UNO has declared the year 2014 as the year of family farming. However, they have restricted the concept to rural area only. We want to promote the same in urban area and to reclaim the agriculture land in concrete urban jungle”, shares Mr. Kumar. Our Correspondent Contact detail: Mr. P.Vincent 7th Cross Thirumagal Nagar Door Number – 85, Peelamedu, Coimbatore Mobile – 98940-66303, +914222566303 Email – vincent2511@gmail.com Mr. Vikramaditya Kumar Go Organic A-3/304 Iscon Flower Ghuma, Ahmedabad -380058 Mobile: +91-9426538652 Email: vikramaditya.kumar@gmail.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Bank Officials Become Organic Farmers! Related – articles, consultants, downloads Parisudh Eco Concepts – Cocopeat supplier Indian Organic Farmers Producer Company Nalla Keerai- Helps farmers in organic farming Indian Organic Farmers Producer Company You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs h