Cooking Light | Find Healthy Recipes, Nutrition Tips, and Guides to Healthy Eating Skip to main content All You Coastal Living Cooking Light Food and Wine Health My Recipes Real Simple Southern Living Sunset Food Recipe Finder In Season Everyday Menus Quick & Healthy Vegetarian Entertaining & Menus Holidays & Occasions Cooking 101 Cooking Videos Nutrition Nutrition 101 Smart Choices Recipe Makeovers Nutrition Videos Healthy Living Weight Loss Fitness Travel Healthy Habits Beauty Healthy Living Videos SUMMER COOKING Diet Magazine >Subscribe >Give a Gift Subscription Tablet Edition Magazine Customer Service Advertising Weight Loss Meal Planner Blog Videos Delicious Deals Community Search form Search Advertisement Quick Chicken Dinners Cooking Light Diet: Get Started Today! How to Trim Pork Tenderloin Fresh & Easy Farmers’ Market Dinners Grilled Salmon Recipes Healthy Party Hacks Summer Entrées America’s 50 Best Farmers’ Markets June 2015 Magazine Most Popular Cocktail: Watermelon Margarita Superfast Your Way: Grilled Zucchini Superfast Grilled Chicken Thighs with Pineapple Relish Watch: Superfast Green Beans with Toasted Garlic What's New on Our Editors' Blog Wow! Try These Fun Foods Sunday Strategist: Weekly Meal Plans Quick Pasta Dinners What's quicker than pasta? These simple dinners come together in a flash. more Quick Seafood Dinners Quick-cooking and light, seafood provides a variety of meals that are both delicious and nutritious. more Quick Vegetarian Dinners Try going meatless at least one night a week. These vegetarian dinners make it hard to find an excuse not to. more Quick Beef and Lamb Dinners Lean, flavorful cuts have a place in a healthful diet. Try these quick dinners paired with simple sides. more Quick Pork Dinners Quick-cooking and easy to work with, lean pork stars in these healthful meals. more More Ways To Get Cooking Light Follow us on Facebook Tweet at us on Twitter Pin with us on Pinterest Cooking Light Mobile App Get healthy recipes in your inbox, plus special offers. See More Newsletters | View Sample | Privacy Advertisement Most Popular 100 Easy Chicken Recipes Whether it’s grilled, sautéed, or roasted, here's your guide to the ultimate weeknight wonder: Chicken! 100+ Slow-Cooker Recipes Our escape on a chilly evening? The slow cooker. Come home to our favorite main dishes, sides, appetizers, and drinks that are sure to soothe your family with the simple joys of comfort food. Irresistible Zucchini Oven Chips Transform zucchini slices into oven-baked chips for a fun way to eat your veggies. Our irresistible Zucchini Oven Chips offer a healthier alternative to French fries or potato chips. America’s 50 Best Farmers’ Markets With more than 8,000 farmers ’ markets nationwide and counting, it ’ s clear we love them, and everyone is raving about them. Here ’ s what top foodies around the country are saying about their favorites. Cooking with Quinoa High in protein and fiber, quinoa [KEEN-wah] is not only versatile, it also tastes wonderful and has a nice crunch. Find 27 delicious recipes for cooking with this ancient whole grain. From our Partners This is Why You Wake Up Completely Exhausted Under 300 Calories: Gluten-Free Cinnamon Quinoa Bake 15 Minutes to a Rejuvenated You 3 Ways to Use Pumpkins as Fall Décor Man struck by lightning in the head, survives New method shows promise for urine cancer test