Davangere City Map Home » Maps » Karnataka » Davangere City Map   Cities in Karnataka Manipal Bangalore Hubli Mangalore Gulbarga Davangere Mysore                    more... कर्नाटक का नक्शा Karnataka Karnataka Map Districts of Karnataka Karnataka Railways Karnataka Roads Rivers of Karnataka Tehsils of Karnataka Places to visit in Karnataka Travel to Karnataka Wildlife Sanctuaries in Karnataka Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Mysore Hotels Coorg Hotels Mangalore Hotels Udupi Hotels Belgaum Hotels              more... Physical Map Where is Karnataka Forests in Karnataka Karnataka Agriculture Sex Ratio Minerals in Karnataka Latitude and Longitude Industrial Map Karnataka Air Network Karnataka Pin Code Karnataka STD Code How to Reach Karnataka Karnataka Facts Education in Karnataka Universities in Karnataka Geography and History People Culture and Festivals Karnataka Government and    Politics Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Constituencies Population of Karnataka Karnataka Handicrafts Karnataka Economy Bangalore Fort Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka       Davangere City Map City Map of Davangere Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Davangere city map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Karnataka   Manipal City Map Bangalore City Map Mangalore City Map Gulbarga City Map         Davangere City Map Bellary City Map Hampi City Map Bidar City Map     other cities of Karnataka  >> A city located in the centre of Karnataka, Davangere or Davanagere is also the administrative headquarters of the Davangere district. It is located at the foothills of the Western Ghats at a distance of around 260 km from Bengaluru. Earlier, it was a part of the Chitradurga district but became a separate district in 1997. It is a fast developing city of Karnataka. Davangere is known for textile mills and the Davangere Cotton Mills (DCM) is a renowned brand all over the country. From the 1960s to the 1980s, it was a major exporter of cotton textile; however, during the 1990s, most of the mills were shut down. Currently, the major agro-industrial activity near the city revolves around sugarcane and rice production. Davangere is geographically located at 14° 31' N and 75° 58' E and is about 602 m above the sea level. It is situated in the Maidan region of the Deccan Plateau and is surrounded by other districts such as Shimoga, Chitradurga, Haveri and others. It lies on the national highway (NH-4), which is a part of the network of the Golden Quadrilateral. The population of the city is 4,34,971 as per the 2011 Census and it spans over an area of 68.63 sq km. It is famous for the delectable Karnataka dishes and culinary traditions and Benne Dose, which is a traditional dosa that originated in Davangere. The city has a mix of south and north Karnataka cuisines. 'Guladiki unndi' is a unique sweet dish that is only available in Davangere. It is also a major trading centre of Karnataka. With the presence of numerous cotton mills, it is also referred to as the "Manchester of Karnataka". Due to substantial connectivity to the rail and road networks, it gets ample opportunities for trade. Crops like cotton, rice and sugarcane are also traded in Davangere. There are many higher educational institutions in the city; most of which are run by Bapuji Educational Association and other similar institutions. There are number of colleges that offer courses in the field of humanities, science and commerce. Besides these, there are two dental colleges, two medical colleges, three engineering colleges, one fashion designing college and one ayurveda college in this region. It also houses some cricket and football clubs that offer sports training to students. Davangere is well-connected to Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune and Goa via NH-4. The buses by the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) connect it to Chennai and Bengaluru. Davangere Railway Station falls under the Southern Western Railway Zone. The nearest airport to the city is Hubli Airport, which is at a distance of about 143 km. There are many places of interests for the tourists in Davangere. Some of such places are as follows: Lingeshwara Temple Bathi Gudda Durgambika Temple Subramanya Temple Shri Ram Mandir and Navagraha Temple Kondajji Anekonda Punyasthala Shanthi Sagara WBST240315 WBVDA Last Updated on : May 27, 2015             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule