National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development Board NA TIONAL OILSEEDS AND VEGETABLE OILS DEVELOPMENT BOARD (Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Government of India) THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION ACT, 2005                                             Information made available under Section 4(1)(b) of the Right to Information Act,2005 1 The particulars of its organisation, functions and duties 2 The duties of the officers and employees 3 The procedure followed in the decision making process 4 The norms set for the discharge of its functions 5 The rules, regulations, instructions, manuals and records 6 Documents that are held by it or under its control 7 Arrangement for representation by the members of the public.(Vide Board/MC Member list) 8 Statement of the Boards, Committee and other Bodies 9 Directory of Senior Officers 10 The monthly remuneration of officers and employees 11 The budget allocated and reports on disbursements 12 The manner of execution of programes, allocation and beneficiaries 13 Particulars of recipients of concessions, permits or authorizations 14 Information, available to or held by it, reduced in an electronic form 15 The facilities available to citizens for obtaining information and working hours of a library 16 Other information as may be prescribed and updated   No. 22 of 2005 [15th June, 2005]   An Act to provide for setting out the practical regime of right to information for citizens to secure access to information under the control of public authorities, in order to promote transparency and accountability in the working of every public authority, the constitution of a Central Information Commission and State Information Commissions and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.   It includes the right for citizens to secure access to information such as: - inspect works, documents, records. take notes, extracts or certified copies of documents or records. take certified samples of material. obtain information in form of printouts, diskettes, floppies, tapes, video cassettes or in any other electronic mode or through printouts. [S.2(j)] Application Procedure for requesting information   1.     Apply in writing or through electronic means in English or Hindi or in the local language to the PIO, specifying the particulars of the information sought for. There is no formal application form. 2.     Reason for seeking information are not required to be given; 3.     Pay fees as may be prescribed (if not belonging to the below poverty line category).  Application fees 1.       A request for obtaining information under sub-section (1) of section 6 shall be accompanied by an application fee of rupees ten by way of cash against proper receipt or by demand draft or bankers cheque drawn in favour of  National Oilseeds Seeds and Vegetable Oils Development Board, payable at Gurgaon (Haryana).   2.       For providing the information under sub-section (1) of section 7, the fee shall be charged by way of cash against proper receipt or by demand draft or bankers cheque drawn in favour of  National Oilseeds Seeds and Vegetable Oils Development Board, payable at Gurgaon (Haryana) at the following rates:- (a) rupees two for each page (in A-4 or A-3 size paper) created or copied; (b) actual charge or cost price of a copy in larger size paper; (c) actual cost or price for samples or models; and (d) for inspection of records, no fee for the first hour; and a fee of rupees five for each fifteen minutes (or fraction thereof) thereafter. 3.       For providing the information under sub-section (5) of section 7, the fee shall be charged by way of cash against proper receipt or by demand draft or bankers cheque drawn in favour of  National Oilseeds Seeds and Vegetable Oils Development Board, payable at Gurgaon (Haryana) at the following rates:-     (a)    for information provided in diskette or floppy, rupees fifty per  diskette or floppy; and     (b)    for information provided in printed form at the price fixed for such publication or rupees two per page of photocopy for          extracts from the publication.   Contact details of PIO/Appellate Authority for  RTI   CPIO                 CPIO (NOVOD Board) National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board, (Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture and Co-operation) Government of India 86, Sector-18, Institutional Area Gurgaon – 122015 (Haryana) Phone: 0124-2399258 Fax: 0124-2399259, 0124-2340614 E-mail address: novod@novodboard.com Appellate Authority         Secretary (NOVOD Board) National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board, (Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture and Co-operation) Government of India 86, Sector-18, Institutional Area Gurgaon – 122015 (Haryana) Phone: 0124-2343416 Fax: 0124-2399259, 0124-2340614 E-mail address: secretary @novodboard.com   The working hours of  library or reading room:-   All working days of the week (Monday to Friday) - 9 a.m.  to 5.30 p.m.         Information made available under Section 4(1)(b) of the Right to Information Act,2005 1 The particulars of its organisation, functions and duties 2 The duties of the officers and employees 3 The procedure followed in the decision making process 4 The norms set for the discharge of its functions 5 The rules, regulations, instructions, manuals and records 6 Documents that are held by it or under its control 7 Arrangement for representation by the members of the public.(Vide Board/MC Member list) 8 Statement of the Boards, Committee and other Bodies 9 Directory of Senior Officers 10 The monthly remuneration of officers and employees 11 The budget allocated and reports on disbursements 12 The manner of execution of programes, allocation and beneficiaries 13 Particulars of recipients of concessions, permits or authorizations 14 Information, available to or held by it, reduced in an electronic form 15 The facilities available to citizens for obtaining information and working hours of a library 16 Other information as may be prescribed and updated   होम प्रोफाइल कार्यक्रम प्रकाशन सांख्यिकी     रिक्ति / रिक्तियों   टेंडेर / नीलामी संपर्क Home Profile Programmes Publications Statistics Vacancy / Vacancies Tender/Auction Contact   कॉपीराइट नीति Copyright Policy हाइपर लिंकिंग नीति Hyper Linking Policy नियम एवं शर्तें Terms & Conditions गोपनीयता नीति Privacy Policy हमसे संपर्क करें Contact us हेल्प Help   इस वेबसाइट का  डिजाइन, विकास और रख-रखाव राष्ट्रीय तिलहन एवं वनस्पति तेल विकास (नोवोड) बोर्ड  द्वारा किया जा रहा  है । This website is designed, developed and maintained by National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board.     यह वेबसाइट पिछली बार 17-04-15 11:35 AM को अद्यतन किया गया था This website was last updated on   17-04-15 11:35 AM   डाउनलोड <आर.टी.आई. अधिनियम 2005> Download <RTI Act 2005>   Quarterly RTI returns filed (2014-15)        