Wildflowers - Small Farms / Alternative Enterprises - Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Extension Main Page About Us Extension Offices EDIS Publications Conference Info Wildflowers Nationwide, there is an increasing awareness and understanding of the important role that regionally adapted native wildflower and grasses play in sound ecosystem management of roadsides and natural areas. Florida’s native wildflower seed production industry is currently centered in northern Florida. While none of the growers has made this a full time endeavor, seed availability has steadily increased over the past few years. More... Marketing Florida markets, markets in other states and nationwide, and organizations and associations. Production in Florida Species, production practices, facilities and equipment, seed markets, and where to get help. Production in Other States and Nationwide Publications from NRCS/USDA and the Native Plants Journal. Return to Crops   Download Adobe Acrobat Reader to view pdf files. UF/IFAS Sites Wildflowers--North Florida Research & Education Center Wildflowers in the Garden--UF/IFAS Center for Landscape Conservation and Ecology UF/IFAS Publications Characterization of Physiological and Morphological Variability in Buffalo Clover Germplasm Common Native Wildflowers of North Florida Establishment of Native Wildflower Plantings by Seed Performance of Native Florida Plants under North Florida Conditions Native Wildflowers: Coreopsis lanceolata L Native Wildflowers on Roadsides of Central and South Florida Seed Source Affects Growth and Flowering of Coreopsis lanceolata and Salvia lyrata . J. State & Federal Agencies Federal Highway Administration Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (FDACS) USDA PLANTS Database Organizations & Associations Florida Association of Native Nurseries Florida Federation of Garden Clubs Florida Native Plant Society Florida Wildflower Foundation Related Links Atlas of Florida Vascular Plants Florida Native Plants Florida’s Native and Naturalized Orchids Florida Plants Online Florida Wildflower Page Ladybird Johnson Wildflower Center Project Budburst Page Wildflowers of the Southeastern U.S. Planning & Management Food Safety Livestock & Forages Crops Agronomics Flowers & Foliage Fruits & Nuts Herbs Hydroponics Aquaponics Ornamentals Vegetables Wildflowers IPM Forest Products, Environmental & Recreational Uses Freshwater Aquaculture & Farm Ponds Organic Production Other Enterprises State & Federal Agencies Agricultural Weather Copyright 2006 | University of Florida | Site Feedback | EOI