Home | Welcome to Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics Ministry of Commerce and industry, Govt. of India Home FAQ Contact Us Home Organization Profile History Foreign Trade Statistics Ancillary Statistics Indian Trade Journal Commercial Intelligence Commercial Library Press Notes Data Summary Trade Data Priced Detail Data Price Information System Notice Publications Registration Trade Directory Feedback Contact Us RTI FAQ Sitemap Data Dissemination Policy Data Privacy Policy Dynamic Data Revision Policy Quick Estimate Commercial Library Services Recruitment Rules Events / Announcements Media Gallery Highlights Latest 24-months Export final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website Latest 24-months Import final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website DGCIS has introduced 168 new commodity groups for publication of principal commodity level foreign trade data Are you interested in doing business with the Government of India Organizations? Click Here Visit the Related sites RFD CITIZEN'S CHARTER Grievance Redressal This site has been visited 995099 times on Friday, May, 29, 2015 PUBLIC GRIEVANCES Home Profile Commercial Intelligence Commercial Intelligence Commercial Intelligence Branch : The Commercial Intelligence Branch is the part of the Commercial Intelligence Division of this Directorate, equipped with the whole gamut of trade information, ranging from information relating to India’s trade relations with its major partners to current international trade environment. The information is gleaned from sources as varied as inputs received from Indian embassies and High commissions abroad. Thus armed, the Branch assists and encourages the entrepreneurs, who have the courage and foresight to look beyond Nation’s frontiers, in their trade endeavours. Trade Intelligence: The Commercial Intelligence Branch is engaged not only in answering written queries made by the existing and prospective Exporters/Importers, but desk information is also provided regularly to visitors on various aspects related to trade Intelligence. The information, like names and addresses of commercial institutions, trade development authorities/ export promotion councils, chambers of commerce and industries functioning in different parts of India , including addresses of Indian Embassies and High Commissioners is given on request. Profile of Foreign Countries: Recently, the Branch has started bringing out Country Profiles, which deal with general information on the country’s present economic indicators, in brief and analyze their trade performance with specific reference to trade with India. These Profiles offer the reader a clear idea of the economic conditions of the countries reviewed, the trends shown by their recent trade data, with an accent on India’s trade with them. The discerning readers will be able to make reasonable conjectures on future trade performance of these countries, and how their trade with India may behave. Top Related Sites :: Contact Us :: Feedback :: Sitemap Source : Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Last Updated on 19-05-2015 Home Downloads & Plug-ins Help Accessibility Statement Accessibility Options Privacy Policy Hyperlinking Policy Copyright Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Contents of this website is published and managed by DGCI&S , Government of India. For any queries regarding this website please contact Web Master. © Copyright reserved by Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 565, Anandapur, Ward No. 108,Sector - 1 , Plot No. 22, ECADP, Kolkata - 700107