Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Departments    Food Packaging and System Development Food Packaging and System Development Faculties 1.  Dr.B.K.Yadav - Associate Professor and Head 2.  Er.R.Mahendran  - Assistant Professor 3. Er.S.Nandhini - Assistant Professor (C) This department deals exclusively with following two areas:- 1. Food Packaging, and 2. Computation and internet facility in the institute Providing nutritious and healthy food to human is a huge challenge these days, especially handling the food safety and security or preservation issues. Packaging is helping in increasing food safety as well as shelf life by providing suitable enclosure with specific properties to do the needful. If food is the soul then packaging is the body. Food packaging needs to meet many technical and marketing demands throughout the supply chain. We provide the packaging solution for fresh and processed products to enhance the shelf life and safety. The Department has a food packaging laboratory with all the required state of the art equipments for analyzing the important properties of food packaging materials like Universal testing machine, vibration tester, cob tester, drop tester, oxygen/vapor permeability tester, head space gas analyzer, adhesive strength tester, film strength tester, etc. The department provides LAN and Wi-fi facilities in the institute with the 40 mbps lease line and takes care of approximately more than 200 computer/laptop systems, printers, scanners and video conferencing system at the institute used for academic, research and development activities. A computer laboratory equipped with 40 high end computers installed with several utilities software for the students of IICPT. The department accepts consultancy for determining the shelf life, designing suitable packaging, evaluation of packaging materials, etc. The faculty members also accept students from other Institutions for conducting their M.Sc., M.Phil. and Ph.D. research project works. Current on-going research projects in the Department are: 1. Study the effect of ozone treatment on the shelf-life of fresh mushroom in combination of modified atmosphere packing. 2. Development and characterization of Iron rich healthy extruded snacks. 3. Study the suitability of continuous hydrothermal pre-treatment for improved milling of red gram 4. Development of manually operated chikki making machine 5. Development of groundnut husk based gassifier. No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com