Microsoft Word - FAQ.doc FAQ Question-1: What is SANKALP? Answer: It is an initiative of Department of Pension and Pensioners’ Welfare, Government of India provides a platform for the pensioners to access opportunities available for useful interventions in the society. It also facilitates the organizations working in these areas to select appropriate skill and expertise from the available pool of volunteer – pensioners. Question-2: Who can be registered under SANKALP? Answer: Pensioners, Pensioners’ Associations and Non-Government Organisations can be registered under SANKALP. Question-3: What types of pensioners are eligible for registration under SANKALP? Answer: At present only Central Government Civil Pensioners, Defence Civilians and Defence Retirees are eligible for registration under SANKALP. Question-4: What are the essential requirements for the registration of pensioners? Answer: 12 digit pension payment order (PPO) for Central Government civilian pensioners, service number, rank and record office for retired defence personnel. In addition, Date of Birth, Date of Superannuation, PAN Number and Mobile Number are essential for registration of Pensioners under SANKALP. Question-5: How can a pensioner be registered under SANKALP? Answer-: Pensioners can submit the pensioner registration form on the website i.e. http://pensionersportal.gov.in/Sankalp/. After verification, they are registered and provided the login id and password through which they can log in. Question-6: How can organizations/Associations / Schemes be registered under ‘SANKALP? Answer-: Organizations/Associations will contact the Department of Pension and Pensioners’ Welfare on mail; available on SANKALP’s website. They will be provided a blank registration form through email. On receipt of a duly filled up registration form, the Department will process the details before registering. -02- Question-7: What is the role of DOPPW in SANKALP? Answer: The role of DOPPW would be to act only as a facilitator and a Catalyst. Sankalp lists a number of pensioners / organizations in India based on self declaration. This does not imply that pensioners/ organizations are endorsed or recommended in any way by DOPPW. The Department also does not guarantee that the information contained on the website is complete and correct and shall not be liable whatsoever for any damages incurred as a result of its use. DOPPW does not guarantee that all pensioners would get suitable engagement nor does it guarantee that all organization will get appropriate volunteers. Question-8: Will a pensioner get salary / honorarium for his said work? Answer: DOPPW is only provider of a platform where pensioners can access opportunities to work / contribute towards society and organizations / Associations can select appropriate skill and expertise from the available post of human resources. Question-9: Is it a guarantee for getting a job through SANKALP? Answer-9: DOPPW does not guarantee that all pensioners would get suitable engagement or that all organizations will find suitable volunteer pensioners. Both pensioners and organization are advised to satisfy themselves of the suitability with respect to their requirement.