Honorable CM | Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home Policy Announcements Honorable CM Announcements Honorable CM Honorable Minister for Finance Honorable Minister for Agriculture 2014-15   To bring prosperity back to the lives of farmers affected by Thane Cyclone Special package of Rs.790.18 cores is allocated to replant and rejuvenate cashew nut, coconut and other plantation crops and also to re-cultivate the annual crops, thereby bringing prosperity back to the lives of affected farmers.   1. For promotion of Hi-Tech Cultivation through Demonstration of Modern Technology, Centre of Excellence for Tropical fruits will be established at Trichy (Srirangam Constituency) and Centre of Excellence for Hill Vegetables at Ooty at a total cost of Rs.9 Crores.   Two Centres of Excellence will be established to make farmers familiar with Hi-tech cultivation of horticulture crops through technology demonstration and training in order to enable them to achieve maximum yield per unit area, one for tropical fruits at Srirangam and another for Hill vegetables at Ooty at an outlay of Rs.900 lakhs. 2. To meet the demand of pedigree planting materials to the farmers, a model horticulture demonstration farm will be established at Javvadhu hills in Tiruvannamalai district and a new state horticulture farm at Oriyur village in Ramanathapuram district will be established at a cost of Rs.2.68 crores. Model Horticulture Demonstration Farm will be established in an area of 10 acres at Javvadhu hills in Tiruvannamalai district with an outlay of Rs.1.50 crores and in Ramanathapuram district, a new State Horticulture Farm will be established in an area of 36.50 acres at Oriyur village to meet the demand of pedigree and quality planting materials to the farmers with an outlay of Rs.1.18 crores.  3. For increasing the farmers’ income through supply of quality tissue culture plantlets in horticulture crops, two new tissue culture production units will be established and five existing tissue culture units would be strengthened at a cost of Rs. 4.30 crores. Two new tissue culture units will be promoted in Theni district and existing five tissue culture units functioning at Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy will be strengthened with the total outlay of Rs.4.30 crores in the interest of increasing the farmers’ income by enhancing supply of quality tissue culture plantlets. 4. To meet the demand of Bellary onion in the state, Bellary onion cultivation will be promoted through farmers clusters in identified villages in 10 Districts at a cost of Rs. 2.4 crores. 5000 acres of Bellary Onion cultivation will be promoted in clusters of 100 acres each in identified villages in the districts of Dindigul, Tirunelveli, Namakkal, Trichy, Perambalur, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar with the financial outlay of Rs.2.40 crores to mitigate the fluctuation in the big onion prices and to meet Bellary Onion demand by production within the State. 5. Establishment of Field Gene Bank of Mango, Guava at Government Giant Orchard, Karumandurai, Salem district with an outlay of Rs.50.00Lakhs (Funds – TANHODA)   Considering, the large scale cultivation of Mango and Guava cultivation in Tamil Nadu, a field Gene Bank for Mango and Guava will be established in the Government Giant Orchard, Karumandurai, Yercaud constituency of Salem District to protect and conserve the traditional and exotic varieties of these fruit crops at a cost of Rs.50.00 Lakhs.   Visitor Counter: 842379 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015