Places to Visit in Kerala and Tourist Destinations near Kerala Home » Maps » Kerala » Places to Visit in Kerala   Travel to Kerala Kerala Backwaters Beaches in Kerala Kerala Wildlife Sanctuaries Hill Stations in Kerala Places to Visit in Kerala Places to Visit in Thrissur Places to Visit in Kochi Places to Visit in Kollam Places to Visit in Munnar Places to Visit in Alleppey Periyar National Park Places to Visit in Varkala Hotels in Kerala Kochi Hotels Kumarakom Hotels Munnar Hotels Trivandrum Hotels Thiruvananthapuram Hotels Guruvayur Hotels Thekkady Hotels Wayanad Hotels Utilities Distance Chart Kerala Pin code Kerala STD code Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table About Kerala History of Kerala Kerala Geography Kerala Weather Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Kerala Ayurveda Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Districts of Kerala Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsils of Kerala Regions Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Forest Map Cities of Kerala Kerala Economy Industries in Kerala Kerala Government Kerala Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Kerala Education Karten von Kerala Ubersichtskarte von Kerala       Places to Visit in Kerala Kerala, the "God's Own Country" is among the most favorite and popular tourist spots. Huge number of people from all across the globe comes to pay a visit to this beautiful state of Kerala. Peaceful beaches, composed climate, lush green hill stations, serene stretches of backwaters, and exotic wildlife are the most sought after attractions of this land. According to the National Geographic Traveler Magazine Kerala is among the "ten paradises of the world" and "50 places of a lifetime". Travel Maps Kerala Travel Map Kerala Ayurveda Kerala Backwaters Kerala Beaches Hill Stations in Kerala Kerala Pilgrimage Kerala Wildlife Sanctuaries Periyar National Park Places to See in Kerala Kerala Backwaters Kerala is home to some of the most wonderful and serene waterways, estuaries, lakes, canals, rivers etc. This huge interlocking network of waterways can be traveled and enjoyed on a houseboat. The backwaters of Kerala are home to some of the most beautiful and unique variety of aquatic life ranging from frogs, crabs, mudskippers, kingfishers, cormorants, darters, to turtles and corters. Leafy plants, shrubs, Palm trees along the sides of backwaters provide the environment a green tinge. Some of the beautiful backwaters of Kerala that you can pay visit are Kollam backwaters, Alleppey backwaters, Kozhikode Backwaters, Cochin Backwaters, Kasaragod Backwaters etc. Canoeing Catamaran Sailing Kayaking Para Sailing Scuba Diving Snorkeling Wind Surfing Read More..... Kerala Hill Stations The exotic land of Kerala houses a number of beautiful hill stations which adds to the appeal of Kerala. If you need a break from the hustle and bustle of the city then you can check out the salubrious hills of Kerala. Some of the beautiful hill stations are Munnar, Ranipuram, Devikulam, Ponmudi, Idukki, Pythal Mala to name a few. The mesmerizing beauty of these emerald green places is something to watch for. Munnar Wayanad Devikulam Ponmudi Nelliyampathy Peermade Read More..... Kerala Beaches If you are a beach lover, then come and visit Kerala. It has almost all kinds of beaches be it sandy, coconut, rocky or promontories. Besides the clean blue water of the sea, there is also a wide range of delicious seafood cuisines to make your holiday unforgettable. The beaches of Kerala attract visitors from all over the world. Some of the famous beaches are Cherai beach, Bekal beach, Kappad beach, Kovalam beach, Dharmadam beach, Fort Kochi beach, Beypore beach and Alappuza beach. Alappuzha Beach Chavakkad Beach Cherai Beach Fort Kochi Kappad Beach Kovalam Beach Marari Beach Meenkunnu Beach Muzhappilangad Beach Payyambalam Beach Snehatheeram Beach Kollam Beach Thirumullavaram Beach Shangumugham Beach Varkala Beach Read More..... Kerala Wildlife Kerala Wildlife sanctuaries house a huge variety of animals, marine life and birds of all most all species. Some of the rarest species can also be traced down in Kerala. Some of these animals are Nilgiri tahr, tigers, leopards, elephants, macaque, deer, butterflies, moths, crabs, mudskippers and the list goes on. The wildlife sanctuaries that you must pay a visit are Chinnar wildlife Sanctuary, Periyar Tiger Reserve, Thattekkad Bird Sanctuary, Eravikulam National Park, Idukki Wildlife Sanctuary, Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary and Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary. Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary Eravikulam National Park Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Periyar National Park Silent Valley National Park Read More..... Last Updated on : 16/09/2013 Hotels in Kerala Alleppey Hotels Angamaly Hotels Changanacherry Hotels Guruvayur Hotels Idukki Hotels Kannur Hotels Kasaragod Hotels Kochi Hotels Kollam Hotels Kottayam Hotels Kozhikode Hotels Kumarakom Hotels Malappuram Hotels Munnar Hotels Nilambur Hotels Palakkad Hotels Palghat Hotels Punalur Hotels Sultan Battery Hotels Thalassery Hotels Thekkady Hotels Thiruvananthapuram Hotels Thrissur Hotels Trivandrum Hotels Varkala Hotels Wayanad Hotels Travel to Kerala Travel to Alleppey Travel to Kumarakom Travel to Kannur Travel to Kozhikode Travel to Mallapuram Travel to Palakkad Travel to Pathanamthitta Travel to Thekkady Travel to Wayanad Travel to Kochi Travel to Kovalam Travel to Munnar Travel to Trivandrum Travel to Varkala Travel to Thrissur Places to Visit in Kerala Places to visit in Alleppey Places to visit in Kochi Places to visit in Kovalam Places to visit in Kozhikode Places to visit in Kumarakoram Places to visit in Munnar Places to visit in Thekkady Places to visit in Thrissur Places to visit in Trivandrum Places to visit in Varkala Flights to Kerala Flights to Kochi Flights to Kozhikode Flights to Trivandrum Travel Agents Aluva Ernakulam Kochi Kodaikanal Kottayam Munnar Thiruvananthapuram             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule