Fully developed Farm Land for Sale in Tamil Nadu AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale Fully developed Farm Land for Sale in Tamil Nadu Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Fully developed Farm Land for Sale in Tamil Nadu LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 9 Hours Ago #1 jkantharaj Join Date Apr 2007 Posts 132 Fully developed Farm Land for Sale in Tamil Nadu The farm is located about 120 kms from Bangalore via Harur Talu ( not Karur ) THe total area is 27 acrs of land of which 20 acres is Revenue land and the 7 acres are promboke land, under the use of the current owner. The farm has two good borewells and one normal well and all tree have free power connections. Thee are almost 1000 mangoe and 50 cocnut trees as well as some vegetables and area for paddy and odder crops. There is a house and also a shed for a wroker family. Car can go upto the farm gate. If interested contact jkantharaj6"@gmail.com or can contact my son 09945500446 as he lives in Bangalore and can take you for farm visits only on weekends only. If calling him please call him ater 10.30 Am only as he goes for night shift. At the moment I am stationed at Hyderabad for a few more weeks, and can be contacted 09493572909 Bye Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 08:41 PM .