Split Red Lentils Offered by Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam Delhi India | ID - 650084 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam Member Since : 2013 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Testimonials Contact us Trust Is The Backbone And Success Is The Goal Of Business!!! Home » Product » Split Red Lentils Split Red Lentils We are offering split red lentils , red split lentil lentille, lense, lenteige, masoor, mercimek, saabat masoor. split red lentils also known as: lentille, lense, lenteige, masoor, mercimek, or saabat masoor. split red lentils are made from splitting the whole red lentil. The skin is removed and the remaining reddish-orange seed is then split into two halves. Our srl are package quality product of canada, and among the best in the world for quality. decorticated whole red lentils also know as: footballs. the red footballs are also made from the whole red lentil. The skin is removed from the lentil, leaving the inside portion of the seed whole (not split). The result is a beautiful intact, reddish-orange polished product. split red lentils or red split lentil split lentils are very popular for srilanka,india,bangladesh,morocco,saudi arabia,israel,jordon markets and other countries as well. split red lentils are made from splitting the whole red lentil. The skin is removed and the remaining reddish-orange seed is then split into two halves. Our srl are package quality product of canada, and among the best in the world for quality. red lentil in bulk or in bags of 25 kg,50kg,100lbs,50lbs or custom made pp bags are available. vvrs can supply red split lentils from australia, canada, turkey, myanmar, nepal, ethiopia, egypt, syria, india and other major countries of origin if export is allowed. football type red lentil or decorticated whole red lentils football lentils are 3mm-4.5mm in size and its very attractive to the eastern part of the world countries like bangldesh,india,pakistan and middle east in dubai,kuwait,bahrin,iran and many more. the red footballs are also made from the whole red lentil. The skin is removed from the lentil, leaving the inside portion of the seed whole (not split). The result is a beautiful intact, reddish-orange polished product. in bags of 25 kg,50kg,100lbs,50lbs or custom made pp bags are available. SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mr. Naman Agarwal » More detail Product Range » Agro Products › Guar Gum › Sharbati Wheat › Soybean Seeds › Wheat » COAL › Limestone › Steam Coal » Cotton › Cotton Lint › Organic Cotton Fibre » Dry Fruits › Almond Kernels › Cashew Nuts › Dried Raisins › Macadamia Nuts › Walnut Inshell › Walnut Kernels › Whole Blanched Almonds » Indian Sugar › Sugar » Pulses › Chana Dal › Moong Beans › Split Red Lentils » Rice › Basmati Rice › Long Grain Broken Rice › Non Basmati Rice › Short Grain Parboiled Rice › Sona Masuri Rice » Spices › Spices › Turmeric » Almonds » Black Pepper Seeds » Blue Dust » Broken Rice » Cashew Kernels » Coking Coal » Cotton Fibre » Fenugreek Seeds » Garam Masala » Green Cardamom » ICUMSA 100 Sugar » ICUMSA 800-1200 Sugar View more products Testimonials Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam We believe in Trust & Transparency, With Determination, Dedication and Devotion towards our work which makes us unique ... » Read more By - Naman Agarwal, Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam Yes No Related Catalogs Shree Vinayak Ingredients hulled sesame seeds, sesame seeds, psyllium husk, psyllium husk powder, guar gum, agar agar, soya lecithin, castor oil Velmurugan Foods Exports fruits, vegetables, alphonso mangoes, banganapalli mangoes, totapuri mangoes, fruit pulp Enjayes Spices and Chemical Oils Ltd. dehydrated green pepper, essential oil, flavouring essence, green pepper, indian spices, natural food colours, natural herb extract Sachdeva Dairy Farm cows, cross breed cow, sahiwal cow, jersey cow, holstein friesian cow, buffaloes, murrah buffalo, heifer buffalo, murrah breeding bulls,... Suggested Companies Rhf Industries Hlpl Diwakar Trading Company Agri Import Canada Corp Pink Rose Cargo Pvt. Ltd. Xanh Tuoi Tropical Fish Forest Nepal Related category Match Cotton Cotton Fiber Sugar Clove Cashew Nuts Chana Dal Guar Gum Basmati Rice Real Estate Agents Wheat Garam Masala Almond Walnuts Walnut Kernels Copyright Services Cotton Products WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com