Top 10 Monuments of India | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Travel / Top 10 Monuments of India Top 10 Monuments of India July 17, 2014 by Nandni Top 10 Monuments of India India’s iconic architectural splendor is a fine exemplar of its golden past. The emperors of history left an imprint of their reign in the form of these spectacular vestiges which speak greatly about their king. The architectural heritage of our country is our ancestral property which needs to be preserved with utmost care so as to be passed on to the future generations. There is a plethora of known and unknown monuments in India, each with a story of its own. The impressionable magnificence of some of them makes them relatively popular and significant from the others. So today I am going to write about ten such monuments which have proved to be glorious for the nation. List of Top 10 Monuments in India 1. Taj Mahal Location: Agra The ethereal beauty of this monument has left its mark all over the world. So much so that it now stands at the first place in the list of the Seven Wonders of the world. More … 2. Hawa Mahal Location: Jaipur Hawa Mahal is the finest piece of architecture of the Rajputana Culture. It stands proud as a stupendous blend of beauty and intelligence. Known as the “Palace of Winds”, this amazing structure has a total number of 953 windows in it. More … 3. Lotus Temple Location: Delhi Lotus Temple is a propagator of the Bahai Faith which believes in the spiritual unity of the entire mankind. Eight Houses of Worship had been built around the world for the people of all religions to sit together in meditation and Lotus Temple is one of them. More … 4. Mysore Palace Location: Karnataka It took almost 15 years to build this phenomenal structure for the Maharaja of Mysore. Also known as Amba Vilas, it is a three-storey structure with arched squared towers enclosed by domes. The original structure was accidently burnt in 1897, therefore, it was rebuilt by the 24th Wodeyar King in the year 1912. More … 5. Sanchi Stupa Location: Madhya Pradesh The Mauryan Emperor Ashoka founded the stupas at Sanchi in the honor of Lord Buddha. These stupas have been deemed as the world heritage sites by UNESCO. More … 6. Qutub Minar Location: Delhi It is the highest stone tower in India. Started by Qutub-ud-din Aibak, this tall monument was completed by his son-in-law Shamsu’d-Din- Iltutmish. Made up of red sandstone and marble, it stands at a height of 72.5 metres. More … 7. Victoria Memorial Location: Kolkata A unique amalgamation of European architecture and Mughal motifs, it is one of the most spectacular monuments of India. Spreading across 64 acres, it is domed structure made up of white marble. More … 8. Gateway of India Location: Mumbai Located in the richest city of India, this splendid architecture was built to commemorate the visit of King George V and Queen Mary. It was designed by a British architect in Indo-Sarcenic style. More … 9. Charminar Location: Hyderabad It was built in the year 1591 by Sultan Mohammed Quli Qutub Shah. When the city was hit by epidemic, he built this monument to appease the evil forces haunting his new city. More … 10. Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Location: Mumbai This massive structure is among the 32 World Heritage Sites in India as listed out by UNESCO. It was built in the year 1887to commemorate the golden jublilee of Queen Victoria. It functions as the headquarters of the Central Railways and is also the busiest railway station in India. More … Related Information : Agra Fort  Akbar Tomb Fatehpur Sikri Places to visit in Agra The Mausoleum of Itmad-ud-Daulah Facts About the Taj Mahal Top 10 World Heritage Sites in India   Monument Nandni Twenty three years ago, I came bounding into this world of love and laughter. Fortitude and Vigor have brought me where I am; perseverance and candor will take me where I want to be! An avid lover of books, music, traveling, shopping and designing, I am highly bound by the habit of perfectionism. More articles from Nandni : 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! Tanu Weds Manu Returns: Movie Review 8 Bollywood Celebs Who Left Us Too Early Weird Superstitions of 10 Bollywood Stars Bollywood Celebrities at Cannes 2015 Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? parmindersingh on Time to feel the heat of Delhi University Admission for session 2015-16 Dheerendra yadav on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012