Free Hit Counter / Web Counter - StatCounter       Thank You. Thank you for your feedback! All feedback is read by the StatCounter management and developers to improve the service. However, this is not a support channel. If you have an issue that requires assistance please visit the support section .   Done We need your feedback! All feedback is read by the StatCounter management and developers to improve the service. However, this is not a support channel. If you have an issue that requires assistance please visit the support section . Your email address:   Submit       Feedback on Filters Let us know what you think of the new filter feature, and what new filters you'd like to see on this page! Your email address:   Submit Thank You. Thank you for your feedback!   Done Home Sign Up Support About Home Sign Up Support About Mission Recommendations How it Works Legal Advertise Contact Blog English 中文 (简体) (87%) 中文 (繁体) (83%) català (82%) Magyar (70%) Nederlands (54%) français (48%) suomi (47%) Norsk bokmål (30%) limba română (29%) español (29%) српски језик (23%) português (22%) português do Brasil (5%) Tagalog (20%) Afrikaans (18%) Türkçe (16%) മലയാളം (15%) русский язык (14%) ไทย (12%) Deutsch (11%) italiano (11%) čeština (11%) galego (4%) azərbaycan dili (2%) हिन्दी (1%) Free Hit Counter / Web Counter Just how configurable are our free hit counters (also known as web counters) , and why should you use one? Firstly it is completely optional whether to display a counter or not. We track your visitors for free and you can choose to go completely invisible. No ads! Most members however, freely choose to display a hit counter because the level of configurability is just so damn good. If you do go for the counter option - then that's all that will be displayed. Your perfectly configured hit counter! We do not add on any of our own advertising to your counter. It's your website - you know what works and looks good. We always prefer to give the control to you - the webmaster. Are you transferring over from another web counter service? You can set your starting counter number to begin where you left off with your old provider! Choose between displaying unique visits or page loads . Specify precisely the background and digit color for your counter to blend in perfectly with your website. It gets even better than that - if you want to place your counter over an image on your website, you can set your background or digits to be transparent. Allowing the image on your website blend in very nicely with your counter. There are 5 different sizes to choose from, and you can instruct how many digits long you want your counter to be! We are damn proud of the configurability we offer. Please show me someone else who offers all this for free or even paid!? Of course the only way to experience this highly configurable counter interface for yourself is to register right now for your free account . Already a Member? Username: Password:  Remember me   Log in   Forgot password? How it Works Why is it Free? Reliable Web Tracker Fast Hit Counter Free Web Stats SEO Sponsors Top 10 Search Listing 48 Hour Google Listing 1,000 Hits for $9.99 Our Sponsors Get Targeted Visitors Free Website Content Gain New Customers Stats for Online Trends Get Facebook Fans World Sports Team We're Hiring Web App Engineer   Copyright 1999-2015 © StatCounter, All rights reserved. Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use Cookies Interface Give Feedback... Mobile Site Old StatCounter API Company Contact Jobs Advertise Global Stats Updates Forum Blog Press Twitter