Jammu and Kashmir Road Map Home » Maps » Jammu & Kashmir » Jammu and Kashmir Road Map   Jammu and Kashmir Jammu and Kashmir Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Rivers Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map India Pakistan Border Dispute जम्मू और कश्मीर का नक्शा Cities Srinagar Jammu Leh Pahalgam Gulmarg Udhampur                    more.. Travel to Jammu and Kashmir Places to visit in Jammu Amarnath Yatra Map Vaishno Devi Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hotels in Jammu and Kashmir Gulmarg Hotels Jammu Hotels Katra Hotels Leh Ladakh Hotels Pahalgam Hotels Patnitop Hotels Srinagar Hotels Gulmarg Hotels Assembly Polls J&K Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities In Jammu And Kashmir Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Jammu and Kashmir Road Map Jammu and Kashmir Road Network Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing entire road network of jammu & Kashmir. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The state of Jammu and Kashmir is popular for its natural beauty and the unending snow capped mountains that trail all along the length and breadth of Jammu and Kashmir. It is in fact the 6th largest state in India including the land occupied by China and Pakistan. Visiting Jammu and Kashmir is an experience in itself and this tourist paradise on earth provides undeniably rejuvenating cool summers for the Indians as well as foreigners. It is a land of adventurous tourists and also for the leisure travelers. Road Maps of Jammu and Kashmir Using a road map of Jammu and Kashmir can be useful as it can help tourists and adventure enthusiasts to reach their destination and also visit important places on the way to the destination. It becomes convenient for the tourists to search short cuts and then take a route that can help them reach fast. Choosing the mode of transport in Jammu and Kashmir is also important as the land is full of hills and rugged mountains along with green pastures and thick green carper. Jammu and Kashmir Roads Jammu and Kashmir lies on National Highway number 1-A, and is well connected to various parts of north India. The roads are well made and can last the rough winter weather and the rainy season alike. Due to its importance and proximity to various international borders, the state has been given primary attention due to the sensitivity of the state. There are many roads that connect to the rest of the country like Amritsar that is 243 Kms, Chandigarh is 436 kms, Delhi is 586 kms, Katra is 48 Kms, etc. roads are the important part of staying in touch with the rest of the country and that is why the government is always aware of the conditions of the roads that have to kept in a good condition. Significance of Good Roads The state is recognized for its tourism industry and that is why the government of Jammu and Kashmir has taken great efforts to build good roads and provide a good route for travelers. There are many places of interest to visit, which need a good road connection so that people can reach the place safely without getting tired. Roads also mean good business. Only if the state has good roads, will there be a good trade among other cities and states. Due to the extreme weather climate in Jammu and Kashmir, the roads have to be kept in good conditions as there are many landslides taking place during the rainy season. And the winter season faces road blocks due to snow fall and vehicles cannot move. All this has to be taken care by the Government, which they are doing on a large scale. Due to the improving conditions in Jammu and Kashmir, improved infrastructure and modes of road transport can be seen in the state. Rough and rugged roads are getting converted to tar roads and many rural places are being connected to bigger cities so that development takes places at all the corners of the state. Last Updated on : 5 March 2013 Jammu and Kashmir Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Elevation Map District Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Jammu and Kashmir Travel Map Handicrafts Map Gulmarg Location Map Leh Ladakh Map Leh Location Map Vaishno Devi Location Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Jammu to Amritsar Route Map Jammu to Chandigarh Route Map Jammu to Delhi Route Map Jammu to Srinagar Route Map Amarnath Yatra Map Places to Visit in Jammu Leh Tourist Map Trekking Route Map Pocket Maps Chandigarh to Jammu Delhi to Jammu Jammu to Leh Jammu to Pahalgam Jammu to Shimla Chandigarh to Srinagar Delhi to Srinagar Leh to Srinagar Chandigarh to Vaishnodevi About Jammu and Kashmir Hotels in Jammu and Kashmir Rivers and Lakes Jammu Kashmir Elections Election Results Chief Minister Dental Colleges Medical Colleges   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule