ADB History | Asian Development Bank Jump to navigation Jump to content Asian Development Bank 中文 Careers Contacts e-Alerts Follow ADB E-mail Alerts RSS Twitter Youtube Facebook Flickr Scribd LinkedIn Toggle search Toggle navigation About ADB Organization Overview Key Facts Members Board of Governors Board of Directors President Management Departments and Offices Knowledge Management Policies and Strategies Partners Annual Meetings History FAQs Financing Operations Public Sector (Sovereign) Financing Private Sector (Nonsovereign) Financing Funds and Resources Asian Development Fund ASEAN Infrastructure Fund Investor Information [日本語] Opportunities Careers Business Opportunities Consulting Services ADB-Japan Scholarship Program Transparency Access to Information Accountability Mechanism ADB and Civil Society Anticorruption and Integrity Development Effectiveness and Results Safeguards Independent Evaluation News & Events News News Releases News Briefs Speeches Op-Eds and Opinion Articles Events Calendar of Events Multimedia Videos Photo Essays Infographics Photos ADB Experts Social Media Hub Media Contacts Subscriber Services Asian Development Blog Data & Research Data & Research Overview Economic Research Publications Statistics and Databases Featured Economic Research Initiatives Infographics Chief Economist Contacts Publications Publications Overview Browse by Type Books Reports Papers and Briefs Serials Conference Proceedings Guides Policies, Strategies, Plans Official Records Brochures and Flyers See Also Country Planning Documents Project Documents Evaluation Documents Countries Countries with Operations Afghanistan Armenia Azerbaijan Bangladesh Bhutan Cambodia China, People's Republic of [中文] Cook Islands Fiji Georgia India Indonesia [Bahasa Indonesia] Kazakhstan Kiribati   Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Malaysia Maldives Marshall Islands Micronesia, Federated States of Mongolia Myanmar Nauru Nepal Pakistan Palau Papua New Guinea Philippines   Samoa Solomon Islands Sri Lanka Tajikistan Thailand Timor-Leste Tonga Turkmenistan Tuvalu Uzbekistan Vanuatu Viet Nam Country Planning Documents Subregional Programs Brunei Darussalam-Indonesia-Malaysia-Philippines East ASEAN Growth Area (BIMP-EAGA) Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation (CAREC) Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) Indonesia-Malaysia-Thailand Growth Triangle (IMT-GT) South Asia Subregional Economic Cooperation (SASEC) Other Offices European Representative Office Japanese Representative Office [日本語] North American Representative Office Pacific Liaison and Coordination Office Pacific Subregional Office Projects Projects Overview Show Proposed Projects Show Approved Projects Project Documents Project Cycle Operations Project Results and Case Studies Using ADB Project Data Archive Advanced Search Focus Areas Agriculture and Food Security Education Energy Environment and Climate Change Finance Sector Development Gender and Development Governance and Public Management Health Information and Communications Technology Regional Cooperation and Integration Social Development and Poverty Transport Urban Development Water Toggle navigation ADB History Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Print Bookmark Origins ADB was conceived amid the postwar rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts of the early 1960s. The vision was of a financial institution that would be Asian in character and foster economic growth and cooperation in the region - then one of the poorest in the world. A resolution passed at the first Ministerial Conference on Asian Economic Cooperation held by the United Nations Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East in 1963 set that vision on the way to becoming reality. The Philippines capital of Manila was chosen to host the new institution - the Asian Development Bank - which opened on 19 December 1966, with 31 members that came together to serve a predominantly agricultural region. Takeshi Watanabe was ADB's first President. For the rest of the 1960s, ADB focused much of its assistance on food production and rural development. Its operations included ADB's first technical assistance, loans, including a first on concessional terms in 1969, and bond issue in Germany. 1970s ADB's assistance expanded in the 1970s into education and health, and then to infrastructure and industry. The gradual emergence of Asian economies in the latter part of the decade spurred demand for better infrastructure to support economic growth. ADB focused on improving roads and providing electricity. When the world suffered its first oil price shock, ADB shifted more of its assistance to support energy projects, especially those promoting the development of domestic energy sources in member countries. Cofinancing operations began to provide additional resources for ADB projects and programs. ADB first bond issue in Asia - worth $16.7 million and issued in Japan - took place in 1970. A major landmark was the establishment in 1974 of the Asian Development Fund to provide concessional lending to ADB's poorest members. At the close of the decade, some Asian economies had improved considerably and graduated from ADB's regular assistance. 1980s As the region's economy evolved, it became clear that the private sector was an important ally in driving growth. ADB thus in the 1980s made its first direct equity investment and began to use its track record to mobilize additional resources for development from the private sector. In the wake of the second oil crisis, ADB continued its support to infrastructure development, particularly energy projects. ADB also increased its support to social infrastructure, including gender, microfinance, environmental, education, urban planning, and health issues. In 1982, ADB opened its first field office - a Resident Mission in Bangladesh - to bring operations closer to their intended beneficiaries. Later in the decade, ADB approved a policy supporting collaboration with nongovernment organizations to address the basic needs of disadvantaged groups in its developing member countries. 1990s The start of the 1990s saw ADB begin promoting regional cooperation, forging close ties among neighboring countries in the Greater Mekong Subregion. In 1995, ADB became the first multilateral organization to have a Board-approved governance policy to ensure that development assistance fully benefits the poor. Policies on the inspection function, involuntary resettlement, and indigenous peoples - designed to protect the rights of people affected by a project - were also approved. ADB's membership, meanwhile, continued to expand with the addition of several Central Asian countries following the end of the Cold War. In mid-1997, a severe financial crisis hit the region, setting back Asia's spectacular economic gains. ADB responded with projects and programs to strengthen financial sectors and create social safety nets for the poor. ADB approved its largest single loan-a $4 billion emergency loan to the Republic of Korea-and established the Asian Currency Crisis Support Facility to accelerate assistance. In 1999, recognizing that development was still bypassing so many in the region, ADB adopted poverty reduction as its overarching goal. Into the 21st century With the new century, a new focus on helping its developing members achieve the Millennium Development Goals and making development more effective was adopted within ADB. In 2003, a severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) epidemic hit the region, making it clear that fighting infectious diseases requires regional cooperation. ADB began providing support at national and regional levels to help countries more effectively respond to avian influenza and the growing threat of HIV/AIDS. ADB also had to respond to unprecedented natural disasters, committing more than $850 million for recovery in areas of India, Indonesia, Maldives, and Sri Lanka hit by the December 2004 Asian tsunami. In addition, a $1 billion line of assistance to help victims of the October 2005 earthquake in Pakistan was set up. In 2008, ADB's Board of Directors approved Strategy 2020: The Long-Term Strategic Framework of the Asian Development Bank 2008-2020, a policy document guiding its operations to 2020. In 2009, ADB's Board of Governors agreed to triple ADB's capital base from $55 billion to $165 billion, giving it much-needed resources to respond to the global economic crisis. The 200% increase is the largest in ADB's history, and the first since the 1994 100% capital increase. Organization Main Overview Key Facts Members Board of Governors Board of Directors President Management Departments and Offices Knowledge Management Policies and Strategies Partners Annual Meetings History FAQs Related Past ADB Presidents Flickr photostream - ADB Firsts You are here Organization ADB History Page Top © 2015 Asian Development Bank. Sitemap Terms of Use E-mail Alerts RSS Twitter Youtube Facebook Flickr Scribd LinkedIn Asian Development Bank Headquarters: 6 ADB Avenue, Mandaluyong City 1550, Metro Manila, Philippines + 63 2 632 4444 + 63 2 636 2444 ADB Contacts Access to Information Fraud and Corruption Reporting Hotline (+ 63 2 632 5004) E-mail the Office of Anticorruption and Integrity Resources For Bond Investors Businesses and Consultants Civil Society Job Seekers Journalists Private Sector Project Investors Other ADB Sites ADB Compliance Review Panel ADB Institute (ADBI) Asia Pathways (ADBI Blog) Asia Regional Integration Center Asian Bonds Online Asian Development Blog Open Access Repository Alerts and Mobile Apps Subscriber Services Subscribe to ADB's Newsletter, e-Alerts, RSS feeds and mobile apps. ADB encourages websites and blogs to link to its web pages. Articles may be republished without alteration with the attribution statement “This article was first published by the Asian Development Bank (www.adb.org)" and a clickable link back to adb.org.