Teachers corner — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Education / Teachers corner Share Views View State: Open for Edit Info Teachers corner This section covers a range of topics that would interest a teacher! Teaching and Learning Some theories like Constructivist Theory, Experiential learning, Cognitive learning and other teaching and learning strategies are listed out here. Teachers, Teaching and ICTs The role of the teacher in teaching and learning process and the impact of ICTs in this process is described here. Bloom's Taxonomy of Learning Domains Bloom's Taxonomy, a classification of learning objectives within education, is described here. Technological tools in teaching Various technologies that need to be integrated into the teaching environment are listed here. Guidelines for conducting Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) under the RTE Act, 2009 Eligibility for TET, guidelines, structure and content and other related information covered here Navigation Child Rights Policies and Schemes Childrens corner Teachers corner Teaching and Learning Teachers, Teaching and ICTs Bloom's Taxonomy of Learning Domains Technological tools in teaching Guidelines for conducting Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) under the RTE Act, 2009 Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance Digital Litercy Digital Learning Resources Resource Links Discussion Forum - Education Related Items New Education Policy Consultation Education-Best Practices Education Ministry of Human Resource Development more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector See More.... Energy Energy Basics Energy conservation Energy efficiency Energy production Best Practices Women and Energy Policy Support Rural Innovations See More.... e-Governance e-Governance in India About RTI Act 2005 e-Gov Services online Resources for VLEs Mobile Governance Judicial Services in India Services e-Vyapar Ask an Expert MOTHER Online Courses Multimedia CD's Recaller VLE Corner GK Quiz This portal has been developed as part of the national level initiative - India Development Gateway (InDG), dedicated for providing information / knowledge and ICT based knowledge products and services in the domain of social development. InDG is a Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY) , Ministry of Communications & Information Technology, Government of India initiative and is executed by Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Hyderabad. About Us Link to Us Contact Us Help Portal Policies Add to Favourite Sitemap Give Your Feedback Last modified: Mar 30, 2015 © 2015 C-DAC. All rights reserved. Navigation plus minus Back to top