Genuine farmers don’t face crisis! - Page 5 AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Join the Editors Genuine farmers don’t face crisis! View Poll Results: Do you agree with the statement “ Genuine farmers don’t face crisis” Voters 5 . You may not vote on this poll Yes 2 40.00% No 3 60.00% Page 5 of 5 First ... 3 4 5 Jump to page: Results 41 to 43 of 43 Thread: Genuine farmers don’t face crisis! LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… August 27th, 2014 #41 editorialteam Join Date Feb 2012 Posts 1,063 Dr. Ubaid Khan, Manager, Development & Marketing, Pioneer Aromatics & Agri Solutions says- Since long back, I am working with farming community. This is right the farmers are always in crisis and they are struggling to survive but this happens only with small and marginal scale farmers and not with rich farmers and newly emerging small or big agri entrepreneurs. At small scale, I believe organic farming is not successful in terms of achieving desirable yields. Poor farmers are not able to purchase costly organic inputs for their crops. They depend on locally available traditional manures and other sources of nutrients. The availability of natural resources such as FYM etc. further depends on livestock population of the region which is not necessarily sufficient for manure production. On the other hand, industrialists do not face these problems and can easily manage what a poor farmer is not able to do it. A poor farmer who is continuously involved in traditional inorganic cultivation practices cannot opt organic methods all of sudden. Sudden shift to organic practices can never generate comparable yield as in case of inorganic farming which ultimately indulges the farmer in financial crunch. However, an industrialist can easily manage high costs of nutrient sources for attaining desirable results the cost of which can be easily compensated with huge profits by targeting potential market of organic products. A poor farmer is not as educated as to find out market for his/her organic products. There are various other reasons but the most reasonable is what I have discussed above. Pioneer Aromatics & Agri Solutions 45, Sun City Enclave, Jankipuram Extension, Lucknow – 226 021​ Uttar Pradesh, INDIA Mob: 9889478275/ 9452268275 Email: sales@pioneeragri.com Web: PIONEER AROMATICS & AGRI SOLUTIONS Reply With Quote October 27th, 2014 #42 gullas Join Date Oct 2014 Posts 4 genuine farmers may face crisis [QUOTE=editorialteam;383023] "Mr. P.J Chackochan, Chairman Indian Organic Farmers Producer Company Ltd says - We see every day the farmers are always in crisis, and they are struggling to survive. But a genuine organic farmer never starves. But they cannot come in the mainstream as industrialists." genuine farmers may face crisis because they dont have an open market for their product,they face problem of monopoly. Reply With Quote October 27th, 2014 #43 gullas Join Date Oct 2014 Posts 4 farmers dont have open market for their product Reply With Quote Page 5 of 5 First ... 3 4 5 Jump to page: « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread organic farmer , organic farming View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 12:26 AM .