Child Rights — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Education / Child Rights Share Views View State: Open for Edit Info Child Rights This section has vast information on the rights of the child Undertanding Child Rights This topic talks about the basics of child rights. Convention on the Rights of the Child The topic covers details of UN Convention on the 'Rights of the Child' . Rights of Children in Our Society This topic covers information related to child rights in our society. Children - handle with care Role of parents and teachers in overall development of the child in terms of academic excellence, social development and emotional development is briefed here. Education-Fundamental Human Right Education is a fundamental human right. This section talks about 'Education For All' movement and its goals. Child Labour The topic covers about various aspects of child labour. Child Abuse Various abuse and threats that children face today are mentioned here Childline 1098 service It provides the information about CHILDLINE 1098 services. NCPCR A brief description of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights is given here. Child protection This section talks about child protection. SOP to handle Trafficking of Children for Child Labour This topic briefs about the Standard Operating Procedures to handle trafficking of children for child labour. Navigation Child Rights Undertanding Child Rights Convention on the Rights of the Child Rights of Children in Our Society Children - handle with care Education-Fundamental Human Right Child Labour Child Abuse Childline 1098 service NCPCR Child protection SOP to handle Trafficking of Children for Child Labour Policies and Schemes Childrens corner Teachers corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance Digital Litercy Digital Learning Resources Resource Links Discussion Forum - Education Related Items Right to protection Child Rights and Advocacy Resources Child Protection and the law Education more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector See More.... Energy Energy Basics Energy conservation Energy efficiency Energy production Best Practices Women and Energy Policy Support Rural Innovations