Travel to Gujarat - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Gujarat Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Gujarat Places to Visit in Gujarat Beaches in Gujarat Forts and Palaces in Gujarat Museums in Gujarat Historical Places in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Wildlife Sanctuaries Cities to Visit in Gujarat Ahmedabad Travel Gandhinagar Travel Vadodara Travel Porbandar Travel Bhavnagar Travel Junagadh Travel Rajkot Travel Surat Travel Dwarka Travel Bhuj Travel Gondal Travel Utelia Travel Zainabad Travel Gujarat Hotels Ahmedabad Hotels Junagadh Hotels Surat Hotels Rajkot Hotels Vadodara Hotels About Gujarat History Geography Weather Food Festivals Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Gujarat » Travel to Gujarat Travel To Gujarat Tourist Map of Gujarat Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the Major tourist places in Delhi. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Gujarat Tourism On the western coast of India, the state of Gujarat is the "Jewel of the West" in India. In Gujarat, one of India's most industrialized and prosperous states, you find the modern milieu and the age-old traditions happily married. The state derives its name from 'Gujjaratta' - meaning the land of the Gujjars, a tribe who migrated to India long back in 5th century AD. But some archeological findings from areas like Lothal, Dholavira, Rangpur, date back to the period of the Indus Valley Civilization. Since then, the state has seen the rise and fall of a number of mighty empires like the Mauryas, the Khiljis and other Muslim rulers, the Marathas till the British. The people of Gujarat reflect the vibrant culture of the state. They love to wear colorful dresses and the women prefer wearing a lot of ornaments. Most of the people speak in Gujarati. Hindi, Urdu, Sindhi and English are also spoken in Gujarat. Gujarat enjoys a more or less moderate climate throughout the year. However, some parts of the state like the Kutch region witness dry and extreme climate. The best time to visit the state is between the months of October and March. Demographics Location Western coast of India Pakistan and Rajasthan in the north and northeast The Arabian Sea on the west Madhya Pradesh in the southeast Maharashtra in the south Latitude 20°6 and 24°42 North Longitude 68°10 and 74°28 East Area 196,024 sq km Climate Summer - warm Winter - pleasantly cool Max Temperature 420 Min Temperature 140 Average Annual Rainfall 200Cms Capital Gandhinagar Population 50.6 million Languages Gujarati, Hindi, English Religion Hindus, Muslims Jains Zorastrians or Parsis and others Best Time to Visit October to March Clothing Summer - Cottons Winter - Light Woolens Major Places to Visit in Gujarat Beaches Forts and Palaces Museums Historical Places Temples National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries Cities to Visit in Gujarat Ahmedabad Gandhi Nagar Jamnagar Vadodara Pavagadh Champaner Porbandar Anand Bhavnagar Mandvi Patan Rajkot Sasan Gir Surat How to Reach Gujarat By Air Apart from an international airport at Ahmedabad, Gujarat has 10 domestic airports. Most of the domestic airlines connect it to rest of India operating out of Ahmedabad. By Train Gujarat has a good railway network. It is well connected, not only internally, but also to other places in India. By Road Gujarat has a better road network than most of the other Indian states. The total length of the road in the state is 68,900 kilometer out of which 1,572 kilometer belong to National Highway. This makes Gujarat easily accessible. From most of the larger cities, regular buses are operated by Gujarat State Transport Corporation and private operators to all the major destinations of the state. Shopping in Gujarat Your visit to Gujarat remains incomplete unless you do some shopping in Gujarat. The tourists, who visit Gujarat, actually look forward to shopping in Gujarat. The state claims its worldwide fame for it rich tradition of handicrafts. The most famous handicraft of Gujarat is related to textiles. It has and age-old history of embroidery and still retains its fame showcasing a distinct range of designs, colours and stitches. Sarees in Gujarat display an amazing variety with inlaid Zari works, beadwork, embellished mirrors, sequins and shells as well as tie-and-dye and block-printed designs. While shopping in Gujarat, you can look for: Patola Silk sarees Bandhnis and traditional Gagra-Cholis Marriage costumes Wall hangings Embroidered, appliqued quilts Cradle clothes Cloth toys, Embroidered footwear Lacquer furniture Curios Large number of Government Emporia and private shop are found virtually anywhere in the state, which makes you shopping in Gujarat a delightful experience. In Ahmedabad, premier shops are galore in areas like: C.G.Road, Ashram Road, Law Garden, and Relief Road. Both plastic and paper currencies are widely accepted through out the state. Last Updated on : September 6, 2014 Gujarat Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule