 Government of India, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture Skip to Main Content | Screen Reader Access | | | | हिंदी में | Follow us on Twitter Home Acts & Rules Citizen Charter RFD Schemes & Guidelines Schemes Info Guidelines Write to Us CPGRAMS Feedback & Grievance Miscellaneous Parliament Questions Recruitments Tenders Reach Us Contact Us Telephone Directory You are here : Home > Divisions About Us Divisions DAC Organisation Presentations Reports and Publications Programmes & Schemes Agriculture Contingency Plan Circulars and Notifications CACP FAQs RTI e Governance Projects Related Links Divisions The DAC is organized into 27 Divisions and has five attached offices and twenty-two subordinate offices which are spread across the country for coordination with state level agencies and implementation of Central Sector Schemes in their respective fields. Further, two Public Sector Undertakings,nine autonomous bodies, ten national level cooperative organizations and one authority are functioning under the administrative control of the Department. Administration Overview The Administration Division in the DAC (proper) is responsible broadly for the following work All administrative, establishment and service matters of the officers and staffs posted in DAC (Proper). Cadre management, promotions, appointment /transfer/ postings of CSS/CSSS/CSCS officials in the Department and its 5 other participating units. Allocation of work among various Divisions and issue of orders relating to structural reorganization of the Department (Proper). All matters related to housekeeping, printing & binding, providing of stationary & Staff Cars, allotment of residential accommodation. Reimbursement of medical expenses and other Welfare measures. Coordination of Parliamentary work. Matters relating to Organization and Method and coordination of grievances. Agriculture Census Overview Recognizing importance of agriculture sector in the economy, the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation is implementing Agriculture Census Scheme since 1970-71. Agriculture Census in India has been Conducting following broad guidelines of decennial World Census of Agriculture (WCA) evolved by Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of United Nations conducted at an interval of five years. In Agriculture Census, operational holding has been taken as statistical unit at micro-level for data collection as operational holding is the ultimate unit for taking agriculture-related decisions. Periodic Agriculture Censuses are the main source of information on basic characteristics of operational holdings such as land-use, cropping pattern, irrigation status, tenancy, terms of leasing and dispersal of holdings etc. This information is tabulated by different size classes and social groups and serves as an input for development planning, socio-economic policy formulation and establishment of national priorities. The Census also provides basis for development of a comprehensive integrated national system of agricultural statistics. So far, eight Agriculture Censuses since 1970-71 have been conducted in the country. The current Agriculture Census with reference year 2010-11 is ninth in the series. The results of Phase-I of Agriculture Census 2010-11 have been released in the public domain and data processing activities for Phase-II/Phase-III of the Census are progressing in the country. Agriculture Census Scheme was converted from a Centrally-Sponsored Scheme to a Central Sector Plan Scheme in 2007-08. Accordingly, 100 per cent financial assistance is provided to States/ UTs for payment of salaries, office expenses, honoraria, tabulation and printing of schedules, etc. Click here for more Information Agricultural Marketing Overview Overview on Agriculture Marketing Agriculture sector needs structured and functional markets, preferably in vicinity of farmers, to drive growth, employment, remunerative price and economic prosperity in rural areas of the country. Enabling mechanism were also required to be put in place for procurement of agricultural commodities directly from farmers’ field and to establish effective linkage between the farm production, the retail chain and food processing industries. Agriculture being a state subject, a Model APMC Act was formulated and circulated to the States/UTs in the year 2003 for adoption. The Model Act provides for contract farming, direct marketing, setting up markets in private and co-operative sector, e-trading, single point levy of market fee, single registration of market functionaries, farmer-consumer market etc. Subsidy/eligibility under one central sector scheme( AMIGS) has been restricted to States/ UTs where reforms to APMC Act has been done providing for Direct Marketing, Contract Farming and Markets in Private/ Coop Sectors. States/UTs having done these three reforms are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Goa, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Mizoram, Nagaland, Orissa, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Tripura. States/ UTs where reforms to APMC Act have been done partially are NCT of Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh. States/ UTs where there is no APMC Act are Kerala, Bihar(APMC Act repealed in year 2006),Manipur, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman & Diu, and Lakshadweep. Tamil Nadu has done reforms by executive orders instead of amending APMC Act. States/ UTs where reforms required to be done are Meghalaya, J & K, West Bengal, Puducherry, and Uttar Pradesh. Click here for more Information Programmes & Schemes Central Sector Schemes Operational Guidelines for Price Stabilisation Fund (PSF). Operational Guidelines for Price Stabilisation Fund (PSF). Operational Guidelines for Price Stabilisation Fund (PSF). Integrated Scheme for Agricultural Marketing(ISAM)(Effective Since 01.04.2014) In order to provide single window approach and user & investment friendly atmosphere, all the ongoing six Plan Schemes implemented during the XI Plan period have been put under one umbrella “Integrated Scheme for Agricultural Marketing (ISAM). It aims to (i) promote agri-marketing through creation of marketing and agribusiness infrastructure including storage, (ii)incentivize agri-market reforms, (iii) provide market linkages to farmers, (iv) provide access to agri-market information and (v) support quality certification of agriculture commodities. The XII Plan outlay for ISAM is Rs.4548.00 crore. ISAM scheme is having five components, namely: (i) Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure (AMI), the objective of this component is to create market infrastructure including Storage Infrastructure and Integrated Value Chain Projects (IVC) [the existing schemes of Grameen Bhandaran Yojana (GBY) and Development/ Strengthening of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure, Grading and Standardization (AMIGS) has been merged as AMI] (ii) Marketing Research and Information Network (MRIN) (iii) Strengthening of Agmark Grading Facilities (SAGF), (iv) Agri-Business Development (ABD) through Venture Capital Assistance (VCA) and Project Development Facility (PDF) and (v) Training, Research and Consultancy through Choudhary Charan Singh National Institute of Agriculture Marketing (NIAM). Operational Guidelines of Integrated Scheme for Agricultural Marketing(ISAM)(effective from 01.04.2014)(English). Rural Godown Schemes(RGS)/Grammin Bhandaran Yojana(GBY)(Effective till 31.03.2014) The scheme was started from 1st April 2001. The main objectives of the scheme are to meet the requirements of farmers for storing farm produce, processed farm produce, consumer articles and agricultural inputs, promotion of grading, standardization and quality control of agricultural produce to improve their marketability, prevention of distress sale immediately after harvest by providing the facility of pledge financing and marketing credit, and to strengthen agricultural marketing infrastructure by paving the way for introduction of a national system of warehouse receipts in respect of agricultural commodities stored in such godowns and to reverse the declining trend of investment in agriculture sector by encouraging private and cooperative sector to invest in the creation of storage infrastructure in the country. The scheme of Rural Godowns has been formulated for creation of scientific storage capacity with allied facilities in rural areas by encouraging private and cooperative sector to invest in the creation of storage infrastructure in the country. Under the scheme, 25% back-ended subsidy (33.3% in case of NE States, Tribal & Hilly areas and SC/ST) on the total project costs is being provided for the purpose. The eligible promoters for construction of rural godowns are individual farmers, group of farmers/ growers, partnership/ proprietary firms, NGO, companies, corporations, cooperatives, Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees, Marketing Boards and Agro Processing Corporations. As on 31st January 2013, there are 30,574 Godown projects have been sanctioned and a storage capacity of 38.36million tonnes was created under the scheme. An amount of Rs.1017.32crores of subsidy has been released to various banks and Cooperatives through NABARD and NCDC. Guidelines & Other informations(effective till 31.03.2014) ( English) / ( Hindi ) Strengthening/Developement of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure, Grading &Standardisation(AMIGS)(Effective till 31.03.2014) With a view to induce large investment in the development of marketing infrastructure, the Ministry has formulated a scheme for “Development/Strengthening of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure, Grading and Standardization” during 2004. Under this scheme investment subsidy is provided on the capital cost of general or commodity specific infrastructure for marketing of agricultural commodities and for strengthening and modernization of existing agricultural markets, wholesale, rural and periodic or in tribal areas. The scheme is reform linked, to be implemented in those States/UTs that amend the APMC Act wherever required to allow setting up of agricultural markets in private and cooperative sectors. Under the scheme, back ended subsidy @ 25% of capital cost of the project is provided in all States and @ 33.3% of capital cost in case of NE States, hilly areas and SC/ST entrepreneurs. In respect of infrastructure projects of State Agencies, there is no upper ceiling on subsidy to be provided under the scheme. Agricultural Marketing being the State subject the Directorate has only an advisory role so far as improvement/development of marketing system is concerned. In the field of grading and quality assurance also, Directorate endeavors to involve State authorities more and more to make it consumer/public oriented. Being a central coordinating organization, Directorate is actively associated with the development in agricultural marketing in both State and National level by introducing various reform initiatives of Government of India. Since Inception of the scheme up to 31-12-2012, a total number of 8087 marketing Infrastructure projects have been sanctioned and subsidy of Rs 782.14 crores has been released. Guidelines & more information(effective till 31.03.2014) ( English ) / ( Hindi ) Operational Guidelines for Price Stabilisation Fund (PSF) National Agricultural Market Atlas Terminal Market Complex Programmes Grading And Standardisation of Agricultural and Allied Produce Quality standards for agricultural commodities are framed based on their intrinsic quality. Food safety factors are being incorporated in the standards to compete in World trade. Standards are being harmonised with international standards keeping in view the WTO requirements. Certification of agricultural commodities is carried out for the benefit of producer/manufacturer and consumer. Certification of adulteration prone commodities viz. Butter, Ghee, Vegetable Oils, Ground-Spices, Honey, Wheat Atta etc. is very popular. Blended Edible Vegetable Oils and Fat Spread are compulsorily required to be certified under Agmark. The Certification mark under the Agricultural Produce (Grading & Marking) Act is popularly known as "AGMARK". Grading is carried out in accordance with the standards notified, following meticulous procedure of sampling, testing, packaging, marking and sealing as per the instructions issued under the Act and Rules. Click here for more information Pledge Financing NABARD All States KARNATAKA Bankable Project Model Secheme on Onion storage Attached Offices The Directorate of Marketing and Inspection (DMI), an attached Office of the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation under Ministry Of Agriculture, was set up in the year 1935 to implement the agricultural marketing policies and programmes for the integrated development of marketing of agricultural and other allied produce in the country with a view to safeguard the interests of farmers as well as the consumers. It maintains a close liaison between the Central and the State Governments Directorate of Marketing and Inspection Portal of Agriculture Market Budget, Finance and Accounts Outcome Budget Outcome Budget 2015-2016   English /   Hindi Outcome Budget 2014-2015   English /   Hindi Outcome Budget 2013-2014   English /   Hindi Outcome Budget 2012-2013 Outcome Budget 2011-2012 Outcome Budget 2010-2011 English / Hindi Outcome Budget 2009-2010 English / Hindi Outcome Budget 2008-2009 Demand for Grants Detailed Demands for Grants (2014-2015) Detailed Demands for Grants (2013-2014) Detailed Demands for Grants (2012-2013) Detailed Demands for Grants (2011-2012) Detailed Demands for Grants (2010-2011) Detailed Demands for Grants (2009-2010) Detailed Demands for Grants (2008-2009) Detailed Demands for Grants (2007-2008) Detailed Demands for Grants (2006-2007) Detailed Demands for Grants (2005-2006) Cooperation Overview The Cooperative Sector has been playing a significant role in the area of disbursing agricultural credit providing market support to farmers, distribution of agricultural inputs and imparting cooperative education and training etc. The basic objective of the Cooperation Division is to design long term and short term strategies for reducing economic disparities between the downtrodden rural people and the rural rich as well as regional imbalances, including rural and urban differences. The Cooperation Division is implementing one Central Sector Plan Scheme in the country during the 12th Five Year Plan viz. Central Sector Integrated Scheme on Agriculture Cooperation having two sub-components (i) Assistance to NCDC programmes for development, including assistance to Multi-State Cooperative Societies and (ii) Assistance for Cooperative Education & Training. Click here for more Information Programmes & Schemes Assistance to NCDC Programmes for Develoment of Co-operative under the Central Sector Integrated Scheme on Agricultural Co-opertation during 12th Five Year Plan Cooperative Education & Training Assistance of National Cooperative Federations Assistance to National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India. (NAFED) Price Support Scheme(PSS):The Operational Guidelines JS.DO letter to States and UTs Central Agency and Grantee Institution National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (NAFED) National Council for Cooperative Training, (NCCT) National Cooperative Union of India, (NCUI) Subordinate Offices National Cooperative Development Corporation, (NCDC) Credit Overview Agricultural Credit Agriculture is a dominant sector of our economy and credit plays an important role in increasing agriculture production. Availability and access to adequate, timely and low cost credit from institutional sources is of great importance especially to small and marginal farmers. Along with other inputs, credit is essential for establishing sustainable and profitable farming systems. Most of the farmers are small producers engaged in agricultural activities in areas of widely varying potential. Experience has shown that easy access to financial services at affordable cost positively affects the productivity, asset formation, income and food security of the rural poor. The major concern of the Government is therefore, to bring all the farmer households within the banking fold and promote complete financial inclusion Click here for more Information Agriculture Insurance At present four crop Insurance schemes namely National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS), Pilot Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS), Pilot Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (WBCIS) and Pilot Coconut Palm Insurance Scheme (CPIS) is being implemented in the country. Click here for more Information Programmes & Schemes Suo Motu disclosure. Operational Guidelines of National Crop Insurance Proqramme (NCIP) during Xllth Plan. lmplementation of National Crop Insurance Proqramme (NCIP) during Xllth Plan - issue of Administrative lnstructions National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS)- Scheme and Operational Modalities Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS) - Scheme Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS) - Operational Guidelines Coconut Palm Insurance Scheme (CPIS) - Scheme Progress National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS) States / Districts Covered Crops Covered Business Statistics Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS) States / Districts Covered Crops Covered Business Statistics Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme(WBCIS) States / Districts Covered Crops Covered Business Statistics Coconut Palm Insurance Scheme (CPIS) Flow of Credit to Agriculture Agency-wise credit flow Investment in Debentures of State Land Development Banks (SLDB) Crops Overview The National Development Council (NDC) in its 53rd meeting held on 29th May, 2007 adopted a resolution to launch a Food Security Mission comprising rice, wheat and pulses to increase the production of rice by 10 million tons, wheat by 8 million tons and pulses by 2 million tons by the end of the Eleventh Plan (2011-12). Accordingly, a Centrally Sponsored Scheme, 'National Food Security Mission' (NFSM), was launched in October 2007. The Mission is being continued during 12th Five Year Plan with new targets of additional production of food grains of 25 million tons of food grains comprising of 10 million tons rice, 8 million tons of wheat, 4 million tons of pulses and 3 million tons of coarse cereals by the end of 12th Five Year Plan. The National Food Security Mission (NFSM) during the 12th Five Year Plan will have five components (i) NFSM- Rice; (ii) NFSM-Wheat; (iii) NFSM-Pulses, (iv) NFSM-Coarse cereals and (v) NFSM-Commercial Crops. Click Here For More Information Programmes & Schemes NFSM A3P Special Plan to Achieve 19+ Million Tonnes of Pulses Production during Kharif 2013 Additional Area Coverage of Pulses during Rabi/Summer 2013 BGREI INSIMP Technology Mission on Cotton(TMC) Jute Technology Mission(JTM) Mission Directors Mission Directors CDDs List of Consultants engaged under (NFSM/BGREI) List of Directors (Agriculture) Crop Diversification Programme Preparation of annual action plan Crop Diversification Guidelines Release of funds to National Productivity Council (NPC) for Monitoring and Evaluation of Crop Diversification Programme Subordinate Offices All Crop Directorates (9 CDDs) Directorate of Cotton Development, 14, Ramjibhai Kamani Marg, Ballard Estate, P.B.No. 1002, Mumbai-400001 (Maharashtra). Directorate of Jute Development, Nizam Palace Campus ,234/4, Acharya Jagdish Bose Road, Kolkata- 700020 (West Bengal). Directorate of Millets Development, Kendriya Sadan Room No. 210, 2nd Floor, Block-A, Sector-10, Vidyadhar Nagar, Jaipur-302023. Directorate of Tobacco Development, 26 Haddows Road, Shastri Bhawan Annexe, 3rd Floor, Chennai-600006 (Tamil Nadu). Directorate of Sugarcane Development, 8th Floor, Hall No.3, Kendriya Bhavan,Aliganj, Lucknow - 226024 (U.P). Directorate of Rice Development, 250 A, Patliputra Colony, Patna-800013 (Bihar). Directorate of Wheat Development, CGO Complex, Kamla Nehru Nagar, Ghaziabad-201002 (U.P). Directorate of Oilseeds Development, Telhan Bhavan, Himayat Nagar,Hyderabad-500029 (A.P). Directorate of Pulses Development, 6th Floor, Vindhyachal Bhavan, Bhopal-462004 (M.P). Latest News/Events Revised administrative Approval of NCAER Project entitled "Agriculture Outlook and Situation Analysis for Food Security from January, 2015 to March, 2017" under NFSM-reg. Release of funds under NFSM during 2014-1S-reg.(Govt. of Maharashtra) Dated : 24 Feb,2015. Implementation of Centrally Sponsored Scheme on National Food Security Mission-(NFSM) during 2014-16-Approval of Revised Action Plan of NFSM-Rice -reg.. Dated : 23 Feb,2015. Agriculture Outlook and Situation Analysis for Food Security from January, 2015 to March, 2017" under NFSM-reg. Dated : 17 Feb,2015 . National Food Security Mission - Release of 2nd/final installment of funds for NFSM-Rice, NFSM-Pulses and NFSM Coarse Cereals to the State Govt. of NagaIand for the year 2014-15-reg. Dated : 17 Feb,2015 National Food Security Mission -Release of 2nd/final installment of funds for NFSM-Wheat & NFSM-Pulses to the State Govt. of Jammu & Kashmir for the year 2014-15-reg Dated : 13 Feb,2015 . Minutes of the meeting to review the strategies for control of karnal bunt disease in wheat held at Bhopal on 28.01.2015 regs Dated : 12 Feb,2015 . Release of final installment of funds for NFSM -Pulses (Tamil Nadu) Dated : 5 Feb,2015 Preparation of annual action plan regs.(Crop Diversification Programme) Dated :4 Feb,2015 . Portal of NFSM Drought Management Overview Department of Agriculture and Cooperation (DAC) is mandated to coordinate relief measures necessitated by drought, hailstorm, pest attack, frost/cold wave. Spatial distribution and quantum of rainfall during South-West Monsoon (June-September) mainly determines the incidence of drought in the country, as South-West Monsoon accounts for more than 70% of annual rainfall. Department of Agriculture & Cooperation closely monitors progress of South-West Monsoon in the country, in close coordination with India Meteorological Department (IMD) and keeps a watch over scanty/deficient rainfall conditions. The Department has reviewed and updated the Crisis Management Plan (CMP) for Drought 2014 (National) during the current year. The Plan defines roles and responsibilities of various agencies involved in crisis management including media management during drought. CMP, 2014 (National) was circulated to State/UT Governments for preparing the