Small Farms Working Groups - Small Farms / Alternative Enterprises - Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Extensio Main Page About Us Extension Offices EDIS Publications Conference Info Small Farms Working Groups Northeast Florida Small Farms Working Group | Southwest Florida Small Farmers Network Northeast Florida Small Farms Working Group Extension Agents and Small Farmers met to form a working group to build a community network of farmer to farmer support for Small Farms.  This group officially became the "Northeast Florida Small Farms Working Group" (NFSFWG).  All producers, regardless of their varied and unique agricultural products are included.  An information network, collaboration with the Extension Service, and a more unified voice for agricultural production, (regardless of commodity size) is envisioned.   Practical, applied, hands-on methods in production information, marketing, processing, dealing with regulatory issues and other priority items were identified by the group. Visit the Events Calendar section of this site for a listing of programs available. Bob Hochmuth, (386) 362-1725 bobhoch@ufl.edu Southwest Florida Small Farmers Network Small farmers in Southwest Florida can now network about diversified and sustainable farming systems with a new outreach project of the UF/IFAS/FAMU Small Farms and Alternative Enterprises Program.  Started in July 2007, the Southwest Florida Small Farmers Network (SWFSFN) includes growers in the region from Hillsborough to Collier County.  This farmer group is facilitated by the county UF/IFAS Agriculture Extension Agents of Sarasota, Lee, and Collier counties.  The goal is education to meet small farmer-identified priorities, issues, and needs with farmer-to-farmer contact and extension resources.  The format of the meetings is a farm visit that provides a farmer-led walk and description of the farm operations in conjunction with extension presentations on topics preselected by the membership.  Additional activities include a growers meeting, pot-luck lunch and seed swap.  The intended audience is the small farmer who wants to develop a regional network of enterprises, and also for beginning farmers.  Membership is open and at no costs. SW Florida Small Farmer Network is the 2009 National Winner (Southern Region) of the Search for Excellence Award in the Sustainable Agriculture Program of the National Association of County Agricultural Agents. Click here to view photos of previouse meetings. Visit the Events Calendar section of this site for a listing of programs available. Robert Kluson, (941) 861-9808 rkluson@scgov.net Planning & Management Food Safety Livestock & Forages Crops IPM Forest Products, Environmental & Recreational Uses Freshwater Aquaculture & Farm Ponds Organic Production Other Enterprises State & Federal Agencies Agricultural Weather Copyright 2006 | University of Florida | Site Feedback | EOI