Chennai City Map Home » Maps » Tamilnadu Map » Chennai Map   Cities in Tamilnadu Chennai Coimbatore Ooty Tiruchchirapalli Madurai Salem Thanjavur Kanyakumari Vellore                    more... तमिलनाडु का नक्शा Tamilnadu Location Tamilnadu Map Districts of Tamilnadu Roads Tamilnadu Railways Rivers of Tamilnadu Tehsils of Tamilnadu Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Tamilnadu Facts History of Tamilnadu Festivals in Tamilnadu Government and Politics Nilgiri Mountain Railway Ooty Hill Stations Places to visit in Tamilnadu Travel to Tamilnadu Beaches in Tamilnadu Wildlife Sanctuaries Temples in Tamilnadu Victory War Memorial Ooty Botanical Garden Ooty Lake Hotels in Tamil Nadu Chennai Hotels Ooty Hotels Salem Hotels Kodaikanal Hotels Coimbatore Hotels Madurai Hotels             more... Tamilnadu Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Pincode of Tamilnadu Tamilnadu Std Code Art and Crafts Economy of Tamilnadu Tamilnadu Ministries How to Reach Local Government Music and Dance Road Transport People of Tamilnadu Tamilnadu Thematic Map Factsheet Universities in Tamil Nadu Shore Temple Government Museum in Chennai Vivekananda House       Chennai City Map City Map of Chennai Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Chennai city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Tamil Nadu   Coimbatore City Map Ooty City Map Tiruchchirappalli City Map Madurai City Map         Salem City Map Thanjavur City Map Kanyakumari City Map Vellore City Map     other cities of Tamilnadu  >>   Travel to Tamil Nadu   Chennai Travel Map Madurai Travel Map Ooty Travel Map         Chennai is the capital of Tamil Nadu and is located on the Coromondal coast of Bay of Bengal. Chennai is the fourth most populous metropolitan area and the fifth most populous city in India. The population of Chennai is 4681087 (2001 census). The city is governed by the Corporation of Chennai consisting of a Mayor and councilors. Chennai boasts of rich historical legacy which lends an inexplicable charm to the city. The Portuguese arrived here in the 16th century and were followed by the Dutch, and East India Company. The British were able to establish their undisputed supremacy in the city and the Fort St George became the nucleus around which the British authority grew and expanded.The flourishing economy of the city is credited to its key industries - automobile, software services, hardware manufacturing, petrochemicals, textiles and financial services. Chennai is popularly known as 'Gateway to South India' and it is well connected internationally and to other parts of India via different modes of transport. The city map of Chennai by mapsofindia will help you to be acquainted with the city in a better way. The map will aid you to locate all the important national highways in the city, the important railway lines, areas which are rich in vegetation, important water bodies in the city, popular hotels and hospitals, the cinema halls in different parts of the city, and other important landmarks in the city. Popular hotels in the city Hotel , Claridges Hotel , Coromandel Hotel , Radisson Hotel , Sheraton Hotel , President Hotel , Dakshin Popular hospitals in the city Ganga Nagar Hospital Nungambakkam SRM Apollo Hospital Popular Cinema halls in the city Mannady Varadaraj Maharani Venkateswara Important religious places Ishwarya Vinayakar Moula Ali Dargah Nanadeswar San Thomas Basilica Important landmarks IIT Campus Race Course Guindy National Park MGR Film City Important roads connecting the city Great Northern Trunk Road National Highway 45 Poonamallee Road Chennai Tiruvallar High Road Tiruvottiyur high Road Here are three modes of transport to reach Chennai By Air : There is an International airport in Chennai. International flights arrive at Anna Terminal and Domestic flights arrive at Kamraj Terminal. Chennai is well connected to Thailand (Bangkok),Sri Lanka (Colombo), U.A.E (Dubai),Malaysia (Kuala Lumpur),Kuwait, Muscat (Bahrain) and Singapore. Prepaid taxis ply from the airport to downtown Chennai city. The taxis come in two varieties the standard black taxi and the private call taxi. By Train : Chennai Central and Egmore are the two train terminuses for long distance trains from other parts of India. By Bus : Chennai is superbly connected to other parts of India by the 'Golden Quadrilateral' transport project. If you want to travel inside Chennai then the following options are available to you By Train : Chennai has a superb suburban train network. There are four routes:1. Chennai Central 2. Arakkonam 3.Tambaram- Chennai Beach and 4. Chengalpet. By Bus : Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) buses ply throughout Chennai city. MTC buses are operated and owned by the Tamil Nadu government. The bus fare is very affordable By Auto-Rickshaw : Auto-Rickshaws are suitable for only short distances. The auto drivers are known to be unreliable. If you call an auto-rickshaw, it is better to negotiate the fare with the driver before commencing the journey. By Taxi : .Chennai taxis have digital meters. They are reliable means of transport. Chennai Fact City Name Chennai State Tamil Nadu District Chennai District Headquarters Chennai Tehsil/Taluk Egmore Nungambakkam, Fort Tondiarpet, Mambalam Guindy, Mylapore Triplicane, Perambur Purasawalkam Ward 200 Lat Long 13.051386,80.245285 Area 426 km2 (164.8 sq mi) Population as per 2011 4,681,087 Official Languages Tamil Time zone IST (UTC+05:30) STD Code 044 Transport Air, Road, Rail, Sea Vehicle registration TN-01 to TN-14, TN-18, TN-22, TN-85 Food and Cuisine Hot filtered coffee, vegetarian and non-vegetarian food - Idli, Dosa, Appam, Vada, Upma served with tomato chutney, coconut chutney and sambar, enjoy rice dishes, Legumes and Lentils, curry leaves, mustard seeds, coriander, ginger, garlic, chili, pepper, cinnamon, cloves, green cardamom, cumin, nutmeg, coconut and rosewater, Parothas, Puliyogare, Aviyal, Thogayal, Thayir Sadam, Chicken, Pepper Chicken, Chicken Stew, many items made of coconut curry, sweet Pongal, kesari, etc Chennai drinks like tender coconut -spicy buttermilk, variety of fruit juices, etc Religion Muslims, Christians, Hindu Festival Natyanjali Dance Festival, Dance and Music Festival, Travel and Tourism Fair, Pongal, Arubathimoovar, Mamallapuram, Chitthirai, Mahamagam, Kanthuri, Velankanni, Nav-Ratri and Saral-Vizha, Kavadi Festival, Natyanjali Dance Festival, Summer Festival, Tayagaraja Festival, Karthigai Deepam, Saral-Vizha etc. Monuments Fort St. George, Freemasons Hall, Government Museum, Kamaraj Memorial House, MGR Memorial, Senate House, Thousand Lights Mosque, Valluvar Kottam, War Memorials Places of interest Marina Beach, Kapaleeshwarar Temple, San Thome Basilica, Parthasarathy Temple, Arignar Anna Zoological Park, Santhome Basilica, Marundeeswarar Temple, Ashtalakshmi Kovil, Fort St George, Vivekanandar Illam, Government Museum, Guindy National Park, Covelong, St. Thomas Mount, Elliot's Beach, Madhya Kailash, Valluvar Kottam, Kalikambal Temple, VGP Universal Kingdom, Queens Land, Kishkinta, Mayajaal, Birla Planetarium, Church of Our Lady of Light, Golden Beach, Ampa Skywalk, Lighthouse, Thousand Lights Mosque,Ravishwarar, Saint Patrick's Cathedral, St. George's Cathedral, St. Mary's Church (Fort St. George), Varasiddhi Vinayaka temple, Armenian Church, Sri Lanka Mahabodhi Centre, ISKCON Temple Chennai, Puzhal aeri etc. Hotels Hyatt Regency, The Raintree Hotel, Anna Salai, Radisson Blu Hotel, Courtyard, Radisson Blu Hotel City Centre, The Accord Metropolitan, Sheraton Park Hotel and Towers, Taj Club House, Vivanta by Taj - Connemara etc. Markets Pondy Bazaar, Anna Salai (Mount Road), Panagal Park, T- Nagar, Anna Nagar, George Town, Egmore, Mylapore, Burma Bazaar, Tirunelveli, Kumbakonam, Thanjavur, Mahabalipuram, Kanchipuram, Parrys Corner, Mint Street, Malls- Abhirami Mega Mall, Alsa Mall, Ampa Skywalk, Chennai Citi Centre, Chennai Trade Centre, Coromandel Plaza, Express Avenue, Spencer Plaza, Phoenix Market City, Forum Vijaya Mall Industries Mil Industries Limited, Autotech Industries India Private Limited, Madras Engg Industries Priv Limited, Automotive Electronics, Software Retail, Manufacturing, Madras Stock Exchange, Royapuram Fishing Harbour, Kollywood, Madrassi, Madras Bashai, Madras Cloth, Information Technology (IT) and Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) services etc. University/College A.M.E.T University, Anna University, B. S. Abdur Rahman University, Bharat University, Divine Hands International University (DHIU), Dr. M.G.R. Educational and Research Institute, Hindustan University, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Indian Maritime University, Institute of Mathematical Sciences, The Tamil Nadu Dr. M. G. R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University, Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University, Tamil Nadu Physical Education and Sports University etc. Notable people Shruti K. Haasan - Actress, Rekha - Actress, Priya Anand - Actress, model, Subra Suresh - Scientists, John Henry Constantine Whitehead - Scientists, Nicodemus Abel - Scientists, Krishna Kumar Dinesh Karthik - Indian cricketer, Vijay Amritraj - Tennis Player, Sports Commentator and Actor, Ramesh Krishnan - Tennis Player and Coach, Dipika Pallikal - Squash Player, Joshna Chinappa - Squash Player etc. Blogs about Chennai Which are the Best Cities in India to Live? : The development of cities and increasing urbanisation in India has transformed the Indian society and culture. A change in terms of occupation, living standards, thinking, education, culinary preferences etc is apparent. Cities, which are the hub of trade and commerce, attract everyone as growth rate here is higher as compared to small towns and villages. The wish to live a better life results in internal migration. People migrate from town and villages to cities and… read more... Which is the worst city to live in India? : Defining just one city as the worst city to live in India would not be appropriate. Some score good on one index and low on the other. Take a look at the capital of India. Every year Delhi welcomes hundreds of thousands of people from all across India as it has an edge over other cities in terms of infrastructure and employment opportunities. On the other hand, it also tops the list when crime and… read more... Chennai after 375 Years – Blending Tradition and the Modern : Madras or Chennai as it is known today was founded with the signing of the agreement between the East India Company and the then Nayaka ruler, on Aug 22, 1639, which allowed the British to establish a trading outpost in what came to be known as Fort St George. That was the beginning of the establishment of the Madras Presidency. In 1682, the first bank called Madras Bank was established and the University of Madras… read more... Ten things you should definitely NOT do in Chennai! : The unspoken capital of South India, the city of Chennai is one of the biggest assets for India. Ever since the British Raj, the city has been an important center of trade and a major gateway to the south. With its sweltering heat, over-populated localities, austere beaches and penny plain architecture, Chennai isn't really a visitor's delight. Yet for its powerful status, it stands as one of the most visited cities of India. Visiting a… read more... Vivekananda House in Chennai: A Pilgrimage for Swami Vivekananda’s Followers : Location: Kamarajar Salai (South Beach Road), Triplicane, Chennai, Tamil Nadu The year 2013-14 marks the 150th Birth Anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, the saint who introduced the Indian Philosophies to the Western World. To honor the contribution of Vivekananda towards the Indian society, let me talk about a place which is very closely related to him. Vivekananda house or Vivekananda Illam is a museum in Chennai which is looked upon as an important landmark by the followers… read more... Last Updated on : November 5, 2014 Travel to Chennai Places to Visit in Chennai Hotels in Chennai Shopping in Chennai Trains to Chennai Chennai Southern Railway Buses from Chennai Travel Agents Distance Chart Route Maps Flights Chennai Airport Chennai Metro Places of Interest Chennai Wildlife Beaches in Chennai Amusement Parks in Chennai Chennai Museums Religious Places in Chennai Famous Monuments in Chennai Chennai Map Tourist Map Airport Map Metro Map District Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule