Ganga Expressway,Ganga Expressway Map Home » Roads » Expressway » Ganga Expressway Map   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Ganga Expressway Map of Ganga Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Ganga Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Uttar Pradesh government, then lead by Chief Minister Mayawati announced the project of building the 1047 kilometer long eight-lane expressway in 2007. The proposed expressway, the longest in the country, was to connect Greater Noida in east UP to Balia in west UP at its border with Bihar, simultaneously running along the left bank of the Ganga River and connecting the major towns on the route. The towns on the route include Varanasi, Allahabad, Rae Bareli, Kanpur, Shahjahanpur, Bulandshahr and Badaun. The proposed expressway would in fact effectively connect east and west UP traversing the breadth of the state and give an economic boost to the state with the smooth connectivity between its major towns and cities. The expressway would also reduce the travelling time by road from Delhi to Allahabad and Varanasi, major religious tourist and pilgrim spots in UP. In addition, according to the state government, the expressway would be built on a raised embankment. This embankment would also act as a flood control measure against the frequent floods on the left bank of the Ganga River. The ambitious Rs 40,000 crore project was to be built by the Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), the state government agency in charge of expressways, in collaboration with the concessionaire Jaypee Associates in the Public Private Partnership model. However In 2009, the Allahabad High court restrained the state government from starting the project. It was asked to obtain an environmental clearance from the Central government as the road was to be built on the ecologically sensitive Ganga flood plains. Work on the expressway was held up due to the lack of environmental clearance. Later, farmer's agitations against land acquisitions on the route of the expressway held up the project and the work has not yet started though it was to begin four years ago in 2008. The recently elected new Chief Minister of UP Akhilesh Yadav now plans to revive the project. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule