Travel to Ajmer - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Ajmer Travel Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Ajmer Places to Visit in Ajmer The Dargah of Khawaja Saheb Adhai-din-ka-jhonpra Nasiyan Temple Lakes in Ajmer Forts in Ajmer Museums in Ajmer Route Maps Agra to Ajmer Bikaner to Ajmer Delhi to Ajmer Lucknow to Ajmer Mumbai to Ajmer Places Near Jaipur Travel to Pushkar Travel to Jaipur Travel to Jodhpur Travel to Udaipur Travel to Bikaner Travel to Mount Abu Rajasthan Travel Tourist Map Shopping Hotels in Rajasthan Resorts in Rajasthan Food How to Reach Home » Ajmer » Travel to Ajmer Travel to Ajmer Ajmer Tourist Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now * The Map showing the important Tourist places in Ajmer. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Ajmer Tourism Ajmer is a holy city revered by every religion. Wrapped in green-carpeted hills, the city is dotted with old monuments. The British chose it as a venue of the prestigious Mayo College where the sons and daughters of Indian nobles used to study. Wake up with the sound of the resonance of the azaan at the outset of the dawn. Pay homage to the holy Dargah. The architecture of the mosque would charm you with its delicate carvings and detailed trelliswork. Pushkar, lying just beside, gives you another reason to travel to Ajmer. How to Reach Ajmer By Air The nearest airports to Ajmer are the Jaipur International Airport and the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi. The Jaipur International Airport is located at distance of about 135 km from the city and the Indira Gandhi International Airport is situated at a distance of 350 km. There are many airlines that operate flights to and from these cities almost daily. Some of the important flights to Jaipur and Delhi are; Indigo, Kingfisher Red, Jetlite, Go Air, Kingfisher Airlines, SpiceJet, Jet Airways and Paramount Airways. By Train Ajmer also shares a strong railway network with most of the Indian cities and towns. Most of the trains traveling to and from Ajmer halt at Ajmer Junction Railway Station. This railway station lies on the Mumbai Delhi railway line. Some of the trains that travel frequently to Ajmer are; Adi Sj Rajdhani, Ajmer Shatabdi Sp, Ashram Express, Ala Hazrat Exp etc. By Road Ajmer also shares an excellent road network with cities like Delhi, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Chenna. There are numerous state owned and private buses that ply to and from Ajmer regularly. The most important bus stand near Delhi is the Inter State Bus Terminal. Distance to Ajmer From delhi : 389 KM From jaipur : 131 KM From jodhpur : 200 KM From chennai : 1978 KM From bangalore : 1944 KM From chandigarh : 627 KM From hyderabad : 1382 KM Ajmer Distance Chart Shopping in Ajmer Shopping in Ajmer is an enjoyable experience. Ajmer is known for antiques, curios, fascinating gold and silver jewelry in contemporary designs, bandhini (colorful tie-and-dye sarees) and embroidered jodhpuri 'Jutis' (shoes). Ittar, a special form of local perfume is sold in small and large packs all over Ajmer and is a specialty that one can carry home form Ajmer. The annual Urs Fair is the time one can buy the colorful creations of traditional folk artisans of Ajmer. Colorful clothes and products from Tilonia village and miniature paintings from Kishangarh and a range of wood crafted products are available during the festival. The annual Ajaymeru Udyog Crafts Mela in Ajmer is another time when you can buy typical and popular items of Rajasthan like brass utensils, bangles, woodcrafts, silver souvenirs, leather belts, hand embroidered cloth bags and unlimited home decor items. Places to Visit in Ajmer Anasagar Lake Soniji Ki Nasiyan Lake Foy Sagar Dargah Sharif Last Updated on : 03/09/2013 Hotels in Rajasthan Ajmer Hotels Alwar Hotels Behror Hotels Bharatpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Dausa Hotels Jaipur Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jhunjhunu Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Khimsar Hotels Kumbhalgarh Hotels Mandawa Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Pali Hotels Phalodi Hotels Pushkar Hotels Ranakpur Hotels Sadri Hotels Sawai Madhopur Hotels Shree Mahavirji Hotels Sri Ganganagar Hotels Udaipur Hotels Ajmer Travel Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Ajmer Places to Visit in Ajmer The Dargah of Khawaja Saheb Adhai-din-ka-jhonpra Nasiyan Temple Lakes in Ajmer Forts in Ajmer Museums in Ajmer Travel to Rajasthan Ajmer Travel Barmer Travel Bharatpur Travel Bikaner Travel Bundi Travel Chittaurgarh Travel Fatehpur Travel Jaipur Travel Jaisalmer Travel Jodhpur Travel Kota Travel Kumbhalgarh Travel Mandawa Travel Mount Abu Travel Mukundgarh Travel Nawalgarh Travel Pushkar Travel Ranakpur Travel Samode Travel Sawai Madhopur Travel Shekhawati Travel Udaipur Travel Neemrana Travel Places to Visit in Rajasthan Places to Visit in Ajmer Places to Visit in Barmer Places to Visit in Bharatpur Places to Visit in Bikaner Places to Visit in Bindi Places to Visit in Chittaurgarh Places to Visit in Jaipur Places to Visit in Jaisalmer Places to Visit in Jodhpur Places to Visit in Kota Places to Visit in Kumbhalgarh Places to Visit in Mandawa Places to Visit in Mount Abu Places to Visit in Mukundgarh Places to Visit in Nawalgarh Places to Visit in Ranakpur Places to Visit in Samode Places to Visit in Pushkar Places to Visit in Udaipur About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule