Places to Visit in Itanagar and Tourist Destinations near Itanagar Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Arunachal Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Travel Agents Tourist Places in Arunachal Pradesh Picnic Spots Museums Pilgrimage Adventure Sports Ita Fort Buddha Temple Ganga Lake Polo Park Tawang Gompa Bumla Pass Apatani Villages Kile Pakho Taley Wildlife Sanctuary Cities to Visit in Arunachal Pradesh Along Travel Itanagar Travel Tawang Travel Ziro Travel Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels About Arunachal Pradesh History Geography Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Places to Visit in Itanagar Places to Visit in Itanagar Places to See in Itanagar Itanagar is the capital of Arunachal Pradesh and is located at the foothills of the Himalayas. The city comes under the Papum Pare administrative district and is well connected to the rest of the country by road and air. Itanagar got its name from the historical Ita Fort which goes back to the 15th century. Itanagar's climate is warm, yet pleasant most of the year. Post-monsoon and winter months are cool, though summer months can get hot. Ita Fort Category : History & Culture This is the fort from which Itanagar got its name. The fort dates back to the 14th or the 15th century and was constructed by the Ahom rulers. The fort was built using 8 million bricks and stood guarding the city. The reason why this fort is unique is because it was not common for first to be constructed in the North East. Jawaharlal Nehru Museum Category : History & Culture A museum full of interesting information regarding woodwork, musical instruments and different kinds of textiles and handicrafts, this museum is a must visit. There is a workshop located within the presence of this museum and one can see craftsmen working on cane products. There is also a library within the museum complex, which is open to the public. Itanagar Wildlife Sanctuary Category : Wild Life One of the major tourist attractions in the city, this sanctuary is an animal lover's delight. The park is home to many species of animals, birds and plants, such as macaque, hillock gibbon, musk deer, Himalayan black bear, red panda, apart from being home to over four hundred species of birds. Buddha Temple Category : Religious This temple was consecrated by the Dalai Lama himself and sits in a peaceful spot surrounded by mighty hills all around. Ganga Lake Category : Nature The Ganga Lake, also known as the Gyaka Sinyi is a beautiful lake which is a popular tourist attraction in Itanagar. The lake is set in the middle of a lot of greenery and is also known as the forest lake. Polo Park Category : Garden This is a beautiful botanical garden and has evolved as a popular tourist attraction in Itanagar. The park also has a mini zoo, which houses reptiles, rabbits, and guinea pigs. Apart from these tourist attractions, Itanagar is also popular for trekking options for adventure lovers. The Itanagar-Ziro-Daporijo-Pashighat is a beautiful trekking route which begins in Itanagar and is gaining popularity among tourists. Last Updated on : 1/10/2013 Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Travel to Along Travel to Bhalukpong Travel to Bomdila Travel to Itanagar Travel to Tawang Travel to Ziro Places to visit in Arunachal-pradesh Places to visit in Itanagar Places to visit in Tawang Places to visit in Ziro About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule