Hotels in Bihar Destinations Destinations Travel To | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Bihar Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Bihar Places to Visit in Bihar Nalanda Archaeological Museum Ashokan Pillar Buddha Stupa State Secretariat Building Begu Hajjam Mosque Padri Ki Haveli Prestshila Hills Temples in Bihar Mahabodhi Temple Durga Temple Parasnath Temple Vishnupad Temple Tourist Destinations in Bihar Travel to Nalanda Travel to Bodhgaya Travel to Vaishali Travel to Rajgir Travel to Patna Bihar Hotels Hotels in Gaya Hotels in Bodhgaya Hotels in Patna Hotels in Katihar Hotels in Purnia About Bihar Geography History Home » Hotels » Hotels in Bihar Hotels in Bihar HOTEL SEARCH Search by Location Search by Places Select State Select City Location of Hotels in Bihar Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing the location of hotels in Bihar. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. On your visit to Bihar, finding a luxurious accommodation is not an issue because the state has many big names in hospitality offering their services. In popular tourist destinations in Bihar, such as Patna, Bodh Gaya and Rajgir, you can choose an accommodation that suits your budget, lifestyle, expectations about hospitality and comfort. Bihar, an important state in India, is recognized for its historical, cultural and religious importance. The state has a rich background of rulers like the Mauryas, the Mughals and the British. Bihar is significant in various sectors like industries, education and agriculture. Bihar is a place where we can see thousands of foreign tourists visiting the place as it is the birth place of the Buddha. There are various categories in hotels that you can choose from including luxurious five star hotels to budget hotels. The location of the hotels in Bihar is convenient to visitors and one can choose them according to one's need. On your Bihar visit, if you want to spend your time in tranquility, you can choose a hotel positioned away from the city crowd. But, a business traveller can opt for a hotel in the midst of the city so that it becomes convenient to move around. The hotels here provide everything a guest needs and the facilities too are excellent. Hotel Maurya Patna, located at just 6 km away from the airport offers different types of accommodations and all of them are equipped with all the standard luxurious facilities expected from a hotel of international fame. Similarly, most of the five star and luxury hotels in Bihar offer these facilities and amenities including room service, hot/cold water, television, internet connectivity, doctor on call, travel desk/car rental, swimming pool, car parking, laundry service, conference hall, credit card acceptance, gymnasium/health club, deposit locker, STD/ISD/Fax facility, pick up and drop and others. Today, Bihar is quite popular among tourists and has various tourist destinations that need to be explored. It is highly recommended that tourists should book their rooms well in advance because most hotels in Bihar here are always full. Before booking any hotel, it is always a good idea to conduct some research about the facilities and amenities offered by the hotel. You can search online as there are several good websites offering updated information about the hotels. You can read information and compare the features of different hotels. Also, you can read the reviews given by real travellers at various hotel websites. Major hotels in Bihar: Hotel Delta international Hotel Sujata Bodhgaya Hotel Maurya Hotel Windsor Last Updated on : 22/06/2013   Hotels in Bihar   Hotels in Indian States Last Updated on : 05/06/2013 Hotels by City and Destination Hotels in Goa Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Mahabaleshwar Hotels in Ooty Hotels in Manali Hotels in Mysore Hotels in Puri Hotels in Nainital Hotels in Udaipur Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Pondicherry Hotels in Mount-abu Hotels in Aurangabad Hotels in Bhopal Hotels in Jodhpur Hotels in Kanpur Hotels in Mussoorie Hotels in Delhi Hotels in Jaipur Hotels in Bangalore Hotels in Mumbai Hotels in Hyderabad Hotels in Pune Hotels in Chennai Hotels in Agra Hotels in Chandigarh Hotels in Mangalore Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Mathura Hotels in Nashik Hotels in Noida Hotels in Raipur Hotels in Rishikesh Hotels in Bhubaneswar Hotels in Ahmedabad Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Amritsar Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Gurgaon Hotels in Dehradun Hotels in Haridwar Hotels in Lucknow Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Nagpur Hotels in Allahabad Hotels in Secunderabad Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Surat Hotels in Thane Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Shirdi About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule