Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Academic    Academic Programs Academic Programs India is one of the largest producers of all foods in the world and it stands third in the world of food productions next to China and America. We produce greater than 600 million tons of foods in all. We are the largest producers of pulses, milk, tea, all spices, first or second largest producer of fruits and vegetables, largest in the live stock production, third largest in grains and oils seeds, fifth largest in poultry and seventh largest in fist productions. In spite of these superlative productions, the food supply in domestic market place is inadequate, Indians don't get to eat healthy foods, and our exports share in the international markets in less than 2 per cent. All these are due to lack of technical manpower in food processing sector, poor ventures in food processing business and so on. We have about 300 million upper middle class consumers for value added foods, 200 millions are shifting to these with changing economic scenario. The total value of food trade in the country is US $ 198 billions. It is proposed to increase our world trade of processed food sector from 1.5 % to 3.0 % by 2015. A dire need to avert the situation is to create new manpower in food processing technologies. We don't have sufficient manpower either to venture in new food processing businesses or to meet the current demands of food processing industries. We also lack in scientific manpower to work on creating new and cost effective food processing and value addition technologies. Considering the importance of this vital sector, IICPT is offering B. Tech, M. Tech and Ph. D programs in Food Process Engineering starting 2009-10. Programs FOOD PROCESS ENGINEERING PIICPT offers B.Tech, M.Tech and Ph.D programs in Food Process Engineering. The B.Tech(FPE) program will be of 4 years or 8 semester duration, the M.Tech(FPE) will be of 2 years or 6 trimester duration and the Ph.D (FPE) will usually be of 3 years or 9 trimester durations B.Tech M.Tech Ph.D FOOD SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY The program will be of 2 years or 6 trimester duration regular program. M.Tech No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com