Welcome to ePrints@UOM - ePrints@UOM Home About Browse by Year Browse by Subject Browse by Division Browse by Author Browse by Type Latest Additions Contact Us Library Login Create Account      Advanced Search Welcome to ePrints@UOM Atom RSS 1.0 RSS 2.0 youtube video download Related IR's E-prints@IISc Dspace@MIT IGIDR NDR@IGNOU DR@CUSAT(Dyuthi) DSpace@IUCAA DSpace@Thapar Univ Eprints@IAS(Felows) Kashmir Univ(KNoor) NISCAIR Journals Electronic Theses,Dissertations,Synopsis Vidyanidhi NDLTD shodhganga shodhgangotri edt@IISc etd@Saurashtra Univ etd@MGU Copyright Information SHERPA-RoMEO NCSI List ePrints@UoM Indexed by BASE Google Google Scholar OpenDOAR ROAR ePrints@UoM About Policies Benefits Submission Guidelines Copyright Contact Forgot password? ePrints@UoM is an initiative of Mysore University Library , which collects, preserves and distributes scholarly output of Research and Innovation activities at University of Mysore  by its faculty, research scholars and students. UoM is one of the oldest university in the country and has many distinctions. This Open Access Institutional Repository, set up in April 2013, aims to cover scholarly publications covering journal articles, conference papers, books, book reviews, presentations, reports and patents since the establishment of the Varsity in 1916. While the documents are uploaded at present by library staff, the faculty and research scholars are encouraged to self-archive their publications. In keeping with the objectives of the  Open Access Movement , we expect this service to facilitate the University researchers in  self-archiving  and long-term preservation of their scholarly publications, provide easy access to these publications world wide and improve impact of their research. While ePrints@UoM can be accessed by anybody, submission of documents to this archive is limited to the UoM research community. One can browse publications by year, subject, divisions of the varsity, author and document type. Both simple and advanced search features have been given for facilitating specific searches. Interested users can freely download and use documents as most of them are directly accessible and full-texts downloadable, if the publication is in open access or if their institution has the accessibility to the concerned journal/publisher. 'Request Copy' forms can be used for documents to which direct full-text download is restricted due to publisher embargo. Please see repository policies . Your comments and suggestions for improving this service are most welcome. Thanks for using our repository! Recent Submission >> Latest Additions View items added to the repository in the past week. Institutional Repository @ UoM supports OAI 2.0 with a base URL of http://eprints.uni-mysore.ac.in/cgi/oai2 ePrints@UOM is powered by EPrints 3 which is developed by the School of Electronics and Computer Science at the University of Southampton. More information and software credits .