Wildlife Sanctuaries in Uttar Pradesh, National Parks of Uttar Pradesh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Uttar Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Uttar Pradesh Hotels Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Akbar Tomb Triveni Sangam Krishna Janmabhoomi Temple Dwarkadhish Temple Mathura kans Qila Rang Bhoomi Krishna Balram Temple Dudhwa National Park Cities to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Agra Travel Allahabad Travel Ayodhya Travel Jhansi Travel Lucknow Travel Mathura Travel Varanasi Travel Vrindavan Travel Uttar Pradesh Hotels Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels About Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Fair and Festivals Music Quick facts Home » Maps » Wildlife » Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks of Uttar Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks of Uttar Pradesh Sanctuaries and National Parks of Uttar Pradesh Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the location of Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks of Uttar Pradesh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Uttar Pradesh Wild Life Sanctuaries Dudhwa National Park The Dudhwa National Park is dissipated across a sprawling area of approximately 490 square kilometers in close proximity with the Indo-Nepal abut located in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. The Dudhwa National Park is also flanked by the auspicious presence of the placid river called Suheli at its southern fringe. The Dudhwa National Park has been around since 1870s. The sole change undergone by the Dudhwa National Park is the fact that it was previously designated as a Tiger Reserve but in the year 1977 it achieved the status of being a National Park. How to Reach Dudhwa The Dudhwa National Park and Tiger Reserve is located in the Lakhimpur-Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh, India. By Air The nearest airport is Lucknow, which has direct flights to all the major cities in India including Delhi and Mumbai. By Train The nearest railway stations are Dudhwa 4 km, Palia 10 km, and Mailani 37 km. Dudhwa on North Eastern Railway. By Road There are regular buses from Palia to Dudhwa, Bareilly and even Delhi. Important road distances from Dudhwa are Lucknow - 238 km, Bareilly - 260 km, Delhi - 430 km, Palia-5km. The Dudhwa National Park of Uttar Pradesh has it all from luscious grasslands to marshy lands from thick woodlands composed of sal to dusty and tough landscapes. The major attractions of the Dudhwa National Park at Uttar Pradesh are mentioned below:- Swamp Deer Chital Hog Deer Sambar Rhinoceros Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary Head for the one and only Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary if you desire to witness nature's splendor at its very finest. Situated in Meerut, the Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary spans across an amazing area of 2073 square kilometers. The Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary made its presence felt in the year 1986. The Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary houses an astonishing variety of wild animals that come in all sizes and forms. In spite of being the abode of an entire caboodle of fauna, it can grant totally separate ecological niches to the different creatures; thanks to its incredibly spacious interiors. Kaimoor Wildlife Sanctuary The Kaimoor Wildlife Sanctuary constitutes one of those tourist destinations that bears the uncanny power to thrill and enchant you. The Kaimoor Wildlife Sanctuary is well diffused across a pulsating plot of approximately 500 kilometers along the perimeter that marks the demarcation between the states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The Kaimoor Wildlife Sanctuary came into existence in the year 1982. Being situated at the rendezvous point of the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, the Kaimoor Wildlife Sanctuary is easily accessible from any remote wing of the country. The Kaimoor Wildlife Sanctuary in Uttar Pradesh besides hosting a wide array of fauna, it also houses exquisite species of trees that augments the scenic grandeur of this sanctuary to tremendous levels. The diverse species of flora that exemplifies this place are mentioned below:- Sheesham Teak Saal Mahua Jamun Siddha Salai Koraiya Jheengar Ranipur Wildlife Sanctuary The Ranipur Wildlife Sanctuary in Uttar Pradesh harbors a wide variety of wildlife that will surely dazzle you. Some of the most prominent fauna found in the Ranipur Wildlife Sanctuary of Uttar Pradesh are listed below:- Tigers Leopards Sloth Bear Peafowl Spur Fowl Jungle Fowl Painted Patridge Fishing Cat Chinkara The most suitable time to visit the Ranipur Wildlife Sanctuary at Uttar Pradesh and view it in its true grandeur stretches from the months of November through to the months of June. Last Updated on : 28/09/2013   About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule