    Logout ACABC: Banker's Login   Online updation of details of Sanctioned Projects  by NABARD under Agri Clinics and Agri Business Centre Scheme – Step by step procedure.  Step1. Open Agriclinics and Agribusiness Centres scheme website i.e. www.agriclinics.net in address bar of Browser. Step 2. Click link “Updates by NABARD/Banks on status of Projects” in the home page. Step 3.  Login page appears. Step 4.  Each NABARD Regional Office can login with User name and Password already supplied to their regional Office. Step 5. Enter user name and password          After giving user name and password, list of Bank Sanctioned Projects will be displayed. Step 6. For updating Bank Sanctioned Projects, the user has to click the hyperlink of “Name and Address of Candidate with ID No.” Step 7. For updating Bank Sanctioned Projects, user can update the loan information like Working Capital, Term Loan, margin money, Application receipt Date, amount of Loan Sanctioned, Date of loan Sanctioned, Date of Loan Disbursed, Date of Claim of subsidy, Amount of Subsidy Claimed, Date of Receipt of Subsidy, Amount of Subsidy Received, Date of adjustment to Loan a/c, Amount of Subsidy, Pending since, Remarks. The User can change the information for Sanctioned Projects only once. Step 8. Select UPDATE  button. v      User Name and Password allotted to bank may be changed only in consultation with MANAGE Online updation of details of Pending/Sanctioned Projects by Bankers under Agri Clinics and Agri Business Centre Scheme – Step by step procedure.  Step1. Open Agriclinics and Agribusiness Centres scheme website i.e. www.agriclinics.net in address bar of Browser. Step 2. Click link “Updates by NABARD/Banks on status of Projects” in the home page. Step 3.  Login page appears. Step 4.  Each Bank can login with User name and Password already supplied to their Central Office. Step 5. Enter user name and password Step 6. The following options appear List of States Bank Pending Projects Bank Sanctioned Projects Step 7. User has to select State, Pending Projects or Sanctioned Projects and click SUBMIT Button.               According to user choice Bank Pending Projects or Sanctioned Projects of Selected State Information will display.  Step 8. For updating Bank Pending Projects, the user has to click the hyperlink of  “Name and Address of Candidate with ID No.”   User can update the Loan Information like Working Capital, Term Loan, Margin money, Scrutinised (Yes/No), Date of Inspection, Reason for Pending, Communicated to Agripreneur (Yes/No),Date of Communication, Agripreneur Respond (Yes/No), Date of Response, Remarks. User can change information any number of times for Pending Applicants Step 9. For updating Bank Sanctioned Projects, user can update the loan information like Working Capital, Term Loan, margin money, Application receipt Date, amount of Loan Sanctioned, Date of loan Sanctioned, Date of Loan Disbursed, Date of Claim of subsidy, Amount of Subsidy Claimed, Date of Receipt of Subsidy, Amount of Subsidy Received, Date of adjustment to Loan a/c, Amount of Subsidy, Pending since, Remarks. The User can change the information for Sanctioned Projects only once.  Step 10. Select UPDATE button. v      User Name and Password allotted to bank may be changed only in consultation with MANAGE                                                                                                                                                                                   HOME                   