Government of India, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture Skip to Main Content | Screen Reader Access | | | | हिंदी में | Follow us on Twitter Home Acts & Rules Citizen Charter RFD Schemes & Guidelines Schemes Info Guidelines Write to Us CPGRAMS Feedback & Grievance Miscellaneous Parliament Questions Recruitments Tenders Reach Us Contact Us Telephone Directory You are here : Home > About Accessibility About Us Divisions DAC Organisation Presentations Reports and Publications Programmes & Schemes Agriculture Contingency Plan Circulars and Notifications CACP FAQs RTI e Governance Projects Related Links About Accessibility We have put in our best efforts to ensure that all information on this portal is accessible to people with disabilities. For example, a user with visual disability can access this portal using assistive technologies, such as screen readers and screen magnifiers. We also aim to be standards compliant and follow principles of usability and universal design, which should help all visitors of this portal. This portal is designed using XHTML 1.0 Transitional to meet Guidelines for Indian Government Websites and also adheres to level A of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 laid down by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Part of the information in the portal is also made available through links to external Websites. External Websites are maintained by the respective departments who are responsible for making these sites accessible. DAC is working towards making its portal accessible for persons with disabilities, however currently Portable Document Format (PDF) files are not accessible. In addition, information provided in Hindi language is also not accessible. If you have any problem or suggestion regarding the accessibility of this portal, please write to Us to enable us to respond in a helpful manner. Do let us know the nature of the problem along with your contact information. Accessibility Features Learn about accessibility Features Features incorporated in the DAC website to make it accessible are: Skip to Main Content: Quick access to the core content on the page is provided without going through repetitive navigation using the keyboard. Icons: Text has been supplemented with icons, wherever appropriate to enable users with learning disabilities understand the information easily. Icons have been provided along with text labels for key navigation options as well as important features, such as print, email etc. Accessibility Options: Options to change the size of the text, set a color scheme and increase the text spacing are provided. Identification of file type and file size: Information about alternate file types, such as PDF, Word, Excel along with the file size has been provided within the link text to help users identify the same. In addition, icons for different file types have been provided with the links. This helps users in deciding whether they wish to access the link. For example, if a link opens a PDF file, the link text specifies its file size and file type. Headings: The Web page content is organized using appropriate headings and subheadings that provide a readable structure. H1 indicates the main heading, whereas H2 indicates a subheading. Titles: An appropriate name for each Web page is specified that helps you to understand the page content easily. Alternate Text: Brief description of an image is provided for users with visual disability. If you are using a browser that supports only text or have turned off the image display, you can still know what the image is all about by reading the alternate text in absence of an image. In addition, some browsers display the alternate text in the form of a tooltip when the user moves the mouse pointer over the image. Consistent Navigation Mechanism: Consistent means of navigation and style of presentation throughout the Website has been incorporated. Keyboard Support: The website can be browsed using a keyboard by pressing the Tab and Shift + Tab keys. Customized Text Size: The size of the text on the Web pages can be changed either through the browser, through the Accessibility Options page or by clicking on the text sizing icons present at the top of each page. Adjust contrast scheme: The website provides different schemes to enable users with visual impairments, such as low vision and color blindness to view the web page information with ease. Facility available for changing the contrast of the web pages Increase text spacing: Accessibility Options page provides with an option to increase white space between words. White space can be increased upto two levels. This option is helpful for users with visual and learning impairments who find it difficult to read the information which is presented using little white space between words. Accessibility Options Learn about accessibility options Use the accessibility options provided by this Web site to control the screen display. These options allow increasing the text spacing, changing the text size and color scheme for clear visibility and better readability. Changing the Text Size Changing the size of the text refers to making the text appearing smaller or bigger from its standard size. There are five options provided to you to set the size of the text that affects the readability. These are: Largest: Displays information in the largest font size. Larger: Displays information in a font size larger than the standard font size. Medium: Displays information in a standard font size, which is the default size. Smaller: Displays information in a font size smaller than the standard font size. Smallest: Displays information in the smallest font size. To change the text size: Select Accessibility Options. The Accessibility Options page is displayed. From the Text Size section, select the appropriate text size. Click Apply . Changing the Color Scheme Changing the color scheme refers to applying a suitable background and text color that ensures clear readability. There are two options provided to you to change the color scheme. These are: High Contrast: Applies the black color as the background and suitable colors to the text on the screen to improve readability. Standard Contrast: Brings the screen back to its original appearance. To change the color scheme: Select Accessibility Options. The Accessibility Options page is displayed. From the Contrast Schemes section, select the appropriate contrast. Click Apply . Note: Changing the color scheme does not affect the images on the screen. Changing the Text Spacing Changing the spacing of text refers to increasing the white space between two words from the default white space to improve readability for users with visual and learning impairments. There are three options provided to you to set the white space between words that affect readability. These are: Default: Allows to set the white space between two words to standard width. Wider: Allows to increase the white space between two words than the standard width. Widest: Allows to further increase the white space between two words than the standard width. To change the text spacing: Select Accessibility Options. The Accessibility Options page is displayed. From the Text Spacing section, select the appropriate text spacing. Click Apply . Home Archives Vigilance RTI Download Forms Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This site is best viewed on IE 8 and Higher Versions This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation Ministry Of Agriculture, Government of India Page Last Updated on : 14 January, 2015