Ludhiana City Map Home » Maps » Punjab » Ludhiana Map   Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bathinda Mohali Ferozepur                    more पंजाब का नक्शा Punjab Punjab Map Districts of Punjab Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Punjab Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Punjab Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Telephone Directory Government and Politics Travel to Punjab Places to visit in Punjab Wildlife Sanctuaries Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Geography and History Handicrafts People Culture and Festivals Pin Code Universities In Punjab       Ludhiana City Map City Map of Ludhiana Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Ludhiana city map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Ludhiana City Information Country India State Punjab District Ludhiana Established Year 1888-89 Area 3,767 km2 (1,454 sq mi) Population 1613878 as Census January 2011 Population Density 975/km2 (2,530/sq mi) as Census January 2011 Language Punjabi, Hindi Official Languages Punjabi Literacy Rate 82.5% as Census January 2011 Sex Ratio 869/1000 Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Pin code 141001 Area code 161 Lat Long 30.9100° N, 75.8500° E Religion Sikh, Hinduism Festivals Lohri, Basant Panchmi, Baisakhi,Holi, Diwali, Teej ,Tika, Dussehra, Sikh Gurupurabs University Punjab Agricultural University, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Science University (GADVASU). Sports Guru Nanak Stadium for Football (JCTFC), Astroturf Hockey Ground - PAU Airport Sahnewal Airport Railway Station Ludhiana Jn (LDH), Ludhiana Railway Station Tourist Attractions Rakh Bagh Park, Gurudwara Shrimanji Sahib Alamgir, Gurudwara Charan Kamal, Pir-I-Dastgir Shrine, Phillaur Fort, Bilwanwali Masjid Nearby Tourist Attractions Chandigarh, Kasauli, Mcleodganj, Dharamsala, Shimla Popular Things woolen garments, machine tools, dyes, cycle parts, mopeds, sewing machines and motor parts Notable People Sukhdev Thapar, Kartar Singh Sarabha, Dharmendra, Sunil Mittal, Juhi Chawla, Gulzar Singh Sandhu, Pankaj Kapoor National Highway National Highway No. 95 (Chandigarh - Ludhiana - Ferozepur ) Blogs about Ludhiana Day 56 – Raikot to Ludhiana, Punjab (Kanyakumari to Leh cycling) : I was very excited for this day to come as I was about to reach Ludhiana, for which I have been waiting for so long. I have a college friend of mine in Ludhiana whom I was about to meet after almost two years and I couriered some of my luggage like sleeping bag, etc., to him from Kerala, which I will pick up now on my way further. I took a different route to… read more... General Elections 2014 – Day 21 : The rank and file of BJP is unhappy with Arvind Kejriwal contesting from Varanasi against Narendra Modi, none of them think that Modi is going to lose, though. On conditions of anonymity, a senior BJP leader defined Arvind Kejriwal as  "a nuisance we could have done without".  They are worried about the "time wastage" Kejriwal's candidature from Varanasi would lead to. Narendra Modi is committed to 185 public meetings over next 45 days or so,… read more... Phillaur Fort, Ludhiana: A Citadel of Strength : The Phillaur Fort, a symbol of the potent heritage of Punjab, lies in the Phillaur town of Ludhiana city. It is situated on the banks of River Sutlej. It is also famous as the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Fort. A creation of an Italian engineer, the fort was projected by Dewan Mokham Chand to serve the purpose of a military fortress for Maharaja Ranjit Singh. However, later on the Punjab Police took control of the structure.… read more... Maharaja Ranjit Singh War Museum in Ludhiana : Location: GT road, Ludhiana, Punjab The largest city in the state of Punjab, Ludhiana boasts of housing one of the most popular places to see in the state - Maharaja Ranjit Singh War Museum. Spreading across four acres in area, this museum came into existence in the year 1999. The Punjab Government constructed the museum as a gesture of tribute to the courageous soldiers who struggled and laid their lives during various wars and battles… read more... Ajaib Ghar – Museum of Rural life in Punjab : Ajaib Ghar (Museum of Rural life of Punjab) at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana is worth visiting if you love the rural culture and heritage of Punjab. The museum takes you back to the 18th and 19th century. Ajaib Ghar is a perfect place to understand the cultural, religious, social life of rural and ancient Punjab. Though it is not too big, but the serenity of the entire place and its surrounding area is very… read more... Last Updated on : 28/09/2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule