mKisan:Read Me Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access हिंदी में Follow us on Twitter USSD About USSD USSD Application Register for USSD Pull SMS About Pull SMS Structure & Codes IVRS About IVRS IVRS Dashboard Agent Rating Call Response Push SMS About Push SMS Search SMS Database Ksewa About KSEWA Register for KSEWA Login for KSEWA List of Services KCC About KCC KCC Locations Features of KCC KCC Nodal Officers Query Escalation Process Implementation of Escalation Process Involvement of States KCC Dashboard Buyer Seller About Buyer Seller Platform Buyers Login New Buyer Registration Mobile Apps About Mobile Apps Downloads Reach Us Queries on Portal Feedback/Grievance You are here : Home > Read Me Search About mKisan Dashboard Registration for SMS Accolades RSS Twitter Read Me This integrated SMS Portal aims to serve farmers and other stake-holders through their mobile phones in an integrated and efficient manner. Registration can be done only by the officers listed in the combo boxes at the registration page. However, if some designation has got left out inadvertently, an email needs to be sent by the Head of Department concerned to this department at kisaansms-negpa[at]gov[dot]in . Please do not register unless you are covered by this Portal. An End User will first need to fill in his/her credentials and then verify his email & mobile number using verification code. Once an End User thus gets verified, he/she has to be first activated by the Approving Authority before an information can be sent to a farmer or a service can be rendered or a technical advice can be given. Before a technical advice is given to farmers by an officer of the State Agriculture or Allied Departments, consultation among the members of designated team members (or adherence to such other procedure as may be laid down by the State Government or the organisation concerned) is necessary. A database of mobile numbers of farmers has been created from the Kisan Call Centres, State Government Departments, Web Registration Form(s), Krishi Vigyan Kendras, SMS requests etc. Farmers also exercise a total of 8 priorities the fields of Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries sectors. Farmers will receive messages depending on jurisdiction of the officer / scientist / expert sending the SMS and priorities selected by respective farmers. Home About Us Help RTI Terms and Conditions Copyright Policy Hyperlinking Policy Privacy Policy Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation,Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India Page Last Updated on : 10 October, 2014