Forts and Palaces in Karnataka Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Karnataka Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Places to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan Palace Cubbon Park Raja's Seat Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary Lalitha Mahal Karanji Lake Murudeshwara Temple Mysore Palace Group of Monuments at Pattadakal Bangalore Fort Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Cities to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Travel Belur Travel Coorg Travel Halebid Travel Hampi Travel Mangalore Travel Mysore Travel Badami Travel Belgaum Travel Sringeri Travel Karnataka Hotels Bangalore Hotels Coorg Hotels Udupu Hotels Mysore Hotels Hubli Hotels Mangalore Hotels About Karnataka Geography & History Fairs & Festivals Food Quick Facts Home »» Karnataka » Tourism » Karnataka Forts and Palaces Forts and Palaces in Karnataka Karnataka forts and palaces form an indelible part of Karnataka tourism. Karnataka without its Karnataka forts and palaces is incomplete, as the cultural heritage strictly depend upon these forts and palaces. Karnataka has a long history that chiefly constitutes of the Sultans and their endeavor towards strengthening their roots in Karnataka . Karnataka forts and palaces, indeed, are witnesses to those endeavor and strife. Important Karnataka Forts and Palaces Mysore Palace The Mysore Palace, Karnataka is popularly known as the the Maharajah's Palace, situated at the city center at Mirza Road. Mysore Palace is one of the most fascinating monument of Mysore city. The other name of the Mysore Palace is Amba Vilas and is the largest palaces of India. Mysore's Wodeyar Mahararajas resided in the Mysore Palace of Karnataka. The Mysore Palace is a three storied edifice with a length of 245 feet and breadth of 156 feet. The Mysore Palace at Karnataka comprises of a sequence of arched square towers enclosed by domes. The original palace of Mysore was carved out of wood which was accidentally burnt in 1897. The 24th Wodeyar Raja rebuilt the Mysore Palace of Karnataka in 1912. The Mysore Palace followed the Indo-Saracenic style of architecture. The Mysore Palace of Karnataka at present is under the supervision of the Archaeological Department of the India and is converted into a museum. The museum of the Mysore Palace in Karnataka preserves a rare collection of marvelous carvings and exquisite art and sculpture culled from across the globe. You will get the opportunity to see the paintings, jeweler, royal costumes of the Royal families of Wodeyars. Bangalore Palace The Bangalore Palace is a magnificent palace of the garden city of Bangalore built in the year 1887. The Bangalore Palace of Karnataka is a famous tourist spot in the heart of the city. The Bangalore Palace is built in the model of Windsor Castle of England by Chamaraja Wodeyar, the Maharaja of Mysore. The grand edifice reflects the Tudor style of architecture. The Bangalore Palace of Karnataka is spread over an area of 800 acres of land and encircled by beautiful garden. The Bangalore Palace in Karnataka is mainly carved out of wood. The interior of the palace is rich in elegant wood carvings and paintings. The grand structure of the Bangalore Palace of Karnataka is fortified with towers and have Gothic windows, bonnie battlements and turrets. At the entrance, the Bangalore Palace has exquisite door panel with breathtaking floral motifs in the interior. You will be amazed to see the cornices and relief paintings on the ceilings of the Bangalore Palace, Karnataka. It took more than Rs 1 lakh to construct the exquisite Bangalore Palace during that time. The land where this huge edifice is located, is originally owned by Reverend Garret. In the year 2005, Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wodeyar opened the Bangalore Palace to the public to maintain the grand palace. Special attraction of the Bangalore Palace at Karnataka is the gallery which displays thousands of historical photos and elegant carvings and paintings. Kittur Chennamma Fort The Kittur Chennamma Fort of Karnataka lies on the Pune Bangalore Highway in a small town of Kittur. The Kittur Chennamma Fort of Karnataka is the main attraction of Kittur that is located in Belgaum District in the state of Karnataka. The Kittur Chennamma Fort of Karnataka stands erect to unravel the tale of the great freedom struggle headed by Queen Chennamma of Kittur to save her kingdom from the British tyranny. Rani Chennamma was the first legendary queen who fought against British army from her small kingdom of Kittur for their undesired intervention in tax collection. The Kittur Chennamma Fort is constructed out of black basalt rock but at present is nothing but a ruin. You will find the low wall on both sides of the Kittur Chennamma Fort in Karnataka with tiny embankments. In the interior of the Kittur Chennamma Fort, you will find an ancient telescope through which Rani Chennamma used to watch the Dhruva Nakshatra or the Pole Star in the morning. But the telescope is poorly maintained. Chitradurga Fort The Chitradurga Fort of Karnataka is noted for the massive stone edifice set on the hilltop of the Chitradurga District. The Chitradurga Fort of Karnataka is situated about 200 kilometers from the garden city of Bangalore in Karnataka. The structure of the Chitradurga Fort is defensive in design. The Chitradurga Fort in Karnataka was built by the Nayakas of Chitradurga. The ruler of Nayakas, Madakari Nayaka used the Chitradurga Fort in Karnataka mainly for defense purpose. But when they were defeated by Hyder Ali in the year 1799, the grand structure was occupied by Hyder Ali. Till today, the Chitradurga Fort at Karnataka remains as a memorable monument of the Nayakas who were the renowned rulers of the central Karnataka. Gulbarga Fort The Gulbarga Fort in Karnataka was constructed by Raja Gulchand and is the most important monument in Gulbarga. Much later the Gulbarga Fort was fortified by Sultan Ala-ud-din Bahman. The Gulbarga Fort is one of the most extensive piece of work in the state, measuring about 38,000 square feet. Today the ruins of the massive structure of the Gulbarga Fort of Karnataka stands erect in Gulbarga to unravel the tale of the glorious past of Karnataka state and rise and fall of many kingdoms that it witnessed in the course of time. The Gulbarga Fort at Karnataka also contains 15 towers and 26 guns safely preserved for display to the public. The guns of the Gulbarga Fort, Karnataka were used in a number of battles in the past history of India. The Jumma Masjid inside the Gulbarga Fort of Karnataka is noted for the elegant domes and arched columns which make us remind of the the great mosque of Cordoba, Spain. The Masjid depicts the typically Persian style of architecture. You will see the tombs of some of the sultans in the southern corner of the Gulbarga Fort of Karnataka. Tipu's Fort Bangalore The Tipu's Fort in Karnataka is a very famous tourist destination. The Tipu's Fort is set in the heart of the Bangalore city opposite to the city market. The Tipu's Fort, Karnataka was originally constructed by mud and brick by Kempe Gowda in 1537 AD. The structure was later demolished and reconstructed by Haider Ali and his son Tipu Sultan in the 18th century. Today, what we call the Tipu's Fort in Karnataka is actually the remains of the fort wall with a tablet. In the year 1791, Lord Cornwallis breached Tipu's Fort by defeating the ruler. In the courtyard of the Tipu's Fort of Karnataka there is a Ganesha Temple. Its existence in the Tipu's Fort shows the religious tolerance of Tipu Sultan. The temple still witnesses numerous devotees who visit the temple to pay their homage to Lord Ganesh. The Tipu's Fort of Karnataka is celebrated for the attractively carved arches on the gate walls of the fort. You will notice the remains of Tipu's favorite palace within the Tipu's Fort at Karnataka. The palace was started by Haider Ali but its construction was finished by Tipu Sultan in the year 1791. The palace inside the Tipu's Fort of Karnataka was popularly known as the "Abode of Peace". Bellary Fort The Bellary Fort of Karnataka is set on the top of the Ballari Gudda by Hanumappa Nayaka during Vijayanagara rule. In the year 1769, Hyder Ali, the ruler of Bangalore took away the Bellary Fort of Karnataka from the Nayaka family after defeating its ruler. The Bellary Fort of Karnataka was renovated by Haider Ali with the active assistance of a French engineer. During the British Raj in India, the Bellary Fort of Karnataka was notified as the fantabulous fort of India by the British administration. The Bellary Fort of Karnataka is divided as the upper and the lower fort. The so called upper fort of the Bellary Fort of Karnataka is a polygonal walled edifice located at the summit of the hill. There is no accommodation for garrison on the upper fort of Bellary Fort of Karnataka. The upper fort contains a number of water tanks. You have to reach the upper fort of the Bellary Fort by a winding rocky path. There is a small temple on the cliff of the upper fort. The lower fort of the Bellary Fort of Karnataka is situated at the eastern base and served as an arsenal and barrack. There are rampart and bastions inside the fort. The eastern as well as the western gates served as the main entrance to the lower Bellary Fort of Karnataka. The Kote Anjaneya Temple dedicated to Hanuman lies in the lower fort. Other important buildings in the lower Bellary Fort of Karnataka are government offices, schools and educational institutions, churches and more. North Fort Badami The North Fort of Badami is basically an important archaeological site of the Karnataka state. Surrounding the North Fort, Badami, there are a number of temples and a museum. These historical edifices have heightened the importance of the place near the North Fort, Badami. The Archaeological Museum adjacent to the North Fort of Badami lies in the northern side of the Agasthya Lake. The museum is the treasure house of excellent ancient sculptures from the sites of Badami, Aihole and Pattadakal. The museum is daily open from 10 am to 5 pm. It is closed on Fridays. The road behind the museum leads to the North Fort, Badami which is a center of ancient temples. You will see a large cannon at the southern end of the North Fort, Badami. The cannon is placed here by Tipu Sultan. You will get a breath taking view of the down town from the North Fort, Badami. Bidar Fort of Karnataka The Bidar Fort of Karnataka is a 15th century fort and situated in the heart of the garden city of Bangalore. The Bidar Fort of Karnataka stands erect to tell the tale of India's richly textured history of the past. The Bidar Fort in Karnataka is now a rugged fort mainly noted as the tourist's destination in the state of Karnataka. The Bidar Fort in Karnataka is a beautiful creation of the then ruler of Karnataka which is surrounded by a triple-moated wall. The grand Bidar Fort in Karnataka is constructed out of red rock. The Bidar Fort had an intricate battlement and a baronial gateway. If you ever visit the Bidar Fort, you will get to see the crumbling ruins of the bastions and gates. Other features of the Bidar Fort at Karnataka are the royal baths and spacious kitchens, a large audience hall and wide pleasure-pavilions, all in a state of ruin. But this grand edifice still stands the ravages of time as a silent tribute to the past glory of the Bidar Kingdom. Last Updated on : 27 June 2013 Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Belgaum Hotels Bellary Hotels Bijapur Hotels Chikmagalur Hotels Coorg Hotels Davangere Hotels Dharwad Hotels Gangavathi Hotels Gulbarga Hotels Hassan Hotels Hospet Hotels Hubli Hotels Karwar Hotels Kolar Hotels Mangalore Hotels Manipal Hotels Murudeshwar Hotels Mysore Hotels Sandur Hotels Shimoga Hotels Udupi Hotels Travel to Karnataka Travel to Bangalore Travel to Belur Travel to Coorg Travel to Halebid Travel to Hampi Travel to Mangalore Travel to Mysore Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Belur Places to visit in Coorg Wildlife Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan Palace Cubbon Park Raja's Seat Places to visit in Halebid Places to visit in Hampi Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary Lalitha Mahal Karanji Lake Murudeshwara Temple Mysore Palace Group of Monuments at Pattadakal Bangalore Fort Places to visit in Mangalore Places to visit in Mysore Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule