Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Home » Chhattisgarh » Chhattisgarh Chief Minister   Chhattisgarh छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Chhattisgarh Map Cities in Chhattisgarh Naya Raipur Surajpur Kondagaon Baloda Bazar Ambikapur Pendra Kirandul Baikunthpur                      more... Districts of Chhattisgarh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Chhattisgarh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Chitrakoot Waterfall Haat Bazaars Indravati National Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Chhattisgarh Forests Parliamentary Constituencies Economy History Government Politics How to Reach Geography People Culture Festivals Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Area Chhattisgarh at a Glance Capital City Chief Minister Governor Pincode Population Telephone Code Chhattisgarh Factsheet District Map in Hindi Universities in Chhattisgarh       Chhattisgarh Chief Minister At present, the Chief Minister of the Indian state of Chhattisgarh is Dr. Raman Singh. Raman Singh is a prominent leader representing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He is also a doctor by profession. Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Early Life of Dr. Raman Singh Dr. Raman Singh was born on October 15, 1952. He hails from Kawardha in Chhattisgarh, which is a small city and municipality in the Kabirdham district of the state. His father was a farmer. He spent his school life in Kawardha, Chhuyikhadan, and Rajnandgaon. He attained his Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) degree from the Government Science College in Bemetara in 1971-72. Later, he graduated in Ayurvedic Medicine in 1975 with a BAMS degree from the Raipur Government Ayurvedic College. Parents of Dr. Raman Singh The father of Dr. Raman Singh is Shri Vighnaharan Singh Thakur, who was a renowned lawyer in Kawardha and his mother is Smt. Sudha Singh. Personal life of Dr. Raman Singh Dr. Singh is married and has two children. The name of his wife is Veena Singh and he has one son named Abhishek Singh and one daughter named Asmita Singh. Educational qualification of Dr. Singh The educational qualification of Dr. Singh is B.Sc, B.A.M.S. Political career of Dr. Raman Singh Dr. Raman Singh began his political career by becoming a member of the Bharatiya Jan Sangh (BJS) as a youth associate. Bharatiya Jan Sangh is the predecessor of the present day Bharatiya Janata Party. He advanced his political career and also became a municipal councilor. In 1976-77, he also became the President of Bharatiya Jan Sangh Yuva Morcha in Kawardha. For consecutive two terms (in 1990 and 1993), Dr. Singh became a member of the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly. His political career attained a new level when he emerged victorious in the General Elections held in 1999. He became a Member of Parliament from the Rajnandgaon Lok Sabha constituency in Chhattisgarh. Under the prime ministership of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Dr. Raman Singh was given the portfolio of the Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry. He held the position of the union minister from October 13, 1999 to January 29, 2003. Subsequently, he was nominated as the President of Bharatiya Janata Party for the state of Chhattisgarh. He had a key role in taking Bharatiya Janata Party to winning the Vidhan Sabha polls held in the year 2003 in Chhattisgarh. In spite of the contention of Mr. Dilip Singh Judeo for the position of the Chief Minister, the BJP top brass decided to make Dr. Raman Singh the second Chief Minister of the state since some allegations were made against Judeo regarding offering mining rights in the state to an Australian organization. As Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Dr. Raman Singh assumed the position of the Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh on December 7, 2003. As Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh, Dr. Singh took his state to the top position in India in terms of the accomplishment of the 20-point plan on the advancement of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes as laid down by the evaluation of the Statistics and Program Implementation Ministry, Government of India from 2006 to 2007. The state of Chhattisgarh achieved the topmost honor from the United Nations due to the acknowledgment of the human development pattern. Furthermore, Dr. Singh has been acclaimed all throughout India for his outstanding financial management skills in his rule. Achievements of Dr. Raman Singh as chief Minister In 2005, Dr. Singh prohibited naxalite outfits in the state in the "Salwa Judum" program and this campaign was even backed by his opposition, the Indian National Congress, guided by Mahendra Karma. Dr. Raman Singh is famous as 'Mr Clean' in his state. He achieved this fame because of the substantial decline in corruption and at the same time, execution of various government plans and policies throughout his term. This impression assisted him to recapture the control in the state in the 2008 Vidhan Sabha polls which were held in December 2008. He took oath as the Chief Minister of the state for the second consecutive term on December 12, 2008. The Union Ministry for Industries announced Chhattisgrah as the topmost state in terms of investments in January 2007. The state had witnessed an influx of Rs. 107,899 crores. Positions held by Dr. Raman Singh Given below are the various positions held by Dr. Singh during his illustrious political career: Term Positions held 1990 and 1993 He was elected as a member of the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly for consecutive two terms 1999 He was elected as a member of the 13th Lok Sabha by winning the Parliamentary Elections from the Rajnandgaon Constituency in Chhattisgarh. From October 13, 1999 to January 29, 2003 He served as Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry under the prime ministership of Shri Atal Bihari Bajpayee 2004 He was elected as a member of Chhattisgarh Legislative Assembly and took oath as Chief Minister 2008 He was again elected as a member of Chhattisgarh Legislative Assembly and took oath as Chief Minister for the second term As Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, Dr. Singh spearheaded the Indian Trade Fair missions to countries like Nepal, Israel, Dubai and Palestine. Departments managed by Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Dr. Singh looks after the following departments as the Chief Minister of the state: Finance Department General Administration Department Fiscal and Statistical Department Planning Department Mining Department Energy Department Information Technology Department Public Relations Department Aviation Department Biotechnology Department Awards won by Dr. Singh Dr. Singh has won the following awards: The 'Outstanding Person' Award - Conferred by the Chhattisgarhi NRI Association and The Indo American Community of North America. 'Bharat Asmita Shreshtha Jan Pratinidhi' Award - Conferred by K.G. Balakrishnan, the Honorable former Chief Justice of India. Assembly constituency of Dr. Singh The assembly constituency of Dr. Singh is Rajnandgaon. Countries visited by Dr. Singh Dr. Singh has visited the following nations: The United Kingdom The United States of America Canada Contact address of Chhattisgarh Chief Minister The contact details of Dr. Raman Singh are as follows: Residential Address: C M House, Civil Line, Raipur, Chhattisgarh Office Address: Room No. 303, Mantralaya, D.K.S. Bhavan, Raipur (CG) 492001 Tel No: 0771 2221000, 5080303, 2221001, 0771 2331001, 2331000 (Residence) Fax No.: 0771 2221306, 2331001 List of Chief Ministers (CM) of Chhattisgarh Sl. No Name of Chief Ministers From To Party 1 Ajit Jogi Nov 1, 2000 Dec 7, 2003 INC 2 Raman Singh Dec 7, 2003 Present BJP Last Updated on : September 13, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule