INDOCERT - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop INDOCERT Home INDOCERT Offers certifications for export of organic products according to the legislative acts of the importing countries Indocert has its head office in Kerala.     Mr. Mathew Sebastian is the     Executive Director of Indocert. It is accredited by National Accreditation Body (NAB), Government of India, as per National Program for Organic Production (NPOP). Indocert also holds international accreditation according to EN 45011/ ISO 65, by DAKKS, Germany, for certification of agricultural production, collection of wild plants, and processing of organic agricultural and livestock products and organic aquaculture. It offers certifications for export of organic products according to the legislative acts of the importing countries and for agricultural production based on GLOBALGAP certification program for the production of fruit and vegetables. Indocert offers organic certification as per USDA-NOP standards. In addition, Indocert is also accredited as per ISO 17021 and ISO 22003 by National Accreditation Board for Certification Bodies (NABCB) for providing ISO22000 FSMS Food Safety Management System Certification and I.S.343:2000 HACCP certification. Indocert holds NABET (National Accreditation Board for Education & Training) accreditation for conducting awareness training program on Food Hygiene (GMP/GHP) and ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System (FSMS) lead auditor training program. Indocert is a registered RSPH centre and is approved to offer specified RSPH (UK) qualifications. Accreditation vs. Certification Explaining the difference between accreditation ad certification, Mr. Sebastian says, “Accreditation is a process by which certification body’s competency, authority and credibility is guaranteed. The certification agencies need to be accredited according to ISO 65 guidelines for offering organic certification for various scopes like agricultural and animal production and processing of such products, wild harvest, and export-import of certified organic products according to respective standards.” He adds, “Certification is needed in order to ensure that products labeled as organic are produced and handled in accordance with specified organic standards. In other words, certification creates trust in organic labeling and promotes fair competition in the market place.” The company certifies all agricultural products, aquaculture and animal husbandry. “Compliance to respective national and international standards is the main yardstick we insist on for issuing certification,” says Mr. Sebastian.  He adds, “The certification process includes inspection to verify that production and handling are carried out in accordance with the standards against which certification is to be done; a conversion period is maintained to reduce the chemical effects before attaining the organic status. The scope certificate is issued for a validity of one year.” Benefits of Certification Speaking about the benefits of organic certification, Mr. Sebastian says, “The organic sector is benefitted from certification. They get premium price for products and better national and international market access. It is environment friendly with sustainable and safe food.” Optimistic about the future of organic food, Mr. Sebastian says, “The worldwide statistics according to IFOAM points out 17 to 20 % growth per year versus conventional food of growing 2 to 3 % per year.” Mr. Sebastian suggests more awareness training for government officials and making the public more aware about the advantages of organic farming to create higher awareness of the certification. Group Certification with ICS Smallholder farmers can be certified as a group with their own Internal Control System (ICS), which is a documented quality assurance system that allows the external certification body to delegate the annual inspection of individual group members to an identified body/unit within the certified operator. A group of homogenous farmers, practicing organic agriculture come under one umbrella to form a small holder group, for the reason of getting organic certification, developing ICS for meeting the requirements of certification. The external inspection focuses on evaluation of the efficiency of the ICS and only a representative percentage of farmers must be inspected by the certification body directly, which greatly reduces the costs for certification of a large group of small smallholder farmers (farmers associations/cooperatives or processors with contracted smallholder farmers) may be certified as a group under common marketing of the produce as a group, homogeneity of members in terms of location, production system, and products. The minimum requirements for a group to be certified include written procedures and forms (ICS Manual), Contractual relationships, Internal Organic Standard, Qualified personnel and a clear structure, Training of farmers and ICS staff, Internal inspections covering all the farmers at least twice annually and Documented effective procedures for internal farm inspection, internal approval and dealing with non-compliances. The inspection of a smallholder group focuses on the evaluation of the efficiency of the Internal Control System (ICS). In order to evaluate the internal Control System, a certain percentage of farmers are re-inspected by the inspector of Certification Body. This percentage strongly varies with the risk category of the operator and with the effectiveness of functioning of the ICS. In ICS, there will be a single certificate for all individual production as well as processing and handling activities registered within the group. Individual operators within the group may not use the certification independently. The rationale for an ICS is to bring down the cost of organic certification to smallholders by establishing a group that can do much of the monitoring itself. In future, Indocert wants to acquire various accreditations. Mr. Sebastian is a B.Sc. (Agri) with M.B.A. He has been with Indocert since 2001. “My responsibilities in Indocert have been founding and setting up of Indocert, acquiring national and international accreditations, HRD, inspection and certification of farms, processing units and trade as per Indian NSOP, EU and USDA NOP, scheme manager, GLOBALGAP, and lead auditor for UTZ certified for coffee, tea and cocoa,” says Mr. Sebastian. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr. Mathew Sebastian, Executive Director, INDOCERT Thottumugham P.O, Alwaye-5, Ernakulam Dt. Kerala,683105 India Email : info@indocert.org; sajitha@indocert.org Tel : 0484-2620943, 2630908, 2630 Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > INDOCERT Related – articles, consultants, downloads Ecocert India – certification for Indian processed food products Biocert India – organic certification Aditi Organic Certifications Vedic Organic Certification Agency You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water