Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research Committed for an efficient, globally competitive and vibrant sugarcane agriculture Home AICRP KVK Links Event Calender Contact Us IISR Mail CeRA WWW IISR Website Institute at a glance About Institute Organisation Structure Divisions and Sections Regional Station AICRP KVK RajBhasha Prakoshth Professional Society Cadre Strength Staff Research Framework Documents Research Ongoing Projects Technologies Developed Varieties Released Genotype Developed Collaboration Awards / Honours Patents Services & Facilities Consultancy Training Programmes Analysis / Testing Database Special Equipments Online Examination Hall Workshop Conference Facility Guest House Farmer's Corner Farmer's Electronic Diary Contingency Plans Seed Production Trainings & FLDs Frequently Asked Questions Help Line Media Corner IISR in News Success Stories Video Films Photo Gallery Forthcoming Events Publications Vision 2030 IISR at a Glance Annual Reports News Letter / Ikshu Samachar Bulletins / Leaflets Research / Technical Reports Books & Manuals Download Tender / Quotations Application Forms Database RTI Reports                    Walk-in-Interview for Contractual Field Investigator Tender for PVC pipes and accessories Tender for Work on Job contract Applications invited for various posts (Employment News Adv No 03/2014) Applications invited for various posts (Employment News Adv No 01/2014) & Corrigendum National Training on Sugarcane Management and Development on July 1-15, 2015            Advisory for Pyrilla Management         - Kisan – Vigyan Samagam organised at Modipuram                - Proud Moments for IISR Scientists in International Forum                - Union Minister of Agriculture, Food Processing and Cooperatives visited IISR                - Meet on Jaggery, AICRP Workshop and Jaggery Carnival held at the institute                - IISR Celebrates World Food Day                - Training on INM started                - Sugarcane Mechanisation Day                - IISR on Swatchh Bharat Mission                - IISR signed MoU with Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow                - इक्षु पत्रिका और संस्थान के वैज्ञानिक राष्ट्रीय पुरस्कार से सम्मानित                - ICAR Regional Committee Meeting for Zone-IV held                - Dr Balyan, Union Minister of Agriculture and Food Processing Industries visited institute                - Hands on Soil Analysis Training for Sugar Mill Personnel held                - Dr. S. Ayyappan, DG, ICAR inaugurated CaneDES Expert System and Bio-control Lab                - IISR conducted first online examination                - IISR signed MOU with Bihar Government                - Field training on Quality Jaggery Making at Datia                - International Conclave on Sugar Crops and National SugarFest-2014 organised                - Institute celebrated Silver Jubilee of Motipur Centre                - Dr. S. Solomon, Director, IISR, Lucknow received Award from the President of India                - IISR organised National Conference on Women in Sugarcane Agriculture and Industry                - Scientific Delegation led by DG, BSRI, Bangladesh on visit to IISR                - Hon’ble Minister Mr. Lakshman Senewiratne, Ministry of Sugar Industry Development, Sri Lanka visited IISR                - IISR-Industry Interface on Sugarbeet organized at Mukteswar                - Dr. S. Ayyappan, DG, ICAR and Secretary, DARE visited institute                - Prof. M. S. Swaminathan, MP (Rajya Sabha) and Ex-DG (ICAR) visited institute                - ICAR Sports Meet-2013 inaugurated                - IISR Diamond Jubilee Celebrations & National SugarFest - 2013                - IISR Organized training on Sugarcane Production and Management in Bihar                - Conclave and Kisan-Vigyan Sangam-2012 for UP organised                    Archive Kisan – Vigyan Samagam organised at Modipuram Dr. Sanjeev Kumar Baliyan, Hon’ble Minister of State for Agriculture and Food Processing Industries, Govt. of India highlighted that sugarcane is the backbone of agrarian economy. There is need to enhance the sugar recovery from 8.5 to 10% and this could be achieved by using quality seed of improved varieties. Dr. Baliyan appreciated the efforts of IISR and emphasized on strong coordination and linkage among the ICAR Research Institutes, SAUs and the sugarcane farmers to harness the untapped potential of sugarcane in the State. He was speaking at the inaugural ceremony of “Kisan – Vigyan Samagam” organized by ICAR-Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow at ICAR-Indian Institute of Farming System Research, Modipuram, Meerut. The Samagam was attended by more than 200 farmers, sugar factory representatives and scientists of IISR, Lucknow. Dr. B. Gangwar, Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Farming System Research (IIFSR), Meerut welcomed the guests and highlighted that sugarcane farming is the most remunerative crop in western UP. Dr. H.S. Gaur, Vice Chancellor, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel University of Agriculture and Technology, Meerut expressed his concern over the declining sugar recovery and stressed the need for adoption of improved varieties in the region. Dr. O.K. Sinha, Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research (IISR), Lucknow explained the need organizing Kisan – Vigyan Samagam in western Uttar Pradesh. He also expressed his concern that sugarcane farmers of this area need to be informed about the better varieties. He urged sugar mills to intensify development programme. He also informed about the quality seed production programme of the Institute. He expressed his satisfaction that there is considerable decline in the area under old varieties of sugarcane and increase in area under new and improved varieties. He assured that scientists of the Institute will coordinate with farmers so that potential of improved technologies is realized. Sugar mill representatives from Khatoli, Modinagar, Shamali and Naglamal Sugar Mills also raised their concern over the declining sugar recovery. They appreciated the efforts of IISR, Lucknow to organize the Samagam and called it the need of the hour. They also expressed their concern regarding varietal balance, crop geometry, nutritional profiling of soil and crop rotation. Dr. J.P. Singh, Chief Cane Advisor, National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Mills, New Delhi informed that federation is working constantly for betterment of sugarcane farmers. He also expressed his concern that yield of sugarcane and sugar is going down even after extensive research in the field due to complexities of problems. He stressed on the need for a holistic approach to address these problems and coordination among all the stakeholders of the sugarcane. Dr. T.K. Srivastava, Head, Division of Crop Production proposed vote of thanks. An exhibition of technologies and machineries developed by IISR, Lucknow; ICAR- Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore and other departments was also organized in the Samagam. During the technical session, lectures on sugarcane varieties for western Uttar Pradesh, need of replacement of sugarcane seeds and methods, production and management of quality seed and PPV&FR were delivered by the scientists of IISR. The farmers actively interacted with the sugarcane scientists and discussed their problems in depth. In the question-answer session, sugarcane cultivation related questions were asked to the farmers and winners were awarded by Dr. Sanjeev Kumar Baliyan, Hon’ble Minister of State for Agriculture and Food Processing Industries, Govt. of India.                                                     Vendors Training Seekers Job Applicants Farmers Sugar Industry Home RTI RFD Citizen Charter RajBhasha Prakoshth Sitemap Disclaimer