Travel to Tamilnadu - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Tamil Nadu Travel Tourist Map How to Reach Shopping Hotels in Tamil Nadu Places to Visit in Tamil Nadu Vadapalani Temple Nilgiris Hills Kanyakumari Temples Kodaikanal Lake Sri Meenakshi Temple Brihadisvara Temple Shrine of Subrahmanya Covelong Beach Shore Temple Government Museum in Chennai Vivekananda House Victory War Memorial Temples in Kanyakumari Beaches in Tamil Nadu Temples and Shrine in Tamil Nadu Cities in Tamil Nadu Ooty Travel Kanyakumari Travel Kodaikanal Travel Madurai Travel Thiruvarur Travel Tiruvannamalai Travel Vellore Travel Yercaud Travel Coonoor Travel Tamil Nadu Hotels Madurai Hotels Ooty Hotels Rameswaram Hotels Chennai Hotels Kodaikanal Hotels Yercaud Hotels Coonoor Hotels About Tamil Nadu History of Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Festivals Tamil Nadu Food Tamil Nadu Facts Home » Maps » Tamilnadu » Travel to Tamilnadu Travel to Tamilnadu Tamilnadu Travel Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map Showing Tourist/Travel Locations in Tamilnadu. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Tamilnadu Temples and Shrines Map Tamil Nadu Wildlife Map Tamil Nadu Beaches Map Tamilnadu Forest Map Tamil Nadu Tourism The state of Tamil Nadu lies along the coasts of the Bay of Bengal. Once the cradle of a rich ancient civilization, the state today paves successfully the way to progress. The glorious history of the land spans vividly over more than 2000 years which has witnessed the rise and fall of many dynasties, namely: Cheras, Cholas, Pallavas and Pandyan. Each period has enriched the land with their customs and creations and left a rich legacy on the culture and heritage of the state. Tamil Nadu has of late started drawing attention of the global tourists. Travel to Tamil Nadu to see how a rich ancient past continues to shape a dynamic present. Lots of people travel to Tamil Nadu to see the crumbling old temples where myths and legends come live in etched stones. Travel to Tamilnadu to see how master craftsmen chiseled created sheer music out of solid rocks in Mahabalipuram and Kanchipuram. Demographics Latitude Between North Latitude Between 8 5' and 13 35' Longitude Between East Longitude Between 76 15' and 80 20' Area 130058Sqkms Climate Summer - Hot Winter - Cold Max Temperature 42.8°C Min Temperature 4.6°C Average Annual Rainfall 100cms Capital Chennai Population 62405679 Languages Hindi, English Religion Hinduism, Christianity, Islam and others Best Time to Visit October to March Clothing Summer - light cotton Winter - woolens Temples in Tamil Nadu The glorious history of Tamil Nadu Temples & Shrines manifests the architectural brilliance of the bygone centuries. Exotic creative skills of the Cholas, Pallavas, Pandyas and the Nayakas have left their imprints in the numerous Temple structures that don the holy land of Tamil Nadu. From Lord Venkatesha, Vinayaka and Shiva to Murugan and Vishnu, the Temples of the place are enshrined with the marvelous idols of various Gods and goddesses. From the prehistoric ages to the recent 20th century, Tamil Nadu showcases both period and contemporary style of Temple architecture. Inspired by the art, culture and mythic sagas of the ancient rulers, the Temples & Shrines present an awe-inspiring series of ancient extravaganza of Tamil Nadu. Characterized by a common tower, also known by the name of gopurams, the Temples of Tamil Nadu dates back even to 700 AD. Primarily built with the raw materials of brick and mortar, these sacred places of worship are revered worldwide for their majestic pillar structures, spacious prakarams and embellished entrances. More Detail... Tamil Nadu Beaches Tamil Nadu beaches are one of the principal tourist attractions in the state and all of them make Tamil Nadu a favorite tourist destination in India. The state sports some of the best beaches in South India that have a charm of their own. All these are ideal destinations for sun bathing, relaxation, and water sports activities. Located at a distance of forty kilometers from Chennai, Covelong serves as the perfect holiday destination for those who wants to enjoy their leisure time in perfect solitude. The beach of Covelong is lined with tall palm and coconut trees that add to the beauty of the place. The place offers an excellent opportunity for the water sports and one can experiment his or her sporting skills amidst the beautiful surrounding of the place. More Detail... Wildlife Sanctuaries & National Parks Tamil Nadu, the cultural hot seat of South India has added another feather in its cap owing to its diverse natural heritage. Tamil Nadu Wildlife Tours are thus quite naturally a rage among the tourists. Tamil Nadu is marked by a varied topography. The state encompasses an area of 1,30,058 sq km land area, out of which 17.6% is covered with forests. The lush terrains comprise of fertile low-lying plains, lofty mountains and the Western Ghats. A delightful blend of dry and wet deciduous forests, wet evergreen forests, sholas, grasslands and thorny scrubs and mangroves make up the state's natural vegetation. More Detail... Hotels in Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu is home to both star and non star category hotels that cater to the needs of the tourists visiting the state. Besides it has resorts, restaurants and cafes which cater to the needs of all segments of travelers.One of the 28 states in India, Tamil Nadu is located in the south of the Peninsular India. The state is surrounded by the states of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Pondicherry. In the north it is bordered by the Eastern Ghats while in the south east, it is surrounded by the Gulf of Mannar, the Palk Strait. The Nilgiri, Palakkad and the the Anamalai Hills covers Tamil Nadu on the west, Indian Ocean in the south and Bay of Bengal in the east. Chennai serves as both the capital city as well the largest city of Tamil Nadu. More Detail... How to Reach Tamil Nadu The state of Tamil Nadu offers an enchanting combination of temples, monuments, beaches, hill stations and wild life. The intricately carved temples and monuments sport the architectural splendor of the Indian civilization. Tranquil hill stations and picturesque beaches promise you an ideal holiday. As a sum total, the lure of Tamil Nadu is hard to ignore. 'How to Reach Tamil Nadu' helps you access this beautiful state of south India. By Air Tamil Nadu has an International Airport near Chennai, which serves as the most convenient entry point for Tamil Nadu. International airlines from countries like Sri Lanka, Dubai, Germany, Jakarta, Malaysia, England, Maldives, Saudi Arabia, and Singapore operate regular flights to connect Chennai. You can also approach Chennai from any part of the country by most public and private airlines in India. By Train The main Railway Station in Tamil Nadu is in Chennai. Many important trains connect Chennai to other major Railway Stations in the country. By Road An extensive network of roadways covers Tamil Nadu. A number of national highways and state highways crisscross the land. The major cities like Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, and Bangalore are linked by road to Chennai and other important cities in the state. Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses run throughout the state and connect it to the neighbouring cities and states. Shopping in Tamil Nadu Shopping in Tamil Nadu is a truly delightful experience. The region boasts of an exceptionally rich heritage of arts and crafts. One of the most popular items for shopping in Tamil Nadu is its silk fabric. Thanjavur, Coimbatore and Kanchipuram have earned worldwide fame for the silks whereas in Mahabalipuram you can buy the stone sculptures. Another renowned item for shopping in Tamilnadu is musical instruments, which are used in Indian classical music. At the same time the bronze and brass cast statues and artifacts would leave you spoilt for choice. Places to Visit in Tamil Nadu Vedaranyam Kodikkarai Thirunallar Mundanthurai-Kalakad wildlife sanctuary District Science Centre Koonthankulam Bird Sanctuary Courtallam Swamy Nellaiappar-Kanthimathi Ambal Temple Rock Fort Srirangam Thiruvanaikkaval Or Jambukeswarar Temple Vaigai Dam Mavoothu Vellappar Temple Devadanapatti Thanjavur Sri Brihadeswara temple Sri Bragadhambal Temple Thanjavur Churches Meenakshi Sundaresvara Temple Last Updated on : November 14, 2014 Hotels in Tamilnadu Chengalpattu Hotels Chennai Hotels Chidambaram Hotels Coimbatore Hotels Coonoor Hotels Erode Hotels Hosur Hotels Kanchipuram Hotels Kanyakumari Hotels Karur Hotels Kodaikanal Hotels Kumbakonam Hotels Madurai Hotels Mahabalipuram Hotels Mayiladuthurai Hotels Mettupalayam Hotels Nagapattinam Hotels Namakkal Hotels Ooty Hotels Palani Hotels Rajapalayam Hotels Rameswaram Hotels Salem Hotels Sivakasi Hotels Tanjore Hotels Thanjavur Hotels Thoothukudi Hotels Tiruchirapalli Hotels Tirunelveli Hotels Tirupur Hotels Tiruvannamalai Hotels Vellore Hotels Villupuram Hotels Yercaud Hotels Travel to Tamil Nadu Travel to Chennai Travel to Chettinad Travel to Coimbatore Travel to Chidambaram Travel to Courtallam Travel to Coonoor Travel to Kanchipuram Travel to Kanyakumari Travel to Kodaikanal Travel to Krishnagiri Travel to Madurai Travel to Mahabalipuram Travel to Nagapattinam Travel to Namakkal Travel to Ooty Travel to Poompuhar Travel to pudukkottai Travel to Salem Travel to Sivagangai Travel to Theni Travel to Thirurvarur Travel to Thoothukudi Travel to Tirunelveli Travel to Tanjore Travel to Tiruchirappalli Travel to Tiruvannamalai Travel to Velankanni Travel to Vellore Travel to Virudhunagar Travel to Yercaud Places to Visit in Tamil Nadu Places to visit in Chennai Places to visit in Chettinad Places to visit in Coimbatore Places to visit in Kanchipuram Places to visit in Kanyakumari Places to visit in Kodaikanal Places to visit in Madurai Places to visit in Ooty Places to visit in Mahabalipuram Places to visit in Thanjavur Places to visit in Tiruchirappali Flights to Tamil Nadu Flights to Chennai Flights to Coimbatore Flights to Madurai Flights to Tiruchirapalli Flights to Tuticorin About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule