The powers and duties of its officers and employees The powers and duties of its officers and employees. [in pursuance of section 4(1)(b)(ii) of The Right to Information Act, 2005] Each Officer and employee in the Department has been assigned specific tasks which he is duty bound to perform in a fair and objective manner and in accordance with relevant rules, regulations, policy guidelines and established practices. The exercise of powers by each functionary is determined by the nature and importance of the issue under consideration and in accordance with the levels prescribed for disposal of cases of different nature. The channel of submission of cases and the levels at which these are finally disposed off have been indicated in the manual “the procedure followed in the decision making process, including Channels of Supervision and accountability” under Section 4(1)(b)(iii). 2. However, the following functionaries in the Department have been specifically conferred certain administrative, executive and statutory powers as per details indicated below: 1. ADMINISTRATION DIVISION (a) Director/Deputy Secretary(General Administration) has been declared as Head of the Department under Rule 3(f) of the Delegation of Financial Power Rules, 1978 as amended and he exercises such powers as are specified in the (i) Schedule V under Rule 13 of the said Rules ; and (ii) Fundamental and Supplementary Rules. (b) Under Secretary(Cash & Welfare) and Under Secretary(General Administration) have been declared as Heads of Office under Rule 14 of the Delegation of Financial Power Rules, 1978 as amended and they exercise the power to approve contingent and miscellaneous expenditures to the extent specified in schedule V under Rule 13 of the Delegation of Financial Power Rules, 1978. (c) Under Secretary(Cash & Welfare) has been empowered to perform duties and functions as Controlling Officer for the purpose of House Building Advance Rules, long term advances under General Financial Rules, Travelling Allowance and Daily Allowance Rules, (Fundamental Rules & Supplementary Rules, Part II), Foreign Deputation Daily Allowance (Fundamental Rules and Supplementary Rules (Part I), Leave Travel Concession Rules, General Provident Fund Rules, All India Services (Provident Fund) Rules, Medical Attendance Rules and Central Government Health Scheme. 2. INTEGRATED NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT DIVISION Joint Secretary Incharge of INM Division has been declared as ‘Controller of Fertilizers’ under the Fertilizer(Control) Order, 1985 and he exercises such statutory powers as are conferred on the Controller under the said Order. 3. COOPERATION DIVISION (a) Joint Secretary incharge of Cooperation Division has been appointed as the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies under the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act, 2002. In this capacity he exercises such powers and performs such functions as are stipulated in the said Act and the Rules, namely, the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Rules, 2002, framed thereunder. (b) Additional Secretary Incharge of Cooperation Division in the Department exercises powers to decide appeals as ‘Appellate Authority’, against the orders/decisions of “Central Registrar”, as conferred on him under the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Rules, 2002. 4. SEEDS DIVISION Joint Secretary Incharge of Seeds Division in the Department has been notified as “Controller of Seeds” for whole of India under the Seeds (Control Order), 1983 and exercises such statutory powers and performs such statutory functions as have been conferred on him under the said Order. 5. PLANT PROTECTION DIVISION Joint Secretary Incharge of Plant Protection Division in the Department has been conferred powers to decide appeals against the orders of Registration of pesticides of Registration Committee under the Insecticides Act, 1968, and the Insecticides Rules, 1971. He has also been conferred powers to grant relaxation under Rule 14 of the Plant Quarantine Order, 2003 for import of plants and planting material into India. 6. INTEGRATED FINANCE DIVISION Financial Adviser of the Department who acts as representative of Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure) in the Department exercises such financial and administrative powers as have been specifically delegated to him by that Department. Director (Finance) in the Division exercises such financial powers as have been delegated to him by the Financial Adviser of the Department. * * * * * * *