MARKETING  INFRASTRUCTURE MARKETING  INFRASTRUCTURE  &  AGRICULTURAL   MARKETING  REFORMS                                                                                         Report of Task Force on Agricultural Marketing Reforms   1.1 Introduction     2.1 Expert Committee on Agricultural Marketing   3.1 Inter-Ministerial Task Force on Marketing Reforms   4.1 Legal Reforms   5.1 Pledge Financing & Marketing Credit   6.1 Negotiable Warehousing Receipt System   7.1 Forward and Futures Markets   8.1   Price Support Policy   9.1   Information Technology in Agricultural Marketing   10.1 Marketing Extension, Training and Research   11.1 Market Infrastructure Development   12.1   Implementation Plan       ANNEXURES   I Constitution of the Task Force   II List of Groups Constituted by Inter-Ministerial Task Force   III I ncidence of Market Charges and Taxation in different States   IV Control Orders issued by various State Governments   V List of Essential Commodities existing in EC Act, 1995 . Report of Task Force On Agricultural Marketing Reforms   1.1      Introduction: The agricultural produce sector has been one of the most important components of Indian economy. Considerable progress has since been achieved in scaling new heights in the production of foodgrains, commercial crops like cotton, sugarcane, tea etc., fruits, vegetables and milk. The increasing trend of agricultural production has brought, in its wake, new challenges in terms of finding market for the marketed surplus. There is also pressure from all segments of agricultural economy to respond to the challenges and opportunities that the global markets offer in the liberalized trade regime. To benefit the farming community from the new global market access opportunities, the internal agricultural marketing system in the country also needs to be integrated and strengthened.   In particular the market system has to be revitalized to a) provide incentives to farmer to produce more; b) convey the changing needs of the consumers to the producers to enable production planning; c) foster true competition among the market players and d) to enhance the share of farmers in the ultimate price of his agricultural produce.   2.1     Expert Committee on Agricultural Marketing : In this context, Government of India in the Ministry of Agriculture appointed an Expert Committee on 19 th December, 2000 to review the present system of agricultural marketing in the country and to recommend measures to make the system more efficient and competitive. The Committee in its Report dated 29 th June 2001, has suggested various legislative reforms as well as the reorientation of the policies and programs for development and strengthening of agricultural marketing in the country.   2.2              Important recommendations made in the Report are as follows:   (a)               An alternative marketing systems need to be developed in the country to promote direct marketing, smooth raw material supplies to agro–processing industries, competitive trading, organized retailing, information exchange and adoption of innovative marketing systems and technologies;   (b)         Credit flow to agricultural sector need to be substantially stepped up to meet increasing demand for capital expenditure for developing marketing infrastructure and for pledge finance. Pledge financing enables the farmers to take advantage of favorable prices and improve their net margin;   (c)          A system of negotiable warehouse receipt also need to be introduced in the country for agricultural commodities to improve credit delivery, better loan recovery and convenience in commodity management; )         ‘Forward’ and ‘Futures’ contracts need to be regarded as direct and alternative marketing facilitators and be promoted for their price risk management and price discovery roles;   (e)          Information Technology needs to be extensively promoted in agricultural marketing to generate useful databases and information packages for expanding marketing opportunities, especially for online information   on demand and availability of different products; product specifications with regard to price, quality, pack size, packaging material, quantity and the time frame of supply;   (f)           ‘Extension and training services need to focus on assisting small and marginal farmers in i ) marketing of their produce, ii) advise on production planning; iii) market information; iv) alternate marketing channels; v) improved marketing practices including grading and packing; and vi) advantages of group marketing. The State Agriculture Universities and the Regional & Other Centers of ICAR should be given a mandate for applied research in agricultural marketing and related areas.   3.1      Inter-Ministerial Task Force On Marketing Reforms :   With a view to examine the findings and recommendations of the Expert Committee and to suggest measures to implement them, the Ministry of Agriculture constituted a Task Force on 4.7.2001 under the chairmanship of Sri RCA Jain, Additional Secretary in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation (Annexure I). Under its aegis, two national seminars were organized on the subject with the leaders of industries and trade in collaboration with FICCI at New Delhi on 3.9.2001 and with the representatives of State governments and Union territories and experts at Jaipur on 18 th January, 2002 .   The Task Force thereupon identified nine priority areas to work out a road map for strengthening the agricultural marketing system in the country.   The areas identified are a) Legal reforms; b) Direct marketing; c) Market infrastructure; d) Pledge financing; e) Warehousing receipt system; f) Forward and futures markets; g) Price support policy; h) IT in agricultural marketing and i ) Marketing extension, Training and Research.   Each of these identified areas was examined in detail by separate Groups of senior officials from the concerned Ministries/ organizations (Annexure II) who recommended the following measures for strengthening agricultural marketing system in the country.     4.1     Legal Reforms :       At present, though agriculture production is largely free from controls, the same is not true of marketing and processing of agricultural commodities. The State Governments alone are empowered to initiate the process of setting up of markets for agricultural commodities in notified areas.   Processing industries cannot buy directly from farmers, except through notified markets.   Processed foods derived from agricultural commodities suffer from multiple taxes at various stages starting from the harvest till the sale of final processed products. There are stringent controls on the storage and movement of several agricultural commodities.   In the present situation these restrictions are acting a disincentive to farmers, trade and industries. Legal reforms can play an important role in making the present marketing system more effective and efficient by removing unnecessary restrictions and by establishing a sound framework to reduce uncertainty of the markets. The State Agricultural Produce Marketing Regulations Act (APMC Act) and the Essential Commodities Act (EC Act) are the two important legislations that have to be amended to remove restrictive provisions coming in the way of an efficient and competitive marketing system. Alongside, there is a need to introduce through appropriate legal change, a ‘negotiable warehousing receipt system’ in the country for agricultural commodities to enhance institutional lending to the agricultural marketing sector and to improve price-risk management.     4.2     The APMC Acts need to be amended by the State Governments to specifically provide for the following:   4.2.1 Promotion of Agricultural Markets’ in private/cooperative sector :     Under the present Acts, State Governments alone are empowered to initiate the process of setting up of regulated agricultural markets. As a result private sector cannot take initiative in setting up markets equipped with best facilities. High investments with entrepreneurial skills required for creation and managing the market infrastructures have to come from private sector. In order to encourage private sector to make massive investments required for development of alternative marketing infrastructure and supporting services, provisions of the APMC Act would need modification to create a lawful role for the private sector in market development. Government’s role should be that of a facilitator rather than that of having control over the management of markets.              The Govt. of Karnataka has taken initiative in this direction and inserted a new Chapter (Chapter XIII A) in the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1966, to provide for the establishment of an ‘Integrated Produce Market’ to be owned and managed by NDDB for marketing of fruits, vegetables and flowers in that State. Other States also need to amend respective APMC Acts on similar lines to permit any organization or corporate body to establish integrated facility for marketing of agricultural produce. For the services so provided the owner/ operator of the market should be enabled to collect service charges from the users. To attract promoting agencies to take up these market infrastructure projects, the Central/State Governments additionally need to extend support in the following areas:-   i)                    Deregulation of areas where new markets will be set up, along with forward and backward linkages from the purview of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Act. ii)                  Allocation of suitable and sufficient land with necessary approvals to set up agricultural produce markets; iii)                Provision of village land for Farmers Associations and Collection centers; iv)                Fast approval for services like electricity, water, sewage, telephones etc.; v)                  Long term credit for initial capital investment, and vi)                Declaration of the project as an infrastructure project within the meaning of Section 10(23G) of the Income-tax Act   4.2.2   Direct Marketing :     Direct marketing encourages farmers to undertake grading of farm produce at the farm gate and obviates the necessity to haul produce to regulated markets for sale.   Direct marketing enables farmers and processors and other bulk buyers to economize on transportation costs and to considerably improve price realization.   In South Korea, for instance, as a consequence of expansion of direct marketing of agricultural products, consumer prices declined by 20 to 30 percent and producer-received prices rose by 10 to 20 percent. This also provided incentive to largescale marketing companies to increase their purchases directly from producing areas.   Direct marketing by farmers to the consumers has been experimented in the country through Apni Mandis in Punjab and Haryana.   The concept, with certain improvements has been popularized in Andhra Pradesh through Rythu Bazars and in Tamil Nadu as Uzhavar Santhaigal .   At present, these markets are being run at the expense of the State exchequer, as a promotional measure, to encourage marketing by small and marginal producers of fruit and vegetables without the help of the middlemen.   Considering the vastness of the country, more and more such markets need to come up in the organized sector so that they can be developed in tune with the backward & forward linkages. The APMC Acts will also have to be amended to permit private and cooperative sectors to take up direct marketing of agricultural commodities from the producing areas and the farmers’ fields, without the necessity of going through licensed traders and regulated markets. Such a reform will spur private initiative in building consumer oriented market infrastructure in the country.   4.2.3   Contract Farming :    Contract farming arrangements of different types have existed in various parts of the country for centuries for both subsistence and commercial crops.   The commercial crops like sugarcane, cotton, tea, coffee etc. Have always involved some forms of contract farming.   Even in the case of some fruit crops and fisheries, contract farming arrangements, involving mainly the forward trading of commodities have been observed.   However, in the wake of economic liberalization, the concept of contract farming in which national or multinational companies enter into contracts for marketing of the horticultural produce and also provide technologies and capital to contract farmers has gained importance.   According to this, bipartie agreements are made between the farmer and the company and the latter contributes directly to the management of the farm through input supply as well as technical guidance and also markets the produce.   The main features of this type of contract farming are that selected crops are grown by farmers under a buy back agreement with an agency engaged in trading or processing.   In such cases, the centralized processing and marketing agencies supply technology and resources, including planting materials and occasional crop supervision.   Under such contracts, the farmer assumes the production related risks, which the price risk is transferred to the company.   In some cases, the company also bears the production risk, depending on the stage of crop growth at which the contract is made.   If the contract is made at flowering or fruiting stage, the company bears the production risks also.   In any case, the company bears the entire costs of transaction and marketing.   It is this variant of contract farming which is said to be one of the ways by which small farmers can participate in the production of high value crops like fruits, vegetables, flowers etc. and benefit from market led growth.             Small farmers in India are generally capital starved and cannot make major investment in land improvement and modern inputs. Contract farming can fill up this gap by providing the farmers with quality inputs, technical guidance and management skills.   Although the company deals only with the contract crop, the farmers' overall management skill may improve, thereby helping him to raise the yields of both contract and non-contract crops.   From the standpoint of corporate bodies, farming reduces the supply risk, while the farmers enter into contractual arrangements with companies in order to minimize price risks.   The company and the farmers enter into contracts to supply or purchase a specified quantum of the commodity at agreed prices.   The agreed contract may be either formal or informal and may cover supply of inputs and marketing of output.   By entering into contract, the company reduces the risk of non-availability of raw material and the farmer reduces the risk of market demand and prices of his produce.   The inputs and services supplied by firms may include seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, credit, farm machinery, technical advice, extension etc., or may involve only the supply of hybrid seeds and marketing of produce.   Contract farming is becoming an increasingly important aspect of agribusiness, whether products are purchased by multinationals or by smaller companies.   There are few success stories on contract farming such as   Pepsico India in respect of potato, tomato, groundnut and chili in Punjab, Safflower in Madhya Pradesh, oil palm in Andhra Pradesh, seed production contracts for hybrids seed companies etc. which helped the growers in realization of better returns for their produce.   Other success stories of contract farming are Amul and NDDB for milk procurement, sugarcane cooperative in Maharashtra, and prawn- acqua culture in Andhra Pradesh. In our country this approach has considerable potential where small and marginal farmers can no longer be competitive without access to modern technologies and support. The contractual agreement with the farmer provides access to production services and credit as well as knowledge of new technology.   Pricing arrangements can significantly reduce the risk and uncertainty of market place.                In view of several observed and perceived benefits of contract farming, such arrangements need to be encouraged widely, for different commodities in different regions.   The limited commodity specific experience of contract farming in the country shows that the spread and success of contract farming would require the following conditions to be met.   a)                  The contract farming should be made legal.   In case of violation of contract, from either side, farmers as well as the company should be in a position to approach an organization or institution, which can mediate and settle the dispute.   b)                  There should be an institutional arrangement to record all contractual arrangements, may be with the local market committee or panchayat or some Government machinery.   This will promote and strengthen confidence building between the parties and also help solve any dispute, arising out of violation of contract.   c)                   The contract farming should have a provision for both forward and backward linkages.   Unless both input supply and market for the produce are assured, small farmers will not be in a position to participate in contract farming.   d)                  There should be bank finance to small and marginal farmers on easy terms.   As the payment for contractual produce are made through the bank, the recovery of such loans will be easier.   e)                  The contracts should be managed in a more transparent and participatory manner so that there is greater social consensus in handling contract violation from either side without getting involved in costly as well as lengthy process of litigation.   Also the contract need to be drawn in a more comprehensive and flexible manner.   f)                    There should be a contract farmers association or cooperatives at the plant level which will improve their bargaining power vis a vis the company and promote equality of partnership for ensuring smooth functioning of any contract farming arrangement.   In fact, contract farming may be more beneficial to the farmers if there is farmers' association or cooperative which can even replace the role of middlemen or commission agents who are involved in marketing of the contract commodities on behalf of the company.   The company representatives may also be a member of the executive committee of such cooperatives.   In fact, cooperative or joint farming arrangement of small farmers should be encouraged to enable them to reap the advantages of both economies of scale as well as of contract farming.   g)                  The most important thing for the sustainability of contract farming is the selection of appropriate plant genotype.   Unless the plant material is of good quality and high yielding and less prone to pests and diseases, the contract farmers may lose confidence and discontinue the cultivation of contract crop in question.   h)                  The proposed contract crop should have a distinct advantage in terms of relative yield and profit, which will provide higher income to the contract farmers on stable basis.   i)                    In many parts of the country, agricultural tenancy is legally banned, although concealed tenancy exists.   Tenants who do not enjoy security of tenure cannot participate in contract farming.   Hence, legalization of tenancy would be a precondition for enabling the tenant farmers to benefit from contract farming.   Although different forms of land tenants including share-croppers can be adopted to maintain the contract farming, security of tenure would be necessary.   j)                    As assured market for the farm produce motivates a farmer to enter into contract with a company, a similar market prospect should exist for the processed products of the company.   Ultimately, it is the success of the company's product in national and or international market, which decides whether contract farming for any particular crop or commodity would sustain.  