Central Agricultural University(CAU) | Department of Agricultural Research and Education Skip to main content Department of Agricultural Research and Education Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India Search form Search Home About us From Secretary's Desk RTI Tenders Contact Us English हिन्दी What's New Agriculture Minister Addresses G-20 Agriculture Ministers Meet Crop Residues Management Unit Inaugurated at IIVR, Varanasi Annual Group Meeting of AICRP - National Seed Project (Crops) DG, ICAR Inaugurates Meat Processing Unit of ICAR-NRC on Meat, Hyderabad Union Minster for Agriculture Appriciated ICAR-NBAIR Admin Setup Telephone Directory RFD Parliament Questions Lok Sabha Rajya Sabha Publications Annual Reports Circulars Events Public Grivances DARE Organizations ICAR Central Agricultural University Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University Agrinnovate India International Cooperation Bilateral Multilateral CGIAR Important links Citizen's / Client's Charter Interact with Hon’ble PM What's New Central Agricultural University(CAU) The Central Agricultural University(CAU) was established under Department of Agricultural Research and Education(DARE) on 26th January, 1993 by an Act of Parliament the Central Agricultural University Act, 1992 (No.40 of 1992) with its headquarters at Imphal, Manipur. The university has unique features of having jurisdiction over six States of North-Eastern Hilly Region (NEH) of India namely, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Sikkim and Tripura. Like other Agricultural Universities of India, the CAU also has integrated programmes of teaching, research and extension education. As per mandate, the CAU is offering seven U.G. Programmes in Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering, Fisheries, Home Science, Horticulture , Forestry, Veterinary Sciences & Animal Husbandry and Food Process Engineering. The University offers 25 Post Graduate Degree Programmes in different subjects. For smooth functioning of various programmes, the University has established seven constituent colleges in different parts of NEH Region. The University maintains common academic calendar for all courses except Bachelors in Veterinary Sciences & Animal Husbandry (B.V.Sc. & A.H.) which is governed by the minimum standards for Veterinary Education. CAU is a fully residential University. For more information, please visit CAU Website www.cau.org.in Home | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Linking Policy Copyright © 2012 Department of Agricultural Research And Education Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India New Delhi-110 001. INDIA Site hosted by NIC Developed and Maintained by vivekdubey [at] gmail [dot] com (Vivek Dubey) Content updation by mitaligr [at] icar [dot] org [dot] in (Mitali Ghosh Roy) , DKMA , ICAR