The System of Rice Intensification        SRI International Network and Resources Center   Home About Us Projects SRI News Events Latest Additions Contact Us About SRI Methodology FAQs Origin of SRI Other Crops Countries and Regions Asia | Africa | Americas Information Resources SRI Websites / Groups Research Practical Information Other Publications Photo Gallery Videos Presentations Marketing Past Conferences Spanish documents • SRI-Rice Brochure • Features from SRI-Rice Basic SRI methods include: Carefully transplant single seedlings at two-leaf stage (8-12 days) Plant seedlings at a distance of 25 cm or more in a square pattern Keep soil moist and aerated. Fertilize with compost - add chemical fertilizer only if needed Welcome to SRI-Rice Online ! SRI-Rice ONLINE and its associated social networking sites are maintained by the SRI International Network and Resources Center ( SRI-Rice ) at Cornell University. SRI-Rice ONLINE contains the most comprehensive collection of information on the System of Rice Intensification globally. What is SRI? The System of Rice Intensification , known as SRI -- le Système de Riziculture Intensive in French and la Sistema Intensivo de Cultivo Arrocero (SICA) in Spanish -- is an agro-ecological methodology for increasing the productivity of irrigated rice by changing the management of plants, soil, water and nutrients. SRI originated in Madagascar in the 1980s and is based on the cropping principles of significantly reducing plant population, improving soil conditions and irrigation methods for root and plant development, and improving plant establishment methods. [ more... ] Benefits of SRI The benefits of SRI have been demonstrated in over 50 countries ( see map ). They include: 20%-100% or more increased yields, up to a 90% reduction in required seed, and up to 50% water savings. SRI principles and practices have been adapted for rainfed rice as well as for other crops (such as wheat , sugarcane and teff , among others), with yield increases and associated economic benefits. SRI is ... Climate- Smart Rice Production SRI and Its Impact on Women SRI Research Review: (1993-2013)                   Translate this page: Tweets by @SRIRice NEWS | April - May 2015 • SRI NEWSLETTER • New resources • Monthly website additions • SRI-Rice Center news Madagascar: 4 million tons of rice expected be harvested in 2015 - May 6, Indian Ocean Times (Madagascar) Savanna Agric Institute to enhance rice production - April 28, GhanaWeb (Ghana) Game-changing rice production methodology awarded Olam Prize for Innovation in Food Security. - March 17, Olam International (Singapore) See also recent SRI videos The SRI International Network and Resources Center (SRI-Rice) is supported by the Ohrstrom Foundation, the Bridging Peace Fund, Marguerite and Norman Uphoff, and Jim Carrey's Better U Foundation   Contact Us   | SRI-Rice is associated with the International Programs - CALS at Cornell University   | ©2015