ISUPS 2015 Home Committees Session Registration Call for Abstract Sponsors Contact Us The focus on a few widely used species has helped to sustain the explosion in human population over the last twenty five decades. But it has narrowed down dramatically the number of species upon which global food security and general economic agricultural pursues depend. With over half ofhumanity's calorific and protein needs being met by three crops viz., maize, wheat and rice, humankindfaces a highly vulnerable situation and an urgent action to promote crop diversification is needed. In this rd th th context, the 3rd ISUPS is scheduled to be held from 5th - 8th August, 2015 at AC & RI, Madurai as a mark of itsGolden Jubilee celebrations under the auspices of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) in collaboration with International Society for Horticultural Science (ISHS), Belgium, to explore and conserve the underutilized plant species. There is an increasing endorsement at national and international level on the important role played by sustainable farming systems and human well-being of less-used crops and species. Such attention stems out from the developments over the last decade that have contributed to change the perception of people regarding the importance of such species and raised the issue on how best to pursue the promotion of underutilized species. Besides, it is recognized that most underutilized crops are of local or regional importance and therefore it is most appropriate to foster partnerships at this level. Several mechanisms exist to ensure that lessons learned in one region can also benefit others. Strengthening of the links among international stakeholders with researchers, extension specialists and farmers involved in the promotion of underutilized species, is indeed strategic to allow the best use of existing capacities and promote synergism across regions. The organizing committee extends a warm welcome to Madurai, which is situated in the Southern Western Ghats region of India which has better connectivity from all parts of India and the world and known for its hospitality. The participants will have an opportunity to see indigenous and underutilized plant species in India during the one-day technical visit to Horticultural College and Research Institute, Periyakulam. Optional post symposium technical visits will also be arranged to Rameshwaram, Kanyakumari and Kodaikanal. DOWNLOAD BROCHURE IMPORTANT DATES 30th May 2015 Abstract submission deadline 15th June 2015 Authors informed of acceptance of Abstracts 10th July 2015 Deadline for submission of full Papers Keep me inform Please let us know if you want to receive all the latest news and symposium information by Email: isups2015@gmail.com Contact Us Feel free to contact Us for any details Mobile: +91 94870 20262 Tel: +91 452 2422 956 Fax: +91 452 2422785 Accomodation you can Book your rooms here Hotel Annamalai International Hotel Fortune Pandiyan Sangam Hotels Hotel Metropole JC Residency Hotel Annapoorna Oganized by TNAU ICAR ISHS Our Sponsors Bioversity International FAO Website Designed By Pixel Designs