Saravana Kumar talks on solar system solution - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Saravana Kumar talks on solar system solution Home Saravana Kumar talks on solar system solution Coimbatore based solar system solution providers Saravana Kumar Green Current Solar Energy Systems was established in 2012 with the aim of offering sustainable solar energy systems to the Indian market. Solar machines like charge controller, UTP connectors, solar inverters, solar power condition units, and solar energizers are the main products manufactured at the company. Also it offers solar fencing solutions for precisely three kinds of protection, like intruder protection, live stock protection, and protection against wild animals with or without the alarm units. It can be installed at ground level as well as over the wall. Solar water pumping solution is yet another feature of the company. This system consists of the solar panel which is connected to the pump converter that can be directly used to run the pump and solar without heavy requirement of complicated electronics like batteries or inverter. Mr. Saravana Kumar, CEO provides information on different aspects of solar solutions. The benefits offered by Government on solar projects under the Jawaharlal Nehru national solar mission scheme by the Government of India through the Ministry for New and Renewable Energy MNRE are: a) 30% subsidy for residential solar power plants for a maximum capacity up to 1 Kwp b) 30% subsidy for commercial solar power plants for a maximum capacity up to 100 Kwp c) 30% subsidy for agricultural solar power plants pumping for a maximum capacity up to 5HP The solar based solutions have no maintenance cost as solar panel does not have any movable components. It helps in reducing the power cost because by using solar energy there shall be saving of electrical usage. It facilitates in availing 80% accelerated depreciation in the first year itself. In future, the company plans to manufacture the solar BoM at affordable cost using the technical expertise in compliance with its vision to offer sustainable solutions for a greener India. Excerpts: What is the cost of the installation? The cost always depends upon the specific user requirement. The solutions offered are in three categories like solar power, solar water pumping , solar fencing and also solar street lights and the costs associate with whatever is the user’s requirement. What is the minimum area needed for installing solar fencing? Any periphery can be solar fenced, though the cost differs with respect to the area to be fenced. Are solar products certified? Give some details on the certification of solar fencing. Each product sourced is from MNRE approved and certified companies and solar fencing is not a product but a solution, which we design as per the requirements laid out by the Governing bodies. What about the wear and tear in the harsh environment? If it is external wear and tear, then there is need to design the mounting structures to withstand the wear and tear. Even during the rainy season there will be a reduced performance by the panels. How can solar based solutions be helpful in winters and monsoon season? When designed appropriately keeping in mind about winters and monsoon days, solar solutions can be tailor-made to perform effectively during all seasons. The success of the solar panel will purely depend on the design because the design is going to be implemented as the final solution. Solar panels are designed to perform even under the temperature categories of 25 degrees centigrade. Whether it is monsoon or rainy season does not matter if the location has ambiance light. How effective is solar fencing in night? How will be the farmer alerted in case of some problem at the farm from animals or in the fencing system? Solar fence whether operated day or night runs on battery, where the battery gets charged by the solar panel. In case of 24 hrs fence operation, battery and solar panel are appropriately sized. An audio/visual/audio-visual alarm unit accompanies the system for any intruder detection. Which batteries are used for solar application? There are two kinds of batteries which are available one is basically C20 rated batteries which are nothing but the UPS batteries and the other kind is specifically designed for solar application which are C10 solar batteries. How much is the life of the battery? The life of the battery depends upon the amount of current that goes inside the battery and the amount of current which is coming out of the battery. When the system is designed perfectly the battery life can be expected at least to a minimum of 10-15 years and the C10 batteries normally have the replaceable warranty of 5 years. If solar fencing is installed for protection from livestock and wildlife, what happens to the animals? The purpose of solar fence is to offer a momentary shock to the intruder whether it is some animal or a human being. When do the solar panels need to be replaced? The solar panels come with the warranty of 25 years wherein the manufacturer’s guarantee is 80% of power output at the end of 25 years and this is as per the industry norms and as per the NMRE guide lines. Listen to the entire discussion at – http://bit.ly/1iMlFCl Our Correspondent Contact Details: Green Current Solar Energy Systems, 2 A Alamelu Nagar, Kamaraj Road, Coimbatore 641 015 Mobile: 95666 00477 E: saravana.kumar@greencurrent.in Web: http://www.greencurrent.in/ Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Saravana Kumar talks on solar system solution Related – articles, consultants, downloads Crown Solar Power Fencing System Crown Solar Power Fencing Anusha Enterprises – solar power fencing Safe & Save Equipments – eFence Solar Energy You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water