Travel to Rajasthan - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Rajasthan Travel Tourist Map Shopping Hotels in Rajasthan Resorts in Rajasthan Food How to Reach Places to Visit in Rajasthan Albert Hall Museum Jal Mahal Hawa Mahal Jantar Mantar Ranthambore National Park Sariska National Park Bandeshwar Temple Rani Satiji Temple Galta Temple Amber Fort The City Palace Kumbhalgarh Fort Mehrangarh Fort Bandeshwar Temple Cities to Visit in Rajasthan Ajmer Travel Barmer Travel Bharatpur Travel Bikaner Travel Bundi Travel Chittaurgarh Travel Fatehpur Travel Jaipur Travel Jaisalmer Travel Jodhpur Travel Kota Travel Kumbhalgarh Travel Mandawa Travel Mount Abu Travel Mukundgarh Travel Nawalgarh Travel Pushkar Travel Ranakpur Travel Samode Travel Sawai Madhopur Travel Shekhawati Travel Udaipur Travel Neemrana Travel Forts and Palaces Amber Fort Jaigarh Fort Kumbhalgarh Fort Mehrangarh Fort Nahargarh Fort The City Palace Rajasthan Hotels Ajmer Hotels Jaipur Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels more... About Rajasthan Weather History Culture Events in Rajasthan Desert Festival Bikaner Camel Festival Pushkar Festival Jaipur Literature Festival Summer Festival more... Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Maps » Rajasthan » Travel to Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Rajasthan Tourist Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map Showing Tourist/Travel Locations in Rajasthan. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Rajasthan Tourism Welcome to the land of the glistening silver golden sands, the land of the multi colored fabrics, the impassioned songs and the sprightly dances, the ancient folk traditions and rich handicrafts - Welcome to Rajasthan. Rajasthan encompasses the warm and simplistic lifestyle of the natives and stands for historic battles. The state has been the seat of spectacular events. A tour of the state will take you through the arid yet singularly beautiful desert towns such as Jaisalmer and Barmer to the heart of Rajput grandeur and brilliance such as Udaipur and Chittorgarh. The region is a true tourist paradise and home to the most fascinating havelis and palaces and an astounding wildlife sanctuaries, shrines for the fervent and pious natives. The land of many legends, tales of valor and sacrifices, Rajasthan probably attracts the highest number of tourists in India. Rajasthan also known as the 'land of colours' is situated in the North-Western part of India. Largest state in India in terms of area, Rajasthan is located in an area of 132,140 square miles in the Thar Desert Region and is surrounded by the 'Aravalis'; the oldest mountain chain in India. Rajasthan was ruled by Rajputs clan known for their bravery and valor in wars. Located at the northwestern border of India, this is a place where history, myth, chivalry and romance form an exciting mix with the rugged natural beauty. Once divided into many princely states, the land has a glorious past, intriguing tales of valor and heroism of the residents of this region is an important part on Indian history. Rajasthan, also known as the "Land of the Kings" is aptly named so as it is home to a marvelous realm of Maharajas and their forts and palaces. Rajasthan is famous as the land of jungles, tigers and glittering jewels and vivid art and vibrant culture. When in Rajasthan allow yourself to be mesmerized by all the beauty and royalty the state has to offer. Best time to visit The best time to visit Rajasthan is from mid October to mid March as it isn't too hot then and travellers can enjoy sightseeing without being bothered by the heat. A much loved destination with foreign and local tourists alike, a ramble through the state should take you 10 days, including all the major cities and tourist destinations. The best thing about Rajasthan is that travellers across all budgets can enjoy the state. If you're a budget traveller you'll spend anything between Rs. 40,000- 55,000, a mid range traveller would spend between Rs. 55,000- 80,000 and a high end traveler would spend between Rs. 80,000- 1, 20,000. Hotels of Rajasthan Rajasthan is home to a variety of accommodation options. There are a wide range of hotels in the state ranging from top end to deluxe to budget hotels. Known for their hospitality and services the hotels in Rajasthan form the ideal base for a perfect vacation. More Detail... How to Reach Rajasthan The state of Rajasthan is steeped in history, legends and myths. With its imposing forts and palaces at scenic locations, splendid royal heritage and valiant anecdotes of royalties, Rajasthan is probably the most romantic state in India. Rajasthan Travel Guide helps you explore the royal state of Rajasthan by providing information about how to reach Rajasthan by air, rail or road. By Air The State has 3 major airports, namely: Jaipur, Udaipur and Jodhpur. Most major public and private airlines operate regular flights to these places connecting them to major cities like Delhi Mumbai. If you plan to enter Rajasthan from Delhi, Jaipur is the most convenient entry point, while Udaipur is the best choice from Mumbai. By Rail Rajasthan has a good Railway network also. Major Railway Stations are in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Ajmer, Udaipur which are in turn linked to important Indian cities. But the best way to reach and experience Rajasthan is to take the "Palace on Wheels". This is a luxury tourist train, which offers fabulous royal splendor of the land on board. The state has also recently launched another tourist train "Heritage on Wheels". It also covers a large circuit offering enchanting glimpses of royal heritage. By Road One can reach Rajasthan by Road very easily since a network of National Highways and State Highways roads covers the state extensively. From Delhi, Jaipur is only 5 hours drive along the panoramic roadways. So most of the tourists prefer to travel Rajasthan by road. Places to Visit in Rajasthan Jaisalmer Fort Nakki Lake Siliserh Lake Padmini's Palace Birla Planetarium Brahma Temple Patwon ki Haveli Pichola Lake Taragarh Fort Vijay Stambh Sukh Mahal Albert Hall Museum Amber Fort The City Palace Galta Temple Hawa Mahal Jantar Mantar Kumbhalgarh Fort Mehrangarh Fort Ranthambore National Park Sariska National Park Bandeshwar Temple Rani Satiji Temple Jal Mahal Shopping in Rajasthan Shopping in Rajasthan is a delightful experience. The land is traditionally rich in making handicrafts and handlooms. The tradition of art and crafts is Rajasthan actually developed and flourished under the direct patronage of the royalties. Different regions of the state specialize in different kinds of handicrafts, which would lead you to shopping spree in Rajasthan. Since precious and semi precious stone are available in abundance in Rajasthan, the local artisans craft out exquisite jewellery from them. Textiles and leather are also favourite medium of handicrafts with the Rajasthani craftsmen. The most striking phenomenon with the Rajasthani crafts is the glow of vibrant colours. The artisans also fashion amazing objects made out of clay. Rajasthani painting also carves a special niche in Indian art, which displays a lyrical quality through enchanting combination of tender lines and bright colours. Last Updated on : January 10, 2015 Hotels in Rajasthan Ajmer Hotels Alwar Hotels Behror Hotels Bharatpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Dausa Hotels Jaipur Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jhunjhunu Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Khimsar Hotels Kumbhalgarh Hotels Mandawa Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Pali Hotels Phalodi Hotels Pushkar Hotels Ranakpur Hotels Sadri Hotels Sawai Madhopur Hotels Shree Mahavirji Hotels Sri Ganganagar Hotels Udaipur Hotels Travel to Rajasthan Ajmer Travel Barmer Travel Bharatpur Travel Bikaner Travel Bundi Travel Chittaurgarh Travel Fatehpur Travel Jaipur Travel Jaisalmer Travel Jodhpur Travel Kota Travel Kumbhalgarh Travel Mandawa Travel Mount Abu Travel Mukundgarh Travel Nawalgarh Travel Pushkar Travel Ranakpur Travel Samode Travel Sawai Madhopur Travel Shekhawati Travel Udaipur Travel Neemrana Travel Places to Visit in Rajasthan Places to Visit in Ajmer Places to Visit in Barmer Places to Visit in Bharatpur Places to Visit in Bikaner Places to Visit in Bundi Places to Visit in Chittaurgarh Places to Visit in Jaipur Places to Visit in Jaisalmer Places to Visit in Jodhpur Places to Visit in Kota Places to Visit in Kumbhalgarh Places to Visit in Mandawa Places to Visit in Mount Abu Places to Visit in Mukundgarh Places to Visit in Nawalgarh Places to Visit in Ranakpur Places to Visit in Samode Places to Visit in Pushkar Places to Visit in Udaipur About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule