Beauty Trade Shows,Healthcare Exhibition,Health & Beauty Events,Cosmetics Trade Fair JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Health & Beauty Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Health & BeautyTrade Shows Date : 17 Jun - 20 Jun 2015 ProPak Asia-Thailand -  Thailand The 23 rd International Processing, Filling and Packaging Technology Event for AsiaAsia's definitive event for international manufacturers and suppliers of machinery, technology and materials in the sectors of packaging, filling, processing,.... Venue : Bangkok International Trade & Exhibition Centre (BITEC) ,Bangkok Thailand Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 Sep - 15 Sep 2015 Sana -  Italy SANA Expo, the International Exhibition of Natural Products - Nutrition, Health, Environment is the main event for the whole natural world. Since 16 years, Sana has been acting as a diffuser of a new culture and nowadays represents the reference.... Venue : Bologna Exhibition Centre Italy Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Jun - 25 Jun 2015 Laser-World of Photonics -  Germany LASER. World of Photonics focusses on the world market for optical technologies. Market players from all segments of the photonics industry and scientists meet at the Number 1 laser and photonics gathering. Its consistent orientation to actual.... Venue : New Munich Trade Fair Centre Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 23 Oct - 24 Oct 2015 FACHDENTAL SÜDWEST 2015 -  Germany Trade Fair for Dental Surgeries and Laboratories Venue : New Stuttgart Trade Fair Centre ,Stuttgart Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Oct - 04 Oct 2015 Cosmetics Beauty Hair -  Romania Cosmetics Beauty Hair brings the worldwide professional beauty industry together all at one place at one time. It has established itself as the continent's premiere beauty industry exhibition. Venue : Romexpo Romania Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Mar - 11 Mar 2016 The Finnish Nursing Congress and Exhibition -  Finland The Finnish Nursing Congress and Exhibition is Finland's largest training event for nurses. The event is comprised of a nursing congress and an extensive exhibition featuring the products and services needed by nurses in their work Venue : Helsinki Fair Centre Finland Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Nov - 05 Nov 2015 Design & Manufacturing Midwest -  United States Design & Manufacturing Midwest keep you abreast of the latest advances in your industry but it also presents your best opportunity of the year to explore supplier alliances, technology licensing, partnerships, and joint ventures. Venue : Minneapolis Convention Center ,Minneapolis United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Apr - 10 Apr 2016 IDEM Singapore -  Singapore The leading dental show in the Asia Pacific - International Dental Exhibition and Meeting. Be part of the leading dental trade fair in the Asia Pacific Region Venue : Suntec Singapore Convention and Exhibition Centr Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Oct - 30 Oct 2015 FSB 2015 -  Germany FSB 2015 is the internationally unique business platform for recreation areas, sports and swimming pool facilities! this is where authorities, operators, planners, construction companies, sport clubs and architects get informed.... Venue : Exhibition Centre Cologne Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Jul - 17 Jul 2015 RDH Under One Roof -  United States RDH Under One Roof is an action packed event offering quality dental hygiene continuing education. At RDH Under One Roof the dental hygienist can experience dental hygiene continuing education courses with some of the leading speakers in the.... Venue : Caesars Palace ,NV United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Oct - 18 Oct 2015 World Dental Show-Mumbai -  India The World Dental Show is an initiative of the Indian Dental Association (IDA), dedicated to dental excellence that has been growing from strength to strength over the years. The World Dental Show a well organised event will bring thousands of.... Venue : MMRDA, Opp. City Bank ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Jun - 29 Jun 2015 10th Medhealth 2015 -  Kenya MedHealth KENYA event is mainly for Medical & Pharmaceutical trades. Arrangement for participation from over 20 countries & visitors from over 12 African countries, the event is all set for its exhibitors to meet serious.... Venue : The Sarit Expo Centre ,Nairobi Kenya Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 19 Aug - 21 Aug 2015 Personal Care India Expo -  India Personal Care India Expo is the most comprehensive international B2B fair for ingredients, packaging, and machinery in the personal care sector. It is an ideal platform for the personal care industry to develop and grow business in India’s vibrant.... Venue : Pragati Maidan ,New Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Aug - 08 Aug 2015 Private Label Products Show -  India Private Label Products Show (PLPS) is India’s only international exhibition for private label products, own brand FMCG retail and contract manufacturing. New products and national & international suppliers will soon catch up on India’s.... Venue : Pragati Maidan ,New Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 May - 14 May 2015 FCE Cosmetique -  Brazil FCE Cosmetique is the only exclusive event of technology for the cosmetic industry in Latin America. FCE Cosmetique is considered by the whole industry to be the biggest development platform for new products. Venue : Transamérica Expo Center Brazil Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 May - 14 May 2015 FCE Pharma -  Brazil It is the only exclusive event of technology for the pharmaceutical industry in Latin America. FCE Pharma has broken through as the most important meeting point among the industry. Venue : Transamérica Expo Center ,São Paulo Brazil Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 May - 07 May 2015 Africa Health 2015 -  South Africa Africa Health is the continent’s largest healthcare exhibition and is the leading platform for the industry to meet, learn and do business. The exhibition will attract more than 7000 healthcare professionals and host 500 of the world’s leading.... Venue : Gallagher Convention Centre ,Johannesburg South Africa Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 30 Apr - 03 May 2015 ASIAMANIA! -  Korea, Republic of Discover all Asia has to offer, including K-Pop, cosmetics and beauty, fashion, film, food, technology, and more! Satisfying both B2B and B2C needs, the ASIAMANIA! expo represents true convergence between culture and business, in the heart of the.... Venue : Coex ,Korea Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Apr - 27 Apr 2015 Expo Cosmetica -  Portugal Anyone looking for beauty, wellbeing, health and sophistication knows that they will find a “brave new world” at EXPOCOSMÉTICA. This is the chosen event for professionals in the sector, marking the year with their novelties and trends. Venue : Exponor - Feira Internacional do Porto ,Matosinhos Portugal Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Apr - 23 Apr 2015 Austropharm -  Austria Austropharm 2015 is the main focus of austropharm is self-medication, including otc medicines and show will showing there quality products and quality services, which is providing an exellent platform for the related professionals and related.... Venue : Messezentrum Wien (Vienna Exhibition Centre) Austria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 11 Apr - 13 Apr 2015 Kenya Trade Show -  Kenya Kenya Trade Show 2015 is one of the international exhibition which is attracts visitors from all over east & central africa while exhibitors participate from over 20 countries. visitors from the neighboring countries.a vast range of products.... Venue : Kenyatta International Conference Centre ,Nairobi Kenya Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Apr - 05 Apr 2015 Baby Boom Show-Bucharest -  Romania This year, the Baby Boom moves into his new house, preparing the edition with more than ever, continuing the tradition of being the most important exhibition of products and services in Romania for future mothers and children between 0 and 7.... Venue : Exhibition Centre Romexpo Baneasa ,Bucharest Romania Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Mar - 28 Mar 2015 Seoul Int\'l Sourcing Fair -  Korea, Republic of Seoul International Sourcing Fair first opened in 1991 as “SIPREMIUM”. In the last 22 years, it has become Korea‟s top exhibition on gifts and sales promotion items. The Seoul International Sourcing Fair‟s strength is that it was among the.... Venue : Coex ,Gyeonggi Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Mar - 21 Mar 2015 Contraceptive Technology- San Francisco -  United States Contraceptive Technology San Francisco 2015 is designed for md’s, np’s, cnm’s, pa’s, rn’s, pharmacists, and health educators from women’s health and family practice settings, these national conferences address.... Venue : Hyatt Regency San Francisco ,California United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Mar - 09 Mar 2015 Beauty Trade Special -  Netherlands Beauty Trade special is the trade fair for the personal care industry. Visit the exhibition for the latest beauty news, advice on treatments and smart entrepreneurs tips. Venue : Jaarbeurs Utrecht ,Dutch Netherlands Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration D