Format for Case studies Template for GIAHS proposal Globally Important Agricultural Heritage Systems (GIAHS) Initiative SUMMARY INFORMATION Name/Title of the Agricultural Heritage System (local Name and Translation, if necessary): Requesting Agency/Organization: Country/location/Site (please annex maps and geographical coordinates of the site) Accessibility of the site to capital city or major cities: Approximate Surface Area: Agro-Ecological Zone/s: Topographic features: Climate Type: Approximate Population: Main Source of Livelihoods: Ethnicity/Indigenous population: Summary Information of the Agricultural Heritage System (about 200-300 words) DESCRIPTION OF THE AGRICULTURE HERITAGE SYSTEM I. Characteristics of the proposed GIAHS Global (or national) importance Global (or national) importance is a composite criterion, under which the overall value is established of a traditional/historic agricultural system, represented by a particular site, as a heritage of human kind (or a country). It synthesises its overall Global (or National/local) “Public Good” value described under the five subsequent criteria. By summing up/combining the five criteria the complex relationships, and positive connectivity and linkages between the system’ elements are integrated as a holistic system. A summary information of the global importance of the individual characteristics of the system/site, with its intrinsic resilience and capacity to strike a social-environmental balance, by its historic and contemporary relevance for human development and by whether the site is a unique or outstanding example of the agricultural system it represents and a testimonial to an agricultural tradition in comparison with similar systems and sites. Summarise the outstanding features of the system in terms of their relevance to global concerns in sustainable development and ecosystems management and their cultural and agricultural heritage value. The Five Criteria for the selection of the Globally Important Agricultural Heritage System (GIAHS) represents the totality of the goods and services provided by the system. These criteria are, as follows: 1. Food and livelihood security The proposed agriculture system should contribute to food and livelihood security of local communities (often indigenous), representing the majority of their livelihood provisions. This includes provisioning and exchange among local communities to create a relatively stable and resilient food and livelihood system. 2. Biodiversity and ecosystem function Agricultural biodiversity and genetic resources (species, varieties & breeds), as well as other biodiversity such as wild relatives, pollinators and wildlife associated with the agricultural system and landscape. The system/ site should be endowed with globally (or nationally) significant biodiversity and genetic resources for food and agriculture (e.g. endemic, rare, endangered species of crops and animals). 3. Knowledge systems and adapted technologies Maintain invaluable knowledge, ingenious technology and management systems of natural resources, including biota, land, water; and social organisations and institutions, including customary institutions for agro-ecological management, normative arrangements for resource access and benefit sharing, etc. 4. Cultures, value systems and social organisations (Agri-Culture) Cosmo-vision, value systems and agri-cultural practices associated with environment and agricultural calendar; festivities and rituals as knowledge transfer. Local institutions play a critical role in balancing environmental and socio-economic objectives, in creating resilience and in the reproduction of all elements and processes critical to the functioning of the agricultural system. Some may ensure conservation of and promote equity in the use and access to natural resources; some transmit traditional knowledge systems and critical values that promote custodianship of biodiversity, land and water; some facilitate planning, cooperation and innovation/adaptation. Such institutions may take the form of ceremonial and religious beliefs and practices, including taboos, ceremonies and festivities; of customary law and conflict resolution, including on resource tenure; of kinship, marriage and inheritance systems; of forms of leadership, decision-making and cooperation; of oral and written traditions; of games and other forms of education and instruction; of division of roles and distribution of labour, including gender roles and specialized functions; etc (intangibles). 5. Remarkable landscapes, land and water resources management features Landscape features resulting from human management, that provide particularly ingenious or practical solutions to environmental or social constraints, such as land use mosaics, irrigation/water management systems, terraces, particular ecosystem adaptive architecture, which might provide for resource conservation/efficiency or provide habitats for valued biodiversity, recreational values collective or non commercial valuable uses (aesthetic, artistic, educational, spiritual, and/or scientific values of ecosystems). II. Other social and cultural characteristics pertinent to the management of the agricultural system (optional) • Relevant structures: these tangibles values might have particular social or ecological functions in the management of the site. They might include environmentally sustainable and resource efficient housing, architecture of ceremonial/social significance to the management of the agricultural system or have particular functions such as seed storage, stables or otherwise (tangibles) • Sacred/ceremonial sites. (tangible/intangible) • Tools and technologies (material culture - tangible) • Associated forms of cultural expression: culinary culture, festivities, art and music, etc (tangibles and intangibles). III. Historic relevance The contribution of the agricultural system/site to the domestication and development of agricultural biodiversity, the creation of valuable landscapes, the development of agricultural knowledge and technologies over generations, and to human, social and cultural development in general, constitutes its historic relevance. Additionally, the historic relevance is determined by whether the system/site has remained sustainable and has shown its resilience in the face of environmental and socio-economic changes over time. IV. Contemporary relevance The systems’/sites’ contemporary relevance is established by its present and future capacity to provide food and livelihood security, to contribute to human well-being and quality of life, and to generate other local, national and global economic and environmental goods and services to its community and wider society. This criterion therefore relates to the relevance of an agricultural system/site to global or national policy and sustainable development challenges, most prominently achieving food security, human well-being and environmental goals, such as climate adaptation, carbon sequestration, water, land and biodiversity conservation. Under this criterion one should highlight particular lessons learnt or principles that can be derived from the system site, which might be applied elsewhere. V. Threats and challenges Identify and analyse threats and challenges, including social-economic pressures and environmental changes to the continued existence of the systems and/or to its sustainability and viability. Identify and analyse the local, national and/or global nature of these threats, paying particular attention to occurrences and trends of economic, social, environmental or political nature. Illustrate the changes in the human and ecological dynamics of the system and their effects on ecosystem health, resource endowments and human well-being. VI. Practical considerations a) Ongoing efforts to promote GIAHS b) Potentials and opportunities for sustainability and management of GIAHS c) Expected impacts of GIAHS on society and ecology d) Motivation of the local community, the local/national authorities and other relevant stakeholders SUGGESTED ANNEXES: • location map of the system/site • lists of agricultural biodiversity and associated biodiversity • historical and archaeological description of the system or site, if there is • photos ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS DYNAMIC CONSERVATION PLAN FOR GIAHS SELECTED SITE The proposal should include an outline of the “Dynamic Conservation Plan. The outline of the conservation plan should include the following: • a baseline description of activities, policies and experiences, which are already ongoing in the area to promote GIAHS and that the new initiative could build upon. • activities you would foresee necessary for dynamic conservation of the system (obtained through participatory approach and community drivenness) • how these activities will respond to the threats as described in this proposal • how these activities can be used to leverage funding or attract national funding (and international donors, in case of developing countries) • institutional involvement and embeddedness (support and involvement of institutions that carry responsibility or are otherwise involved in this initiative, both local, regional and national levels) N.B. Do you agree on posting this information on the GIAHS website? Y/N Figure 1. Steps in Developing and Implementing GIAHS Dynamic Conservation Plan (note: this is a supplementary model and the steps indicated in this illustration does not include the “application procedure guidelines)