Reach Us The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Contact Us Written by Administrator on 09 May 2014 . Posted in Contact Us Twitter Contact At - Swahid Dilip Chakravarty Path,House No.03, R.G Baruah Road, Guwahati-781005, Assam, India Tel: 91-361-2202537, 91-361-2200007 Fax: 91-361-2200007 e-mail: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. , website: www.finer.in Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Stickies Lovies People in this conversation Comments ( 2 ) Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS Guest (Manoj Kr Saha) Permalink Dear Sir, We are interest to know in details about the Assam International Trade & Industrial Fair -2015 will be organized at Jorhat from 19th to 25th February, 2015. Thanks with regards M K Saha 09333100367 West Bengal about 7 months ago 0 Like Reply Guest (Sanjay Dubey) Permalink We i.e. LiveStreamPro a webpix venture is in business of webcasting , Video Conferencing and provide internet exclusive for events, conferences and seminars. Through webcast events can be watched live across globe through large number of audiences. Looking forward to connect with for any business opportunity. Best Regards Sanjay Dubey 9920089575 Business Manager about 2 months ago from Orkay Bus Stop, Krantiveer Lakhuji Salve Marg, Marol, Chakala Industrial Area (MIDC), Andheri East, Mumbai, Maharashtra 400093, India 0 Like Reply Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Twitter Feeds Tweets by @fineroffice Home About Finer What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com