Major Somnath Sharma India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Defence » Major Somnath Sharma   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Major Somnath Sharma Major Somnath Sharma, born on 31 January 1923, was commissioned in the Kumaon Regiment on 22 February 1942. The first recipient of India's highest war-time gallantry award, Param Vir Chakra, Major Somnath Sharma displayed exemplary courage and valour during the Pakistani invasion of Jammu & Kashmir , which began on 22 October 1947. Somnath Sharma was a part of the D Company of 4 Kumaon regiment, which was airlifted to Srinagar on 31 October. Though he was injured at that time as he suffered a fracture while playing hockey and was advised rest, he pleaded to go with his company. The enemy had resorted to guerilla tactics now that they had run into strong resistance by Indian troops. On 3 November, D Coy led by Major Sharma was undertaking reconnaissance tasks, when his company was subjected to indiscriminate firing from the Pakistani raiders. They were heavily outnumbered, but Major Somnath Sharma rushed out into the open and gave instructions to his company not to withdraw. The company held on for a long time. He held back the enemy for a long and crucial time, which helped to stem the enemy advance on Srinagar. He gave up his life on the battlefield, but did not yield an inch to the enemy, thus setting a rare example in Indian military lore.   Related Links   Army Famous soldiers Major Somnath Sharma General K. Sundarji Sam Manekshaw K.M. Cariappa Vikram Batra Navy Admiral Sureesh Mehta Air Force Famous Officers Marshal Arjan Singh Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule