Museums in Karnataka Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Karnataka Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Places to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan Palace Cubbon Park Raja's Seat Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary Lalitha Mahal Karanji Lake Murudeshwara Temple Mysore Palace Group of Monuments at Pattadakal Bangalore Fort Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Cities to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Travel Belur Travel Coorg Travel Halebid Travel Hampi Travel Mangalore Travel Mysore Travel Badami Travel Belgaum Travel Sringeri Travel Karnataka Hotels Bangalore Hotels Coorg Hotels Udupu Hotels Mysore Hotels Hubli Hotels Mangalore Hotels About Karnataka Geography & History Fairs & Festivals Food Quick Facts Home » Karnataka » Tourism » Museums In Karnataka Museums in Karnataka What information can be gathered from the museums in Karnataka? The state of Karnataka was ruled by the different dynasties of Chalukyas, Hoysalas and Vijayanagara from time to time. The Mughals as well as the British contributed to the culture and architecture of the state. The complete idea about this rich culture and tradition of this Indian state can be gained from the historical items showcased in the varied museums of the state. The reigns of the state's erstwhile rulers get reflected from the displayed art and artifacts. Those exhibited items even include ancient scriptures and manuscripts. Which cities of Karnataka house the maximum number of museums? Bangalore and Mysore, the two popular cities of the state house the maximum number of museums and art galleries. Kinds of museums are in Karnataka This state, located in the south western part of the country of India, has got many museums ranging from the general to the specialized ones. The museums of Karnataka can be broadly categorized into the following types: Archeological Museum Art Gallery Aviation Museum Folklore Museum General Museum Government Museum Railway Museum Different museums in Karnataka Some of the famous museums and art galleries located in the state are as follows: Archaeological Museum: This museum in Hampi, the capital of the historical Vijayanagar Empire, is the biggest open-air museum in the world. This archeological museum mainly exhibits the artifacts, inscriptions and sculptures belonging to the period in between 1480 and 1680. Manuscripts, paintings, porcelain artifacts, carpets, coins and armory are displayed there. Stone sculpture as well as Arabic, Devanagari, Kannada and Persian inscriptions are even a part of the exhibition. The contact details of this museum are given below: Archaeological Museum Kamalapur, Hampi, Bellary - 583 221 Karnataka, India. Tel: + 91 - 08394 - 241561 Opening Hours: Everyday except Friday from 10 am to 5 pm. Cubbon's Park Museum: Situated within the famous Cubbon's Park in the city of Bangalore, this is a government museum. Based in a red colored building, it is a doll's museum. A public library is located within its proximity inside the park premises. Folklore Museum:The Folklore Museum or Janapada Museum situated in the Manasagangothri Campus of the University of Mysore, showcases folk crafts and arts of the state. Established in 1968, this museum displays varied kinds of folk items like Kathakali costumes, masks, puppets, sawdust and leather dolls, ink crafts, musical instruments, ceremonial headwear as well as figures of the folk deities, kings, queens, soldiers and many more. Following are the contact details of this museum: Janapada Museum Manasagangotri, Jayalakshmi Vilas Palace Mysore - 570 006, Karnataka, India. Tel: + 91 - 0821 - 2419348 Opening Hours: 10 am to 5.30 pm (Monday to Saturday), closed on Government holidays, Sunday and 2nd Saturday Government Museum and Art Gallery: Situated in Bangalore, this museum cum art gallery was built in the year 1886. Architecturally designed with splendid structures and beautiful Corinthian Columns, this museum has got an amazing collection of old jewelry as well as geological and archaeological artifacts. This place is even known for housing antiquities belonging to Mohenjodaro, which gives the visitors an idea about the history of the civilization dating back to 5000 years. One can visit this museum any day between 9 am to 6 pm. HAL Aerospace Museum: Hindustan Aeronautics Limited Aerospace Museum, based in Bangalore was built in 2001. This is the 1st aerospace museum of India. This museum narrates the growth of the aviation industry of the nation. Varied kinds of helicopters, aircrafts, flight simulators, models of aircraft engine and a mock tower of air traffic control are even exhibited there. Hastha Shilpa Heritage Village: Located in Manipal, this village is still in its construction phase. Spread over a land of 6 acres, this village is supposed to house 8 museums displaying the paintings, arts, crafts and textiles of the area. The galleries of this village will portray the works and life of the district's cultural luminaries. The contact address of this village is as follows: The Heritage Village Manipal, Udupi - 576 119 Karnataka, India. Tel: + 91 - 0820 - 2572061 Indira Gandhi Manav Sangrahalaya: Aiming at showcasing the art, culture and tradition of India, this museum is ranked as a national museum. Situated in Mysore, it exhibits handicrafts of the primitive and present time, Gujarat embroidery works, Rajasthan terracotta works and many more. This museum can be visited from Tuesday to Saturday in between 10 am and 5.30 pm. There is no entry fee to visit this museum. Janapada Loka: Janapada Loka, on the Mysore Highweay, is a treasure-trove of the folk heritage of the state. Sprawled over an area of 15 acres, it houses a museum along with a studio and an open-air theatre. 5000 artifacts exhibited in the museum reflect the art and life of rural and tribal folks of the state. Those displayed items include their household gadgets, dolls, masks, shadow puppets, weapons and varied implements for hunting, fishing and agriculture. Let us have a quick look on the below mentioned contact details of the place: Janapada Loka Bangalore - Mysore Road Ramnagara, Bangalore - 571 511 Karnataka, India. Tel: + 91 - 080 - 27201143 Opening Hours: Everyday except Tuesday from 9 am to 1 pm and 2:30 pm to 5:30 pm. Jayachamarajendra Art Gallery: This art gallery is a part of the renowned Jaganmohan Palace located in the city of Mysore. Being an art gallery, it houses the art and crafts of the state. Apart from showcasing an exclusive collection of antique furniture, ceramics, ivory, sandalwood, stone and musical instruments belonging to the bygone era, this gallery even displays the traditional gold leaf paintings of Mysore. Paintings of famous artists like Roerich and Ravi Varma are exhibited there as well. A visitor is allowed to enter the gallery everyday from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm with an entry fee of INR. 20 for an adult and INR. 10 for a child. More information can be gathered by calling the number + 91 - 0821 - 2423693. Keladi Museum: This museum houses copper inscriptions, coins, palm leaf inscriptions and other antiques belonging to the Keladi period. Idols of the Chalukya and Hoysala dating back to early 16th century and 18th century are even found there. The museum remains open from Monday to Friday (9 am to 5 pm). To know more, you can call them at + 91 - 08183 - 260140. Manjusha Museum: Located in Dharmasthala, Manjusha Museum is known for housing palm leaf scripts, silver jewelry, bronze bells, spectacles, sewing machines, cameras and typewriters. The contact information of this museum is provided below: Manjusha Museum Dharmasthala - 574 216 Karnataka, India. Tel: + 91 - 08256 - 277116 Opening Hours: Everyday from 6.30 am to 1 pm and 7 pm to 8 pm. Rail Museum: This impressive museum of Mysore is based behind the city's railway station. Being a museum dedicated to railways, it houses priceless coaches and locomotives as well as photographs and paintings narrating the history of Indian Railways. Regional Museum of Natural History: Located near the Karanji Lake in Mysore, this museum is the location of varied kinds of exhibitions held on animals, plants and geology of southern India. This government museum was founded on 20th May, 1995. Apart from emphasizing on ecological interrelationship between animals and plants, conservation of natural resources etc., this museum even works on promotion of environmental awareness through extracurricular activities in schools. The place provides special facilities to students who are visually challenged so that they can feel the animals during the exhibitions. Sculpture Gallery: This gallery, situated in Badami, houses a unique collection from Aihole, Badami and Pattadakal. The gallery gates have got steps leading to Lord Shiva's fort temples. The contact details of the Sculpture Gallery is Badami is as follows: Sculpture Gallery Badami, Bagalkot - 587 201 Karnataka, India. Tel: + 91 - 08357 - 220157 Opening Hours: Daily from 10 am to 5 pm. Visveswaraya Industrial and Technological Museum: Located in the city of Bangalore, this museum was built to commemorate Sir M. Visveswaraya, who was modern Karnataka's architect. Besides portraying the history of the country's technological development, this museum is home to a number of technical inventions. This museum remain open to all daily from 10 am to 6 pm. It remains closed on 26th January (Indian Republic Day) and 15th August (Indian Independence Day) though. Some of the other museums located in the state of Karnataka are as follows: Art Gallery of Sriranga Ranga Mahiti & Samshodana Kendra Bendre Bhavana Kavishaila Museum Melody World Wax Museum Rangayana Museum Shashwati Museum Tipu Sultan Museum Vijayanath Shenoy Museum Last Updated on : 27 June 2013 Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Belgaum Hotels Bellary Hotels Bijapur Hotels Chikmagalur Hotels Coorg Hotels Davangere Hotels Dharwad Hotels Gangavathi Hotels Gulbarga Hotels Hassan Hotels Hospet Hotels Hubli Hotels Karwar Hotels Kolar Hotels Mangalore Hotels Manipal Hotels Murudeshwar Hotels Mysore Hotels Sandur Hotels Shimoga Hotels Udupi Hotels Travel to Karnataka Travel to Bangalore Travel to Belur Travel to Coorg Travel to Halebid Travel to Hampi Travel to Mangalore Travel to Mysore Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Belur Places to visit in Coorg Wildlife Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan Palace Cubbon Park Raja's Seat Places to visit in Halebid Places to visit in Hampi Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary Lalitha Mahal Karanji Lake Murudeshwara Temple Mysore Palace Group of Monuments at Pattadakal Bangalore Fort Places to visit in Mangalore Places to visit in Mysore Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule