FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQs) relating to the Northern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, Tractor Nagar, Sirsa Road, Hisar (Haryana) - 125001 1. What is Northern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute? Northern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute (NRFMTTI) is a subordinate office of Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation (Mechanization & Technology Division) which is engaged in training on farm mechanization and testing & evaluation of farm machinery and equipment. 2. When was NRFMTTI established? The Institute was established in the year 1963. 3. What are the objectives of NRFMTTI? The Institute functions with two main objectives: To impart training on Farm Machinery to different categories of personnel; Testing and evaluation of Farm Machinery for the benefit of actual users and manufacturers. 4. What is the network of FMT&TIs? There are four FMT&TIs one each at Budni (M.P), Hissr (Haryana), Garladinne (A.P.) and Biswanath Chariali (Assam). All these Institutes are functioning under the administrative control of Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi – 110 001. 5. Where is NRFMT & TI located? Hisar is situated at latitude of 29° 10’ North and longitude of 75°46’ East at an altitude of 215.2 m from Sea level. The Northern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, at Hisar is located on National Highway No. 10 and is about 170 Km from Delhi by road and 185 Km by rail. This institute is situated on Sirsa road about 5 Km from Hisar town. Hisar is well connected by road from Inter-state Bus Terminus (ISBT) Delhi & is also connected with New Delhi by rail. 6. Is the testing of agricultural machinery mandatory? The testing of agricultural machines and implements is not mandatory by any law. 7. Why testing? The Testing of agricultural machinery is essential with a view to assess their functional performance, suitability under varying field conditions, establish, performance data as specifications for marketing and extension services and assist financial institutions/banks etc. The information developed by way of testing of machines may be of interest to the agricultural machinery users, research institutes manufacturers etc. 8. What is the objective of testing? i) To test the combine harvesters, engines, irrigation equipment, implements and other agricultural machines manufactured in the country or imported with a view to assess their functional suitability and performance characteristics so that the published test results would : Serve as a basis to decide the type of machine suited for Indian conditions, which could be encouraged for import, production and popularization. Help the farmers and other perspective purchaser in assessing the comparative performance of the machines and selection thereof. Provide data/material to extension workers for guiding farmers and other purchasers in the proper selection of the equipment and to provide material to the researchers/designers for improvement in the quality and other R&D work. Form basis for standard specification to be used by manufacturers and distributors. Help financial institutions in providing financial assistance both to the manufacturers and farmers. ii) To test components of farm machinery for assisting manufacturers for product improvement. iii) To promote export of agricultural machines through testing in accordance with the International/Indian Standards. iv) To assist Bureau of Indian Standards in formulation of National Standards on agricultural equipment. Apart from above regular testing activities, the testing wing also takes up: Evaluation of samples under Consumer Protection Act through District Consumer Redresses Forum. Preparation of comparative performance data of different machines for the benefit of user/farmers. Testing of prototypes/ commercial model developed by SAU and ICAR etc. Testing of combine harvesters under Central Motor Vehicle Rules. 9. What is the basis of Testing? Usually tests are carried out as per the standards/test codes of BIS. However those machines for which standards/test codes are not available, guidelines are taken from other published standards/test codes. In case, no such test codes are available at the time of testing, the test procedure is evolved by mutual agreement between the Institute and the manufacturer. 10. Whether any report is released on implements/machines after completion of tests? Yes, a draft test report is released on the sample tested after completion of tests for the comments of applicant/manufacturer. Final test report is released after including the comments of the applicant, if any. 11. Can anyone purchase the copies of test reports? Copy of the Commercial Test Reports can be had from the Director, NRFMTTI, Tractor Nagar, Sirsa Road, Hisar (Haryana) - 125001 on payment of Rs. 200/- for each Report in respect of Machines/Implements by way of a Demand Drafts in favour of Director, NRFMTTI, Hisar and payable at State Bank of India, Hisar or by Money Order. 12. Which are the target groups of the beneficiaries for various training programmes undertaken by the Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institutes? The target groups of the beneficiaries of various training programmes undertaken by the NRFMTTI are as under: - Series programme Training programme Beneficiaries User level Agricultural Machinery Utilization Training Course Farmers, technicians, actual machinery users and sponsored candidate from defence Government departments & organizations. Technician level Technician Course on Farm Machinery Service and Repairing Technicians working in private workshops, farmers/ actual machinery users experience in the operation and maintenance of machines, ITI certificate orders etc. Academic level Summer Course for Development of Graduate on Agricultural Machinery and Utilization Under Graduate students sponsored by various agricultural engineering colleges/agricultural universities and ITI certificate a course student sponsored by it is. Management level Management of agricultural machines The need based training programmes are conducted for sponsored incumbents from tractor industry, power tiller industry and various Government departments, State/Central Government institutions, banks, extension workers etc. The programmes are also conducted on familiarization on with the Dangerous Machine (Regulation) Act, testing, interpretation of test reports, farm machinery management and energy conservation for the beneficiaries of above stated institutions. Awareness Courses and technology transfer camps Energy conservation and Management Course The farmers and actual machinery users are imparted on-site training on maintenance, proper use energy conservation and & safety aspects of agricultural machinery. Foreign Training Training for foreign nationals The beneficiaries from various countries under bilateral/ international Government aided programmes. 13. What is the source of information for such training programmes? The information on training programmes conducted can be obtained from advertisements released by the institutes in leading and regional newspapers. The beneficiaries can also obtain the information released by the institutions through All India Radio, TV programmes. The information can also be obtained at the following addresses: - Director, Northern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, Tractor Nagar, Sirsa Road, HISAR- 125 001 (HARYANA) Telefax : 01662-27684, e mail- fmti-nr@.nic.in 14. What is the difference between the training programmes undertaken by Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institutes and by other organizations? The basic difference between the training programmes undertaken by FMTTIs and other organizations is that the FMTTIs impart skill-oriented training on agricultural mechanization to the various groups of beneficiaries whereas most of the other organizations conduct mainly information based training programmes. 15. Which of the agricultural equipment require CMVR certification? The agricultural equipment requiring CMVR certification includes agricultural tractors, power tillers, combine harvesters and tractor trailers as of now.