Kamala Nehru Park or Shoe Park in Mumbai - Timings, Entry Fee, Address | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Travel / Kamala Nehru Park or Shoe Park in Mumbai Kamala Nehru Park or Shoe Park in Mumbai June 12, 2013 by Priyanka Boot House at Kamala Nehru Park, Mumbai Named after Kamala Nehru, wife of Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru, Kamala Nehru Park is among the oldest children’s parks in Mumbai. It is popular for an interesting-shoe-like-structure, called the Old Woman’s Shoe that has been inspired from the nursery rhyme that reads as below: “There was an old woman who lived in a shoe. She had so many children, she didn’t know what to do; She gave them some broth without any bread; Then whipped them all soundly and put them to bed.” Because of this unique structure inside the park, it has also been popularized as the Shoe Park. You can also enter the shoe! Spread over an area of 4,000 square feet, Kamala Nehru Park has manicured lawns and is a pleasant retreat for kids. You would find a wide variety of flowers and trees inside the garden. One can also enjoying the panoramic views of Marine Drive from the park, particularly at sunset. Monsoons add to the charm of the park with melodious chirps of migratory birds that get attracted to the place. The park is a great escape from the chaotic routines and a great place for outdoor activities. Stroll around the shady pathways or handout with your kids or plan a family picnic – the park is open for all. Location : BG Kher Road, Malabar Hill, Mumbai, Maharashtra Entry Fee : Free Timings : 5:00 am to 9:00 pm Places around the Kamla Nehru Park : Hanging Garden, Chowpatty Beach, Marine Drive, Jain Temple How to reach : The park is easily accessible and can be reached by autos and taxis from the Charni Road station in 15 minutes. For more related information you may refer to the following: Kamala Nehru Park Gardens in Mumbai Kaziranga National Park Deer Park of Sarnath Children Park in Allahabad Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad Delhi Zoo Mumbai Park Top Attractions in Delhi Priyanka I am an independent person who respects the virtues of patience, versatility and creativity. I like to travel around and if by chance I cannot, my dreams help me explore the world! More articles from Priyanka : Khusro Bagh – A tranquil garden surrounding Mughal structures Ocean Park in Hyderabad An Architectural Wonder called the Shore Temple at Mahabalipuram Teli Ka Mandir in the Gwalior Fort: Stunning Blend of North and South Indian Architecture Historical Treasures of Gujari Mahal Archaeological Museum Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Baidyanath sah on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd omprakash on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd VIJAY MANGLIK on Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012