ï»¿ AED     Gallery Links Site Map FAQ           Home Schemes Central Sector Demonstration of Agricultural Machinery and Implements Training to Farmers on operation and maintenance of Agrl. Machinery State Sector Rain water harvesting and Run off management programme Master plan - Artificial Recharge to Ground Water SWC in Tribal areas under Integrated Tribal Development Programme Pulses Villages in Rain fed Areas - NADP Scheme to Revive Agriculture In Fallow Land - NADP SWC under Hill Area Development Programme Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project Soil Conservations in the Catchment of River Valley Project - NADP SWC under Western Ghats Development Programme Agricultural Mechanization under NADP Training on operation and maintenance of farm machinery Training rural youth on agricultural machinery and implements Diesel Engine Pump set with Rain gun / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation. Solar Powered Pumping system with Micro Irrigation Solar Chilli Drier Onion Storage structures TN IAMWARM Project Centre and State Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Command Area Development and Water Management Programme Services Land Development Minor Irrigation Mandate Downloads RTI Contacts                                 Schemes State Sector   Rain Water Harvesting and Runoff Management Programme       Objectives     To increase the soil moisture regime of the watersheds. To harvest rain water for surface water storage and for ground water recharge. To prevent soil erosion.     Funding Pattern     State Plan Scheme     Details of Works     Percolation ponds with Recharge Shaft Check dams Farm Ponds Village tanks /Ooranies     Eligibility     All the farmers in the selected watersheds in the respective district.     Subsidy   Works in community lands are taken up with 100% grant . Beneficiaries are required to contribute 10% towards maintenance of the works in community lands in cash (it is 5% in case of SC/ST ) which will be deposited in the name of the Village Development Association / Watershed Association. The accrued interest will be utilised for the maintenance of the assets created. Works in patta lands are taken up with 90 % grant ( 95% in case of SC/ ST ) and the remaining 10% is collected as beneficiary share in the form of Cash / labour / material (it is 5% in case of SC/ST ).     Officer to be approached     Assistant Executive Engineer (A.E) in the Revenue Division Executive Engineer (A.E) in the District. Superintending Engineer (A.E) in the Region. Chief Engineer(AE), Agricultural Engineering Department, 487, Anna Salai, Nandanam, Chennai-600 035. Phone - 24352686, 24352622                      