 National Centre of Organic Farming National Centre of Organic Farming Department of Agriculture and Cooperation Ministry of Agriculture Government of India Profile About us Objective and Implementation components Organisational Setup Organisational Chart Cadre Strength Policy and EFC E.F.C Policy Regional Centres BANGALORE BHUBANESHWAR HISSAR IMPHAL JABALPUR NAGPUR Operational Guidelines Capital Investment Subsidy NPOF Publications Reports Organic Farming An Overview World of Organic Agriculture News Letters Biofertilizer Newsletters Organic Farming News letters Training Mannual Books on Organic Package of practices Organic Farming statistics Area and Production Production of Organic Inputs Organic certification System Participatory Guarantee System Right to Information Act CPIO Appellate Authority Application Form Staff Directory Power and Duties Recruitment Downloadable Forms Forms PGS RC Application ormat RTI Application Form Tender Latest News 02 July 2011 News1 22 June 2011 News2 16 June 2011 News3 > View all news National Project on Organic Farming National Project on Organic Farming (NPOF) is a continuing central sector scheme since 10th Five Year Plan. Planning Commission approved the scheme as PILOT project for the remaining two and half years of 10th plan period with effect from 01.10.2004 with an outlay of Rs. 57.04 crore. The scheme is continuing in the 12th Plan. NPOF is being implemented by National Centre of Organic Farming at Ghaziabad and its six Regional Centres at Bangalore, Bhubaneshwar, Panchkula, Imphal, Jabalpur and Nagpur. Besides working for realisation of targets under NPOF, NCOF and RCOFs are also performing specific roles in promotion of organic farming. Our Objectives Promotion of organic farming in the country through technical capacity building of all the stakeholders including human resource development, transfer of technology, promotion and production of quality organic and biological inputs. Awareness creation and publicity through print and electronic media. To act as nodal quality control laboratory for analysis of biofertilizers and organic fertilizers as per the requirement of Fertilizer Control Order (FCO, 1985). Revision of standards and testing protocols keeping in view the advances in research and technology and bringing remaining organic inputs under quality control regime. Organic input resource management, technology development through support to research and market development. To maintain National and Regional culture collection bank of biofertilizer, biocontrol, waste decomposer organisms for supply to production units, development & procurement and efficacy evaluation of biofertilizer strains and mother cultures. Promotion of Organic Farming through low cost certification system known as “Participatory Guarantee System”. NPOF scheme provides financial assistance through Capital Investment Subsidy Scheme (CISS) for agro-waste compost production units, bio-fertilizers/bio-pesticides production units, development and implementation of quality control regime, human resource development, etc. NCOF Home | About Us | Contact Us | FAQ's This Site is  Designed and Developed by Fertilizers Informatics Division, NIC DISCLAIMER : Please note that this page also provides links to the websites / web pages of Government Departments/ Organisations. The content of these websites are owned by the respective organisations and they may be contacted for any further information or suggestion.