Uttarakhand Geography Home » Uttarakhand » Geography   Geography of Uttarakhand Climate उत्तराखंड का नक्शा Uttarakhand Uttarakhand Map Places to visit in Uttarakhand Travel to Uttarakhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Jim Corbett National Park Mussoorie Tourist Map Tourist Map of Rishikesh Cities in Uttarakhand Districts of Uttarakhand Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Uttarakhand Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Uttarakhand Forests Industrial Map Assembly Poll Uttarakhand Lok Sabha Elections History Information Newspapers Hotels in Uttaranchal Nainital Hotels Srinagar Hotels Mussoorie Hotels Haridwar Hotels Dehradun Hotels Rishikesh Hotels                    more... Society Important Numbers Education Universities in Uttarakhand Government Uttarakhand Images Haridwar Location Map Uttaranchal Hills Map District Map in Hindi Pin Code       Geography of Uttarakhand The geography of Uttarakhand reveals that it is surrounded by Himachal Pradesh in the north-west and Uttar Pradesh in the south and shares its international borders with Nepal and China. The state is quite rich in natural resources. The well known Himalayan peaks of Nanda Devi, Kedarnath, Trishul, Bandarpunch and Mt Kamet and the important glaciers like Gangotri, Pindari, Milam and Khatling are situated in Uttarakhand. The Ganga, the Yamuna, Ramganga and Sharda are rivers contributing to the geography of this region. The state of Uttarakhand covers twelve prominent ecological zones of the country. These are: Nanda Devi National Park Valley of Flowers Gangotri Govind National Park Rajaji National Park Kedarnath Mussoorie Binsar Sanadi Govind sanctuary Ascod sanctuary All these divisions support many rare plants and animal communities. Uttarakhand is one of the most picturesque areas of north India (and beyond). It is a land of considerable natural beauty. The northern part of the state of Uttarakhand is shrouded by Himalayan ranges and glaciers, whereas the lower parts of the state are thickly forested. The Himalayan ecosystem plays host to a large number of animals, plants and rare herbs. The geography of Uttarakhand makes it an ideal place for hiking, walking or trekking. You will find several frequented trails, several among them even well documented. Besides, you can also take advantage of the long and solitary walks through fields, hills and mountains. Two of India's biggest rivers, the Ganga (Ganges) and the Yamuna originate in the glaciers of Uttarakhand and are supplied with water on a perennial basis by numerous lakes, glaciers and many streams in the region. The geography of Uttarakhand is such that it has been usually divided into two parts, the western half known as Garhwal and the eastern region as Kumaon. The source of the word Uttarakhand is the Sanskrit term for North Country. Topography Topography of Uttarakhand implies the terrain and the landforms present within its territory. Nestled amid the Himalayas, the topography of Uttarakhand offers a wide range of landforms form hills and peak to cliffs and ridges. The topography of Uttarakhand boasts of many rich forests, glaciers, mountains peaks, and beautiful network of the mighty rivers. In fact, the hills and mountains present in the territory of Kumaoni-Garhwal is said to be the 'Abode of Gods and Goddesses'. Fauna Uttarakhand, owing to its diverse topography and unexploited territories boasts of a vast variety of exotic fauna. Ranging from towering mountains perennially snow bound to the river valleys, undulating hills to the densely forested Terai, you will find a rich variety of fauna. This is why most visitors to the state find their travel incomplete without a trip to the wild life sanctuaries of Uttarakhand. Flora Uttarakhand houses a rich wealth of flora that mostly comprises of a variety of flowers. The flora of Uttarakhand contains the alpine meadows where flowers of different hues bloom every spring. The flora of Uttarakhand is chiefly concentrated in the Garhwal region, which is also known as the 'Valley of Flowers'. Analogous to its name, the valley in Garhwal houses a multitude of flowers of different colors. Moreover, as the statistics says, the flora of Uttarakhand comprises 343 species representing 256 genera belonging to 107 families. Major Hills Uttarakhand is a state of immense natural beauty, boasting some major hills that contribute much to rendering tourism, the source of revenue in the state. The northern areas comprise part of the Greater Himalayan ranges, shrouded by lofty Himalayan peaks and glaciers, whereas the lower foothills were thickly forested till deforested by British log traders and forest contractors in the post independence period. The major hills are regularly visited by tourists from all over the country. Biodiversity Biodiversity of Uttarakhand is rich because of the close relationship between the religious, socio-cultural beliefs and conventions. The biodiversity of Uttarakhand includes the sacred groves that exhibits a rich wealth of flora and fauna. Biodiversity of Uttarakhand comprises of rare and threatened species of plants and animals. In the Garhwal region of Uttarakhand, we come across alpine meadows where different kinds of flower bloom in the spring time. This valley of flowers contains a multitude of flowers which is a wonderful sight to look at! Major Rivers Uttarakhand, located in Northern India, contains some of the most important and major rivers of India. The Ganga and the Yamuna have their sources in this state and comprise the most famous and major rivers of the country as a whole. They are supplied with water on a perennial basis by numerous lakes, glaciers and countless streams in the area. More Details >> Last Updated on 4 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule