Security - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Security From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search For other uses, see Security (disambiguation) . This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2012) This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards . No cleanup reason has been specified. Please help improve this article if you can. (September 2010) X-ray machines and metal detectors are used to control what is allowed to pass through an airport security perimeter. Security spikes protect a gated community in the East End of London . Security checkpoint at the entrance to the Delta Air Lines corporate headquarters in Atlanta Security is the degree of resistance to, or protection from, harm. It applies to any vulnerable and valuable asset, such as a person, dwelling, community, nation, or organization. As noted by the Institute for Security and Open Methodologies ( ISECOM ) in the OSSTMM 3, security provides "a form of protection where a separation is created between the assets and the threat." These separations are generically called "controls," and sometimes include changes to the asset or the threat. [ 1 ] Contents 1 Perceived security compared to real security 2 Categorizing security 3 Security concepts 4 Home security 5 Computer security 6 Security management in organizations 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Perceived security compared to real security [ edit ] Perception of security may be poorly mapped to measureable objective security. For example, the fear of earthquakes has been reported to be more common than the fear of slipping on the bathroom floor although the latter kills many more people than the former. [ 2 ] Similarly, the perceived effectiveness of security measures is sometimes different from the actual security provided by those measures. The presence of security protections may even be taken for security itself. For example, two computer security programs could be interfering with each other and even cancelling each other's effect, while the owner believes s/he is getting double the protection. Security theater is a critical term for deployment of measures primarily aimed at raising subjective security without a genuine or commensurate concern for the effects of that measure on objective security. For example, some consider the screening of airline passengers based on static databases to have been Security Theater and Computer Assisted Passenger Prescreening System to have created a decrease in objective security. Perception of security can increase objective security when it affects or deters malicious behavior, as with visual signs of security protections, such as video surveillance, alarm systems in a home, or an anti-theft system in a car such as a vehicle tracking system or warning sign . Since some intruders will decide not to attempt to break into such areas or vehicles, there can actually be less damage to windows in addition to protection of valuable objects inside. Without such advertisement , an intruder might, for example, approach a car, break the window, and then flee in response to an alarm being triggered. Either way, perhaps the car itself and the objects inside aren't stolen, but with perceived security even the windows of the car have a lower chance of being damaged. Categorizing security [ edit ] There is an immense literature on the analysis and categorization of security. Part of the reason for this is that, in most security systems, the "weakest link in the chain" is the most important. The situation is asymmetric since the 'defender' must cover all points of attack while the attacker need only identify a single weak point upon which to concentrate. IT realm Computer security Internet security Application security Data security Information security Network security Physical realm Airport security Aviation security Communications security Corporate security Food security Home security Infrastructure security Physical security Port security / Supply chain security Private security School security Shopping center security Transportation security Political National security Public security Homeland security Internal security State security International security Human security Monetary Economic security Financial security Social security Operations Security (OPSEC) is a complement to other "traditional" security measures that evaluates the organization from an adversarial perspective. [ 3 ] Security concepts [ edit ] Certain concepts recur throughout different fields of security: Assurance - assurance is the level of guarantee that a security system will behave as expected Countermeasure - a countermeasure is a way to stop a threat from triggering a risk event Defense in depth - never rely on one single security measure alone Risk - a risk is a possible event which could cause a loss Threat - a threat is a method of triggering a risk event that is dangerous Vulnerability - a weakness in a target that can potentially be exploited by a security threat Exploit - a vulnerability that has been triggered by a threat - a risk of 1.0 (100%) Home security [ edit ] Home security is something applicable to all of us and involves the hardware in place on a property, and personal security practices. The hardware would be the doors, locks, alarm systems, lighting that is installed on your property. Personal security practices would be ensuring doors are locked, alarms activated, windows closed and many other routine tasks which act to prevent a burglary. Computer security [ edit ] Computer security , also known as cybersecurity or IT security, is security applied to computing devices such as computers and smartphones , as well as computer networks such as private and public networks, including the whole Internet . The field includes all the processes and mechanisms by which digital equipment, information and services are protected from unintended or unauthorized access, change or destruction, and is of growing importance due to the increasing reliance of computer systems in most societies. [ 4 ] It includes physical security to prevent theft of equipment and information security to protect the data on that equipment. Those terms generally do not refer to physical security, but a common belief among computer security experts is that a physical security breach is one of the worst kinds of security breaches as it generally allows full access to both data and equipment. Security management in organizations [ edit ] In the corporate world, various aspects of security are historically addressed separately - notably by distinct and often noncommunicating departments for IT security, physical security, and fraud prevention. Today there is a greater recognition of the interconnected nature of security requirements, [ 5 ] an approach variously known as holistic security, "all hazards" management, and other terms. Inciting factors in the convergence of security disciplines include the development of digital video surveillance technologies (see Professional video over IP ) and the digitization and networking of physical control systems (see SCADA ). [ 6 ] [ 7 ] Greater interdisciplinary cooperation is further evidenced by the February 2005 creation of the Alliance for Enterprise Security Risk Management, a joint venture including leading associations in security ( ASIS ), information security ( ISSA , the Information Systems Security Association), and IT audit ( ISACA , the Information Systems Audit and Control Association). In 2007 the International Organisation for Standardization (ISO) released ISO 28000 - Security Management Systems for the supply chain. Although the title supply chain is included, this Standard specifies the requirements for a security management system, including those aspects critical to security assurance for any organisation or enterprise wishing to manage the security of the organisation and its activities. ISO 28000 is the foremost risk based security system and is suitable for managing both public and private regulatory security, customs and industry based security schemes and requirements. See also [ edit ] Concepts 3D Security Classified information Insecurity ISO 27000 ISO 28000 ISO 31000 Security increase Security Risk Surveillance Wireless sensor network Branches Computer security Cracking Hacking MySecureCyberspace Phreaking Communications security Human security Information security CISSP National security Physical security Police Public Security Bureau Security guard Safety References [ edit ] ^ "ISECOM - Open Source Security Testing Methodology Manual (OSSTMM)" . Retrieved 20 September 2014 .   ^ Bruce Schneier, Beyond Fear: Thinking about Security in an Uncertain World , Copernicus Books, pages 26-27 ^ OSPA. "The Operations Security Professional's Association- OPSEC Training, tools and Awareness" . Opsecprofessionals.org . Retrieved 2012-09-30 .   ^ "Reliance spells end of road for ICT amateurs" , May 07, 2013, The Australian ^ "Security in a Changing Landscape" . Dell.com . Retrieved 2012-03-27 .   ^ Taming the Two-Headed Beast , CSOonline, September 2002 ^ Security 2.0 , CSOonline, April 2005 External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Security . Authority control GND : 4054790-5 Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Security&oldid=663927158 " Categories : Prevention Security Law enforcement Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from March 2012 All articles needing additional references Articles needing cleanup from September 2010 All articles needing cleanup Cleanup tagged articles without a reason field from September 2010 Wikipedia pages needing cleanup from September 2010 Commons category template with no category set Commons category with page title same as on Wikidata Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية বাংলা Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎ Български Brezhoneg Deutsch Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית ქართული Қазақша मराठी Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk nynorsk Олык марий Polski Português Русский Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina کوردیی ناوەندی Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Tagalog ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська ייִדיש 中文 Edit links This page was last modified on 25 May 2015, at 09:34. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view