Kerala Mineral Map, Mineral Resources of Kerala Home » Maps » Kerala » Kerala Mineral Map   Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Districts in Kerala Kerala Road Map Railway Map Rivers in Kerala Tehsils in Kerala Regions in Kerala Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Forests in Kerala केरल का नक्शा Cities in Kerala Kochi Thiruvananthapuram Ernakulam Munnar Thrissur Travel to Kerala Places to visit in Kerala Backwaters Map Beaches in Kerala Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Kerala Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya Pilgrimage Destinations Map About Kerala How to Reach Kerala History of Kerala Geography of Kerala Weather in Kerala Economy of Kerala Industries in Kerala Kerala Government Kerala Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Hotels in Kerala Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Kumarakom Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Trivandrum Hotels in Thiruvananthapuram Hotels in Guruvayur Hotels in Thekkady Hotels in Wayanad Kerala Ayurveda Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Utilities Distance Chart Kerala Pin code Kerala STD code Education in Kerala Universities in Kerala Karten von Kerala Ubersichtskarte von Kerala       Kerala Mineral Map Mineral Map of Kerala Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing metallic and non metallic minerals found in Kerala. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Minerals and energy are the natural wealth of any state. A number of factors such as industrial growth of a region depend on the availability of suitable mineral deposits and raw materials and the energy resources readily available in the vicinity. Kerala is a veritable treasure trove of freely occurring mineral deposits. Hydro energy too is available easily but due the inability to harness the full potential of such power the state of Kerala is facing certain troubled conditions. However the Government is taking adequate steps to reverse the situation and increase indigenous power production at a lower cost. Minerals: The mineral resources of a state are its greatest asset. The minerals not only earn the state revenue and foreign currency by export to other states and other countries respectively, they also form the raw material for the industries based on them. Kerala is a mineral rich state. The soil is loaded with a variety of inorganic minerals like Kaolin, Bauxite, Monozite, Zircon, Quartz and Silimanite. The golden sands of Quilon beach are rich in the heavier variety minerals such as Monozite, Ilmenite, Rutile, Zircon and Silimanite. The total are of the state under mineral mining is as per the following table. Minerals Area (in Ha) Clay 96.4168 Silica Sand 44.6522 Bauxite 1.3739 Graphite 0.5909 Limeshell 1786.3855 Limestone 247.5 Mineral sand 286.842 Quartz 6.0098 Total 2469.7711 The state is plenteous in China Clay or Kaolin which forms an important raw material in the production of porcelain items such as crockery and glazed tiles. It is the finest variety of Kaolin found in the entire country and is fundamental in the high tension insulators and sanitary ware producing units. About 80 million tonnes of such fine China Clay are to be found in this state. Another variety of clay is found in Kerala and is useful albeit of an inferior variety. Called Fire Clay this deposit is estimated to amount to 12 million tomes. It forms the raw material in the production of tiles and bricks. Graphite, an allotrope of carbon which is used in the manufacture of the lead used in pencils also occurs freely in the state. The silica and quartz (both essential in production of glass and lens) deposits in the state are estimated to be at 75 million tones. The remaining mineral deposit wealth of the state is a composition of 79 million tonnes of iron ores, 25 million tonnes of limestone, 11 million tonnes of bauxite, 35 million tonnes of ilmenite, 3 million tonnes of rutile, 1 million tonnes of monozite and 0.7 million tonnes of borophite. The bounties of the state's mineral wealth need to be exploited and put to proper use. The industrial potential of this mineral treasure has not been reined in yet. The following table features the figures of production and sale of minerals in Kerala during the year 1999-2000 Energy: Energy is one of the most important resources of any state. Be it for household purposes or commercial and industrial needs, the generation of power or energy is one of the most important aspects looked into by the Government. The state of Kerala is no exception. The department of power looks into the power generation, tariff policies, new investments etc. This department functions as the administrative branch of the Kerala State Electricity Board. Power may be generated from a number of sources and hence we have solar power, hydro power, thermal power, diesel power etc. The development of the power generation system in Kerala has been extraordinary. The following table traces this exemplary growth Traditionally, the emphasis in Kerala has been to exploit the huge potential for generation of hydroelectricity. Also since this power is extremely eco-friendly in the sense that the generation of hydro power is non-polluting, inexhaustible and inexpensive, the production of energy by harnessing energy from the many waterfalls and natural of the state made sense. Till recently, the larger part of the state's energy requirement was met by the hydro energy produced in the state by the 20 hydel power plants of the Kerala State Electricity Board. However, the proclamation of the Forest Conservation Act 1980 has hampered the institution of new hydel power generation projects in the state. Only a fraction of the hydro power generation potential has been exploited thus far; of a power generation potential of about 4333 MW, only 1834 MW has been reined in. As the demand and need for power in the state increased with increase in industry and power consumption units, the state could not keep pace by implementing new hydro power projects. Therefore the state's dependency on thermal power also increased. Now, thermal power may be imported or generated indigenously. The possibility of an indigenous plant, as a viable alternative, was ruled out due to two factors- the high expenses incurred due to transportation of coal and the eco hazards faced in setting up and running this project. As the power needs ran into deficit the Kerala State Electricity Board was forced to set up two diesel power plants in the state They were established at Brahmapuram near Kochi (106.6 MW) and at Kozhikode (128 MW). The Government of Kerala also acceded to the institution of 3 Naphta based thermal power plants. These were set up at Kayamkulam by NTPC (360 MW), at Kochi by BKPL (157 MW) and at Kasargode by M/s. KPCL (20 MW). More thermal power also continues to be bought from the Central Generating Stations. The ratio of Thermal to Hydel power in the state stands at 66:34 as in 2003-2004. Subsequent years saw the failure of the monsoons and a further shortage of the hydel power production has led to an increase in the import of thermal power and hence in increased electricity costs and the realization remains lower than the expenses leading to a revenue loss for the Kerala State Electricity Board. As on 31st March, 2003, the expense on procurement of 1 unit was Rs.3.99 but the recovery was only Rs. 2.96. All the villages of the state of Kerala have access to electricity and the percentage of households using electricity is an astounding 84 percent. All 11 kv lines and consumers are metered. Yet for the past years the Kerala State Electricity Board has been running into losses due to these high costs. This deficit is being filled up every year by non payment of interest and electricity duty to the Government, low capital investment and non repayment of liabilities to the PSUs. There are however a number of steps that can alleviate the situation and given time bring about a reversal. There is an immense need to harness the solar energy and put up solar energy generation plants in the state. This is highly productive, requires low capital and is extremely eco friendly. Another bona fide option is the use of biogasifiers. The biogas program implemented by the government since 1998 has ensured that this easily procurable resource is tapped into and the great capacity to produce low cost energy is utilized. The Government of Kerala has mentioned and implemented a few strategies to pull up the Kerala State Electricity Board. These are - "Speedy Completion Of Generation And Transmission, Effective Inventory Management, Speedy Disposal Of Unserviceable Articles; and Consumer Satisfaction". An exhaustive and comprehensive act known as the The Electricity Act, 2003 has been legislated to look into the areas such as electricity generation, supply, distribution, and usage. If the dictates of this act are properly implemented the energy department the energy sector of the Kerala Economy is certain to see bright days ahead. Last Updated on : 23/07/2013 Statewise Mineral Maps of India Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chhattisgarh Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu & Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Nagaland Orissa Punjab Rajasthan Tamil Nadu Uttar Pradesh Uttaranchal West Bengal Kerala Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map Regions Map Kozhikode Monorail Map District Map Rail Map Road Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Travel Map Backwaters Map Beaches Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations Map Pilgrimage Destinations Map About Kerala History Geography Weather Rivers and Lakes Languages Festivals Onam Culture Art Spices Economy             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule