Shaheed Bhagat Singh India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » History » Shaheed Bhagat Singh   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Shaheed Bhagat Singh About Bhagat Singh His legacy prompted the Indian youth to fight for the Independence of India and today in the modern India; Bhagat Singh continues to be a youth icon. The Reserve Bank issued Rs.5 denomination coins to commemorate Bhagat Singh's Birth anniversary. The face of the coin display the portrait of 'Bhagat Singh' with words in Hindi and English. The figures 1907-2007 shown below the portrait. Bhagat Singh is often termed as the 'youth icon' or the 'revolutionary of the youth' but his stature is one that equals some of the prominent names in the Indian freedom struggle. His patriotism was not restricted to the strong violent outburst against the British; he rather had a mind and intellect of a genius who could foresee division of India on communal lines which many of the much esteemed leaders of the time were unable to see. Keeping the cause of country ahead of the religion was another signs of his mature and rational mind. He was kind of a leader that his times were so desperately in need of, when the British needed to be answered back in their very tone. His educational qualifications establish the fact that his opinions and ideas were well thought and not just a product of hysterical mass movements. Personal Life of Bhagat Singh One of the most prominent revolutionaries of India, Bhagat Singh was born on September 28, 1907 in a Sikh family in the village of Banga in Layalpur district of present-day Pakistan. The third son of Sardar Kishan Singh and Vidyavati, Bhagat Singh's father and uncle were members of Ghadar party. Influences on Bhagat Singh He was greatly attracted towards socialism. Believed to be one of India's earliest Marxists, Bhagat Singh was one of the leaders and founders of the Hindustan Socialist Republican Association (HSRA). Bhagat Singh was deeply saddened by the Jalianwala Bagh massacre of 1919. Though he participated in the Non-cooperation movement, he was disappointed when Gandhi called off the agitation after the Chauri Chaura incident. He studied at the National College in Lahore where he came into contact with other revolutionaries such as Bhagwati Charan, Sukhdev and others. He fled from home to escape early marriage and became a member of the organization Naujawan Bharat Sabha. Deeds of Bhagat Singh Bhagat Singh was against individual acts of terrorism and gave a clarion call for mass mobilization. In 1928 he came into contact with another famous revolutionary Chandrasekhar Azad. The two combined to form the 'Hindustan Samajvadi Prajatantra Sangha'. During the Simon Commission's visit to India in February 1928, there were protests against the Simon Commission's visit to Lahore. In one of these protests, Lala Lajpat Rai was injured in a lathicharge and later on succumbed to his injuries. To avenge Lajpat Rai's death, Bhagat Singh decided to kill the British official responsible for the killing, Deputy Inspector General Scott. But he accidentally shot Assistant Superintendent Saunders instead, mistaking him for Scott. Bhagat Singh threw a bomb in the Central Legislative Assembly on April 8, 1929 and thereafter courted arrest. Bhagat Singh, Sukh Dev and Raj Guru were awarded death sentence by a court for their subversive activities. They were hanged on March 23, 1931. Bhagat Singh is seen as the role model by a large number of young people in India. His sense of sacrifice, patriotism and courage are something that will be revered and looked upon by generations to come.   Related Links   Indian freedom movement Sukhdev Chittaranjan Das Shivaram Rajguru Dadabhai Naoroji Surendranath Bannerjee Jatindra Mohan Sengupta Laxmi Sehgal Jawaharlal Nehru Abdul Gafar Khan Khudiram Bose Rash Behari Bose Lala Lajpat Rai Rani Lakshmi Bai Madan Mohan Malviya Ram Singh Kuka Mahatma Gandhi Lala Hardayal Mangal Pandey Begum Hazrat Mahal Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Bipin Chandra Pal Motilal Nehru Sri Alluri Seetarama Raju Nellie Sengupta Veer Savarkar Pandit Balakrishna Sharma Subhash Chandra Bose Puspa Lata Das Bhim Sen Sachar Ram Manohar Lohia Acharya Kripalani Ram Prasad Bismil Aruna Asaf Ali Sagarmal Gopa Ashfaqulla Khan Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Bal Gangadhar Tilak Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chandra Shekhar Azad Last Updated on : August 8, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule