History of Assam Home » Assam » Assam History   Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Silchar Jorhat Haflong Nagoan Guwahati Tezpur Dispur Sibsagar                          more... असम का नक्शा Districts of Assam Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map National Parks of Assam Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Economy & Development Society Travel to Assam Places to Visit in Assam Wildlife Sanctuaries Kamakhya Temple National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Education in Assam Universities in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info       Assam History Assam History speaks of the traditions and cultures of the oldest periods of human civilizations. Enriched by many Dynastic traits, the land of Assam remains one of the most enticing states of India. The notable rulers who once existed in Assam include Ahoms and Kiratas. The archaeological surveys indicate towards the fact that the earliest human communities that appeared in the land of Assam were Australoids and Mongoloids. Known as Kiratas, the Mongoloids were believed to have ruled the entire state of Assam through their capital in Pragjyotishpura. This capital later found mention in the pages of history by the name of Kamarupa. During the periods of 13th century, Assam was ruled by two prime Dynasties of Kamarupa and Ahom. Under the rule of Ahom Dynasty, Assam started a new journey towards becoming a developed land of India. It is between 13th and 19th century that several tribal communities also came into the historical forefront of Assam. Kacharis, Chutias and Koch were the prominent tribal groups that were found in the medieval times of Assam. After the Ahom dynasty, Assam came under the control of Burmese Kingdom. The rulers of Burma continued their unprecedented domination over the state of Assam till the 1800s. In the year 1826, the British emperor took charge of the state and thus begun the colonial era of Assam. However, like all other states of India, Assam was also involved in various freedom movements. With the enthusiastic participation of many courageous activists Assam, along with the entire nation, became independent in 1947. The post-colonial periods of Assam witnessed emergence of several separate states like that of Nagaland, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh. Depicting an immensely interesting array of events,Assam History tells the saga of a glorious bygone era. Periods of Assam History Ancient Ancient Assam witnessed the Dynastic emergence and fall of several rulers. Started from the early periods of 350 AD, the land of Assam, then called as Kamrupa or Pragjyotishpur, had been inhabited by a number of ancient kingdoms like that of Varman, Mlechchha and Pala, among others. The Dynasty of Mlechchha came into existence soon after the fall of Varman Empire. Salasthamba was the prime historic figure who contributed significantly towards the formation of this Dynasty. From around 655 AD to 990 AD, Salsthamba Kingdom presided over the state of Assam. Medieval The ruling dynamics of Medieval Assam includes a number of Dynasties that prevailed in the place at that time. The Khen Empire was the first one which started ruling Assam in the medieval times. Koch, Kachari, Chutia and Ahom were the other prominent Dynasties that marked the ruling periods of medieval Assam. The historical record of medieval Assam points out that Prithu was the first heroic leader who founded the Empire of Kamata. Dominating the land of Kamrupa or ancient Assam till the year 1498, the Khen Kingdom ultimately surrendered itself to Alauddin Hussein Shah of Bengal. Thus began the rule of Turks in the Kingdom of Kamarupa. Mythological This period of Assam narrates several legendary anecdotes that signify the religious heritage of the state. From Vedic epics to tantric tales, Assam finds special mention in some of the important mythological manuscripts of India. The Danava rulers and Lord Krishna were the two prime mythological figures in the history of Assam. Going by the myths of Assam, it can be said that in the ancient periods, it was a favorite dwelling place of many epic characters. The beginning of the mythological era of Assam started with the domination of the Dynasty of Danava. Post-colonial The period signifying the Post-colonial Assam had been enriched by several political movements. Starting from 1947, Assam in its post colonial era witnessed many important events such as the formation of separate states for tribal sects, United Liberation Front of Assam and Assam Students Union, among others. A part of independent India, Assam, in the year 1947, emerged as a crucial state. The people of Post-colonial Assam, particularly the tribal groups, started to demand their own states. Due to continuous agitations by these minority sects, the governing authority of Assam launched a massive campaign for the coming 20 years which involved the creation of separate states. Pre-history This Period of Assam states the presence of neolithic, megalithic, paleolithic and metal age cultures. Also, the geographical locations, ruling periods and cultural specialties of some of the earliest rulers of the state had been found in the prehistoric periods of the state of Assam. The names of Danava Dynasty, Ahom rulers, Barobhuyans, Kachari, Chutia and Koch kingdoms find significant place in the historical archives of Assam. Colonial Beginning of the era of Colonial Assam started in the year 1824 when lower Assam came under the control of British Empire. In 1825 again, the upper regions of Assam became the ruling ground of British Kingdom. In the subsequent years, the entire land of Assam was covered by the British rule. The Yandaboo Treaty in 1825, preceded by the end of Burmese rule in Assam, was a landmark of colonial rule in Assam as it led to the commencement of British rule. In the year 1839, the land of Assam first experienced the Company Raj within its premises Last Updated on 10 January 2011             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule