Department Of Energy : Official Website of Government of Jharkhand Click for Archive Website Skip to Main Content Skip to Navigation Sign In A A A- A A+ Department Of Energy Government of Jharkhand Home About Directory Photo Gallery e Services You are here : Home State Department and Agencies Energy Press Release Acts & Rules Policies Notifications Circulars Publications Citizen Charter View More... About The Department The development of Electric power generation and supply somehow could not receive due attention and priorities in the erstwhile integrated state of Bihar. Inspite of being the second most populous state endowed with all natural resources, the state had the distinction of having the least capacity of power generation. The state had a paltry 1500 MW installed capacity i.e. a meagre 20 watts per capita against national average of 100 watts per capita.                                                                                                                         View More News & Headlines Sorry, no result available under provided search criteria View more Schemes & Tenders   Mission Vision   Downloads Who's Who Featured Links Useful Links Supreme Court Of India High Court Of Jharkhand Govt. Of India Govt. Of Jharkhand Photo in News No images to display in selected folder State Department and Agencies Agriculture Animal Husbandry Art & Culture Board of Revenue Disaster Management Forest & Environment Department of Excise Finance Food & Public Distribution Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Human Resources Industries Information & Public Relations Information Technology Labour & Employment Law (Justice) Power & Energy Rural Development Science & Technology Social Development Transport Tourism Department Water Resources Know More... Know Your District Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka East Singhbhum Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan About Us About the Portal Terms of use Policies & Disclaimer Contact us Site Map Accessibility Statement Help Feedback Screen Reader Access FAQ's Weather For Jharkhand --Select-- Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka Jamshedpur Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan Supported By External website that opens in a new window. External website that opens in a new window. This page was last modified on:Mon Apr 13 12:25:51 UTC 2015 All Rights Reserved by Government of Jharkhand, India. Designed & Maintained by TCSL   in cooperation with NIC and JAPIT Validation HTML5 , CSS3   Back to Top