Madhya Pradesh Rail Network Map Home » Maps » Madhya Pradesh » Madhya Pradesh Rail Network Map   Railways Map of Madhya Pradesh Chhatarpur Indore Sagar Bhopal Sidhi Jabalpur Gwalior                    more... मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Madhya Pradesh Rail Network Map Click any Neighbouring State on the map and get the Detailed State Railway Map Click any District/City on the map and get the Detailed District/City Railway Map Madhya Pradesh Rail Network Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   * Map showing entire railway network in Madhya Pradesh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Heart of India, Madhya Pradesh (MP), is located in central India. Madhya Pradesh's capital is the state's largest city Bhopal . Madhya Pradesh is encircled by Uttar Pradesh (northeast), Rajasthan (northwest), Maharashtra (south), Gujarat (west) and Chhattisgarh (southeast). Madhya Pradesh has good rail connectivity with a total of 20 major junctions. The state has number of criss-cross rail networks running through the state. Jabalpur Junction is the headquarters for Indian Railways' West Central Railway Zone. Balaghat Junction South East Central Railway's Jabalpur-Nainpur-Gondia section has the Balaghat Railway Junction situated in Madhya Pradesh. This junction has rail routes going towards Nainpur, Jabalpur, Mandla, Gondia, Bharveli and Katangi. Earlier, this line was narrow gauge, but was later converted into broad gauge between Balaghat - Gondia in 2005-2006. Bhopal Junction Bhopal Junction is India's major railway junction. It is the prime most railway station in MP's capital city Bhopal. This junction was built in 1941, before India's independence. The city's second station, Bhopal Habibganj, was built in 1975. Later, Bhopal got four new local railway stations. Some important trains pass through Bhopal Junction for Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Haryana, Uttrakhand, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, and for destinations within Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Dewas Junction Dewas Junction belongs to Western Railway (India) Zone's Ratlam Division and is a broad gauge railway station. This junction connects major cities in India. Dewas Junction lies between the branch line of Indore Junction and Ujjain Junction. Regular trains are headed to Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Pune, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Jaipur, Kanpur, Patna, Thiruvananthpuram, Coimbatore, Eranakulam, Nagpur, Jammutavi, Amritsar, Dehradun, Ajmer, Jodhpur, Chhindwara, Jablapur, Gandhinagar, Gwalior and many other major cities. All the express and superfast trains stop here. Gwalior Junction This junction's station is important for the Gwalior city. It is taken care by the North Central Railway and is the Jhansi Division's part. Allahadbad is its zonal headquarter. This station has been awarded with the clean infrastructure awards by the Indian Railways for 1987, 1988, 1989 and 1992. All express and superfast trains halt at this station. The narrow and broad gauge tracks are still functional. Gwalior's narrow gauge rail track is India's narrowest track. Gwalior comes in India's longest operational broad gauge rail line between Delhi and Mumbai. Indore Junction Indore Junction, which has the broad gauge station, is a prime most important railway station in Indore. It connects well to Ujjain, Bhopal, Gwalior, Katni, Jabalpur, Khandwa, Bina and Ratlam within the state, and connects major cities in the states of Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Haryana, New Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. However, direct trains from Indore to the states of Orissa, Assam, Goa and Himachal Pradesh still lacks. Jabalpur Junction Jabalpur Junction is West Central Railways' headquarters. The rails directly connect to major cities such as Mumbai, Chennai, New Delhi, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Surat, Nagpur, Pune, Ludhiana, Patna, Coimbatore, Jammu, Bhopal, Agra, Vasco-Da-Gama, Indore, Varanasi, Jaipur, Kanpur, Bhubhaneshwar, Vadodara, Lucknow, Raipur, Puri, etc. This being a broad and narrow gauge rail station, it connects to the state as well as all over the country. Ratlam Junction Ratlam Junction is a major railway station on Indian Railways, which is a broad gauge rail line. This track comes under the Western Railways zone. Four major rail lines pass via Ratlam City along Mumbai, Khandwa, Ajmer and Delhi. Khandwa's rail track is a meter gauge line. Last Updated on : 15 th March 2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image