KrishiKosh:Home Skip navigation Home Browse Communities & Collections Browse Items by: Issue Date Author Title Subject Help Sign on to: My KrishiKosh Receive email updates Edit Profile KrishiKosh (कृषिकोष ) An Institutional Repository of Indian National Agricultural Research System  KrishiKosh > Sign on to: My KrishiKosh Institutions in KrishiKosh Browse Institution's repository Acharya NG Ranga Agricultural University Anand Agricultural University Bihar Agricultural University Central Arid Zone Research Institute Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute Central Institute Of Fisheries Education Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute Central Plantation Crops Research Institute Central Potato Research Institute Central Rice Research Institute Central Soil Salinity Research Institute Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University Directorate Of Oilseeds Research Govind Ballabh Pant University Of Agriculture And Technology Indian Agricultural Research Institute Indian Council of Agricultural Research Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute Indian Institute Of Horticultural Research Indian Institute of Spices Research Indian Veterinary Research Institute Indian Veterinary Research Institute-Mukteswar KrishiPrabha - Thesis Collection Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth National Academy Of Agricultural Research Management National Bureau Of Agriculturally Important Insects National Bureau Of Plant Genetic Resources National Bureau Of Soil Survey And Land Use Planning National Dairy Research Institute National Institute of Research on Jute and Allied Fibre Technology National Research Centre On Coldwater Fisheries - Bhimtal Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology Project Directorate on Poultry Tamilnadu Agricultural University Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru ztest Recent Submissions Soil physical quality and nutrient availability in some maize growing soils of Bihar See Soil being a heterogeneous body, there is a very limited scope to judge the relative fitness with respect to different soil physical characteristics and their designated functions for better crop growth. Soil physical quality (SPQ) can be a platform that involves assessment of soil properties and processes as they relate to the ability of a soil to function effectively as a component of a healthy ecosystem. Geo referenced soil samples collected from some maize growing soils from Khagaria and ... Studies on genetic diversity in rice (Oryza Sativa L.) See Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is one of the staple cereal crops of the world and it is one of the main source of carbohydrate for nearly one half of the world population .Genetic diversity is the basic requirement for making progress in crop breeding. Inclusion of genetically divergent parents of any breeding programme is essential to create new genetic stocks. Genetic diversity is the most important tool in hands of the plant breeder in choosing the right type of parents for hybridization programme... Agri-entrepreneurs of Bihar See The book “Agri-entrepreneurs of Bihar” is a collection of successful cases of farmers who have transformed agriculture into a mega-entrepreneurial activity in Bihar. The cases are from all the twenty Krishi Vigyan Kendras located in different districts of Bihar under the jurisdiction of Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour. The cases in several domains of agriculture and allied disciplines underline the importance of agriculture in the state which has the capability to bring about a change i... HAPPENING AT BAU See krishak Sandesh See Minimally processed foods: Technologies for safety, quality, and convenience See The safety and efficacy of minimal food processing depends on the use of novel preservation technologies. This book first examines what is meant by minimally processed foods, including fresh-cut, cooked-chilled, and part-baked products. Next explored are the technologies or methods to produce quality products in terms of safety and nutrition, including: edible coating, natural preservatives (i.e., antimicrobial, flavour enhancer, anti-browning), advanced packaging (active, antimicrobial, and ... Climate Dynamics in Horticultural Science, Volume Two: Impact, Adaptation, and Mitigation See Climate change and increased climate variability in terms of rising temperatures, shifting rainfall patterns, and increasing extreme weather events, such as severe drought and devastating floods, pose a threat to the production of agricultural and horticultural crops—a threat this is expected to worsen. Climate change is already affecting—and is likely to increase—invasive species, pests, and disease vectors, all adversely affecting agri-horticultural crop productivity. Advances in agricultu... Climate Dynamics in Horticultural Science, Volume One: The Principles and Applications See Climate change and increased climate variability in terms of rising temperatures, shifting rainfall patterns, and increasing extreme weather events, such as severe drought and devastating floods, pose a threat to the production of agricultural and horticultural crops—a threat this is expected to worsen. Climate change is already affecting—and is likely to increase—invasive species, pests, and disease vectors, all adversely affecting agri-horticultural crop productivity. Advances in agricultu... Effect of weed management practices on growth and yield of pigeonpea [Cajanus cajan (L.) Millspaugh] See Pigeonpea being a kharif season crop is highly infested with narrow and broad leaved weeds. Timely weed control is very essential for realization of yield potential of pigeonpea. Due to wider row spacing and initial slow growth of pigeonpea, weeds pose a major problem to its productivity which may lead to its yield reduction up to 80%. Manual and mechanical methods of weed control are quite effective, but they are costly and time consuming. However, due to frequent rains it becomes difficult ... Effect of plant geometry and seed treatment on growth and yield of wheat (Triticum aestivum L. emend. Fiori & Paol) under system of wheat intensification (SWI) See Wheat (Triticum aestivum L. emend. Fiori & Paol.) is one of the leading food crops of the world farming and occupies significant position among the cultivated cereals. Cultivation of wheat has been the symbolic of green revolution that played pivotal role in making the nation a food surplus nation. System of Wheat Intensification (SWI) is a synergistic management technique involving a few components of wheat farming such as planting, irrigation, weeding, nutrient management and seed treatment... Heterosis and combining ability study for high yield in maize (Zea mays L.) hybrids See The present study was conducted at the field of maize section, Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour, Bhagalpur. The investigation was based on per se performance, combining ability and heterosis of exotic lines and their single cross hybrids with a view to know the performance of the parents and F1(crosses). The Line x Tester analysis was carried out involving 9 exotic lines and 4 testers (Tulbulia local, BML6, BML7, Suwan). Each line was crossed on to each of the tester during kharif 2... Pheno-physiological and bioactive attributes of commercial Indian mango cultivarc See Mango (Mangifera indica L.) is one of the most important tropical and sub-tropical fruit belongs to the family anacardiaceae. Bihar has the wider adaptability of mango cultivars rich in bioactive compounds such as ascorbic acid, polyphenols, carotenoids and receiving increased attention because of their potential antioxidant activity. Evaluation of the Indian mango cultivars for their bioactive compounds from health point of view, under Bihar condition has very meagrely done. Therefore, the p... Genetic influence on growth and carcass traits of Vanaraja and Gramapriya birds and their crosses See The present experiment was conducted on four genetic groups of poultry involving Vanaraja (VR) and Gramapriya (GP) breeds maintained at instructional livestock farm of Bihar Veterinary College, Patna -14 on random mating for a large number of generations. The four genetic groups were formed in the following manner given below: 1. VR♂♂ x VR ♀♀ 2. GP♂♂ x GP ♀♀ 3. VR♂♂ x GP ♀♀ 4. GP♂♂ x VR ♀♀ The data were obtained collected on 300 birds of which 120 and 180 were males and females respecti... Genetic impact on some of the reproductive and egg quality traits of Vanaraja and Gramapriya birds and their crosses See The present study was conducted on two purebreds, namely Vanaraja (dual purpose type) and Gramapriya (the layer type) chicken and their crosses maintained at Institutional livestock farm complex , Bihar veterinary college Patna-14 on random mating. The genetic group taken were as Pure breds Crossbreds 1. GP♂♂ x GP♀♀ 3. GP♂♂ x VR ♀♀ 2. VR♂♂ x VR♀♀ 4. VR ♂♂ x GP ♀♀ Six males and 30 females were taken from each genetic group and maintained separately under deep litter system with... Mineral nutrient accumulation during fruit growth of Mango (Mangifea indica L.) See The interpretation of fruit analysis must consider many factors that may influence foliar nutrient levels, seasonal differences related to rainfall, fruit load, pruning, age, variety, rootstock, nutritional interaction and nutrient removal. Information about the nutritional status of a plant is a basic prerequisite for its adequate nutrition and crucial to achieve high yield productivity. Assessing the annual amount of nutrient that tree needs to absorb in order to successfully complete a veg... Studies on macrophomina root rot of groundnut (Arachis hypogaea L.) See Macrophomina root rot of groundnut (Arachis hypogaea L.) is an emerging problem in Bihar, where groundnut is extensively grow in large area as a major Kharif and spring oilseed crop. Its incidence varies from 0-32 percent in two seasons. On isolation from diseased plants, the associated pathogen was identified as Macrophomina phaseolina (Tassi.) Goid and its pathogencity was confirmed on Groundnut variety R-20 under artificially inoculated conditions. The typical symptoms of the disease may ... Geo-Spatial approach in Soils and Land resource mapping of Katihar district of Bihar See Characterization and evaluation of land resources of watershed was carried out using IRSP6-LISS-III along with the concerned toposheet No. - 72O (Katihar district, survey of India, 1914). The major physiographic units namely, Kosi, its branches and tributaries (1-3 % slope, Aquic Ustipsamments and Aquic Ustifluvents), Mahananda and its tributaries in the east (Typic Endoaquents and Aquic Udifluvents) and the areas affected by Ganga in the south(1-3 % slope, Typic Fluvaquents) were identified.... BAU EK NAZAR See BAU EK NAZAR See HAPPENING AT BAU See Discover Author 125 University Of Agricultural Sciences 118 CCS Haryana Agricultural University 96 Mudgal, V D 94 Not Available 60 Indian science news association 59 IISR CaliCut 52 DARE/ICAR 51 ICAR 50 CRRI 45 Arora, S P . next > Subject 394 ||| 34 CIFRI, Newsletter, India, Inland,... 16 nitrogen, rice, developmental sta... 15 alcohols, biological phenomena, c... 12 crops, vegetables, diseases, biol... 12 planting, protoplasts, manpower, ... 11 CIFRI, Newsletter, Inland, Fisher... 11 enzymes, irrigation, polyploidy, ... 11 oils 10 breeds (animals), seasons, biolog... . next > Date issued 9725 2000 - 2015 37783 1900 - 1999 1104 1800 - 1899 54 1700 - 1799 2 1600 - 1699 1 1597 - 1599 Maintained By IARI, New Delhi Copyright © 20012 Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi.|   | Powered By Dspace | Feedback ​