Narayana Upadhyay - Organic Certification - Thursday Oct 24, 2013 AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Webinars, Talks and Live Discussion Narayana Upadhyay - Organic Certification - Thursday Oct 24, 2013 Results 1 to 4 of 4 Thread: Narayana Upadhyay - Organic Certification - Thursday Oct 24, 2013 LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… October 19th, 2013 #1 educationteam Moderator Join Date Apr 2013 Posts 185 Narayana Upadhyay - Organic Certification - Thursday Oct 24, 2013 You are invited to attend a webinar (live discussion) on Organic Certifications with Narayana Upadhyay of Aditi Organic Certifications Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore. To know more about Narayana Upadhyay follow the link below About Us | Aditi Organic Certifications Pvt.Ltd. In this live discussion you will be able to ask questions related to " How to avail organic certification " How to attend this online meeting: Date: Thursday Oct 24, 2013 Time: 2pm IST Location: Online Meeting via GoToMeeting. Limited seats available. First come first serve only. Meeting Link https://www1.gotomeeting.com/join/546849480 You will be connected to audio using your computer's microphone and speakers (VoIP). A headset is recommended. Meeting ID: 546-849-480 Not at your computer? Click the link to join this meeting from your iPhone®, iPad® or Android® device via the GoToMeeting app. If this is the first time you are using GoToMeeting (online meeting software) we suggest you download and test this meeting link well in advance. If you need any help in joining this meeting please call us at 080-49101303 or email: support@agricultureinformation.com Please use this thread to ask all your questions before and after the webinar. During the webinar the speaker will respond to all the questions posted on this thread. Even if you are unable to attend the meeting live you can ask your questions now for the speaker - just hit "reply" ask list your questions. I look forward to seeing you in the meeting. Rajani Jain Webinar Coordinator AgricultureInformation.com Reply With Quote October 23rd, 2013 #2 ashokmore Join Date Sep 2013 Posts 8 organic certification for bio organic manuar fertilizer we are manufacturer of 100% bio organic manuar fertilizer with soluble mineral metal .this is fly ash based fertilizer. please let us know if this fertilizer may be organic certified ? and what advantage will be obtained after certification. Reply With Quote November 10th, 2013 #3 educationteam Moderator Join Date Apr 2013 Posts 185 Here is a recording of the presentation for those who could not attend. Reply With Quote May 22nd, 2014 #4 locavoret Join Date May 2014 Posts 2 This is a great Webinar for all to watch and learn about Certified organics. Another great resources I found a couple days ago is Agrilicious! | What is Organic Farming . It allows one to further there knowledge on organics. I would suggest watching this webinar and reading this article to become a very knowledgeable person about organics. Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread agricultureinformation , organic certification View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 04:57 PM .