 Census of India : Website Disclaimer Your browser does not support script    You are here: Home / Website Policy & Disclaimer Website Policy & Disclaimer   Copyright Policy, Terms of Use & Website Disclaimer Terms of Use : This website is designed and developed by office of the Registrar General India, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India. All efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy and currency of the content on this website. However, users are requested to verify/check any information with us to obtain appropriate professional advice before acting on the information provided in the website. In no event will the Government or office of the Registrar General India be liable for any expense, loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any expense, loss or damage whatsoever arising from use, or loss of use, of data, arising out of or in connection with the use of this website. Material featured on this website may be reproduced only after taking proper permission from us. However, the material has to be reproduced accurately and not to be used in a derogatory manner or in a misleading context. Wherever the material is being published or issued to others, the source must be prominently acknowledged. Linking Policy- Links to external websites : Links to other websites that have been included on this website are provided for public convenience only. office of the Registrar General India is not responsible for the contents or reliability of linked websites and does not necessarily endorse the view expressed within them. We can not guarantee the availability of such linked pages. Also, we have no control over the availability/content of links to external websites. Links to Our Website by other websites : We do not object to you linking directly to the information that is hosted on this website and no prior permission is required for the same. However, we would like you to inform us about any links provided to this website so that you can be informed of any changes. Also, we do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on your site. Disclaimer: Data and information is provided at the Census of India website for information only. The Census of India or any data or content providers shall not be liable for any errors in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. Endorsement: Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by The Census of India. The views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of The Census of India and shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes. The appearance of external hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by The Census of India of the linked web sites, or the information, products or services contained therein. For other than authorized Census of India activities, Census of India does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. All links are provided with the intent of meeting the mission of the The Census of India. Liability: With respect to documents available from this server, neither The Census of India nor any of its employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, including the warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Copyright: Material on this site subject to copyright unless otherwise indicated. The material may be downloaded without requiring prior permission. Any other proposed use of the material is subject to the approval of ORGI - New Delhi. Application for obtaining permission should be made to ORGI, New Delhi  