Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Resources >> Reports & Papers reports & papers Research Briefs Research Brief 1: The Role of Research in Disaster Risk Reduction The Advanced Centre for Enabling Disaster Risk Reduction (ACEDRR) has supported practitioners to engage in a number of research studies on specific aspects of disaster risk reduction. These studies have already impacted some ofthe decisions made at the field level by development practitioners. Download: Research Brief 1: The Role of Research in Disaster Risk Reduction Research Brief 2: The Role of Microfinance and Micro Insurance in Disaster Risk Reduction This multi-country research study examines the ways in which microfinance and micro insurance tools provide social security to the disaster prone areas ofIndia, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. It asks how microfinance and micro insurance institutions contribute to disaster management. Download: Research Brief 2: The Role of Microfinance and Micro Insurance in Disaster Risk Reduction Research Brief 3: Rainfed Farming and Disaster Risk Reduction Rainfed farmers in the south of India are suffering because long-steady rainfall patterns are changing rapidly. The Advanced Centre for Enabling Disaster Risk Reduction (ACEDRR) sponsored research that predicts the future trends ofrainfall patterns, and offers alternative cropping patterns. Download: Research Brief 3: Rainfed Farming and Disaster Risk Reduction Pilots Briefs Pilots-Brief-1-Information: A Lifeline for Vulnerable Communities Because poor communication contributes to the disaster vulnerability of poor communities, the Advanced Centre for Enabling Disaster Risk Reduction (ACEDRR) at the DHAN Foundation undertook four pilot projects that explored ways to share knowledge and establish communication systems to save the lives ofpoor people in disaster situations. Download: Pilots Brief 1: Information: A Lifeline for Vulnerable Communities Pilots-Brief-2-Indigenous Coping Mechanisms for Disaster Risk Reduction Vulnerable people develop their own disaster mitigation strategies, regardless of intervention from outside aid workers. By understanding these preparedness or coping activities, practitioners can build on them, rather than undermine them. ACEDRR has supported a local NGO to document 100 indigenous practices that farmers and herders in rural Tamil Nadu use to increase their disaster resilience. Download: Pilots Brief 2: Indigenous Coping Mechansims for Disaster Risk Reduction Pilots-Brief-3-Institutionalizing Disaster Risk Reduction In an effort to learn how to make disaster risk reduction sustainable, the Advanced Centre for Enabling Disaster Risk Reduction (ACEDRR) atTata-Dhan Academy, has supported four pilot projects that try to mainstream disaster risk reduction into long term policies, programs and practices. Download: Pilots Brief 3: Institutionalizing Disaster Risk Reduction   Achieving MDGs: DHAN’s way With only five years left until the 2015 target date to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), world leaders are to gather in New York on 20–22 September 2010 to boost progress against poverty. ‘Achieving MDGs: DHAN’s way’ is a collection of case studies on DHAN’s projects compiled. Read More... Policy Briefs Encroachment of small-scale water bodies–Emerging solutions for eviction Financial Inclusion: Integrating Micro Finance into Water and Agriculture Role of Tanks in Groundwater Management Historical Perspectives of Tank Technologies and their Relevance in Modern Era Crop Insurance for Sustaining Agricultural Production Cultivation Practices for improved Tankfed Agriculture Conflict Resolution in Conservation and Management of Tanks (small scale water bodies) Resource Mobilisation for Rehabilitation of Tanks With People’s Involvement Tank Based Watershed Development for Sustaining Farmers Livelihoods Encroachment of small scale water bodies: Emerging solutions for eviction Farm Ponds for Enhancing Food Security Tank slit Application for Agricultural Production Enhancement - Scope, Issues and Challengers ﻿ news & events Inviting Applications from qualified Post Graduates and Professionals to pursue 2 years Post graduated in Development Management (MBA) Development Management programme in Community Radio, June 5-7, 2015 SBI Youth for India fellowship applications now open : DHAN Foundation is a partner of the SBI Youth for India fellowship program 2015-16. The program aims at providing opportunity for the young professionals to enjoy a life with grassroots. It would help them to unleash their skills and knowledge on various development activities for the betterment of the rural communities. To find out more about the programme please click.. DHAN Foundation has been chosen as one of the top 20 for the RISK AWARD announced by United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Reduction (UNISDR), Global Risk Forum (GRF Davos), and Munich Re Foundation. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 Walkathon 2015 Photos of DHAN Collectives More News >> support us Development of Humane Action (DHAN) stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved Back to Top