Timeline of Indian history | Interactive Map of India History Timeline Home » History » Flash History   History of India Independence Battles of India Delhi in 1857 India Map in 1956 Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Dynasties Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic History of India       Timeline of Indian history Interactive Map of India History Pre-Historic Ancient Medieval British Modern Indus Valley Stone Age The Gupta Empire The Harshvardhana Empire Sixteen Mahajanpadas Maurya Period The Marathas Mughal Empire Empire of Tughlaqs Revolution of 1857 India Pre-Partition India in 1951 India in 1956 India States and Capital as Today History of India is varied and rich. It has its share of joys and sorrows and yet has marched proudly with the times and has come up a winner in the modern times. Indian history is made up of many cultures of the rulers who invaded India and expanded their empire here. Timeline Ancient India The Indian subcontinent in the ancient times comprised of Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Tibet and Myanmar. It was home to complex civilization and has been into existence for more than 5,000 years. The timeline of ancient India spans from 3300 to 500 BCE. The beginning of the Indus valley civilization can be dated back to 3000BC. Harappa cities were established 2500 BC. Around 2000 BC began the decline of the Indus valley civilization. In the 1600 BC, the Aryans drove away the Dravidians and lived here hence after. They started the use of iron tools around 1100 BC. Rig Veda is supposed to be the important holy scripture of ancient India and was composed during the 1000 BC. The Indo-Aryans conquered the whole of north India from Indus and Ganges and ruled over 16 states. Later in the 700 BC the caste system started taking shape and declared Brahmans as the highest class. During the 527BC Prince Siddhartha Gautama attains enlightenment and becomes Buddha, which then becomes one of the major religions in India and abroad and after a few years, Prince Mahavira founded Jainism in 500 BC. In the same period we can see the rise of Maurya dynasty. The Gupta era sees a downfall in the period of 528 AD. Timeline Medieval India 1290 AD, Jalal ud-din Firuz establishes his sultanate at Delhi and here begins the rule of the Mughul Empire in India. Thereafter many Mughal rulers ruled India. 1343 AD saw the southern kingdom build the capital at Vijaynagar. They took over the Mughal sultanate of Madura. Babur invades India in 1497 and establishes in India. His son takes over the kingdom after his death in 1530. Later Akbar becomes the king and is supposed to have had a very prosperous kingdom till his death and is considered as one of the greatest rulers of medieval India. His son Jahangir takes over in 1605. It has been stated, during the 1611 AD, many foreign rulers came to India including the East India Company to trade and established their empire here. In 1627 a Hindu King Shivaji of the Maratha Kingdom establishes in the Northern and western part of India. 1631 AD is famous for the building of Taj Mahal that was built during the period of Shah Jahan. But in 1658 AD Aurangzeb seizes power and takes over from his father and sends him to exile. Aurangzeb died in 1701 thus ending the Mughul era. Timeline modern India In 1751 AD, Britain becomes the most powerful colonial power in India and defeats Siraj-ud-daulah and seizes power of the northern parts of India. Marathas had control over most parts of northern and central parts of India during the 1761 AD. By this time the British had become very powerful and control over most of the southern parts as well. 1769 AD saw a worst famine that killed around 10 million people in Bengal and the British did nothing to help. In 1799AD the British defeated Tipu Sultan in the south and took over the administration of Mysore. In 1848 Lord Dalhousie becomes the first Governor General of India. It is also known that the railway, telegraph and the postal services were introduced in India in 1853 AD. This saw India become a modern country and started developing at a faster speed. 1858 AD is an important year that says the British officially takes over the Indian government and proclaimed the Queen of England as the Empress of India. By then the freedom struggle was spread all over the country and people were now against the British rule. It was in 1885 AD that saw the first meeting of the Indian National Congress. In 1912 AD the capital was shifted to Delhi from Calcutta. 1934 AD the civil disobedience was called off and Quit India movement was launched in 1942 AD. India got its independence in 1947 AD from the British and is now known as the Republic of India. Last Updated on : May 23, 2015             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule