Banana Fiber - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Banana Fiber Banana Fiber Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Description Product Description Banana plant are dumped as waste, farmers often face the problem of disposal of Pseudo stems and these huge stocks are getting accumulated in banana growing areas. The fruitful utilization of these stems is there fore an important issue related to Banana Cultivation. Apart from the uses, Banana offers a food source of the fiber with excellent commercial value. Fiber is extracted from the pseudo stems of the Banana after the harvest. Banana fiber is a major alternative to pulp industry. Raw material is freely available. The Banana fiber project creates a lot of employment opportunities in urban and rural sectors. (As a wealth from waste concept) Banana fiber is eco friendly and biodegradable comparing to all other synthetic fibers. India has about 5 lakh hactares of Banana cultivation only 10% of the Banana waste (Pseudo stems) is extracted as fiber, mostly the fiber is extracted by manual process, and the yield of fiber is very low and this kind of manual process needs skilled labours. If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: CAU2 . Category: Farm Output . Tag: banana . Social share Related Products Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Output Organic Sunrise Natural Products Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Extracts , Farm Output Shadow dried soursop leaves powder Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Planting Material High yielding Grand Naine (Musa accuminata) BANANA – Virus free plants Free Read More Send enquiry Quick View Fresh Produce Grand Naine Bananas Free Read More Request Price Quick View Farm Output Musk Dana Free Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Output , Processed Items Kokum Butter: For cosmetics Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics irrigation magazine medicinal plants net pots npk organic fertiliser packaging