Victoria Memorial Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Kolkata Travel Tourist Map How to Reach Kolkata Shopping Airports in Kolkata Hotels in Kolkata Kolkata Travel Agents Places to Visit in Kolkata Religious Places in Kolkata Indian Museums Serene And Beautiful Prinsep Ghat Rabindra Sarovar Lake Hangseswari Temple Bandel Church Kalighat Temple Thanthania Kalibar Belur Math Dakshineshwar Temple Pareshnath Jain Temple Nakhoda Mosque St. Paul's Cathedral St John's Church Armenian Church Monuments in Kolkata Howrah Bridge Rabindra Sadan Victoria Memorial Vidyasagar Setu Kolkata Race Course National Library Shahid Minar Marble Palace MP Birla Planetarium Museums in Kolkata Birla Industrial Rabindra Bharti Birla Art Asutosh Museum Gurusaday Museum Gardens in Kolkata Botanical Garden Zoological Garden Agri Horticultural Garden Amusement Parks in Kolkata Aquatica Nicco Park Swabhumi Science City Millennium Park Nalban Boating Complex Clown Town Cities to Visit Near Kolkata Darjeeling Travel Siliguri Travel Sunderbans Travel Chandannagar Travel Krishnanagar Travel About Kolkata Kolkata Map Kolkata Metro Map Kolkata District Map Kolkata Tehsil Map Kolkata Weather West Bengal Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in West Bengal Getting Around Places to Visit in West Bengal West Bengal History West Bengal Climate Home » Kolkata » Places of Interest » Famous Monuments » Shahid Minar in Kolkata Victoria Memorial The Victoria Memorial, situated near Jawaharlal Nehru road in Kolkata, West Bengal, is one of the prime tourist destinations for people from India and overseas. The memorial was built to serve a dual purpose - to mark the great success of the British Empire in India, and as a memorial to Queen Victoria. These days, the Victoria Memorial Hall has been turned into a museum which is maintained by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India. The museum showcases sketches, miniatures, paintings, books, statues, as well as arms providing insight into that crucial period of Indian history. About Queen Victoria The Empress of India, Queen Victoria served the Great Britain as a monarch for more than 63 years. She was made the Queen of the United Kingdom in 1837 after the death of her uncle William IV. She passed away in the year 1901 and was succeeded by her son King Edward VII. History The Victoria Memorial was built between 1906 and 1921 in the honour of Queen Victoria. The idea to construct a memorial in the honour of Queen Victoria was suggested in January 1901 by Lord Curzon, the then Viceroy of India. The foundation stone of the memorial was laid on 4 January 1906 by the Prince of Wales (King George V). After being under construction for 15 years, the memorial was ready to be visited by public in 1921. The construction work of the memorial was given to Messrs. Martin & Co., Calcutta. The memorial has been constructed using funds of about 10 million rupees, contributed by the Indian princely states. Architecture The memorial has been designed in white Makrana marble following the Indo-Saracenic revivalist architectural style. A product of Mughal, Deccani, British, Egyptian, Venetian, as well as Islamic designs, the white memorial was under the architectural supervision of William Emerson, the president of the Royal Institute of British Architects. Emerson also had the credit of designing the Crawford Market in Mumbai. The bridge of the north and the garden gates have been designed by Vincent J. Esch, the assistant of William Emerson. On the top of the central dome is a figure of 'Angel of Victory'. It is a 4.9-metre-tall statue and weighs five tonnes. Royal Gallery The gallery has numerous paintings by Jansen and Winterhalter, depicting scenes from the lives of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. The treasured artifacts at the gallery include: A piano that was gifted to Victoria in 1829 when she was 10 years old. The piano is famous as the grand piano. Recently the piano has been shifted to the central gallery of the Victoria Memorial. A writing desk which was used by Queen Victoria at the Windsor Castle. The Jaipur Procession: It is the third-biggest oil painting in the world. It depicts King Edward VII visiting his state in 1876. Some of the paintings depict: Victoria receiving the sacrament at her coronation in Westminster Abbey in June 1838. Victoria's marriage to Albert at St. James' Palace in 1840. The christening of the Prince of Wales ((Edward VII) in St. George's Chapel, Windsor Castle in 1842. Marriage of the Prince of Wales to Princess Alexandra in 1863. The First Jubilee service at Westminster Abbey in 1887. The Second Jubilee service at St. Paul's Cathedral in 1897. Calcutta gallery The Calcutta Gallery at the Victoria Memorial is the first city gallery of India. The initiative to set up the gallery was taken up by the then Education Minister of India, Prof. S. Nurul Hasan with the aim to attract intellectuals from all over the world to the memorial. Paintings at the gallery: Bipin Behari Dutta by R. B. Dutta Michael Madhusudan Dutt Ram Mohan Roy Pontoon bridge between Calcutta and Howrah (popular as Howrah Bridge) Card Players by Bhabani Charan Laha Devendranath Tagore Pykar or peddlers by Mrs. Belnos Goddess Kali by Beni Madhab Bhattacharjee Some of the other galleries in the memorial are: The National Leaders' Gallery The Portrait Gallery The Central Hall The Sculpture Gallery The Arms and Armoury gallery Gardens Spread over an area of 64 acres, the gardens surrounding the memorial have been designed by David Prain and Redesdale. The garden is maintained by a 21-member team of gardeners. Towards the gate in the north, there is a statue of Queen Victoria in bronze. A product of Sir George Frampton, the statue depicts the queen sitting on her throne. There is an Edward Lawn where the visitors can see a bronze statue of the King Edward VII under the memorial arch in the southern part of the complex. It was designed by Sir Bertram Mackennal. Another lawn, Curzon Lawn, has a sculpture of Curzon designed by Frederic William Pomeroy. The garden contains many other statues, including that of Cornwallis, Hastings, Clive, Dalhousie, Bentinck, Wellesley, Ripon, Andrew H. L. Fraser and Rajendranath Mookerjee. The Victoria Memorial - Entry Fee, Timing, Address, Official Website Address Queen's Way, Kolkata, West Bengal - 700001 The Entry Fee for Gardens Daily ticket : 4 Rs. Per person Monthly ticket : 100 Rs. Per person Yearly ticket : 1000 Rs. (Garden tickets does not entitle entry to the museum building). Timing Visiting Hours - 5:30 AM - 7.00 PM Days When Closed Monday The Entry Fee for Museum: Entry fee for Indians: 10 Rs. Entry fee for Foreigners : 150 Rs. Entry fee for Children : Free for school children up to 12 years age in uniform and Army personnel in uniform * (Ticket counter closes half an hour before the closure of galleries) Please Note: The museum remains closed to visitors on every Monday and the office remains closed on Sundays and on 2nd Saturdays of every month and also on other Indian Government Holidays. Timing Visiting Hours - 10.00 hrs to 17.00 hrs Days When Closed Monday and All national holidays Entry Fee for the Victoria Memorial Hall: Entry fee for Indians and Foreigners: 10 Rs. and 20 Rs. Entry fee for Children : No entry fee for children up to 3 years Light & Sound (Son-et-Lumiere) shows regularly, as a permanent special event   Timing October to February: 6.15 PM - 7.00 PM (Bengali) 7.15 PM - 8.00 PM (English) March to June: 6.45 PM - 7.30 PM (Bengali) 7.45 PM - 8.30 PM (English) Days When Closed Monday and All national holidays Phone No (Official) +91-33-22231890 , +91-33-22231891 Official Website www.victoriamemorial-cal.org/timing.html Photography allowed or not Only permitted outside the memorial. Nearest railway station Howrah Jn Train Station Last Updated on : April 18, 2015 Famous Monuments in Kolkata MP Birla Planetarium Kolkata Race Course Shaheed Minar Marble Palace Rabindra Sadan Howrah Bridge National Library Vidyasagar Setu Places of Interest in Kolkata Gardens in Kolkata Amusement Parks in Kolkata Museums in Kolkata Religious Places in Kolkata Famous Monuments Shoppiong Areas Sunderbans Kolkata Travel Route Maps Trains to Kolkata Flights to Kolkata Buses from Kolkata Kolkata Metro Kolkata Airports Travel Agents Distance Chart Hotels in Kolkata Restaurants in Kolkata Shopping in Kolkata About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule