ï»¿ AED     Gallery Links Site Map FAQ           Home Schemes Central Sector Demonstration of Agricultural Machinery and Implements Training to Farmers on operation and maintenance of Agrl. Machinery State Sector Rain water harvesting and Run off management programme Master plan - Artificial Recharge to Ground Water SWC in Tribal areas under Integrated Tribal Development Programme Pulses Villages in Rain fed Areas - NADP Scheme to Revive Agriculture In Fallow Land - NADP SWC under Hill Area Development Programme Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project Soil Conservations in the Catchment of River Valley Project - NADP SWC under Western Ghats Development Programme Agricultural Mechanization under NADP Training on operation and maintenance of farm machinery Training rural youth on agricultural machinery and implements Diesel Engine Pump set with Rain gun / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation. Solar Powered Pumping system with Micro Irrigation Solar Chilli Drier Onion Storage structures TN IAMWARM Project Centre and State Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Command Area Development and Water Management Programme Services Land Development Minor Irrigation Mandate Downloads RTI Contacts                                 Schemes State Sector   Training Programme to rural youth on handling and maintenance of agricultural machinery and implements       Objectives     To impart training to rural youth in handling and maintenance of agricultural machinery. To improve the quality of manpower engaged in the field of Agricultural Mechanisation To accelerate the pace of Agricultural Mechanisation in the State. To improve the skill development To motivate the youth for the use of latest farm machinery / equipments / implements to increase agricultural production and productivity.     Funding Pattern     State Plan Scheme     Project Area     Coimbatore, Madurai, Vellore, Trichy, Thiruvarur and Tirunelveli     Details of Works     Training programmes to rural youth on handling and maintenance of agricultural machinery and implements are conducted.     Eligibility     Youth upto 35 years age and minimum 8th Std passed qualification.     Subsidy     Training imparted with 100 % grant.     Officer to be approached     Assistant Executive Engineer (A.E) in the Revenue Division Executive Engineer (A.E) in the District. Superintending Engineer (A.E) in the Region. Chief Engineer(AE), Agricultural Engineering Department, 487, Anna Salai, Nandanam, Chennai-600 035. Phone - 24352686, 24352622                            