Ministry of Tribal Affairs — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Social Welfare / NGO-Voluntary Sector / Government of India Schemes for NGOs / Ministry of Tribal Affairs Share Views View Edit Suggest Contributors State: Open for Edit Info Ministry of Tribal Affairs This section covers the information related to Ministry of Tribal Affairs Schemes to NGOs Contents Award of Special Incentive (ASI) to NGOs for improvement of Infrastructure Funding Pattern The quantum of ASI shall depend on the proposal and the category of items proposed and its actual cost and shall not exceed Rs 10 lakh in any single case The ASI would be 100 percent for project in the Scheduled Areas or Tribal Areas and 90 percent for organizations working in the areas other than scheduled areas Any future cost required for the asset or facility developed from the ASI such as maintenance cost etc has to be borne by the organization Description One time assistance up to maximum of Rs 10 lakhs is given to organization for development of infrastructure and procurement of machinery and equipment’s etc. especial incentive to NGOs who fulfill the criteria as specified in the scheme the proposals will be examined by an internal Committee of the Ministry under the Chairperson of Joint Secretary. Beneficiaries Community, Benefits - Material How to avail Eligibility Criteria The NGO project should have been funded by the MoTA and run for at least five yrs successfully Thaw organization applying for ASI should have its own land and building and infrastructure The Project should be remotely located and lacking public services. In case of building requirement for hostel, the number of inmates should have increased by 25 percent In case of building requirement of educational institutions the number of students in each class should have gone beyond 4o and in total the number of students should have gone 200 In case of building and equipment requirement for 10 to 20 bedded hospitals, there should not be any other govt run hospital within 10 km distance For any improvement, no grant should have been availed by an organization for a particular project only once in five years. Application may, however, be made for other projects run by that NGO During the qualifying period of five years preceding the consideration of ASI, there should not have been any adverse comment or report against the organization by any central or state govt The special incentive will be given only for the improvement of infrastructure in the project run by this this Ministry under the schemes mentioned in the scheme and these special incentives shall not be utilized for any other purpose. Development of primitive tribal groups (PTGS) Objective There are certain tribal communities who are having low level of literacy, declining or stagnant population, and pre-agricultural level of technology and economically backward. 75 such groups in 15 States/UTs have been identified and have been categorized as Primitive Tribal Groups (PTGs). State/UT-wise list of PTGs is at Annexure I. each of these groups is small in number, differentially developed with respect to one another, of remote habitat with poor administrative and infrastructure back up. Therefore, they are in need of priority to be accorded for their protection and development. Their problems and needs are quite different from other Scheduled Tribes. Since Primitive Tribal Groups constitute the most vulnerable among tribal groups, States/UTs have been requested to allocate requisite funds from Central Sector/Centrally Sponsored and State Plan schemes for their socio-economic development. However, there are items/activities, which though very crucial for the survival, protection and development of PTGs, are not specifically catered to by any existing scheme, the funds under this scheme would be used for these activities. Scope The funds under the Central Sector Scheme for the development of Primitive Tribal Groups (PTGs) would be available only for those items/activities which though very crucial for the survival, protection and development of Primitive Tribal Groups (PTGs), are not specifically catered to by any existing schemes, State or Central or by Guidelines governing the utilization of funds under Special Central Assistance to Tribal Sub-Plan and Article 275(1) of the Constitution. Such items/activities cannot be exhaustively identified at the Central level as they may differ from State to State and within a State from project to project. However, funds under the scheme could be used for helping the beneficiaries of the project to cope with extremely adverse pressures which threaten their survival and protect them against various forms of exploitation and thereby bringing them to a stage when they can demand and receive specific assets and services. The activities under the scheme may include measures such as awareness generation and confidence building, training for skill development of tribal youth organizations of self-help groups and provision of services/inputs not covered by any existing scheme. In terms of beneficiaries the scheme will cover only members of PTGs. Implementing Agency The scheme will be implemented through Integrated Tribal development Projects (ITDPs)/Integrated Tribal Development Agencies (ITDAs), Tribal Research Institutes (TRIs) and Non-Governmental Organizations having capability and willingness. The State Government concerned will be responsible for proper execution, implementation, supervision and coordination of the scheme including selecting of NGOs. The ITDPs/ITDAs and TRIs should send their proposal in the prescribed Performa at Annexure II. The NGOs should submit their proposal in Performa II with recommendation of the State Govt./UT Admin as per Annexure IV and Annexure V. Pattern of Funding It is Central Sector Scheme, therefore, financial assistance will be available on 100% basis. The optimum period for grant-in-aid to the implementing agencies will be for a period of 3 years. For More Information: Ministry of Tribal Welfare Grant-In-Aid to Voluntary Organisations Objective The prime objective of the scheme is to enhance the reach of welfare schemes of Government and fill the gaps in service deficient tribal areas, in the sectors such as education, health, drinking water, agro-horticultural productivity, social security etc. through the efforts of voluntary organizations, and to provide an environment for socio- economic upliftment and overall development of the Scheduled Tribes (STs). Any other innovative activity having direct impact on the socio-economic development or livelihood generation of STs may also be considered through voluntary efforts. Scope and Eligibility Organizations eligible for assistance shall be as follows:- Any registered voluntary organization (VO) / non-governmental organization (NGO) engaged in the conduct and promotion of social welfare of STs. The organization should have been registered for at least three years. Institutions or organizations set up by Government as autonomous bodies either under a statute or as a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860. A Public Trust registered under any law for the time being in force. The trust must have been registered for at least three years. In addition to the above eligibility conditions, the following criteria would be kept in view while selecting the VOs/NGOs: Experience of at least three years in the relevant field. Aptitude and experience in welfare work pertaining to weaker sections. The location of the project proposed by the organization in service deficient tribal areas. Preference will be given to programmes that benefit the Primitive Tribal Groups or naxal affected areas/ remote / interior/backward areas not serviced by Government Institutions or other established NGOs. Financial viability of the organization to contribute its share, and ability to continue the work for limited periods in absence of assistance from the Ministry. Good reputation and credentials. Capability to mobilize community. Networking with other institutions for optimum utilization of resources allocated and assets created. For More Information: Grant-In-Aid to Voluntary Organisations Working For the Welfare of Scheduled Tribes Strengthening Education among ST Girls in Low Literacy Districts Objective The scheme aims to bridge the gap in literacy levels between the general female population and tribal women, through facilitating 100% enrolment of tribal girls in the identified Districts or Blocks, more particularly in naxal affected areas and in areas inhabited by Primitive Tribal Groups (PTGs), and reducing drop-outs at the elementary level by creating the required ambience for education. Improvement of the literacy rate of tribal girls is essential to enable them to participate effectively in and benefit from, socio-economic development. Coverage The scheme will be implemented in 54 identified Districts where the ST population is 25% or more, and ST female literacy rate below 35%, or its fractions, as per 2001 census. Any other tribal block in a district, other than aforesaid 54 identified districts, which has scheduled tribe population 25% or above, and tribal female literacy rate below 35% or its fractions, as per 2001 census, shall also be covered ( Blocks intimated by West Bengal and Karnataka so far. Such Blocks fulfilling the criteria in other States may also be considered as and when reported). In addition, the scheme will also cover areas below a Block level (e.g. Gram Panchayats) inhabited by the notified Primitive Tribal Groups (PTGs). Out of all the aforesaid areas, the naxal affected areas shall be given priority Implementing Agency The scheme will be implemented through Voluntary Organizations (VOs)/Non- Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and autonomous society/institutions of State Government/Union Territory Administration. The existing multidisciplinary “State Committee for Supporting Voluntary Efforts” (SCSVE) constituted by various States/Union Territories will be responsible for identification and scrutiny of the projects of Non-Governmental Organizations under this scheme also. Eligibility of the Organizations Organizations including autonomous society/institutions of State Government/Union Territory Administration shall maintain women project staff for the projects run under this scheme. Voluntary Organization (VO)/Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) have to fulfill the following requirements (through certificates from the District or Panchayati Raj administration): Registered for at least three years for the conduct and promotion of social welfare of scheduled tribes. Experience of at least three years in successfully running and maintaining hostels and/or educational complexes. Financial viability to continue the work for limited periods in the case of delay or absence of assistance from the Ministry. Good reputation and credentials, especially for guaranteeing the security and safety of the hostellers. Networking with other institutions including Panchayati Raj for optimum utilization of resources allocated and assets created. For More Information: Strengthening Education among ST Girls in Low Literacy Districts Page Rating (2 votes) 2.0 Post Your Suggestion (If you have any comments / suggestions on the above content, please post them here) Name Your Message   Type the word given below Navigation Women and Child Development Scheduled Caste Welfare Scheduled Tribes Welfare Backward Classes Welfare Unorganised Sector Welfare Differently- abled Welfare Community power Financial Inclusion Unorganised Sector Minority Welfare Senior citizens Welfare Rural Poverty Alleviation Urban Poverty Alleviation NGO-Voluntary Sector Government of India Schemes for NGOs Ministry of Culture Ministry of Tribal Affairs Ministry of Women & Child Development Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Ministry of Human Resource Development National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) Policies and Acts Disaster Management Fight against social evils Skill development Social Security Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme Discussion Forum - Social Welfare Related Items Schemes Schemes Grants to NGOs for welfare of Child and Women Labour Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM