Farmer Portal : Help Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access हिंदी में Insurance Storage CWC Cold Stores Grameen Bhandaran Credit Branch Locator Debt Relief Short Term Credit Med./Long Term Loans Agricultural Banking Agricultural Credit Crops Wheat General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Maize General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Rice General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Diagnostic Tool Pulses General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Jute General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Sugarcane General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Other Crops Pest & Diseases Extension Activities Demonstrations Farmer Friend Farm School Beneficiary List NHM NFSM MSP MSP Determination Questionnaire Kharif Rabi Sugarcane Copra Jute Palm Oil Notified MSP Current Archives Animal Husbandry Schemes Guidelines Report Disease Login Booklets and Fliers Agromet AFMU Met Center Regional Center IMD HQ State Seed Dealer Fertilizer/Pesticide Dealer POP Storage MSP Booklets and Fliers District Seed Dealer Fertilizer Dealer Pesticide Dealer Farm Machinery Manufacturer/Trader New Registration Registered Authentication Authority Association & FMTTI State Dealer M & T Division Seed Avalibility NeGP-A Feedback Admin Status Home » Help Agriculture Corner Home Page About Us Seeds Dealers Availability Central Varieties Adaptable Varieties Quality Testing Certification Pesticide Dealers Crop Pest Database Precautions(Press Ad) Integrated Pest Management Best IPM Practices State Wise Best Practices Generic Name of Medicines & Prices Registration Farm Machinery Video Clips Farmer Guide Find A Machine Manufacturers Dealers Fertiliser Dealers Availability Information Soil Test Report Soil Fertility Maps Agromet Advisory English Regional Language Farmer Friendly Material Booklets & Flyers Handbooks Success Stories Video Films Audio Clips Market Price Other Agri Commodities Minor Forest Produce Exports & Imports Agri Export Zones Benefit of Agri Export Zones Drought Management Economics & Statistics Package of Practices Programmes and Schemes Help Sections of this website The website has different sections like About Us, Seeds, Pesticide, Farm Machinery, Fertilizer, Storage, Credit, Crops,SMS Portal which provides the info about different sections of the Agriculture. Photo Gallery Photos of events in different categories. RTI Link to different documents for RTI. Sitemap Gives the basic structure of the website. Accessibility Help Use the accessibility options provided by this Web site to control the screen display. These options allow increasing the text size and changing the contrast scheme for clear visibility and better readability. Changing the Text Size Changing the size of the text refers to making the text appearing smaller or bigger from its standard size. There are three options provided to you to set the size of the text that affects the readability. These are: Large: Displays information in the large font size. Medium: Displays information in a standard font size, which is the default size. Small: Displays information in the small font size. To change the text size: Select or Image Displayed on the top of the page. Changing the Contrast Scheme Changing the contrast scheme refers to applying a suitable background and text contrast that ensures clear readability. There are two options provided to you to change the contrast scheme. These are: High contrast: Applies the black color as the background and suitable colors to the text on the screen to improve readability. Standard contrast: Brings the screen back to its original appearance. Using the Search Facility Simple search will be available on home page from where user can search on basis of content and keyword available in documents/reports/picture/press release/news. Searching Tips When searching, don't enter plural forms such as "press releases" because the server will only find documents with releases (plural) in the title or keywords. If you enter release (singular), the server will list entries with both release and releases. All searches are case-insensitive. That is, words are looked for regardless of capitalization. Document Type Download PDF content Adobe Acrobat Reader (External website that opens in a new window) Word files Word Viewer (in any version till 2003) - External website that opens in a new window Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Word (for 2007 version) - External website that opens in a new window Excel files Excel Viewer 2003 (in any version till 2003) - External website that opens in a new window Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Excel (for 2007 version) - External website that opens in a new window PowerPoint presentations PowerPoint Viewer 2003 (in any version till 2003) - External website that opens in a new window Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for PowerPoint (for 2007 version) - External website that opens in a new window Flash content Adobe Flash Player (External website that opens in a new window) Audio Files Windows Media Player (External website that opens in a new window) Home About Us Help Weather Forecast Feedback RTI Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India