Main Hun Kisan - A Monthly Magazine - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Main Hun Kisan – A Monthly Magazine Main Hun Kisan – A Monthly Magazine Request Price Description Product Description Main Hun Kisan is a magazine highlighting problems faced by poor Indian farmers, known as food cultivators for the nation. Magazine articles are covered by the Indian villagers describing problems in their own words, covering rural farmers, rural women & rural youth. Main Hun Kisan covers 70% poor Indian farmers & rural working women stories, which are pathetically facing the problems in the farming against all odds of summer, winter, rains and other climatic calamites, and dependent for their livelihood by farming revenues only. Magazine is an effort to transmit actual problems faced by the farmers in India and the remedies available to uplift them. Magazine is focused to uplift the standard of Indian farmers & rural women being a bridge between rural farmers & Government authorities in India. Mai Hum Kisan is a magazine with the national issues which is published by ‘Hahnemann Charitable Mission Society’. Main Hun Kisan will be published from Jaipur for delivery in complete India. In 1990-2000, when Indian farmers committed suicides in groups because of their pathetic and terrible farming situations, where on the contrary 70%b of Indian economy was dependent on agriculture. At that time for the evaluation and development of Indian women farmers & mental and social status of rural youth and for their empowerment ‘Hahnemann Charitable Mission Society’ was established in 1996 as non-profit making organization. HCMS is consistently working for the development and growth of Indian rural poor farmers, rural working women & rural youth for last 19 years, without any prejudice and committed to do onwards. Main Hun Kisan will be a biggest tool for ‘HCMS’ to present subsequent problems and issues repeatedly via media focus till the satisfactory results are achieved. From its establishment till date, HCMS has contributed with the team of experts in the field of crop cultivation, plant safety, technology development and business growth for rural farmers in organic farming for medicinal plants cultivation in the state and all across the country. HCMS has technically trained above 25000 farmers till date in the field of organic farming of medicinal plants like aloevera, amla, ashwagandha etc. HCMS has also contributed in rural India’s women empowerment by creating SHG’s (Self Helping Groups) and training rural women for self employment programs. HCMS has created above 500 SHG’s and benefited above 7500 women to be self employed under this revolutionary programme. HCMS in last 19 years of its research, survey and personal meetings with Indian rural farmers tried to understand their problems in depth. HCMS is working very hard for a clear communication and balanced coordination for the government projects provided for the rural farmers and women development & growth in the country, for which a magazine in the national language with simple script is the best medium to reach information to an individual farmer. Main Hun Kisan is a monthly magazine with an initiative to transmit actual problems, requirements and pain of rural farmer to the government bodies, and in return allowing Indian rural farmers and women to get benefits of government facilities, services etc. in a planed and correct manner. Main Hun Kisan has been published keeping in mind the above targets. “Campaign for the Financial Freedom of Indian Rural Farmers & Women workers” Main Hun Kisan will publish interviews, thoughts, inventions, planning, knowledge and other agriculture news of important nationwide recognized Agriculture Experts, Socialists, Politicians, Leaders, Non Government Organizations, Agronomists & successful Farmers If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: SRAL2 . Category: Publications . Tag: magazine . Social share Related Products Add to cart Submit your Enquiry Quick View Publications Valarum Vivasaya Tamilagham Rs.300.00 Add to cart Submit your Enquiry Quick View Books , Publications Global Agriculture Update 2015 Rs.999.00 Sale! Add to cart Submit your Enquiry Quick View Publications Agriculture & Industry Survey – Subscribe Rs.800.00 Add to cart Submit your Enquiry Quick View Publications Ayshwarya Krishi Kannadanadu Rs.240.00 Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics irrigation magazine medicinal plants net pots npk