Fishery Survey of India (FSI) Skip to main contents | Accessibility Options | Screen Reader Access मुख्य सामग्री पर जाएं | अभिगम्यता के विकल्प Home About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Guidelines Dairy Development Fishery Fodder Large Ruminants(Bovine) Livestock Extension Livestock Insurance Livestock Health Piggery Development Poultry Small Ruminants Threatened Breeds Trade Bovine Breeding Trade Conferences Statistics Animal Husbandry Statistics Livestock Census Fisheries Poultry Reports Forms Grievances Public Grievances Contact Us Sunabeda Suratgarh Andeshnagar Breeds Chiplima breeds Dhamrod breeds Hessarghatta breeds Sunabeda breeds CHRS-centre names Suratgarh Breeds Tenders English हिन्दी में Welcome to Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries पशुपालन, डेयरी और मत्स्य पालन विभाग में आपका स्वागत है Search : खोजें : Home / Fishery Survey of India (FSI) Fishery Survey of India (FSI)   The FSI, established in the year 1946 under the name ‘Deep sea Fishing Station’ (DSFS) at Bombay (now Mumbai) as a post-war development pilot scheme by the Government of India, with the objective of augmenting food supply through development of deep-sea fishing, achieved the status of a national fishery survey Institute with bases in all maritime States in 1974 under the name ‘Exploratory Fisheries Project (EFP)’.  With the adoption of the 200 nautical miles legal regime on the sea around the country under Maritime Zones of India Act, passed by the Parliament in the year 1976, India acquired sovereign rights with responsibility to explore, utilize and manage the marine living resources in the 2.02 million sq. km. EEZ.  In order to meet the changing needs of the marine fisheries sector, the Institute was further upgraded in the year1983 and rechristened as ‘Fishery Survey of India (FSI)’.  The FSI has now seven operational bases at Porbandar, Mumbai, Mormugao and Kochi along the West Coast, Chennai and Vishakhapatnam along the east coast and Port Blair in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands.               The Fishery Survey of India (FSI) is responsible for survey and assessment of marine fishery resources of the Indian EEZ with its headquarters at Mumbai.  A total of 12 ocean-going survey vessels are deployed for fisheries resources survey and monitoring.  Besides undertaking exploratory surveys for charting of fishing grounds, assessment of fish stocks in the Indian EEZ  including adjoining high seas   resources, the FSI’s work includes periodic re-validation of potential of fishery resources, monitoring of fishery resources for the purpose of regulation and management, maintenance of Data Bank and dissemination of information on fishery resources to the end-users, act as an interface between the States/UTs and the Union Government for marine and inland fish production and related aspects, assessment of suitability of different types of craft and gear for deep-sea and oceanic fishing, marine fisheries forecasting including application of remote sensing, Human Resource Development through practical training of fishing operatives, fishermen, fisheries officers and students etc.  The survey fleet of the institute undertakes bottom trawl survey, midwater/ columnar resources survey and long line survey for demersal, columnar and oceanic tunas and allied resources and also for oceanic sharks.   Contact details:  Director General, Fishery Survey of India, Botawala Chambers, Sir. P.M.Road, Mumbai-400001. Phone:022-22617144/22617101. Fax: 022-2270227 Website: http://fsi.gov.in Help | Terms of Use | Site Map | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer | Hyperlinking Policy | Privacy Policy | Archives | Contact Us This website belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ©  2014 All rights reserved. Designed,Developed & Hosted by NIC