Greenfield Agro Forestry - trading of agricultural, forestry and medicinal products. - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Greenfield Agro Forestry – trading of agricultural, forestry and medicinal products. Home Greenfield Agro Forestry – trading of agricultural, forestry and medicinal products. Engaged in trading of  agricultural, forestry and medicinal products. Located in Madhya Pradesh Kunal Soni Greenfield Agro Forestry Products deals in trading of agricultural, forestry and medicinal products. The company is located in Madhya Pradesh and is run by Mr. Kunal Soni. Mr. Kunal is a computer science engineering graduate. He also has a Masters in Business Information Technology Systems from the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, Scotland. Products and Procurement Though Greenfield Agro Forestry Products carries a wide range of products, they specialize mostly in seeds that they sell in bulk. Some of the seeds that the company provides are: • White Kinvach Seeds (Mucuna Pruita) “Mucuna pruriens” • White Sandal Seeds (Santalum Album I.) “Santalum Album” • Shataward Seeds (Asparagus Racemosus) “Shatawar” • Katanga Bamboo Seeds (Bambusa Arundinacea) • Eucalyptus (Eucalyptos Globulus)” Eucalyptus Globulus” • Bael Seeds (Aegle Marmelos) • Cassia Sammia (Cinnamomum Camphora) “Samia” Since the company does not grow the plants themselves, different means are employed to procure their products. When asked about how they attain the products that they deal at the company, Mr. Kunal shared, “It highly depends on the product, as Greenfield is working throughout the country and items are purchased both locally and from other states as well. These are usually traders for bulk quantity and farmer or seed collectors for small quantities.” Target Market To boost the success of the company, Mr. Kunal has identified the company’s target market saying, “As of now our target customers are common people of India who have empty land and want to do something different from the regular agricultural products such as wheat, rice or pulses.” Greenfield also targets international customers through exportation. This is in order to branch out and expand the growth of the company. “Greenfield Agro Forestry Products (GAFP) is moving in to exports too, so that we could fulfill the requirements of people who are looking for [our] products and can’t find it in their country,” Mr. Kunal said. As a result of their hard work, Greenfield has been successful in capturing 10 percent of the medicinal plant market. They have also been able to capture roughly 30 percent of the seed market. Challenges No business is without challenges and although the medicinal market is well known to be quite lucrative, it also carries its own risks. Some of the risks that the company has to deal with are the fluctuation of rates that they can sell their products for. There are also issues involved with the viability period of the seeds that they provide. “If plants are to be provided alive for production, transport becomes a considerably big problem as mortality rate is sometimes high during its travel, and furthermore a few plants are supposed to be provided in a short period of time so air cargo is used which increases rates for customers,” Mr. Kunal expounded. Competition Trading in medicinal plants has become a very lucrative business. However, it is difficult to capture a market because there is little research being conducted on it. Mr. Kunal shared that there is difficulty involved when going up against other competitors in the market. “It’s true that competition is fierce, and in order to stand in the market, prices are kept low. Low prices only provide feasible profit on high volume demands. Hence, we look for bulk orders and make sure that we buy from farmers directly so that procurement doesn’t go too high,” Mr. Kunal said. Mr. Kunal also acknowledged that amongst the competition in the industry, he has a particular appreciation for the traders from Neemuch. He was unafraid to praise the traders and said; “Their working pattern is traditional but still amazes me when I see their reach the market. As these people are traditional, they lack innovation, but they work with a single goal to complete deals with high efficiency and profits.” Future Plans The future of Greenfield Agro Forestry Products is a bright one. With the boom in the medicinal plants industry and the demand for certain seeds growing in the international market, the company have a huge opportunity to get their foot in the door. When asked about his plans for the company in the next five years, Mr. Kunal simply said, “To make GAFP an international and well known trader of medicinal products.” Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr.Kunal Soni Greenfield Agro Forestry Products shop no. 2, Royal palace, Opp. to Shri Parisar, Shahi Naka Road, Garha Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh 482003 (M) +917566688042, (O) +91-0761-4049990 Email – kunal.soni.1986@gmail.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Greenfield Agro Forestry – trading of agricultural, forestry and medicinal products. Related – articles, consultants, downloads Contract Farming of Medicinal Plants Pacific Herbs Agro Farms – Supplies medicinal and aromatic herbs Raj & Company’s Medicinal Plant Seeds, Aloevera Finished Products etc. Gokhale Agro Products You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water