 Know the Causes of Poverty in India & Opportunities to Overcome Them | CARE India Jump to navigation NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India HOME CONTACT US Search Search form Search ABOUT US Overview History Vision/Mission Board Members Management Team OUR WORK Our Approach Where We Work Our Programmes Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness & Response GET INVOLVED Careers Internship Campaigns Volunteer Partnerships Power to Empower NEWS National International CARE India in Media Media Contact DONATE NOW CARE focuses on improving access to and control of the marginalised communities over natural resources, enhancing productive returns on resources and financial inclusion. CARE works towards creating an enabling environment, which supports the needs and aspirations of the people. CARE emphasizes on building capability, developing multiple assets, developing value chains and engaging with all stakeholders to promote secure and resilient livelohood opportunities to the marginalized popualtion, especially women. Donate Now Livelihood Programmes CARE believes in helping individuals live a life of dignity. To achieve this, our livelihood programmes focuses on generating sustainable livelihoods. This is done through capacity building, fostering community links and promoting small businesses. CARE India puts special focus on entrepreneurial ventures, which are owned by women. CARE through its livelihood programmes promotes microfinance, Self Help Groups, capacity building and small businesses. It also fosters linkages between community collectives and financial institutions. CARE also focuses on improving the literacy, numeracy and critical thinking skills to promote sustainable livelihoods. ESFI WEPS WtRF WLSME WGLG Pathways STP DVC BoC CARE Initiatives CARE works with more than 200 districts, in a total of 13 states and union terriotories across India Engage educate empower Assurance of a secure life Livelihood Initiative Tsunami Power to Empower Cyclone Hudhud Horlicks Ahaar Abhiyan GiveAssure Help Shanti JK Flood crisis Join my village VIEW ALL Latest Publications Pages from booklet 1 pages from booklet hindi-7-2.pdf READ MORE Case Studies Education Health Livelihood Emergency Blog Resources © 2014 CARE India. All Rights Reserved