Places to Visit in Assam and Tourist Destinations near Assam Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Assam Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Asaam Places to Visit in Assam National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Kamakhya Temple Temples in Assam Kamakhya Temple Nabagraha Temple Rudreswar Temple Monuments and Museums Rang Ghar The planetarium Gargaon Palace Namdang Stone Bridge Charaideo Majuli Island Tourist Destinations in Assam Travel to Manas Travel to Haflong Travel to Dispur Travel to Guwahati Assam Hotels Hotels in Guwahati Hotels in Dibrugarh Hotels in Tezpur Hotels in Jorhat Hotels in Kaziranga About Assam Geography History Home » Assam » Assam Tourism » Places to Visit in Assam Places to Visit in Assam Assam, the mystic land of lofty blue hills and verdant, undulating river valleys is the gateway to the northeast frontiers of India. A popular stopover for tourists on a North Indian sojourn, there are innumerable tourist attractions in Assam itself. The mighty Brahmaputra River that flows down form Tibet to meander through Assam accentuates the state's beauty. Tourists are often found strolling on the riverbanks basking in the mellow sunshine and the cool wisps of a fluttering evening breeze. Tourists often opt for a boat ride that takes them across the Brahmaputra to the nearby river island of Majuli. Majuli's claim to fame rests in its being the largest river island in the world and a center of Vaishnava and Buddhist culture. Exultant in vibrant colors and opulent in cultural potpourri tourists have a gala time exploring Assam. The cities of Assam, an idyllic amalgam of the historic past and the urban cosmopolitan culture are also worth visiting. The Light of the East, Pragjyotishpura or Guwahati with its platter full of tourist delights, the mythological land of Gold, Tezpur or Sonitpur, the oil fields of Digboi and Shivsagar and the quixotic hill stations of Haflong and Bhalukpong that borders the land of majestic mountain Places to See in Assam Some of the notable tourist attractions in Assam include: Kamakhya Temple Category : Religious This is a seat of Tantric Buddism in India. Mythologically Lord Vishnu severed corpse of Parvati into pieces with Sudarshan Charkra while Lord Shiva was carrying her dead body. Legends reveal that her yoni or vagina fell here making it one of the most sacred of Shaktipitas. Haflong Category : Nature It is a picturesque hill-station where one can see the rainbow down below. Jatinga, famous for the unexplained phenomenon of migratory birds 'committing mass suicide', is only 9 km away from Haflong. Sibsagar Category : History & Culture The historical city has 200 year old Sibsagar tank in the center. Shivadol one of the three temples is said to the highest Shiva temple in India. Majuli Island Category : Nature Situated in the midst of river Brahmaputra, this is the world's largest river island. Over 15 Vaishnava monasteries or satras are located on Majuli. The rich diversity of wild lives draws a lot of tourists in Assam. Barring Africa, perhaps no part of the world can boast of such a variety of wildlife. Manas National Park Category : Wild Life Located on the banks of the river Manas, it is well known for tigers and is a World Heritage Site. Kaziranga National Park Category : Wild Life It is a home to fabled one horned Rhinoceros. This is also a world heritage site. Hajo Category : Religious This place can be called as an amalgamation of Hinduism, Islamism and Buddhism with several famous temples; mosque built by Pir Giasuddin Aulia called Poa Mecca and the temple of Hayagrib Madhab which houses the relics of Lord Buddha. Agnigarh Category : Nature Located in Tezpur, it is one of the must see places in Assam. It provides a mesmerizing view of Brahmaputra and Tezpur. Last Updated on : 3/09/2013 Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Travel to Assam Travel to Dispur Travel to Manas Travel to Haflong Places to visit in Assam Places to visit in Guwahati Travel to Guwahati About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule