Meghalaya Geography Home » Meghalaya » Meghalaya Geography   Meghalaya मेघालय का नक्शा Districts of Meghalaya West Khasi Hills East Garo Hills West Garo Hills South Garo Hills              more.. Meghalaya Map Cities in Meghalaya Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Shillong City Map Cherrapunji City Map Travel to Meghalaya Places to visit in Meghalaya Wildlife Sanctuaries Elephant Falls Cherrapunji Travel Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Agricultural Map Geography Media in Meghalaya Government Education Universities in Meghalaya History Mineral Map Society Information Hotels in Meghalaya Shillong Hotels Sex Ratio Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Polls Pincode STD Code       Meghalaya Geography According to the geography of Meghalaya, it is located in between Bangladesh in the south and the Brahmaputra valley in the north, in the north-eastern portion of India. The area of Meghalaya is 22,429 square kms. It has a total population of 1,774,778. The rivers form an important part of the geography of Meghalaya. In the Garo hills, the major rivers are the Ringgi, Kalu, Ajagar, Sanda, Daring and Simsang. Among them, the navigable rivers are Kalu, Krishnai and Nitai. In the eastern and central parts of Meghalaya Plateau, the major rivers are Digaru, Umkhri Kynchiang and Myntdu. Meghalaya is geographically termed the Shillong Plateau or the Meghalaya Plateau. An important aspect of the geography in Meghalaya is its rock formations-some of which are the oldest. Meghalaya includes the Khasi, the Garo, the Jaintia hills and the Assam ranges at its border. Meghalaya represents the extension of peninsular India towards the north-east. The height of the dissected Meghalaya Plateau is 150 meters - 1961 meters above sea level. The height and physical features greatly influence its climate, a major aspect of Meghalaya geography. The four major seasons of the state of Meghalaya are: the winter season (December - February), the rainy season (May - early October), the summer season (March - April) and again the cold season (early October - November). The geography at Meghalaya also tells that it has diverse natural vegetation - the Garo hills tropical mixed forests to the high-altitude pine forests. Unplanned cutting and grazing has destroyed the natural vegetation of the place. Some forests are totally destroyed, while some other inaccessible ones are unaffected. Pine, sal, bamboo, etc are rampant in the region. The major crops are rice, potato, pineapple, maize, banana, etc. The subtropical forests of the region have birds, mammals and plants. The tiger has probably entered India through this region. Location Meghalaya lies in the north eastern region of the country. The state comprises of mountainous plateau. It has a length of about 300 kilometers from east to west and a width of 100 kilometers. The total land area of Meghalaya is around 22429 square kilometers. The location of Meghalaya in the north east makes it a perfect place for retreating. Meghalaya Location: The altitude of the Meghalaya ranges from 150 meters to 1961 meters, the Khasi Hills having the highest. They are followed by Jaintia Hills in the east. Garo Hills are basically plain with the highest peak i.e., Nokrek Peak having an elevation of 1515 meters. Megh means clouds and so Meghalaya means home of the clouds. Another fact about Meghalaya location is that it shares the boundary with Bangladesh in the south and Assam in the north. The whole state has been divided into seven districts namely Jaintia Hills, South Garo Hills, East Garo hills, West Khasi hills, Ri-Bhoi, East Khasi hills and West Garo Hills. About location of Meghalaya, one more thing can be pointed out i.e., the state comprises of a large deposit of important minerals such as silimanite, limestone, coal, uranium, etc. The location of Meghalaya is also favorable from the point of view of water resources as the state has many rivers amongst which the prominent ones are Bandra, Dareng, Digaru, Simsang, Myntdu, Bhupai and Bhogai. The Meghalaya location in the eastern plateau has the impact on its climate too. The maximum temperature during summers is 25°C while that in winters is 16°C. The minimum temperature of Meghalaya during summers is 15°C while the same in winters is 4°C. The rains drop in between June and September. Hence the overall climate of Meghalaya is cool, thereby making it a perfect venue for holidaying. Minerals The wealth of a country or state is counted on the the collection of the minerals that it contains. Meghalaya is a state of the north eastern region which is blessed with natural resources. It is known as the queen of hills and is also recognized as a treasurer of many valuable minerals. The Meghalaya minerals include the following: Limestone Coal Gold Clay and Kaolin Sillimanite Phospherite Granite Uranium Iron-ores Gypsum Glass-sand Quartz and Feldspar Base Metal Meghalaya minerals are largely used in mineral based industries. Tertiary coal is one of the best minerals of Meghalaya which is mainly sub-bituminous type. This coal is highly used in cement industries, textile industries, paper and rubber industries which brings a lot of revenue for the state. Meghalaya is well known for a depositor of world's best sillimanite which is mainly found in the West Khasi Hills. These natural sillimanite factories were formed in collaboration with corundum. Phospherite is a fertilizer mineral which is a natural resource for farming industries. This item is largely found in Sung Valley, Rewak area of Garo Hills and in Jaintia Hills Districts. According to the result of the Geological survey of India the collection of Phospherite in Meghalaya is about five millions. About 5,000 million tonnes limestone is located in Meghalaya. Minerals in Meghalaya include collection of granite also. The granite deposits of Meghalaya are mainly seen in the northern and eastern parts of the Garo Hill district and in Jenjal and Hallidayganj. The minerals at Meghalaya also include a huge collection of valuable metals like gold and uranium. The mineral map of India shows this state as a collector of minerals which is a big source of revenue and has given Meghalaya a respectable position in the country. Meghalaya Rivers There are many rivers in Meghalaya. Some of them are navigable, while some are not. The Meghalaya rivers are an inherent part of the state of Meghalaya. The main rivers of Meghalaya in the Garo hills that form the northern system and flow from west to east are the Chagua, Ajagar, Kalu, Dudnai, Didram, Ringgi and Krishnai. The Kalu and the Krishnai are only navigable of all the northern system. The main rivers that form the southern system are Bhogai, Daring, Sanda, Dareng, Bandra and Simsang. The biggest of all the rivers of the Garo hills is the Simsang, which is partially navigable (for about 30 kms). Some other rivers of the region that are suitable for navigation are Bhupai and Nitai. The main rivers of the eastern and central regions of Meghalaya plateau that flow towards the north are Umiam, Umkhri and Digaru and some major rivers of the eastern and central regions of Meghalaya plateau that flow towards the south are the Barapani or Umiew, Mawpa, Kynchiang (Jadukata), Myntdu and Myngot. Some information about a few Meghalaya rivers are given below: Someswari This is the second longest and the biggest of all the rivers at Meghalaya. Its local name is Simsang. It originates from the Nokrek mountains and moves eastwards through Williamnagar, which is the East Garo Hills district headquarters, Rongrenggre, Siju, Nongalbibra, Baghmara, which is the South Garo Hills district headquarters and Rewak. Jinjiram It originates from the Derek village. Upot Lake is the origin of its major tributary. It moves eastwards, through the Goalpara border and the Goalpara district. Jinjiram is the longest river of the two districts of the Garo Hills. Kalu The local name of this river is Ganol. It originates at the Tura peak and runs westwards through Garobadha, Damalgre, Rangapani and Goalpara. Meghalaya Population Meghalaya population is around 23,06,069 with about 85 % of them being the tribals. The percentage might increase or decrease in some places in Meghalaya but the average percentage of population comprising the tribals is around 85%. The remaining 15% i.e., the non-tribal population at Meghalaya comprise of Bengalis and Sheikhs. Khasis form the majority of the population in Meghalaya. They are followed by Garos. Other local tribes which might not be too prominent but constitute the population in Meghalaya are Jaintias, Koch, Hajong, Dimasa, Hmar, Mikir, Lakhar, Kuki, Rabha, etc. The population of Meghalaya is not evenly distributed around the state. Shillong in Meghalaya comprises of majority of population in the state. Other places in Meghalaya where population is not scarce in comparison to the Jaintia hills, interiors of Garo hills and the northern and southern regions of Khasi hills are Tura, Baghmara, Nongstoin, Jowai, Williamnagar, Dawki, Cherrapunji and the north, west and south edges of Garo Hills. As per the census of 2001, the total population around Meghalaya consisted of 28.66 % males and 31.27% females. The sex ratio between male and female was 1000:975. The growth rate of Meghalaya population is 29.94%. The literacy rate of population in Meghalaya is 63.31%. The majority of the population at Meghalaya are in the rural areas. Most of the people in Meghalaya follow Christianity. They are followed by Hindus, Muslims, Buddhists, Sikhs, and Jains. A large part of the north east population here also follow religions other then those listed above. The main language of the population of Meghalaya are Khas, Garo, bengali and Nepali. Hindi, Rabha, Assamese, Koch, etc. are also used by some. Meghalaya Climate Meghalaya climate depends upon its altitude, the more high the altitude is, the more cooler and soothing is the climate. This is why Khasi and Jaintia hills have a very soothing climate where you can rejuvenate from your worldly pleasures amidst the nature's magnanimous beauty. The region of Meghalaya where the temperature is too hot and humid in summers are Garo hills. The climate of Meghalaya is so in this region because of the low altitude of the place. On the other hand, Shillong experiences low temperature because of high altitudes. Climate in Meghalaya changes with the augment of monsoon. The average yearly rainfall is around 2600 millimeters in the western part of the north eastern state while the northern Meghalaya receives an annual rainfall between 2500 to 3000 millimeters. The south eastern Meghalaya gets annual showers above 4000 millimeters. It is Cherrapunji that receives the highest rainfall somewhere around 12000 millimeters annually. With such high amount of rainfall, Meghalaya is the wettest state in India. The climate at Meghalaya is neither too hot during the summers and nor too cold during the winters. The climate of Meghalaya is dry between November and April while it rains heavily between May and October. Winter season falls in December while it goes away by February. Summer then creeps in and stays till May and then the rainy season takes over the Meghalaya climate. Topography Meghalaya topography comprises of various elements including the landscape, climate, altitude, water bodies, flora and fauna of the entire region. Meghalaya is already known for its beautiful landscape and green vegetation. These elements of the topography of Meghalaya add charm to the picturesque state. The topography at Meghalaya comprises of landscapes that have a blend of mountain and plateau regions and this is why it is also known as Meghalaya plateaus. The altitude of these plateaus range from 150 meters to 1961 meters. The highest altitude is that of the plateaus in the central region comprising of Khasi hills while the lowest is that of the Garo hills which has an altitude of 1515 meters and seems almost like a plain. The highest peak in Meghalaya is Shillong Peak at a height of 1961 meters. The climate is also one of the major elements of Meghalaya. Though the climate remains moderate in all seasons, humidity is high in the interiors of Garo hills. The places where the altitude is high such as Shillong, the climate is cool and soothing. Meghalaya is the wettest state in India. The rainfall is not evenly spread in all regions but overall the state receives a large amount of rainfall with Cherrapunji receiving the highest around 12000 meters. Forests, which are an integral part of the topography in Meghalaya, cover around 8514 square kilometers of the whole area of Meghalaya. Meghalaya comprises mainly two types of forests- tropical forests and temperate forests. The main occupation of people at Meghalaya is agriculture as the soil is fertile. Rivers such as Manda, Janjiram, Simsang, Ganol, Khri, Umkhem, Kynshi, Umiam Mawphlang, Myngot, Myntdu, etc. that flow across the terrain are also the significant components of Meghalaya topography. It is due to these seasonal rivers that Meghalaya gets water for its dense vegetation. Meghalaya Biodiversity Meghalaya biodiversity comprises of an enormous species of flora and fauna. Around 8514 square kilometers of the total land area of Meghalaya being under the cover of forests, a large number of floral and faunal biodiversity is natural. The main reason for such high biodiversity in Meghalaya is its climate which supports the existence of a large number of floral and faunal species. Meghalaya is the wettest state in India. Moreover, there are several small seasonal rivers flowing across the state thereby making it apt for cultivation. The Meghalaya forests supports a vast floral and faunal biodiversity. The floral diversity includes a large variety of Phanerophytes which includes variety of trees and shrubs, Parasites and Epiphytes and succulent plants. Apart from these, Meghalaya offers plants that offer rich timber such as teak and sal woods, plants with medicinal values such as Cinchona, Taxus Baccata, etc, and plants that offer fruits and vegetables. But the most significant flora of Meghalaya are the orchids. You can check out 325 species of this beautiful flower at this north eastern state. The faunal biodiversity of Meghalaya includes a wide range of reptiles, mammals, insects and birds. Reptiles include Coral Snake, Red-necked Kulback, Blind Snake, etc. Mammals comprise of all the members of dog and cat family, mongooses, gnawing animals such as squirrels, bears, elephants, etc. Birds include Common Green Pigeon, Hill Myna, Peacock Pheasant, Blue Jay, Great Horned Owl, Black-necked Stork, etc. Among the insects there is only this one insect that attracts the eyes from all across the globe towards Meghalaya and it is the colorful butterflies. There are around 250 species of the colorful butterflies in Meghalaya. It is due to this Meghalaya biodiversity, that there is a perfect balance in the ecosystem of Meghalaya. Soil Conservation Meghalaya soil conservation policy is based on the National Land Use Policy in which land has been described as a mix of soil, water, flora and fauna. As per the policy, the main aim of soil conservation in Meghalaya is to develop and maintain the productivity of the land for agricultural purpose as well as for the management of forest. The other aims behind soil conservation at Meghalaya is to : Prevent droughts and floods by sustaining a balanced relationship between land and water cycle. Checking destruction of watersheds from sedimentation, deforestation, land degradation, hydrologic deterioration and soil erosion. Secure the employment in rural areas by creating employment opportunities. Developing and maintaining spoiled land areas, wastelands and fallows so as to meet the growing demands of land for various sectors. Hence to raise awareness for soil conservation around Meghalaya, the state government has set up a Soil and Water Conservation Department that looks after soil conservation in Meghalaya. The department have initiated the following programs in this regard : Jhum Control Programs : It looks after soil deterioration due to jhum or bun cultivation. The program lays stress on arranging a permanent settlement of jhummia family. Watershed Management Programs : The program aims at using the land and vegetation resources for the optimum production at some selective micro watersheds. Soil Conservation Programs : The program aims at removing the risks of soil erosion, land degradation, etc. The farmers have to take up the faulty farming practices. For soil conservation of Meghalaya, measures such as erosion control, afforestation, terracing and reclamation, water conservation and distribution, water harvesting and conservation of farm ponds are taken up. Meghalaya soil conservation would thereby increase the productivity of the land thereby generating more revenue for the state economy. Agriculture Meghalaya agriculture is the main contributor to the economy of this north eastern state of India. Around 80% of the total population of Meghalaya depends upon agriculture for their living. Hence agriculture in Meghalaya is the main occupation of its people. Agriculture in Meghalaya has been flourishing due to the type of climate that it has through out the year. Meghalaya do not receive evenly distributed rainfall. Hence the vegetation at every area differs. Some place have tropical vegetation while some have temperate vegetation. There has been a huge development in the agriculture sector in Meghalaya. In the last 25 years, the total cropped area has increased by about 42% out of which 60% comprises of the food grains. The use of the high yielding seeds of various varieties have given successful results thereby enhancing the agriculture at Meghalaya. The main food crops that are an essential part of agriculture around Meghalaya are rice and maize. Among the horticultural ones, pineapple, banana, lemon, Litchi, Jack fruits, plum, peach, Guava, Pear, etc, are the most important. The cash crops that have added value to agriculture of Meghalaya are Tezpatta, Jute, Rapseed, Black Pepper, Potato, Mustard, Short Staple Cotton, Arecanut, Ginger, etc. Among the non-traditional crops, mushroom, cashewnut, wheat, tea, oilseeds, etc. contributes mainly to the agricultural revenues of the state. To bring more improvement in the Meghalaya agriculture, the state government is planning to lay importance on cash crops, oilseeds and pulses. The government has set up an autonomous board to encourage cultivation of tea in the tea gardens and increasing new plantations of crops so that more and more area can be brought under agricultural activities. Orchids Meghalaya represents a wide variety in the collection of its orchids. It exhibits a superb diversity in its different colorful orchids which not only adds beauty to the nature of Meghalaya but also works as a big revenue resource for the state. The whole cosmos has a collection of 17,000 species of orchids among which 1,250 types could be seen in India. Meghalaya orchids include as many as 300 different species that are precious to the place. Meghalaya is remarkable for its interminable collection of orchids. This state is a reserve of different orchids. Different colorful orchids in the hilly areas and lands have given this state a vibrant look which is a long yearning scenario for the nature lovers. Meghalaya has a celebrated collection of plants which has made this state a noticeable place even for the practitioners of botany and horticulture. Cherrapunji is the motherland of different Meghalaya orchids. The largest number of species could be found in the forests of Cherrapunji. Mawsmai and Mawmluh which have majestic collection of orchids and both hold highest positions in the collection of orchids in Meghalaya. The Sohrarim Forest which is on the way to Cherrapunji reflects a vivacious collection of orchids. The orchids of Meghalaya are exported to Sikkim, Bhutan, Nepal, China, etc. Even this export business is extended up to countries like Thailand, Burma, Malaya, and so on which work as a big economic resource for Meghalaya. Very recently the Meghalaya Government has become extremely conscious in preserving the lives of these orchids at Meghalaya as they are the natural property of Meghalaya. Special efforts will be taken soon to secure and maintain the lives of these trees. Flora Meghalaya flora is one of the main tourist attractions in this north eastern state of India. Meghalaya is widely popular for its natural ambiance. The flora in Meghalaya are available in wide range. Since a wide area is under forest cover, there are a diverse range of floral species all around in Meghalaya. It is due to its geographical location that it has many floral species from the neighboring north eastern states as well as from countries such as Tibet, China and Burma. Moreover, the state's connection with living beings of Peninsular India, Madagaskar, Pacific Islands and some other portions of Africa have played an inspiring role in the growth of some special species of flora of Meghalaya. The Meghalaya flora can be classified into the following groups as per their genetic compositions : Trees and shrubs called Phanerophytes Parasites and Epiphytes Succulrent Plants Some of the very famous types of flora at Meghalaya are listed below : Orchids : There are around 325 variety of orchids available in Meghalaya. You can check out these colorful flora of Meghalaya at the hill slopes, swamps, meadows and wayside of Khasi, Jaintia and Garo hills. Pitcher Plant : This is an unique flora in Meghalaya. Even the botanists have failed to generate details on it. You can check it out in the Jarain region of Jaintia hills and Baghmara area of Garo hills. Decor Plants : Meghalaya offers a wide range of seasonal flowers with which you can decorate your gardens. Some of the prominent flora for decor includes Gladiolus, Dahlia, Begonia, Aster, Celosia, Petunias and Salvia. Medicinal Value Plants : Apart from the beautiful flowers for decoration and all other purposes, there are many plants which are used for making medicines. They are Cinchona, Croton oil, castor oil, Cinnamomum, Ipecac, etc. Last Updated on 6/18/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule