Gujarat Agro Industries Corporation Ltd. Home | Feedback | Contact | Sitemap About Us About Corporation Vision & Objectives Board of Directors Executives Financial Details Joint Ventures Citizen Charter Organisational Chart Employee Login Agri Business Destination Introduction Strengths Commodity Profile Investment Opportunities Policies & Schemes Agro Industrial Policy National Mission on Food Processing MOFPI Schemes APEDA Schemes NHB Schemes State Government Schemes SFAC Schemes National Biogas and Manure Management Programme Agri-implements Subsidies Canalizing For Onion Agri Infrastructure Project Integrated Pack House for Fruits & Vegetables Banana Pack House Center for Perishable Cargo Modern Potato Cold Storage Cold Storages For Tribal Development Onion Cold Storage Gamma Irradiation Processing Plant Rice Flakes Unit Marketing Network Agro Service Division Agro Service Center Fertilizer Wing Pesticide Wing Vibrant Gujarat MOUs Signed During Vibrant Gujarat Global Investors' Summit - 2003 MOUs Signed During Vibrant Gujarat Global Investors' Summit - 2005 MOUs Signed During Vibrant Gujarat Global Investors' Summit - 2007 MOUs Signed During Vibrant Gujarat Global Investors' Summit 2009 E-Citizen Right to Information Act Downloads Useful Links Policy Orders & Circulars Contact Us Photo Gallery News & Events All News.. Schemes Guidelines for National Mission on Food Processing Agro Industrial Policy National Mission on Food Processing MOFPI Schemes APEDA Schemes NHB Schemes National Biogas and Manure Management Programme Tenders May 29, 2015 Selection of Solution Provider to Study, Design, Development, Implementation, hand-Holding and Operation & Maintenance Support for Web Based Integrated Software for GAIC Read More May 20, 2015 Selection Agency for Demolition of all the existing civil structures, removing all scrap for disposal lying in the premises at the Agro Service Centre, Chikhli, Dist. Valsad and purchase of the same. Read More April 13, 2015 Selection of Agency for operation, maintenance and management of pack house at Achhaliya, Taluka Jaghadia, Dist. Bharuch, Gujarat and its two collection centers for a period of 3 (three) years. Read More December 29, 2014 Selection of an Agency for Operation, Maintenance and Management of Integrated Pack House for Fruits and Vegetables at Naroda. Read More December 26, 2014 Make the Tebloz for on the occasion of Republic Day-2015 Read More December 10, 2014 BID document for the Appointment of Agency to set up and organize pavilion of Agriculture and Co-op Department, Government of Gujarat for 7th Edition of Vibrant Gujarat Global Investor’s Summit-2015 at Gandhinagar, Gujarat. Read More December 02, 2014 Tender for supply of formulation vessel and accessary Read More November 14, 2014 Supply of Mix micronutrient Read More November 14, 2014 supply of Magnesium Sulphate 9.6% (MgSo4) for Sales & Read More November 14, 2014 supply of Zinc Sulphate Heptahydrate 21% for Sales & distribution Read More November 14, 2014 supply of Non-edible de-Oiled Castor Cake for Sales & distribution Read More November 14, 2014 purchase of Ready made Galvanized Storage Bins sets as per GAIC’s specifications for the year 2014-15. Read More November 14, 2014 Supply of HPLC System .for pesticides Unit Gondal, Dist. Rajkot. Read More All Tenders Agro Industrial policy (ABRN) Online registration Onion Export Management System Know Your Subsidy Payment Guidelines for Entrepreneurs Downloads Right To Information Act Welcome to Gujarat Agro Industries Corporation Ltd. Gujarat has long been considered as one of the most progressive states of India, be it on the industrial front or the agricultural front. Imbued with a proactive, visionary outlook, its government has catalyzed development in various spheres the collective effort has, thus, propelled the state towards progress. Gujarat Agro Industries Corporation (GAIC), which promotes agricultural activities at the ground level and fosters the development of agro industries in the state, is a manifest example of the forward-looking policies of the state. More.. Facilitator of Growth Destination : Progress, Vehicle : GAIC The present-day globalized agri - cultural environment necessitates a holistic approach to farming and all related activities. Moreover, strengthening of the forward and backward linkages between agriculture and industry has also become a prerequisite. More... ENABLER of Change Networking All The Way To Farmer’s Doorstep : Agro Service Division The Nucleus of all the activities of GAIC is the farmer. GAIC has a strong presence in rural Gujarat through its network of 18 district-level centers and 1200-plus agri business centers run by private sector entrepreneurs which provide services at the doorstep to farmers. Lakhs of farmers visit these outlets regularly. More... Catalyst of New Agro Economy Implementer of policies : Marketing & Projects Division GAIC plays the role of a catalyst in the development of the state's agro industries sector, with its Marketing and Projects Division handling all functions related to this area. More... Messenger of Know-How Sharing The Learning Process GAIC believes in exchanging information and deepening the learning curve of farmers and agro entrepreneurs. It employs various method to achieve this objective. More... Agriculture Department SFAC MOFPI APEDA About Us | Agri Business Destination | Policies & Schemes | Agri Infrastructure Project | Marketing Network | Vibrant Gujarat |