Abbott | Global Healthcare & Research Toggle navigation Live Healthy Get Inspired For Professionals accessibility accessibility FOR THOSE WHO DARE TO BE GREAT THE GREAT WALL MARATHON LEARN MORE LIVE HEALTHY See how to take a proactive approach to health and wellness. THRIVE Explore how science and innovation can lead to better health. KNOW Get expert advice on managing health challenges. MANAGE Careers “IN ORDER TO ENABLE PEOPLE TO LIVE FULL, HEALTHY AND HAPPY LIVES, THINGS NEED TO BE INVENTED.” Dr. David Ecker, Abbott Diagnostics   Join Abbott Get Inspired Learn More Relentless Innovation How passion and perseverance can lead to cutting-edge technology. LEARN MORE A CHANCE TO THRIVE Dr. Barbara Marriage and Courtney Allgeier help children with dysfunctional metabolism not just survive, but thrive. LEARN MORE THE SCIENCE OF TASTE Dr. Jeff Boff and his colleagues make nutrition taste so good, people want to take their medicine. LEARN MORE PEARLS OF INSPIRATION How an unlikely Eureka moment made the world’s blood banks safer from hepatitis B. Home Page true accessibility You are about to exit for another Abbott country or region specific website Please be aware that the website you have requested is intended for the residents of a particular country or countries, as noted on that site. As a result, the site may contain information on pharmaceuticals, medical devices and other products or uses of those products that are not approved in other countries or regions. The website you have requested also may not be optimized for your specific screen size. Do you wish to continue and exit this website? yes no accessibility You are about to exit the Abbott family of websites for a 3rd party website Links which take you out of Abbott worldwide websites are not under the control of Abbott, and Abbott is not responsible for the contents of any such site or any further links from such site. Abbott is providing these links to you only as a convenience, and the inclusion of any link does not imply endorsement of the linked site by Abbott. The website that you have requested also may not be optimized for your screen size. Do you wish to continue and exit this website? yes no accessibility Asset Warning yes no MAKING AN EVERLASTING IMPACT ON HUMAN HEALTH FOR 125 YEARS. live healthy get inspired for professionals Products careers citizenship investors newsroom partners about abbott site map Policies contact global sites privacy policy Terms & Conditions © 2015 Abbott. All Rights Reserved. Please read the Legal Notice for further details. Unless otherwise specified, all product and service names appearing in this Internet site are trademarks owned by or licensed to Abbott, its subsidiaries or affiliates. No use of any Abbott trademark, trade name, or trade dress in this site may be made without the prior written authorization of Abbott, except to identify the product or services of the company.