Gujarat Temples Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Gujarat Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Gujarat Places to Visit in Gujarat Beaches in Gujarat Forts and Palaces in Gujarat Museums in Gujarat Historical Places in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Wildlife Sanctuaries Cities to Visit in Gujarat Ahmedabad Travel Gandhinagar Travel Vadodara Travel Porbandar Travel Bhavnagar Travel Junagadh Travel Rajkot Travel Surat Travel Dwarka Travel Bhuj Travel Gondal Travel Utelia Travel Zainabad Travel Gujarat Hotels Ahmedabad Hotels Junagadh Hotels Surat Hotels Rajkot Hotels Vadodara Hotels About Gujarat History Geography Weather Food Festivals Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Gujarat » Gujarat Temples Temples in Gujarat Map of Gujarat Temples Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the Major tourist places in Delhi. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Gujarat temples exhibit a rich architectural marvel of the bygone era.The temples of Gujarat are a major tourist attraction of the place. The various Gujarat temples are as follows: Parsee fire temples of Sanjan in South Gujarat Bahai temple and Iskon temple in Ahmedabad Swaminarayan temples of Sarangpur, Gondal and Gadhada Jain temple complexes of Palitana, Girnar, Sankeshwar, Mahudi, Kumbharia, and Taranga Gujarat attracts pilgrims from all over the world. Some of the renowned religious places of Gujarat are as follows: Akshardham - Location : 28 kilometers from Ahmedabad Specialities : Akshardham is one of the finest contemporary Gujarat temples in India. It exhibits a blend of traditional sandstone carving with the latest technologies like fibre-optics, sound and light shows, multi-media, audio-visual shows, etc. Ambaji - Location : 179 kilometers from Ahmedabad Specialties : It is associated with Goddess Amba and Lord Krishna. Ambaji is one of the most popular Hindu pilgrim spots. Dwarka- Location : 441 kilometers from Ahmedabad Specialties : It is one of the four dhams of Hinduism. The other dhams are Badrinath-Kedarnath, Rameshwaram, and Puri. Dwarka's mythical association with lord Krishna makes it one of the important Gujarat temples. Mt. Girnar - Location : 330 kilometers from Ahmedabad Specialties : The peak of Girnar is 3660 feet high and is covered by Jain and Hindu temples. It is famous for its architectural expertise. Somnath- Location : 412 kilometers from Ahmedabad Specialties : It is one of the 12 Jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva. Somnath is one of the most important pilgrimage sites on the west coast of India. Some other important Gujarat temples are the ancient temples of Shamlaji , Vadnagar , Mahudi , etc. Last Updated on : 5/06/2013 Temples in Gujarat Adiswara Temple Amba Mata Temple Bhrigu Rishi Temple Chamukh Temple Dwarkanath Temple Gangeshwar Temple Krishna Temple Neminath Temple Shatrunjaya Temple Complex Somnath Temple Takteshwar Temple Places to Visit in Gujarat Beaches Forts and Palaces Museums Historical Places Temples Wildlife Sanctuaries About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule