Planning & Management - Small Farms / Alternative Enterprises - Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Extension Main Page About Us Extension Offices EDIS Publications Conference Info Planning & Management Small farms face serious problems in this complex and dynamic production and marketing system. These farmers often make management decisions without fully considering such components as cost of production, financing, market demand, associated farm risk, and profitability of return on investment. Knowledge about and integration of all levels of production and marketing systems are required to improve profitability and viability. More... Getting Started Taxes, budget planning, financial management, equipment, sustainability, and alternative enterprises. Agriculture Loans and Grants USDA loans and grants, cost share programs, and SARE funding opportunities. Community Supported Agriculture Resources for Community Supported Agriculture Enterprise Budgets Guides and information on budgets Farm Safety Children, animals, food, and equipment. Farmers' Markets Bylaws, rules, insurance, accepting food stamps, and farmers' markets on the Web. Marketing Price reports, marketing strategies, direct marketing, and value-added agriculture. Postharvest Handling Food safety, handling, packaging, cooling, and storage. Regulations Labor regulations, direct marketing regulations, and risk management regulations. Success Stories Cultivating schools as customers and establishing credit.   Download Adobe Acrobat Reader to view pdf files. Looking for Financing? Planning & Management Getting Started Agriculture Loans and Grants Community Supported Agriculture Enterprise Budgets Farm Safety Farmers' Markets Marketing Regulations Success Stories Ag Measures and Conversions Food Safety Livestock & Forages Crops IPM Forest Products, Environmental & Recreational Uses Freshwater Aquaculture & Farm Ponds Organic Production Other Enterprises State & Federal Agencies Agricultural Weather Copyright 2006 | University of Florida | Site Feedback | EOI