Department of I.T. : Official Website of Government of Jharkhand Click for Archive Website Skip to Main Content Skip to Navigation Sign In A A A- A A+ Department of I.T. Government of Jharkhand Home About Directory Photo Gallery e Services You are here : Home State Department and Agencies Information Technology About The Department Government of Jharkhand is committed to provide Simple, Moral, Accountable, Responsive and Transparent (SMART) governance to its citizens. The State believes that every citizen has a right to information pertaining to his own welfare needs and opportunities, to understand the process of governance and to know the rationale behind the decisions, which the State Government takes. View More... Press Release Advertisements Acts & Rules Policies Corrigendum Allotment Orders Notifications Circulars Publications Assembly Matters Tenders Downloads Citizen Charter Schemes Resolutions Announcement Advertisements RTI Sankalp MoM Notices Sanction Orders Sankalps Videos News & Headlines Sorry, no result available under provided search criteria View more Schemes & Tenders   Mission Vision   Downloads Who's Who Featured Links Corrigendum Useful Links Please update the featured links for your department. Photo In News No images to display in selected folder State Department and Agencies Agriculture Animal Husbandry Art & Culture Board of Revenue Disaster Management Forest & Environment Department of Excise Finance Food & Public Distribution Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Human Resources Industries Information & Public Relations Information Technology Labour & Employment Law (Justice) Power & Energy Rural Development Science & Technology Social Development Transport Tourism Department Water Resources Know More... Know Your District Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka East Singhbhum Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan About Us About the Portal Terms of use Policies & Disclaimer Contact us Site Map Accessibility Statement Help Feedback Screen Reader Access FAQ's Weather For Jharkhand --Select-- Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka Jamshedpur Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan Supported By External website that opens in a new window. External website that opens in a new window. This page was last modified on:Wed Apr 29 15:46:33 UTC 2015 All Rights Reserved by Government of Jharkhand, India. Designed & Maintained by TCSL   in cooperation with NIC and JAPIT Validation HTML5 , CSS3   Back to Top