KISSAN-Kerala   Sitemap | Contact Us | Feedback         Search | About KISSAN | Kerala @ Glance | What's New | Events | FAQs | The Team | Institutions | Home   Kerala Agricultural University The institutions of the University                     Faculty of Agriculture                     Faculty of Veterinary & Animal Sciences                     Faculty of fisheries                     Faculty of Agricultural Engineering                     Regional Research Stations                     Research Stations KISSAN Empowered by Kerala Agricultural University Kerala Agricultural University The Kerala Agricultural University established under the KAU Act 33 of 1971 of the Kerala State Legislature, started its activities on 1st February 1972.The headquarters of the University is located at Vellanikkara, Thrissur. The Kerala Agricultural University is an autonomous public funded institution incorporated in the state. The Governor of Kerala is the Chancellor and the Minister for agriculture is the Pro- Chancellor of the University. The Vice Chancellor is the Principal Executive and Academic Officer of the University. The activities of the University are controlled and guided by a General council and an Executive Committee. The Academic Council, the Board of Studies and the Finance Committee are the other statutory authorities. The mandates of the University as defined in `The Agricultural University Act, 1971, are:     1.   Making provision for imparting education in different branches of study,          particularly in agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry including veterinary          and dairy science, co-operation, fisheries, forestry, agricultural engineering,          home science and other allied branches of learning and scholarship;     2.  Furthering the advancement of leadership and prosecution of research,                   particularly in agriculture and allied sciences;     3.  Undertaking an extension education programme; and     4.  Such other purposes as the University may from time to time determine. Kerala Agricultural University empowers agriculture sector of Kerala by providing the human resource, skills and technology for the sustainable development through a package of appropriate strategies, public policies, programmes, technology services and investment support. In education at the graduate level, professionalism is strengthened with entrepreneurship; and at the postgraduate level, training is imparted in emerging areas integrating relevant disciplines. Research is oriented on pursuing technology generation systems and focused on integrated agro-silvi-pastoral-aqua production systems and resource based livestock production, with emphasis on product conversion and value addition. Extension and technology transfer focus on group approach and area approach, and technology for production systems and support services to be rendered by the single window. The institutions of the University are: Faculty of Agriculture 1. College of Agriculture, Vellayani, Trivandrum 2. College of Horticulture, Vellanikkara, Thrissur 3. College of Agriculture, Padannakkad, Kasargode 4. College of forestry, Vellanikkara, Thrissur 5. College of Co-operation, Banking & Management, Vellanikkara, Thrissur Faculty of Veterinary & Animal Sciences 6. College of Veterinary & Animal Sciences, Mannuthy, Thrissur 7. College of Veterinary & Animal Sciences, Pookod, Wynad 8. College of Dairy Science & Technology, Mannuthy, Thrissur Top... Faculty of fisheries 9. College of Fisheries, Panangad, Ernakulam Faculty of Agricultural Engineering 10. KCAET, Tavanur, Malappuram Regional Research Stations 1. Regional Agricultural Research Station (Northern Zone), Pilicode 2. Regional Agricultural Research Station (Central Zone), Pattambi 3. Regional Agricultural Research Station (Southern Zone), Vellayani 4. Regional Agricultural Research Station (Special Problem Area Zone), Kumarakom 5. Regional Agricultural Research Station (High Range Zone), Ambalavayal 6. Onattukara Regional Agricultural Research Station, Kayamkulam Top... Research Stations 1. Agricultural Research Station, Mannuthy 2. Agronomic Research Station, Chalakudy 3. Aromatic & Medicinal Plants Research Station, Odakkali 4. Banana Research station, Kannara 5. Cardamom Research Station, Pampadumpara 6. Cattle Breeding Farm, Thumburmuzhi 7. Cashew Research Station, Anakkayam 8. Cashew Research Station, Madakkathara 9. Cattle Infertility Scheme, Vellimadukunnu 10. Coconut Research Station, Balaramapuram 11. Cropping systems Research Centre, Karamana 12. Farming Systems Research Station, Sadanandapuram, Kottarakkara 13. Fisheries Station, Puduvype 14. Livestock Research Station, Thiruvazhamkunnu 15. Pepper Research Station, Panniyur 16. Pineapple Research Station, Vazhakulam, Muvattupuzha 17. Pineapple Research Station, Vellanikkara 18. Rice research Station, Mancompu 19. Rice research Station, Vytilla 20. Sugarcane research station, Thiruvalla 21. Soil Conservation Research Centre, Konni 22. University Livestock Farm, Mannuthy 23. University Pig Breeding Farm, Mannuthy 24. University poultry & Duck Farm, Mannuthy Top... KISSAN Empowered by Kerala Agricultural University KAU acts as the technology provider being the research agency in the domain agriculture of Kerala state. The participation of KAU will mainly include. · Technology transfer · Co-ordination of extension and research. · Answering Question by Farmers, Researchers and Department Officials. · Surveillance forecasting and Distress management Top... More...     Extension Dept of Agriculture Dept of Animal Husbandry Dept of Dairy Development Dept of Fisheries FIB Research KAU ICAR Others Others Others   Farmer Database | Applications Download | Research | Soil & Water | Related Links   KISSAN Kerala Operations Centre, IIITM-K, NILA, Techno park Campus, Thiruvananthapuram Private Policy | Disclaimer  