ï»¿ AED     Gallery Links Site Map FAQ           Home Schemes Central Sector Demonstration of Agricultural Machinery and Implements Training to Farmers on operation and maintenance of Agrl. Machinery State Sector Rain water harvesting and Run off management programme Master plan - Artificial Recharge to Ground Water SWC in Tribal areas under Integrated Tribal Development Programme Pulses Villages in Rain fed Areas - NADP Scheme to Revive Agriculture In Fallow Land - NADP SWC under Hill Area Development Programme Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project Soil Conservations in the Catchment of River Valley Project - NADP SWC under Western Ghats Development Programme Agricultural Mechanization under NADP Training on operation and maintenance of farm machinery Training rural youth on agricultural machinery and implements Diesel Engine Pump set with Rain gun / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation. Solar Powered Pumping system with Micro Irrigation Solar Chilli Drier Onion Storage structures TN IAMWARM Project Centre and State Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Command Area Development and Water Management Programme Services Land Development Minor Irrigation Mandate Downloads RTI Contacts                                 Renewable Energy         About     One major advantage with the use of renewable energy is that as it is renewable it is therefore sustainable and so will never run out. Renewable energy facilities generally require less maintenance than traditional generators. Their fuel being derived from natural and available resources reduces the costs of operation. Even more importantly, renewable energy produces little or no waste products such as carbon dioxide or other chemical pollutants, so has minimal impact on the environment. Renewable energy projects can also bring economic benefits to many regional areas, as most projects are located away from large urban centres and suburbs of the capital cities. These economic benefits may be from the increased use of local services as well as tourism.     Environmental Advantages of Renewable Energy     One of the primary benefits of switching to a renewable energy source is the environmental advantages. Using many of the renewable energy sources will reduce your carbon footprint because alternative sources such as solar energy, wind power, and hydroelectricity produce no emissions since there is nothing to combust. In addition, you won't contribute to the atmospheric levels of greenhouse gases that have been indicated to link to global warming. Many forms of renewable energy produce no solid waste, reducing pollution production. With solar and wind energy, there is no water discharge, making your overall environmental impact from using these energy sources minimal. Considering that your home energy and cooling and heating costs contribute to the greatest amount of your carbon footprint, choosing renewable energy can greatly reduce your overall environmental impact. In addition, these sources are not detrimental to the earth since they do not require any mining or drilling. For wind and solar energy, your land investment is minimal. Solar panels can be installed on your roof. If you have acreage, a wind turbine can be located well away from your home so that it does not detract from the scenic value of your land. Unlike hydroelectricity, your choice to use wind or solar energy will have little environmental impact. Installation of your system will not disturb the land nor greatly impact wildlife. You can rest assured that you have made a sound environmental choice.                        