Thailand Seed Industry Outlook to 2018 : Analysis and Research Report AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Press Releases Thailand Seed Industry Outlook to 2018 : Analysis and Research Report Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Thailand Seed Industry Outlook to 2018 : Analysis and Research Report LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… March 26th, 2015 #1 rajbksh Join Date Jan 2014 Posts 36 Blog Entries 2 Thailand Seed Industry Outlook to 2018 : Analysis and Research Report Thailand Seed Industry Outlook to 2018 - Government Support and Technological Advancement to Escalate Productivity provides a comprehensive analysis of the various aspects such as market size of the seed industry in Thailand. The market is segmented by rice, maize and vegetable seeds, by hybrid and by domestic and imports revenue in the report. The report also includes the competitive landscape of major seed developing companies in Thailand in both domestic and international market and also provides a detailed presentation on the rice seed and the maize seed industry in Thailand. There is a great significance of import/export in the Thailand seed industry especially in maize and vegetable seeds from the perspective of import and export volume, value, major destinations and players involved in the trade. The future outlook of the Thailand seed industry is comprehensively presented in the report along with the major growth drivers, challenges, macro-economic variables and analyst recommendation. The seed sector of Thailand is growing at a steady pace since last few years but has a wide scope for further development. With the capability of growing a wide variety of crops, Thailand seed sector is highly preferred by the international seed companies for research and development of new plant varieties and improve the yield of existing ones. Thailand seed industry, valued at THB ~ million in 2013 with registering growth at a CAGR of 15.7% during the period 2006-2013. The increased adoption of single cross corn hybrids, hybrid vegetables, cultivation of other crops such as oilseeds, barley in the country has driven the growth of the market over the last few years. Thailand seed industry is largely categorized into Rice seeds, Grain corn seeds and Vegetable seeds. Rice seeds are the most demanded and the most widely produced seeds in Thailand due to its high quality and the rising demand from world over. The production and the revenue generated by the vegetable seeds are increasing year on year as more farmers are starting to focus more on the vegetable seed sector. It is estimated that it would take another 10-12 years for the vegetable seeds to have a competitive share in the domestic market with rice and corn seeds already dominating the sales value. The production volume of seed categories is mainly dominated by cereals which include Rice and Maize/Field Corn with around 97% of production over the years. Rice, alone had a percentage share of 94.5% followed by maize with a contribution share of ~% in the total seeds produced in Thailand in the year 2013. The seed industry in Thailand is comprised of various major companies including domestic and international players that are involved in the production of different types of seeds such as rice, corn seeds and genetically modified seeds. Technological advancements and growing government support in the country as well as the competitive pressures have been significantly changing the market. The seed export situation in Thailand is improving year on year as export revenue is growing among the companies present in the maize and vegetable seed market. Syngenta seed was market leader in exports market with the exports revenue of THB ~ million from ~ tons of seed exported in 2013. The exports revenue of the company has increased from THB ~ million with ~ tons of seeds exported in 2011. The hybridization rate for the seeds produced in Thailand is mainly dominated by the corn seeds followed by the vegetable seeds leaving the rice seeds. The hybridization of rice seeds have recently picked up pace and is soon expected to drive the rice seed market in Thailand. Thailand seed industry is one of the most developed industries in the country. It has been performing really well over the years and is responsible for contributing to a major share in the country’s GDP. However, the industry is expected to face major challenges in terms of unpredictable weather conditions which may affect the pest occurrences in the short term. Thai crops such as wheat, corn and sunflower are dependent on rainfall and adequate environmental conditions in order to have high yields thus, any delay or deficiency in the rainfall could lead to droughts, which may create uncertainty in terms of demand. Overall, the Thailand seed industry is projected to grow by 7.3% over the period of 2014-2018 Key Topics Covered in Thailand Seed Industry Report • The market size of the Thailand seed industry in terms of revenue and production volume. • Market segmentation on the basis of by types of seeds, by vegetable or non vegetable seeds and by domestic and imports. • Regional Overview of Thailand Seed Industry. • Thailand Rice Seed market size by production volume and revenue; market segmentation by types of rice seeds demanded, by market structure and by seed certification. • Thailand Corn Seed market size by production volume and revenue; market segmentation by types of maize seeds. • Export & Import Scenario and Trends and development in the Thailand seed industry. • Growth drivers of Thailand Seed industry. • Major challenges faced by Thailand seed industry. • Future outlook and projections of Thailand seed industry. • Major macroeconomic factors in Thailand seed industry. Source : https://www.kenresearch.com/agricult...t/610-104.html Contact: Ken Research Ankur Gupta, Head Marketing & Communications query@kenresearch.com +91-11-47017199 Reply With Quote Tags for this Thread hybrid seed market , maize corn seed industry , rice seed market , thailand seed industry , thailand seed market View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 12:17 PM .