Jim Corbett National Park Home » Maps » Uttaranchal » Jim Corbett National Park   Uttarakhand उत्तराखंड का नक्शा Uttarakhand Map Cities in Uttarakhand Dehradun Haridwar Nainital Mussoorie Almora                    more... Travel to Uttarakhand Nainital Tourism Mussoorie Tourism Haridwar Tourism Dehradun Tourism Rishikesh Tourism Places to visit in Uttarakhand Jim Corbett National Park Wildlife Sanctuaries Districts of Uttarakhand Road Map Railway Map River Map Tehsil Map Physical Map Uttarakhand Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Uttarakhand Forests Industrial Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History Geography Information Newspapers Hotels in Uttaranchal Nainital Hotels Srinagar Hotels Mussoorie Hotels Haridwar Hotels Dehradun Hotels Rishikesh Hotels                    more... Society Important Numbers Education Universities in Uttarakhand Government Uttarakhand Images Haridwar Location Map Mussoorie Tourist Map Tourist Map of Rishikesh Uttaranchal Hills Map District Map in Hindi Pin Code International Yoga Festival in Rishikesh       Jim Corbett National Park Deers at Jim Corbett National Park Elephants at Jim Corbett National Park Map of Jim Corbett National Park Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Jim Corbett National Park with tracks, rest house and major roads. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Corbett National Park is the place for observing tigers in chilling proximity. Corbett National Park is the first national park in India. Corbett National Park was established in 1936 in Uttarakhand . At inception the name of the park was Hailey National Park. In 1957 the park was rechristened in the honor of the great conservationist and naturalist Late Jim Corbett. How to Reach Corbett The Corbett National Park is situated at the foothills of the Himalayas. The park covers an area of 521 square kilometers. By Air The nearest airport is Phoolbagh, Pantnagar at a distance of 50 km from Corbett. Delhi, which is 300 km, is the nearest international airport. By Train The nearest railway station is Ramnagar. Ramnagar is connected to Delhi and also to Lucknow. Ramnagar is 60 kilometers from Nainital via Kaladhungi. By Road It is most convenient to drive down to Corbett National Park. It takes about six hours from Delhi to cover the 295-km stretch through Gajraula, Moradabad, Kashipur and Ramnagar.There are regular buses too from Delhi and Lucknow to Ramnagar, the town nearest to Corbett National Park. The swift and turbulent Ramganga river flows through the park. Corbett National Park has 110 varieties of trees, 51 species of shrubs and 33 kinds of grass and bamboo. Corbett has considerable number of tigers. Corbett National Park has 580 types of birds. The ferocious Gharial or marsh crocodile can also be found in Corbett National Park. The Ramganga river is rich in Mahaseer-a prized fish much sought after by anglers. The best time to visit Corbett National Park is in the months beginning from November extending to May. However the park is closed from mid June to mid November. Corbett National Park authorites expect the visitor to abide by the following rules : Carrying of Firearms in prohibited inside Corbett National Park No pets are to be taken inside the park Walking or Trekking inside the park is strictly prohibited. Cooking is not allowed inside Corbett National Park Other than the above mentioned restrictions, there are also other restrictions. Please check with the authorites before entering into Corbett National Park. Jim Corbett National Park - Entry Fee, Timing, Address, Official Website Address Ramnagar, Distt. Nainital , Uttarakhand, 244715, India Entry Fee Entry fee for Indians: 200 Rs. Entry fee for Foreigners : 1,000 Rs. Entry fee for Vehicle stay : 1,500 Rs. (Heavy vehicle) Entry fee for Vehicle stay : 500 Rs. (Light vehicle) Entry fee for Commercial Camera : 500 Rs. Entry fee for Elephant ride (For Indian) : 300 Rs. Entry fee for Elephant ride (For Foreigner) : 1000 Rs. Entry fee for Museum visit : 10 Rs. No entry fee for non-commercial camera Timings Corbett opens to tourists from 15th November to 15th June. All days of the week 6:00 AM - 10:00 AM 2:00 PM - 6:00 PM Phone No (Official) +91-8826678883 | +91-7409250836 Official Website http://www.corbettnationalpark.in/ Photography allowed or not Allowed Nearest railway station Ramnagar Jeep Safari Booking Price for Indian INR 3600 / Jeep ( Maximum 6 Persons are allowed in ONE Jeep ) Price Foreigner INR 7000 / Jeep ( Maximum 6 Persons are allowed in ONE Jeep ) Zones Bijrani, Jhirna, Dhela, Sitabani. For Durgadevi ( INR 4000 / Jeep ) Timings Morning 6:30 AM - 10:00 AM | Evening 1:30 PM - 5:30 PM Canter Safari Booking Price for Indian INR 1500 / Person ( ONE Canter has 16 Seats ) Price for Foreigner INR 3000 / Person ( ONE Canter has 16 Seats ) Zones Dhikala Timings Morning 6:00 AM - 11:30 AM | Evening 12:00 PM - 5:30 PM Elephant Safari Booking Price for Indian INR 500 / Person ( Maximum 4 Persons are allowed in ONE Elephant ) Price for Foreigner INR 1500 / Person ( Maximum 4 Persons are allowed in ONE Elephant ) Zones Bijrani Timings Morning 6:30 AM - 10:00 AM | Evening 1:30 PM - 5:30 PM Last Updated on : 30/09/2013 Travel to Uttarakhand Nainital Tourism Mussoorie Tourism Haridwar Tourism Dehradun Tourism Rishikesh Tourism Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Places to visit in Auli Places to visit in corbett Places to visit in Dehradun Places to visit in kedarnath Places to visit in Mussorie Places to visit in Nainital Places to visit in Rishikesh Places to visit in Uttarkashi Places to visit in Haridwar             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule