Overseas Announcement | HLH Group Ltd Home Company Company Profile History Board of Directors Management Team Events Photo Gallery SGX Announcement Local Overview Residential Properties Commercial Properties Industrial Properties Overseas Overview Public Executive Apartment Public Prime Apartment Announcements Agriculture Overview Land Sales & Development Crop Sales Contact Contact Us Feedback Toggle navigation Learn More About Us Home Company Company Profile History Board of Directors Management Team Events Photo Gallery SGX Announcement Local Overview Residential Properties Commercial Properties Industrial Properties Overseas Overview Public Executive Apartment Public Prime Apartment Announcements Agriculture Overview Land Sales & Development Crop Sales Contact Contact Us Feedback Overseas Announcement HLH Group Announces Acquisition of Land Parcel in Preah Sihanouk Province, Kingdom of Cambodia for Property Development 23 February 2015 HLH Group Limited announced that it has signed an Sales and Purchase agreement with Chhin Chanpor and Chan Phaly to acquire a plot of land in Kingdom of Cambodia. The Land is a freehold land with the total land size of approximately 9,818 square metre, located at Phum 1, Sangkat No 3, Khan Mitapheap, Preah Sihanouk Province, Kingdom of Cambodia, is for the proposed development of public executive apartment and shop houses. The land is directly behind independence beach and facing the sea and walking distance to Soka Beach resort. The sales and purchase agreement will complete within 30 days from the date of signing agreement. Read more Sihanoukville goes highrise February 2015 Residents of Preah Sihanouk province will now have the opportunity to invest in a new executive condominium project being developed by HLH Group Ltd, along the province's Independence Beach. The Singapore-based property development company has purchased the 9,818-square-metre plot from Chinn Chanpor, former Military Police chief for Phnom Penh, and another individual named Chan Phaly. HLH plans to use the well-located land to develop an executive condominium for "young couples and entrepreneurs". "The land is directly behind Independence Beach, facing the sea and walking distance to Soka Beach Resort," the release read. HLH says the project is expected to begin construction in 2015. Cheng Kheng, director of the CPL Real Estate Company, said the prices of the condos are very affordable for the province, which he said is a major business and tourism hub, and should easily attract prospective buyers. Sbong Sarath, former provincial governor of Sihanouk province, confirmed yesterday that the HLH condominium project was discussed and studied during his tenure. He added that the province was short on high-end, luxury accommodation services and that such projects will help fill that gap. "The demand of condominium will be increase so it is a good idea to develop it now and business will be good," said Sarath, who now occupies a position on the provincial council of Prey Veng province. "The land has clear ownership [from developer]," he clarified. "There is no any argument [with resident]." Kheng also said that currently there were no condominiums available to Sihanouk visitors, and similar projects could increase awareness and demand. "It is a first and starting step at Sihanouk. Once there is one condominium project as a successful case, there will be more in the near future," he added. Read more COMPANY Company Profile History Board of Directors Management Team Events Photo Gallery SGX Announcement LOCAL Overview RESIDENTIAL D'Fresco D'Almira D'Castilia D'Ecosia COMMERCIAL D'Lithium D'Kranji Farm Resort INDUSTRIAL D'Centennial Clementi Factory OVERSEAS Overview Public Executive Apartment Public Prime Apartment Announcements AGRICULTURE Overview Land Sales & Development Crop Sales CONTACT Contact Us Feedback Locate Us 10 Neo Tiew Lane 2 #01-05 Singapore 718813 Contact Us Tel : (65) 6861 0330 Fax : (65) 6861 7746 Email : general@hlh.com.sg : Like us on Facebook &copy 2015 HLH Group Limited. All rights reserved. &copy 2015 HLH Group Limited. All rights reserved.