Pune Road Map Home » Maps » Maharashtra Map » Roads » Pune Road Map   Maharashtra Road Map Ahmednagar Kolhapur Nagpur Nashik Pune Ratnagiri Satara Solanpur Thane                        more.. About Maharashtra History and Geography Climate Maharashtra Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Cities Economy Industrial Map Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Pune Road Map Click any Neighbouring District/State and get the Detailed Road Map Road Map of Pune Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing entire road network of pune district, Maharashtra Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Roads of Maharashtra   Raigad Road Map Solapur Road Map Nagpur Road Map Kolhapur Road Map         Ahmednagar Road Map Ratnagiri Road Map Nashik Road Map Aurangabad Road Map       other roads of Maharashtra >> India's eighth largest metropolis, Pune (earlier known as Poona), is Maharashtra's second largest state after Mumbai. It is the largest city in Western Ghats and Maharashtra's cultural capital. This city was once Maratha Empire's centre of power and is Pune district's administrative capital. The city is placed 560 metres on the Deccan plateau above the sea level. Originally, Pune was called as Punawadi and became a town since 847 AD. The city also turned as an important political centre in 1730. It also was a cantonment town after the British India took over this city in 1817. It was also the Bombay Presidency's 'monsoon capital' until India's independence. Today, this city is well-known for its educational prosperity and facilities. The city is rich in cultural activities which include classical music, theatre, spirituality, literature and sports. These spectacular activities and various opportunities for job attract many people and students from not only India, but also abroad. Pune has also been ranked as the 'Gamma- Global City'. Pune Roads Pune has excellent road connectivity to various cities and states in the country. Pune has both private and public transport available for the commuters. To reach Pune from other cities, one can prefer the national highways or the state highways. National Highway 4 (NH 4) connects to Mumbai, Kolhapur and Bangalore. NH 9 connects to Hyderabad, and NH 50 connects to the grape-city Nashik. The state highways connect Pune to Aurangabad, Ahmednagar and Alandi. Two intra-city highways - National Highway 4's part Katraj-Dehu Road Bypass and old Pune-Mumbai Highway - serve Pune. NH 50 that connects Nashik City and Pune will be part of Nashik-Pune-Mumbai, which is popularly called as the golden triangle. India's first Expressway, Mumbai-Pune Expressway, can be clearly seen from the hill-station Khandala. This is the first six-lane high-speed expressway in India, which was constructed in 2002. It is because of this expressway that Mumbai-Pune travel time has reduced to almost two hours. To manage heavy traffic, a ring road is also being planned. India's first Bus Rapid Transit System is the Pune BRTS. This project consists of bus lanes that are 16.5 kilometres long. These lanes run along the Pune Satara Road and have over 500 air-conditioned and low-floor Volvo buses. Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) operates the local bus service within the city and its suburbs. Pune BRTS is also been operated by PMPML. Bus service from the main stops like Shivajinagar, Swargate and Pune station is run by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation in order to provide smooth connectivity to all Maharashtra's major towns and cities and also the neighbouring states. Last Updated on : 25/04/2013 Maharashtra Road Map Akola Amravati Bhandara Bid Buldhana Chandrapur Dharashiv Dhule Gadchiroli Gondia Hingoli Jalgaon Jalna Latur Mumbai Suburban Mumbai Nanded Nandurbar Parbhani Pune Sangli Satara Sindhudurg Thane Wardha Washim Yavatmal             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule