Agriculture Department, Jammu Agriculture Department, Jammu Government of Jammu and Kashmir Home Page Beneficiary Lists Profile of District Kathua Kathua district being entrance to the state has location advantage. There are three agriculture subdivisions in the district namely Billawar & Basohli and Dayalachak divided in Command and Non-Command areas. Billawar and Basohli constitutes non-command area and Dayalachak sub-division falls in Command area. The topography of the agro climatic zones of both areas are different ranging from sub-tropical in command & subtropical to temperate in non-command areas. The command area is 30% irrigated & where as only 10% of the area in non command is irrigated. In respect of crop production potential the command area is quite productive than upper areas. The district is situated at 320 17' to 320 55' North latitude and 750 70' to 760 16' East longitude. The district is surrounded by Punjab in the south-east, Himachal Pradesh in north-east, district Doda and Udhampur in North and north-west , Jammu in the west and Pakistan in the south-west. It has an area of 2440 sq km's. The entire area is hilly and sloppy with continuous tracts of undulating high ridges. The average slopes varies fro 20% to 50 % general slope ranges fro North to South West to upper sides of National Highway 1-A and plain on lower sides of Jammu Pathankot National Highway. The Chir (Pinus roxburghii) and Kail (Pinus wallichiana) Deodar (Cedrus deodra) are the predominant species found in the area. Strengths District Kathua has varied agro-climatic zones from sub-tropical to temperate which is the main strength to enhance the agriculture activities. Most of the Tehsils and blocks are connected with road facilities which is necessary for implementation of programmes / schemes in time. Literacy rate of 65.60% is high as compared to other neighbouring districts. Receptive farmers willing to adopt improved farm technologies Weaknesses District Kathua being 80% un-irrigated and 20% irrigated, survival of the crops is low because major cultivated area is rainfed. Low purchasing capacity of the farmers, poor socio economic condition. Opportunities Department is targeting the increase in production and productivity of crops together with conservation of soil on sustained basis to meet the emerging needs of ever increasing population. Vast opportunities prevail for profitable diversification of existing cropping pattern within crops and towards non - crop husbandry Bridging yield gaps between average yield and attainable yield Threats Regular occurrence of Natural calamities. Weather congenial for high occurrence of pest and diseases Soil fertility loss due to erosion and leaching. Disclaimer: The information put on this web site is obtained from our field agencies and other sources. The Department is not responsible for any error or invalid data crept into  inadvertently or otherwise. It is our sincere request that any error or discrepancy if noticed may kindly be brought to the attention of the department for its immediate rectification on our e-mail id :agrijammu@rediffmail.com