Welcome to DGCI&S | Welcome to Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics Ministry of Commerce and industry, Govt. of India Home FAQ Contact Us Home Organization Profile History Foreign Trade Statistics Ancillary Statistics Indian Trade Journal Commercial Intelligence Commercial Library Press Notes Data Summary Trade Data Priced Detail Data Price Information System Notice Publications Registration Trade Directory Feedback Contact Us RTI FAQ Sitemap Data Dissemination Policy Data Privacy Policy Dynamic Data Revision Policy Quick Estimate Commercial Library Services Recruitment Rules Events / Announcements Media Gallery Highlights Latest 24-months Export final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website Latest 24-months Import final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website DGCIS has introduced 168 new commodity groups for publication of principal commodity level foreign trade data Are you interested in doing business with the Government of India Organizations? Click Here Visit the Related sites RFD CITIZEN'S CHARTER Grievance Redressal This site has been visited 995110 times on Friday, May, 29, 2015 PUBLIC GRIEVANCES Home Profile Indian Trade Journal Indian Trade Journal The Journal : In order to keep the Indian trading community informed about the latest business opportunities in India and abroad, the Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence & Statistics (D.G.C.I. & S.) brings out the Indian Trade Journal, a weekly publication.  It is brought out every Wednesday. This unique govt. of India publication is the only official journal for publication of tenders of all government of India organisations. The Journal is being published since 1906. As per Rule 150 of    GFR of Govt. of India (Para 29 of the Annexure to Chapter 8), The Indian Trade Journal should be regarded as the standard medium of public advertisements in India. Hence, the Indian Trade Journal (I.T.J.) is the standard medium as well as compendium of tender notices meant for purchase of stores for use in public service. For export promotion, the I.T.J. incorporates news capsules on policies, both Indian and Foreign, affecting India’s foreign trade. As a part of the trade promotion activities, the Indian Trade Journal also publishes various informative sections every week that are of interest to the commercial world. Editorial Authority: The D.G.C.I. & S. is the editorial authority for the Indian Trade Journal. Publisher: As per the rules laid down by the Government of India, the Controller of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi : 110 054,(Tel No. 011-23812527, FAX : 011-23817846) is the official publisher of the I.T.J. All communications of business nature, e.g., those relating to subscriptions, payment of advertisement charges and tender bills should be addressed to that office with due intimation to this Directorate. Click here for ITJ website Top Related Sites :: Contact Us :: Feedback :: Sitemap Source : Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Last Updated on 19-05-2015 Home Downloads & Plug-ins Help Accessibility Statement Accessibility Options Privacy Policy Hyperlinking Policy Copyright Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Contents of this website is published and managed by DGCI&S , Government of India. For any queries regarding this website please contact Web Master. © Copyright reserved by Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 565, Anandapur, Ward No. 108,Sector - 1 , Plot No. 22, ECADP, Kolkata - 700107