Top aviation companies in India Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Industries we cover         Automobile Aviation Aluminium Cement Cottage Communications Dairy Education Food Fertilizer Hotel Investment Insurance IT Jute Logistics Paper and Pulp Pharmaceutical Petroleum Petrochemical Polymers Retail Steel Software Sugar Telecom Tourism Textile You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home   » Aviation » Top aviation companies in India Top aviation companies in India Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  16  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 India is one of the flourishing global aviation markets. As per Airport Authority of India (AAI) statistics, there are 127 airports in India which incorporates 13 international, 80 domestic, 28 civil and 7 custom airports. Moreover India has around 1091 registered aircrafts. Over the years there has been steady growth in the number of private players establishing their business in India due to increasing liberalization and deregulation. Hence, at present aviation industry consist of three types of players namely, Full cost carriers, Low cost carriers (LCC) and other start-up airlines. An overview of Aviation sector in India The aviation sector in India has registered an estimated increase in domestic passenger sector by 50% per annum in the recent years, while the growth in international passenger section is estimated as 25%. Experts foresee future growth in international cargo by 12%. As per the prediction of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, India in the coming decade will require 1,500 to 2,000 passenger aircrafts out of which 135 planes have already been added. It is also predicted that India's aircraft capacity will stand at 500-550. In the year 2010, as estimated by the ministry, the domestic market will exceed 60 million and the international traffic will achieve 20 million. And in 2020, Indian airports will be effective enough to support 100 million passengers, which would include 60 million domestic passengers. The quantity of cargo managed by the airport is estimated to decline in the range of 3.4 million tonnes per year. Top aviation companies in India Air Charter Services Pvt Ltd: Air Charter Services Pvt. Ltd. performs its business operations with private business aircrafts, executive and corporate air charters, helicopter tours, VIP charter flights, and photo and video flights. Its client list incorporates VIPs, corporate firms, tour co-ordinators, travel agents and air medical evacuation professionals. It provides services such as relief, VIP, air ambulance and privacy services. Air Charters India: Air Charter India is owned by the STIC Travel Group and has around 100 airplanes in India. It covers several international destinations with an unmatchable logistics support. The aviation company has 40 offices with a highly skilled manpower of above 1000 people. It offers services like heli-skiing, charter flights for pilgrimage in India, heli-sightseeing, corporate jets, executive jets, etc. Air Charter India provides airplanes such as helicopters, business aircrafts, aircrafts for corporates, individuals and group travelers. Air India: National Aviation Company of India Limited (NACIL) was the first Indian aviation company which led the way for other companies in the aviation sector. It was initiated before the India gained its independence. Later it collaborated with Indian Airlines and gained the reputation of being the largest airline in South Asian airline. Air India Cargo, Air India Express and Air India Regional are its subordinates in aviation market. It offers First class, Executive class and Economy class services and has codesharing pacts with companies like Air France, Austrian Airlines, Aeroflot, Air Astana, Emirates Airline, Air Mauritius, Kuwait Airways, etc. Aviation India: Aviation India provides services like cargo services, flight operation, air charter services, passenger services, freight control, advisory and consultancy, aircraft preservation and renovation, international flight operation, air supervision and helipad engineering, etc. The airlines has skilled workforce and offers total control and functional back-up to several international schedule / non-schedule operations. Indian Airlines: Indian Airlines was inaugurated on 1st August, 1953 and in collaboration with its fully governed subordinate in aviation market Alliance Air, it takes pride in being recognized as one of the biggest regional airline systems in Asia. It has a fleet of 70 airplanes and covers 76 destinations, 58 Indian destinations and 18 foreign destinations. Globally it covers Oman, UAE, Kuwait, Qatar, Singapore, Yangon, Pakistan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, etc. Deccan Aviation Ltd.: The aviation company has its presence in 8 places namely, Mumbai, Ranchi, Surat, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Katra, Colombo (Sri Lanka) and Delhi. It has 350 daily departures and covers 65 destinations in India. It offers the benefit of no-cost travel to infants, ticketing counters, lavish aircraft interiors and ticketing flexibility. Indigo: Indigo is a utilitarian low-price domestic airline which offers feasible flying alternatives for millions. The airline was facilitated by the Air Passengers Association of India (APAI) as the “Best Low-Fare Carrier in India for the year 2007”. Indigo has 120 daily departures and a fleet of 19 Airbus A320. The airline covers 17 destinations namely, Agartala, Bangalore, Bhubaneshwar, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Chennai, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Goa, Imphal, Kolkata, Mumbai, Vadodara, etc. Paramount airways: Paramount Airways is a business class airline which has its base in India and headquarters at Chennai. Endorsed by Madurai-based Paramount Group and Paramount Railways was inaugurated in 19th October 2005. Its fleet comprises 5 aircrafts and it operates in 8 destinations. Go Air Airlines: Like SpiceJet, a Go Air airline is also a low price airline endorsed by the Wadia group. It was inaugurated in Mumbai in June 2004. It operates in 11 cities with 61 daily departures. It has started its functions in Ahmedabad, Chennai, Bangalore, Coimbatore, Goa, Cochin, Jaipur, Mumbai, Pune, Delhi, Srinagar, etc. Kingfisher Airlines: It is the one and only 5-star airline in India which offers excellent first class service on domestic itineraries also. A part of UB group, Kingfisher Airlines has received 30 awards for its novelty and customer satisfaction. After its tie-up with Deccan, the airline covers 64 cities and has 484 daily departures. Spice Jet: Spice Jet is basically a low cost airline which incorporates many Boeing 737-800 airplanes in its fleet. It covers 14 destinations in India. Air Sahara: Air Sahara was inaugurated on December 3, 1993 with a fleet of only two Boeing 737-200s. Now it comprise of 27 aircrafts, 135 daily departures and availability of 16500 seats on regular basis. It reaches various Indian destinations like Bangalore, Kolkata, Delhi, Lucknow, Mumbai, Chennai, etc. Jet Airways: Jet Airways was established on May 5, 1993. It earns yearly revenue of Rs 2502.89 and total income of approx ` 117868.8 Million. At present it id India's biggest private domestic airline with 62 aircrafts and a market share of 25%. It covers 50 destinations with 340 regular departures. Jet Airways has pacts with foreign airlines, such as Lufthansa, Swiss, Gulf Air, Austrian Airlines, Qantas and Thai. Aviation Industry     Top Aviation Companies Role of Aviation Industry in India GDP Aviation Insurance Civil Aviation Policy Jet Airways About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED