Welcome to National Institute of Nutrition      National Centre for Laboratory Animal Sciences (NCLAS)            The Evolution The National Centre for Laboratory Animal Sciences was set up with the aim of producing quality laboratory animals for experimental purposes. The centre was known as the Laboratory Animals Information Service (LAIS) prior to 1976, had its modest beginning in 1957 in Bombay, with the financial support from UNESCO.  In 1959, the Centre was taken over by ICMR and later in 1976, it was shifted to the premises of National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), Hyderabad. At this juncture, the Centre was renamed as Laboratory Animal Information Service Centre (LAISC). It expanded its activities and started breeding and supplying laboratory animals to various Institutions in the country. In 1988 with the financial support from ICMR and Department of Biotechnology, the services of LAISC were considerably improved through the establishment of a National Infrastructure Facility for Laboratory Animals (NIFLA). In the year 1995, the two centres, viz., LAISC and NIFLA were merged into a single unit and re-christened as the National Centre for Laboratory Animal Sciences (NCLAS). The center is currently meeting the breeding and experimentation needs of over 180 institutions in the country. Apart from breeding and supplying of animals, the center regularly undertakes quality control of laboratory animal feed and checks the health and genetic background of laboratory animals under its care.   Objectives To breed and supply genetically and microbiologically defined laboratory animals  To import and supply selected strains of laboratory animals for biomedical research Development of natural mutants for study of human diseases Conducting research in laboratory animal sciences Human resource development by organizing regular training courses To disseminate information through Information-Education- Communication To serve as a national reference centre and nodal agency on matters related to laboratory animal science and technology.    Guinea Pig Model  