Analyze the Development of Biomass Briquette Technology AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale Analyze the Development of Biomass Briquette Technology Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Analyze the Development of Biomass Briquette Technology LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 1 Day Ago #1 carambole Join Date May 2015 Posts 4 Analyze the Development of Biomass Briquette Technology Biomass is now a popular word all over the world, especially in the developed country. As the high development of production ability, people have achieved a lot compared with the old times. At the same time, the high degree of commercialization production has promoted a new problem. Due to the driving force of old time, the machine are mainly powered by fossil fuel like coal, gas or oil. The air pollution is the big issue for them. Also, the price for fossil fuel are greatly influenced by the international prices, it is a big cost. At this time, a renewable, clean and new fuel, biomass fuel has been approved by people all of the world increasing. The reason is evident, not only for the developed country, but also for the developing country. Briquettes are ready to substitute of lignite/coal/wood in industrial boiler and brick kiln for the thermal application. Biomass briquettes are non-conventional source of energy, eco-friendly, renewable in nature, non polluting and economical. It’s made through binder less technique without use of any type of chemical so it is 100% natural. Briquettes have high specific density and bulk density compared to 60-180kg/m3 of loose biomass. These can withstand the stocks of long distance transport, loading/unloading and transportation costs are much less, and storage requirement is drastically reduced. Compared to fire wood or loose biomass, briquettes give much higher boiler efficiency because of low moisture and higher density. Biomass briquetting machine technology is an important technology of densification. The biomass briquetting machine is the main equipment to make briquettes. It also called biomass briquette press or biomass briquette making machine. This technology has long been used by people long time ago. But the technology is comparative simple in early time, and it still needs the labor force. Also, the quality of finished products is low. Along with the increasing of production ability, the biomass briquetting technology has been developed rapidly. The new model has high briquetting efficiency, less cost and high quality finished products, which has been widely applied in many respects. Welcome to contact or visit Fote Machinery: info@sinoftm.com . Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread biomass briquette View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 01:38 PM .