About Us 1.JPG 2.JPG 4.JPG 5.JPG 3.JPG Joomla gallery extension by joomlashine.com Multilingual Support 1.JPG http://localhost/haccp_final/images/images/1.JPG 2.JPG http://localhost/haccp_final/images/images/2.JPG 4.JPG http://localhost/haccp_final/images/images/4.JPG 5.JPG http://localhost/haccp_final/images/images/5.JPG 3.JPG http://localhost/haccp_final/images/images/3.JPG The Quality Organisation under Department of Industries and Commerce, Government of Kerala for Audit and Certification of HACCP System About Us     NATIONAL CENTRE FOR HACCP CERTIFICATION (NCHC) The fundamental criterion for international trade is food quality-foods should be safe and free from adulteration. Governments have designed and enacted standards and regulations that ensure consumer safety and prevent malpractices in the production and sale of foods. Many importing countries have established food control agencies to ensure that all imported foods comply with those produced domestically. All exporting nations have food control agencies to ensure that export products comply with the statutory requirements of the importing countries. Government of Kerala has been taking various efforts in implementing Food Quality & Safety Hygiene (HACCP) Programme in the Food Processing sector and for facilitating HACCP Certification for food industry and other food related vendors, a National Centre for HACCP Certification (NCHC) has been setup in Kerala State. National Centre for HACCP Certification (NCHC)  is a Quality organisation providing professional & cost effective assessment, audit and certification of Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) System for food industry and other food-related vendors. Objectives of NCHC ·         To develop a team of experts in the Design, Implementation, Audit and Certification of Food Safety Systems, to ensure compliance with 'The Codex Principles of Food Hygiene and the Application of HACCP" in Small and Less Developed Food Business Operations / Establishments (SLDBs). ·     To provide guidelines to the industries as well as guarantee to the consumers that the food produced & marketed are safe, wholesome and fit for human consumption. ·       To facilitate the Action Plan of the Government to transform the State as well as the Country as nation devoid of Food Safety issues. Functions of NCHC ·       Operate in collaboration with all the stakeholders in the Food Chain in the application of HACCP based Food Safety System. ·          Develop sector specific guidelines tailored to suit to the needs of the State / Country. ·       Nodal Center to Audit and Certify the Food Safety in the Food Business Operations to provide guidance to the consumers world over to meet Country's obligation as a signatory of WTO and equip the industry to compete in the Global markets. ·          Maintain the system effectively through continuous review and improvement. ·         Collect and collate current data as well as information on Food Safety, disseminate the same to all the stakeholders. ·      Establish linkages between National and International organisations related to Food Safety and participate effectively in the Food Standard development process of The Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC). Kerala Bureau of Industrial Promotion (K-BIP), an autonomous body under the aegis of Department of Industries, Government of Kerala has been identified by the Government as the nodal agency for HACCP Certification. The National Centre for HACCP Certification (NCHC) is associated with K-BIP.   For additional information about our services, please contact us at the address below or email us using the link below: NATIONAL CENTRE FOR HACCP CERTIFICATION 'Sri Ganesh', TC IX/2197, Kurup's Lane Sasthamangalam, Thiruvananthapuram-695010, Kerala State, India. Tel : 91-471-2311882     Fax : 91-471-2311883 email: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Website: www.haccpindia.org      www.keralaindustry.org Home About Us Certification Training News Enquiries Photo Gallery Clientele Copyright © 2014 Official website of National Centre for HACCP Certification, Govt. of Kerala. Design & Developed by Keltron