Home | USAID Dollars to Results Skip to main content U.S. Agency for International Development USAID Leadership Who We Are back Who We Are Who We Are About USAID Who We Are Mission, Vision and Values Annual Letter Organization USAID History Operational Policy (ADS) Transparency Resource Portal What We Do back What We Do What We Do Areas of Focus What We Do Agriculture and Food Security Democracy, Human Rights and Governance Economic Growth and Trade Education Ending Extreme Poverty Environment and Global Climate Change Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment Global Health Water and Sanitation Working in Crises and Conflict U.S. Global Development Lab Where We Work back Where We Work Where We Work A Global Presence Where We Work Interactive Project Map Afghanistan and Pakistan Africa Asia Europe and Eurasia Latin America and the Caribbean Middle East Mission Directory Results & Data back Results & Data Results & Data The Value of Foreign Aid Results and Data Dollars to Results Progress Data Resources USAID Forward Evaluations Strategy and Planning Budget and Spending Performance Reporting News & Information back News & Information News & Information Latest News at USAID News and Information Press Releases Congressional Testimony Speeches Photo Gallery The Impact Blog Fact Sheets Videos Events Newsletter Success Stories FrontLines Magazine Branding Work with USAID back Work with USAID Work With USAID Get Involved Work With USAID Partnership Opportunities Respond to a Solicitation Build a Partnership With Us Bring us Your Ideas Get Involved Careers Open/Close Menu Data FAQ Home » Dollars to Results Dollars to Results Spotlight on Kenya Spotlight on Bangladesh Spotlight on Liberia Spotlight on Haiti USAID extends help from the American people to the poorest and most vulnerable around the world. Together we achieve results. Learn more about Less Than One Percent Thoughtful students in class. Learn more about Kenya USAID/Bangladesh helps make small scale aquaculture a viable means of income for women and very poor farmers. Learn more about Bangladesh Voters waiting to cast their ballots in Liberia’s landmark 2011 elections. Learn more about Liberia Clinic workers carry boxes of supplies. Learn more about Haiti Our Investments Are Improving Lives Click below to view USAID investments and illustrative results in many of the countries where USAID works. These data do not reflect the entirety of impact achieved from the overall funds disbursed. Please refer to the FAQs for more details. Choose a country by geographic region or by aid category Geographic Region Spotlight programs in Afghanistan and Pakistan Click below to learn more Afghanistan Afghanistan The U.S. program of assistance supports U.S. national security interests in Afghanistan and the region by retaining and building upon the progress made over the past decade toward the defeat of Al Qaeda and the development of a stable, secure, and accountable Afghanistan. Spotlight programs in Africa Click below to learn more Democratic Republic of the Congo Democratic Republic of the Congo Strategically located at the crossroads of the African continent and sharing borders with nine countries, the DRC has the potential to be a top African contributor to an African economic renaissance because of its size, potential, and geo-political importance.  Within a debilitating context of corruption, institutional weakness, and lack of service provision, a generational change is underway, and there are a growing number of Congolese leaders across the country focused on tackling these issues. Ethiopia Ethiopia Ethiopia plays a pivotal role in regional peacekeeping and security within the Horn of Africa region. A healthy and prosperous Ethiopia will increasingly contribute to the stability and economic progress in the region and, as such, is an important trading partner and security ally for the United States. Ghana Ghana Ghana is a stable, democratic West African country with a free press, active civil society, independent judiciary and apolitical military. Kenya Kenya As the largest, most diversified economy in East Africa, Kenya is a crucial economic partner for the U.S. in the region. Liberia Liberia Liberia has had close ties with the U.S. since its founding almost 200 years ago. Stability was re-established with the end of 14 years of brutal civil war in 2003.  The past ten years have seen a strong economic recovery.  The democratically elected government has implemented effective and sustainable macroeconomic reform measures and attracted significant foreign investment from the U.S. and other partners. Malawi Malawi The relationship between the U.S. and Malawi has improved greatly since the assumption of power by President Banda in 2012. Engagement between the countries focuses primarily on the promotion of socioeconomic development and growth, democracy, and good governance. Mali Mali Following peaceful democratic elections and the inauguration of President Keita [KAY-tah] on September 4, 2013 the USAID mission in Mali began working with the Government of Mali to resume foreign assistance more broadly, including education and governance activities that had been suspended since the coup, while also adapting continued activities to the newly-elected Government of Mali priorities as necessary.   Mozambique Mozambique Between 2010 and 2011, U.S. exports increased over 100 percent, highlighting Mozambique's rapidly growing economy and potential for strategic investment and relations with the U.S. Nigeria Nigeria Nigeria is currently the United States' most important trading partner in sub-Saharan Africa, largely due to the large volume of petroleum imports from Nigeria which satisfy 8 percent of U.S. crude oil import requirements.    Rwanda Rwanda Rwanda is a small, landlocked country with the highest population density on the continent of Africa and remains one of the world’s poorest countries. However, the country has made tremendous progress since the 1994 genocide and the Government of Rwanda is committed to making Rwanda a middle-income country by 2020. Senegal Senegal Senegal has progressed significantly both economically and politically as a moderate, democratic, predominantly Muslim secular country in fragile west Africa. South Sudan South Sudan The U.S. recognized South Sudan as a sovereign, independent state on July 9, 2011, and continues to be the lead international donor. USAID works to help the country recover from the impacts of the current crisis that began in December 2013, address the causes of conflict and promote conditions for a lasting peace. Tanzania Tanzania Tanzania's political stability, sound macroeconomic management, and considerable resources all contribute to the country's great potential for sustained growth. Uganda Uganda Uganda is a critical force for regional stability in East Africa and a key partner to the United States in the region. The U.S. supports Uganda's five-year National Development Plan 2011-2015 priorities of growth, development, and improved social and economic well-being throughout the country. Zambia Zambia USAID's principal goal in Zambia is to help the country realize the immense economic potential it possesses. USAID supports programs that work towards growth with equity. Spotlight programs in Asia Click below to learn more Asia Regional Asia Regional USAID’s Regional Development Mission for Asia (RDMA), located in Bangkok, is a regional office which implements programs and generates partnerships with government, civil society, private sector, and regional institutions across 24 Asian nations. Its efforts address critical development challenges in areas like the environment and natural resources management, disaster risk reduction, and infectious diseases that cross national borders. USAID/RDMA also works to protect and empower vulnerable populations and to strengthen regional institutions to ensure that economic growth in Asia brings with it greater food security, environmental protections, and gender equality.  Bangladesh Bangladesh Bangladesh is a strong U.S. ally that continues to make progress toward a more prosperous and democratic society. It is a key strategic partner in South Asia and the country's efforts at reform, development, and security are vital to regional and global stability.