 Advisory group | Access Agriculture Skip to main content Access Agriculture Login | Register Home About us What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Sponsors Core sponsors Associates Contribute and make a difference Using this site How to use this website Submitting videos Translating videos Radio stations DVD packs information Useful technical information FAQ Contact us Forum Quotes Job Vacancies Awards User facts World map Video use Impact studies User login E-mail * Password * Create new account Request new password Languages English Français Custom FAQ Search All languages Adioukrou Adja Arabic Ateso Attié Bambara Bangla Baoulé Bariba Bassa Berba Bomu Buli Burmese Chichewa Dagaari Dagbani Dendi Dioula Ditammari Ebrié English Ewe Fon Frafra French Gonja Gourmantche Hausa Hindi Idaatcha Ife Indonesian Kabye Kannada Khmer Kikuyu Kiswahili Kpelle Krio Kusaal Lao Lobiri Luganda Lugbara Luo Malagash Mende Moba Mooré Nago Nepali Persian Peulh Fulfuldé Portuguese Runyakitara Sena Sisaala Spanish Temne Thai Twi Vietnamese Wolof Yao Yoruba Zarma Secondary menu What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Home › About us Advisory group Chris Dabbs started his first company in 2001, a viral marketing company, along with Dave Vout, the creative mind behind Tomb Raider. Two years later, he co-founded Creative Tank, a digital agency servicing the agency world. In 2006, he started Streaming Tank, specifically based at offering video streaming services. It has a client base including Fremantle Media (X Factor and Got Talent), the BBC, AT&T, Starbucks, all of the fashion weeks, The Economist, Gucci, Christies, Nokia and Aviva. It is the primary live streaming partner for Coca-Cola worldwide, technical advisor and partner for Google/YouTube Live, and Myspace. Nicolas Lambert has a degree in Business Administration from the Catholic University of Mons in Belgium; he spent part of his curriculum at the University of Leuven and at The University of Laval in Québec, Canada. Nicolas has worked for more than 15 years in marketing for food and beverages multinationals in Europe, including for Unilever, AB-InBev and the Belgian branch of Heineken (Alken-Maes). Nicolas is currently Strategy Director at Darwin BBDO in Brussels, an advertising agency. He also teaches International Marketing at the Louvain School of Management.  Nicolas was Marketeer of the year in Belgium in 2010. Niels Röling obtained a masters’ degree in rural sociology from Wageningen University and a Ph.D. in communication from Michigan State University. He has worked in Nigeria, the US, Kenya, and his native country The Netherlands. He is emeritus professor of Communication and Innovation Studies at Wageningen University. He is interested in innovation platforms for creating enabling institutional contexts for smallholder development. He is committed to smallholder development as the most effective and most sustainable option for global food security. As an advisory board member he sees Access Agriculture as making a vital contribution to the pluralist approaches required. Hala Yousry graduated from Cairo University and works as an Associate Professor and Head of Rural Sociology Department at the Desert Research Center in Egypt. She is Head of the Country Chapter, North African Representative and Board Member at African Forum for Agriculture Advisory Services (AFAAS). She was the African Regional Representative for Civil Society and Stakeholders at UNEP and is a member of the Women Steering Committee for RIO+20. Her interests include biodiversity, rural development, social aspects of climate change and combating desertification..       About us What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Sponsored by