Taiwan Foundation for Democracy: 2010 Asia Democracy and Human Rights Award | ngogateway.com Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Latest : Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Posted 1 year ago MARS FOUNDATION Posted 1 year ago St.Theresa’s Educational Society Posted 1 year ago Ray Welfare Society Posted 1 year ago Narain Sewa Sansthan Posted 1 year ago WOMEN ORGANISATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRUST Posted 1 year ago Sewa Bhav Foundation Posted 1 year ago Panrui Swajan Welfare Society Posted 4 years ago Sampark Samaj Kalyan Sansthan Posted 4 years ago The Catholic Health Association of India Posted 4 years ago Home   >   Funding   >   Taiwan Foundation for Democracy: 2010 Asia Democracy and Human Rights Award Taiwan Foundation for Democracy: 2010 Asia Democracy and Human Rights Award By admin on May 2, 2010 The Taiwan Foundation for Democracy offers the Asia Democracy and Human Rights Award for an individual or an organization making concrete and significant contributions to the advancement of democracy and human rights in Asia through peaceful means. It will provide recognition to the award winner and also demonstrate a long-term commitment to the cause of freedom in the region. Organizations or individuals from the Asian region can apply for thward. “Each year, the Asia Democracy and Human Rights Award is awarded to one individual or organization that has made significant contributions to the advancement of democracy or human rights in Asia through peaceful means. As the first national democracy assistance foundation in Asia, the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy is committed to supporting courageous individuals and groups who build democracy, stand up for justice and defend human rights, especially those in our home region. The Award consists of a sculpture and a US$100,000 grant from the TFD to support the ongoing work of the laureate, to be presented at an official ceremony in Taipei on December 10th, International Human Rights Day. Nominations are open to the public, and TFD Chairman Wang Jin-pyng invites you to send nomination for the 2010 Asia Democracy and Human Rights Award. To submit a nomination, please download the official 2010 ADHRA Nomination Form and refer to the enclosed instructions. An explanation of the selection criteria and review process is available here. All nomination materials are due no later than June 30, 2010.” For more information, visit this link . Source Link: http://www.fundsforngos.org/latest-funds-for-ngos/taiwan-foundation-for-democracy-2010-asia-democracy-and-human-rights-award/#ixzz0mmXBdojV Copyright©FUNDSFORNGOS.ORG. Do not remove this link. Under Creative Commons License: Attribution Related Posts: Social Work Mission Nsaidze-Dze Community Concepts on Human Security Network… Organization for Relief and Development in Africa Equip Foundation Shaloom Foundation Pakistan Asian Region Assistance Foundation Award Winner Courageous Individuals Creative Commons License Democracy And Human Rights Democracy Assistance Human Rights Award Human Rights Day Information Visit Laureate Link Source National Democracy Nomination Form Nomination Materials Selection Criteria Source Link Term Commitment Tfd Wang Jin About admin Related Posts Samaritan Action Development Organization Samaritan Action Development Organization CNN invites Nominations for 2010 CNN Heroes CNN invites Nominations for 2010 CNN Heroes eLC Research Fellowships at the University of Catalonia in Barcelona eLC Research Fellowships at the University of Catalonia in Barcelona International Initiative for Impact Evaluation: Policy Window Call for Proposals International Initiative for Impact Evaluation: Policy Window Call for Proposals You must be logged in to post a comment Login Latest News pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile: A.... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym) –... Posted 8 months ago 0 Society for Peoples Integrated Development General information: Full Name of organization Society for People’s Integrated... Posted 8 months ago 0 Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Address: At – Bhalunka Po- Ramdaspur (Godisahi) Dist – Cuttack... Posted 8 months ago 0 Shri Durga Mahila Mandal (SDMM) Village & P.O. Ghanauli, District Roopnagar (Punjab) Shri Durga Mahila... Posted 8 months ago 0 Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) 1A, D. L. Khan Road,... Posted 8 months ago 0 Feedback Funding Agencies A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W Search Latest Popular Comments pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile:... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2.... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym)... Posted 8 months ago 0 Funding Agencies in India A M M Foundation “Tiam House” No 28, Rajaji... Posted 5 years ago 213 List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs American Jewish World Service Ananda Foundation Asia Foundation Baxter... Posted 6 years ago 116 Funding Agencies – C CAAC OF PIKE COUNTY 941 Market Street Piketon OH... Posted 6 years ago 91 Blog about human anatomy says: Awesome post.... Paul Ponniah says: Dear Sir, II, for Jeevan Sagar Trust, are w... Paul Ponniah says: Fine work for the Cause.... Recently Added pragati welfare society gariasathi Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Society for Peoples Integrated Development Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Copyright © 2007 - 14 | All Rights Reserved: advertisement advertisement