News 1.JPG 2.JPG 4.JPG 5.JPG 3.JPG Joomla gallery extension by joomlashine.com Multilingual Support 1.JPG http://localhost/haccp_final/images/images/1.JPG 2.JPG http://localhost/haccp_final/images/images/2.JPG 4.JPG http://localhost/haccp_final/images/images/4.JPG 5.JPG http://localhost/haccp_final/images/images/5.JPG 3.JPG http://localhost/haccp_final/images/images/3.JPG The Quality Organisation under Department of Industries and Commerce, Government of Kerala for Audit and Certification of HACCP System News     Advanced Training Programme on HACCP Audit   HACCP to Dinesh Foods Dinesh Foods is the division of Kerala Dinesh Beedi Workers' Central Co-op Society and is functioning since 1998 as the first Unit under their diversification programme. The Unit of Dinesh Foods situated at Thottada in Kannur, Kerala is awarded HACCP Certification by NCHC for their products ‘ Coconut Milk, Jam & Squash’. Training Programme on HACCP System National Centre for HACCP Certification (NCHC) organised the Training Programme on Food Safety (HACCP) System at Hotel Horizon, Thiruvananthapuram from March 3 to 7, 2014 to train another set of Government officials as the official Auditors of NCHC. The Training Programme on HACCP System was imparted to the 22 Nos. Officials attended and nominated from Departments like Directorate of Industries & Commerce, Directorate of Agriculture, Directorate of Animal Husbandry, Directorate of Dairy Development and Food Safety Commissionerate for 5 days from March 3 to 7, 2014 at Thiruvananthapuram. These Officials / Trainees were given full-fledged Training regarding HACCP procedures and other Food Safety related matters. The Training was based on curriculum under Codex Principles of food hygiene and was sector specific. During the Training, the Core Group was also sent for hands on experience with specific industry so that they actually undergo field experience of HACCP procedures. Participation in Food Hospitality World 2014 Exhibition at Mumbai National Centre for HACCP Certification (NCHC) participated in the Food Hospitality World 2014, the Exhibition and B2B Trade Show exclusively for Food Processing, Hospitality & Allied Sectors organised at MMRDA Grounds, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai from January 23 to 25, 2014. Training Programme on ISO 22000 System for the Officials from Department of Animal Husbandry The Training Programme on ISO 22000 System was organised for the Officials from Department of Animal Husbandry, Government of Kerala by National Centre for HACCP Certification (NCHC) for 3 days from May 5 to 7, 2010 at Institute of Management in Government (IMG), Thiruvananthapuram. 14 Nos. Officials from Department of Animal Husbandry attended and successfully completed the Training Programme. The experienced Trainers were invited for the Training Programme and they provided practical guidance with much emphasis on case studies and group exercises. The course approach for the Training Programme was on the latest techniques of Auditing of ISO 22000 System, interactive sessions, presentations by the participants etc.                 NCHC as the Nodal Agency for ISO 22000 System Government of Kerala has approved the National Centre for HACCP Certification (NCHC) associated with K-BIP as the Nodal Agency for Audit & Certification of ISO 22000 System in addition to HACCP System. Also 22 NCHC Auditors who have attended and successfully completed the Training Programme have been approved as the official Auditors of NCHC for ISO 22000 System in addition to HACCP System.         Training Programme on ISO 22000 System                                The Training Programme on ISO 22000 System to the core group of NCHC Auditors was organised by K-BIP / National Centre for HACCP Certification (NCHC) for 3 days from May 27 to 29, 2009 at Thiruvananthapuram. 22 Nos. NCHC Auditors attended and successfully completed the Training Programme. The course approach for the Training Programme was on the latest techniques of Auditing of ISO 22000 System, interactive sessions, presentations by the participants etc. The Training Programme also covered practical implementation, verification and maintenance of ISO 22000 System. This helped the NCHC Auditors to obtain the knowledge and skills to design, implement and verify food safety management systems based upon ISO 22000 principles. The experienced Trainers were invited for the Training Programme and they provided practical guidance with much emphasis on case studies and group exercises.  Previous Programme Home About Us Certification Training News Enquiries Photo Gallery Clientele Copyright © 2014 Official website of National Centre for HACCP Certification, Govt. of Kerala. Design & Developed by Keltron