Change Text size A    A     A  Home  |  Site Map  |  Circular Search  |  CPENGRAMS  |  Innovative Idea  |  Discussion Forum  |  SANKALP  |  BHAVISHYA Search   Pensioners' Portal About Us Organisation All About Pension Noteworthy Aggrieved ? Circulars/Forms Guidelines Related Resources FAQs Travel/Reservation Citizens Health Services/CGHS State Govt. Pensioners Sixth Central Pay Commission      Pension Calculator Calculate your Pension, Gratuity & DR     Photo Gallery   Contact Us Feedback Terms of Use   Report Broken Links Pension Process Map and Time Frame - Pensioners Portal Pension Process Map and Time Frame for those who are retiring on superannuation S.No Process Authority Concerned Timeframe Applicable Rule CCS Pension Rules 1 Preparation of list of employees who are due to retire within 12 to 15 months Head of the Department 1 st January,1 st April ,1 st July  and 1 st October each year. 56(1) 2 Communication of the list to the Accounts Officer Concerned Head of the Department Head of the Office 31 st January, 30 th April, 31 st July and 31 st October each year. In case of Government servants retiring for reasons other than immediately as soon as the fact comes to notice. 56(2) 3 Communication of the list to the Directorate of Estates in respect of employees having General Pool Accommodation with a view to obtain 'No Demand Certificate. Head of the Office. 12 months before retirement. 56(4) 4 Verification and determination of qualifying service, and if necessary, in consultation with the employee; and determination of average emoluments. Head of the Office. 12 months before the retirement. The process to complete before eight months from the retirement.   59 (a) & (b)   5 Communication of facts to the retiring employees for action by the employees. Head of the Office. 8 months before the retirement. 59(c) 6 Submission of papers by the employee   Employee 6 months before retirement.   59(c)(iii) 7 Presentation of papers to pay and accounts office.   Head of the Office 4 months before the retirement. 61(4) 8 Checking the pension and gratuity admissible and forwarding the PPO to the pension paying authority.   Pay and accounts office 1 month before the retirement.   65 9 Dispatch of PPO to CPAO   PAO On the last working day of the month preceding the month of retirement.     10-A Dispatch of Bank half of the  PPO to CPPC of Authorized Bank  CPAO By 20 th of the month of retirement.   10-B Handing over of pensioners half of the PPO to the retiring employee  Head of Office Date of retirement   11 Completion of all formalities and crediting the pension to the pensioner's account.   CPPC/Paying Branch Last date of the month.   Note For cases of retirement other than on superannuation, it is provided that PPO shall be issued within six months of submission of duly completed Form 5 or the date of retirement whichever is later.