Information about International Yoga Festival, International Yoga Festival 2015 Home » Events in India » Information about International Yoga Festival 2015   Major Events in April Mahavir Jayanti Good Friday Easter Feast of Our Lady of Miracles Ambedkar Jayanti Baisakhi Chithirai Festival Tulip Festival Urs Ajmer Sharif About Akshaya Tritiya Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories State Profiles Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       Information about International Yoga Festival 2015 Events Finder Select the Event OR Select the State About International Yoga Festival Event International Yoga Festival Location Rishikesh State Uttarakhand Category Festival Date Mar 1, 2015 to Mar 7, 2015 Main Attraction Presence of renowned Indian Yoga Gurus. Overview/History Every Year the State Tourism Department along with Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board in Rishikesh takes efforts to bring together the followers and lovers of Yoga. The beautiful Gateway to the Himalayas, Rishikesh is popular as the land of saints and yogis who used to stay and practice prominent yoga moves in the serenity and calm of the city of Rishikesh, situated on the holy bank of river Ganges. More than 400 people attend the event every year. The participants make their way to the city from various parts of the country. However, more than the Indian residents, it is people from the off shores who have a keen interest in the event, for India is famous for being the land where practice of yoga first came to place. This event was first held in the year 2001 after which it has been organized every year. Celebration The event witnesses some well known and prominent yoga experts helping people to acquire a better knowledge of several yoga postures. Kundalini Yoga, Hatha Yoga, Reiki, Pranayama, Power Yoga, Yoga Nidra, Pranic Healing, Music Therapy, Yoga Therapy, Nada yoga, Meditation and special satsangs are some of the major forms of yoga and meditation that are practiced in the ashram during this one week. The camp provides nourishment to both body and soul of the visitors. H.H. Sri Shankaracharya, Swami Divyanand teerth, H.H Swami Chidanand Saraswati and H.H. Swami Veda Bharatji are some of the prominent names attending the event this year. For more details about the festival, you may refer to www.internationalyogafestival.com Location of Rishikesh in Uttarakhand, India Last Updated on : January 1, 2015            