Research | Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering University Home About OSU Academics Faculty and Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Growing Oklahoma Search... Division Home Calendar Campus Map OSU Quicklinks Local Weather Menu           Division Home People Faculty (All) Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Resources CEAT Giving Page DASNR Giving Page CASNR Alumni Page OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation Hire OSU Grads BAE Newsletters OSU Job Search Employment Opportunities Student Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Degree Options Degree Sheets and Flowcharts Recruitment and Application Process Scholarships and Financial Aid Senior Design Projects Study Abroad Student Projects Student Links Graduate Student Welcome Graduate Programs Biomechanical Systems Bioprocessing and Biotechnology Environment and Natural Resrouces Food Processing BAE Graduate School Application Process Assistantships BAE Graduate Courses BAE Research Labs Graduate Student Links Accreditation Research BAE Research Labs Advanced Technology Research Center BioEnergy BioEnvironmental BioTechnology BioPhysical Properties Bioprocessing Lab Environmental Preperation FAPC Ground Water Machine Testing Machine Vision Research Shop Sensors Lab SPREC Welding and Engines class Wind Tunnel BAE Research Shop Bio Products and Energy Hydraulic Engineering OK-FIRE EPSCoR Extension Extension News Agriculture Machinery Systems AgWeather Applications Engineers BAE Fact Sheet Biobased Products and Energy Center OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Stored Products Research and Education Center (SPREC) Stormwater and Low Impact Development SUNUP Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Program News and Events News Events BAE Newsletters Publications and Outreach Impact Statements – April 2014 Archive Links Professional organizations American Society of Agriculturaland Biological Engineers North American Benthological Society American Society of Civil Engineers Energy Management Institute American Meteorological Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Automotive Engineers Collegiate organizations Alpha Epsilon ASABE student club ASABE Facebook page Cowboy Motorsports BAE Sites AGMACH$ Agricultural Machinery Systems Agweather BAE Extension fact sheets BAE Labs OSU Biobased Products and Energy Center Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit OK EPSCoR BREOI Oklahoma Mesonet OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Poultry Waste Management Stormwater and Low Impact Development Sun Grant Initiative – South Central Region Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Programs DASNR Sites DASNR OCES county office directory Robert M. KerrFood & Agricultural Products Center SUNUP CEAT OSU Sites OSU Home Hire OSU Grads News OSU Athletics Stillwater Resrouces Oklahoma Resources Oklahoma Departmentof Agriculture, Food, and Forestry Oklahoma Bioenergy Center Oklahoma Departmentof Environmental Quality Federal Resources Agriculture Research Service ARSGrazinglands Research Laboratory ARS, Conservationand Production Laboratory USDA U.S. Departmentof Energy – Bioenergy U.S. National Science Foundation U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency, Region 6 Other Resources Worldwide Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Directory The Environmental Working Group Microsoft Research Maps (formerly Microsoft Terra Server – satellite photos) Ground Water Protection Council, GWPC Center for Advanced Spatial Technologies, CAST Contact Us BAE Links BAE Home About BAE Archive People Undergraduate Resources Graduate Students Resources Research Extension News and Events Links and Resources Alumni Resources Contact Us Research About Our Research Biosystems researchers strive to create and adapt engineering knowledge and technologies for the efficient and effective production, processing, storage, handling and distribution of food, feed, fiber and other biological products, while at the same time providing for a quality environment and preserving and protecting natural resources. Below are our research efforts. Please explore these areas to see what we’re all about. You can also view our faculty and staff personal pages to see specific specialization and research areas. Each research title listed in orange is a direct link to the project’s main website. BAE Lab :  The Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Laboratory (BAEL) is a facility that contains several laboratories and departmental shop support. Biobased Products and Energy Center :  The mission of the Center is to conduct research and provide educational programs in environmentally-sound biobased product and energy development leading to the establishment of sustainable bioenergy and biorefinery industries in Oklahoma. Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit :  The USDA ARS Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit conducts research to: Develop criteria for design and analysis of safe, economical structures and channels for the conveyance, storage, disposal, and measurement of runoff water; Develop basic knowledge of the hydraulics of surface water flows for use in planning measures needed for environmentally appropriate control of runoff water and/or assessing the safety and efficiency of existing measures; and Determine the ability of vegetation, riprap, and/or various manufactured materials to protect hydraulic structures and channels from erosion.   OK-FIRE :  OK-FIRE is a weather-based system for wildland fire management featuring products for fire weather, fire danger, and smoke dispersion. Utilizing the  Oklahoma Mesonet  for recent/current weather conditions and an 84-hour numerical forecast, OK-FIRE is useful for both wildfire (anticipation of high fire danger periods and suppression guidance) and prescribed fire (planning for and conducting the burn). OK-FIRE is a program of the Oklahoma Mesonet and is directed by Dr. J. D. Carlson of our department. Half-day computer workshops are offered throughout the state during the fall to train wildland fire managers in the available products and use of the website. Oklahoma EPSCoR Bioenergy Research and Educational Outreach :  The goal of this research effort is to develop enhanced methods to extract biofuels from switchgrass. The bioenergy science team is led by Raymond Huhnke, OSU BAE; and Lance Lobban, OU. Research is performed at OSU, OU and the Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation in Ardmore, Okla. Oklahoma Mesonet :  The Oklahoma Mesonet is a system designed to measure the environment at the size and duration of mesoscale weather events. The Oklahoma Mesonet is a world-class network of environmental monitoring stations. The network was designed and implemented by scientists at the University of Oklahoma and at Oklahoma State University. Stored Products Research and Education Center (SPREC) : SPREC is dedicated to use by faculty, staff and collaborators for generation and dissemination of new information about protection, management and marketing of a wide variety of postharvest agricultural bulk commodities and value added products. The facility is used for applied grain industry training and technology transfer including Oklahoma Grain Elevator Workshops, Grain Grading Schools, Fumigation Workshops, and other training programs. Stormwater and Low Impact Development :  The OSU Stormwater and Low Impact Development (LID) program is an interdisciplinary research and extension program addressing stormwater management and control issues in Oklahoma. A specific focus of the program is low impact development, which are engineered controls for stormwater management which utilize and enhance natural processes and include rainfall harvesting, rain gardens, pervious pavement, green roofs, and wetlands. For more information on the program, visit our web site at lid.okstate.edu. Sun Grant Initiative – South Central Region :  The Sun Grant Initiative is a national program established to create new solutions for America’s energy needs and to revitalize rural communities by working with land-grant universities and their federal and state laboratory partners on research, education, and extension programs. Waste Management Engineering : There is no such thing as waste. In the process of making things, we also create byproducts. If the byproduct has no value it is a waste product, but everything has some value, so let’s call it “undervalued byproduct”. The three main program areas in waste management engineering are: materials handling, systems operations and waste treatment. Water Quality Program :  The OSU Water Quality Program coordinates research and extension in the areas of drinking water, environmental quality, waste management, nutrients and watersheds, pond management, rural/urban environment, water conservation and policy, and youth programs. To find out more about OSU’s water quality program, visit our website at  waterquality.okstate.edu .   Oklahoma State University - Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Stillwater