Gopal Krishna Gokhale India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Social Activits & Reformers » Gopal Krishna Gokhale   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Gopal Krishna Gokhale Gopal Krishna Gokhale was one of the earliest leaders of the Indian National Congress who propagated the idea of self-rule for India. He became the voice of the Indians who wanted freedom from British rule. He is more widely known as Gandhi's Political Guru, as Gandhi himself said. Born on May 9,1866 in a farmer's household, Gokhale received his early education in a local school. Later he graduated from Elphinstone College in Bombay at the age of 18. His college education made him understand the importance of a Parliamentary system of government and democracy. His clear knowledge of English helped him to easily communicate with the Britishers. After serving some years as a school teacher, he founded the Fergusson College in Pune along with his Deccan Education Society colleagues. At this time he met Mahadev Govind Ranade, a scholar and social worker and was greatly influenced by him. Ranade became his mentor in the path of social reforms. Gokhale also wrote for Tilak's weekly but a rift in their ideas of self-rule created two factions of the Congress. His role in bringing about the Morley-Minto reforms allowed Indians to occupy the highest posts in the government and made their voices heard. He also founded the Servants of India Society in 1905 to train Indians to work for their country. Gokhale died on February 19,1915 due to bad health. His vision and untiring efforts undoubtedly contributed greatly to India's development in all spheres. Last Updated on : February 1, 2014   Related Links   Reformers Keshab Chandra Sen Annie Besant Aurobindo Ghose Dayanand Saraswati Dr. Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Gopal Krishna Gokhale Mahadev Govind Ranade Mother Teresa Raja Ram Mohan Roy Swami Vivekananda             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule