KrishiKosh:Indian Institute Of Horticultural Research Skip navigation Home Browse Communities & Collections Browse Items by: Issue Date Author Title Subject Help Sign on to: My KrishiKosh Receive email updates Edit Profile KrishiKosh (कृषिकोष ) An Institutional Repository of Indian National Agricultural Research System   KrishiKosh  > Indian Institute Of Horticultural Research Repository Home Page Collections in this Repository Books Recent Submissions Climate Year Of 1941 See Yearbook Of Agriculture See Science In Farming See Lectures On The Inorganic Nutrition Of Plants See Proceedings Of The Second Meeting Of The Crops And Soils Wing Of The Board Of Agricultura And Animal Husbandry In India See Hormones Physiology, Chemistry And Applications Vol-I See Phytohormones See Chemical Composition Of Plants As An Index Of Their Nutritional Status See Textbook Of Botany See Introduction To Cytology See Propagation Of Horticultural Plants See The Vegetable Growing Business See Orchard And Small Fruit Culture See The Folicolous Ascomycetes, Their Parasites And Associated Fungi See Orcharding See Kent'S Mechanical Engineers' Handbook See Advances In Genetics See Fruit Culture See Botany; Principles And Problems See Methods Of Plant Breeding See Browse Discover Author 16 Not Available 6 Bailey, L.H. 5 James Murray Luck 2 Arthur J. Eames 2 Gage, A.T. 2 Lester W. Sharp 1 Andrew Denny Rodgers 1 Auchter, E C 1 Bagenal, N.B 1 Bainbrigge fletcher, T . next > Subject 2 planting, developmental stages, f... 1 acidity, amino acids, metabolism,... 1 acidity, amino acids, organic com... 1 acidity, amino acids, organic com... 1 acidity, amino acids, proteins, e... 1 acidity, amino acids, vitamins, i... 1 acidity, amino acids, vitamins, p... 1 acidity, enzymes, amino acids, pr... 1 acidity, enzymes, vitamins, amino... 1 acidity, growth, planting, vegeta... . next > Date issued 90 1900 - 1980 1 1848 - 1899 Maintained By IARI, New Delhi Copyright © 20012 Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi.|   | Powered By Dspace | Feedback ​