Making good use of scarce water | LEISA INDIA Magazines English Hindi Kannada Marathi Oriya Punjabi Tamil Telugu Home About Us Services Impact Subscription Archives Online Library CD Version Videos/Photos Videos Photos Contact Us Contribution Leisa India Low External Input Sustainable Agriculture LEISA INDIA > Call for Articles > Making good use of scarce water Making good use of scarce water With climate changing, water is becoming the most critical natural resource. Much more than an economic resource, it is vital for the survival of every living being. Floods and droughts are expected to occur more often due to climate change, affecting farming, environment and human wellbeing. Moreover the population is growing and competition for water between different sectors is intensifying. Agriculture is the biggest water user, with irrigation accounting for 70% of global water withdrawals, and up to 90% in least developed countries. Modern agricultural practices have enhanced the dependence on groundwater, pushing the water tables further down. Even when water conservation measures are taken up, especially under the watershed areas, there has been a tendency to increase the area under irrigated crops. Rainfed agriculture is still a predominant agriculture production system in the world contributing substantially to the food basket.  How do farmers in these areas produce good harvests inspite of not having enough water to irrigate. What are the water conservation measures they use? Are the traditional water harvesting structures being used? If so how are they being managed? What crop choices do they make? Are they being made based on water footprints (eg,. 25 lts water is required for producing one tomato, 2000-3000 lts water for one kg rice and 16000 lts for producing one kg of beef). What changes do they make in agronomic practices. The SRI system in rice cultivation is one striking example to mention as how farmers could change their agronomic and water management practices to improve yields, reduce costs and preserve their soil fertility levels.  Do we have some more examples which could help farmers produce food with less water? How are small farmers managing to produce vegetables when water is scarce. Are they adopting water recycling measures? Water quality is yet another issue which affects agriculture as well as human wellbeing. While we recognise that present agricultural practices contribute to deteriorating water quality, what measures are being taken to address them?  What is the role of policy in safeguarding the water resources, for its safe and efficient use in agriculture, human and animal consumption? September issue of LEISA India will look at efficient ways of using water for agriculture. We invite you to share your experiences in efficient water management;  rainwater harvesting; water efficient agronomic practices, strategies to increase the groundwater recharge capacity of the soil and innovative water governance systems etc. Articles should be sent to the Editor at leisaindia@yahoo.co.in before 1 st August 2015 Copyright© Leisa | All Rights Reserved. Designed by Dhyeya