TinyTech Plants - tiny power plants to bring electricity in villages - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop TinyTech Plants – tiny power plants to bring electricity in villages Home TinyTech Plants – tiny power plants to bring electricity in villages Develops tiny power plants to bring electricity in villages. Makes farmer technologically sustainable at affordable price Mr. V.K.Desai is 73 years old yet holds energy and passion to design and produce tiny plants and machineries for farmers throughout India. He was born in farmer’s family but farming never drew his attention instead he was inclined to design and create machines therefore he studied mechanical engineering, served in different organizations for 14 years and finally mustered all the courage to quit job to establish TinyTech Plants in 1982. “When I was studying engineering I used to keep thinking about creating tiny oil mills for edible oil, rice mills, sugarcane crusher and power plants to produce energy at farm level but was stuck in job so could not do it hence I left the job and completely focused on converting my ideas into real machines,” he shares. Company specializes in manufacturing tiny power plants to produce renewable energy and tiny food processing machinery. It is located at Rajkot, Gujarat. An ardent follower of father of nation, Mahatma Gandhi, he says, “Gandhiji always mentioned means of production that is machinery and equipment must be in hands of common people. This implies even at village level farmers must have access to all the machinery which normally is assumed to be in possession of large multi-nationals or corporate. So working on Gandhiji’s words I developed these tiny plants for individual farmers living in villages.” The purpose of these tiny plants is to encourage local production for local consumption. Explaining it further Mr. Desai says, “Groundnuts are produced in village so it can be processed at farm itself to produce groundnut oil using tiny oil mills for edible oil. The produced oil can be consumed by the families living in the village. Tiny oil mill will produce little quantity oil but surely it will be sufficient for the village consumption. Similarly it goes for many other products.” This is an attempt to bring down the overall per capita cost of living as it reduces the overhead expenses and make processed food items available at lesser price. It took many years of research, study and trails to produce these machineries. “I got help from many people from across the globe with respect to technology and design intricacies. In addition I collected lot of information from journals and books. Every single tiny plant and machinery is effort of many years and technology upgradation continues even today,” says Mr. Desai. All the raw materials and parts of machinery are procured within India. “I will never buy anything outside India as I promote concept of ‘swadesi’. Infact we buy all components from Rajkot city exclusively,” he shares. Tiny machines and plants are manufactured at factories in Rajkot. Mr. Desai highlights, “We have three factories, one for oil mill machinery, second for tiny power plants and third for solar based products. In all the factories we only assemble the components but these components we get it made from other local companies within Rajkot city. We provide them our design and pattern and in turn they manufacture the required components.” Product awareness is created by giving advertisements in local Gujarati newspapers. Word of mouth publicity from satisfied farmers also helps in attracting first-time buyers from near-by villages. Entire product range of TinyTech Plants is claimed to be reasonably priced as it is produced for farmers. There is no subsidy available on any product. The machines and power plants are installed within a day and all the products are always available in stock. After sales service is provided to the farmers when they are not able to fix the problems themselves. “I use simple technology using easily available components. In case of any breakdown farmers are able to correct it on their own or any local technician is able to help them. Indian farmers are very intelligent. Within few days they understand entire mechanism of machines and plants. Rest we have an outsourced team to assist them,” he says, “Farmers have suggested many changes in my machineries that helped to improve the quality consistently.” Tiny oil mills are very popular in India where as power plants have good export demand. “Within three years of launch, power plants produced at TinyTech Plants are already successfully operational in nearly 30 countries,” shares Mr. Desai, “In India too steam power plants are getting good response as many villages are having acute power issues. For example, in one village in Jharkhand state tiny steam power plant is giving electricity to 140 homes.” In India, all the products are delivered by road where as for export orders the products are delivered through steamers. To develop the new technologies for common people mainly at village level is the future plan at TinyTech Plants, focus is on textile domain. In addition to bring down the cost of the machines and power plants is main concern of Mr. Desai. He says, “I want people in village to pump the water with their own power plants mainly the solar power plants. At the moment the price is on the higher side but I am trying to reduce it. So far I am able to reduce price by 30% but my goal is to reduce price by 1/5 times of present cost then it will be profitable for farmers.” He concludes saying, “All technicians and technocrats must implement vision of Gandhiji to make our country a happy country.” Contact details- TinyTech Plants Pvt. Ltd. Tagore Road, Rajkot-360002, Gujarat, India Phone: +912812480166, +912812467552, Mobile: +919227606264 Email: tinytech@tinytechindia.com Web: www.tinytechindia.com Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > TinyTech Plants – tiny power plants to bring electricity in villages Related – articles, consultants, downloads Anusham Farm Machinery & Power Equipments Solwin Power Solutions Ibex Gallagher Private Limited’s Power Fence Dr. Ubaid Khan, Ph.D. (Agri) – Medicinal & Aromatic Plants You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water