CII About Us Economy Membership CII Services International Development Initiatives News Room Centres of Excellence Regions myCII.in About Us History CII Leadership President President Designate Vice President Director General Past Presidents CII Secretariat Initiatives Perspective Roles Strategies Economy Banking Corporate Governance Economic Affairs & Taxation Exports & Imports Financial Services Insurance MNC Mutual Funds Public Sector Enterprises Trade CII Research Membership About Membership Membership Profile Membership Advantages Membership Resource Centre How to become a member? Membership Helpline Contact Membership Desk CII Services Sectoral Portfolio Food & Agricultural Agriculture Climate Change Food Processing Water Manufacturing Aerospace Auto Components Automobiles Capital Goods Chemicals Climate Change Competitiveness Defence Design Drugs & Pharmaceuticals Exports & Imports Gems and Jewellery ICTE Manufacturing Leather and Leather Products Manufacturing Micro, Medium & Small Scale Industry Oil and Gas Public Sector Enterprises Research & Development Safety and Security Steel & Non-Ferrous Metals Services Aerospace Affirmative Action Banking Biotechnology Business Process Outsourcing Climate Change Competitiveness Corporate Governance Design External Relations Family Business Healthcare Information & Communication Technology IT enabled Services & e-Commerce Knowledge Management Life Sciences Media & Entertainment Public Policy Publishing Technology Telecom & Broadband Infrastructure Bio Fuels Civil Aviation Climate Change Energy Housing Hydrocarbons Infrastructure Oil and Gas Petrochemicals Petroleum Power Real Estate Renewable Energy Surface Transport Urban Development Policy Advocacy Business Development Global Outreach Competitive Solutions Commitment to Society Strategic Partnerships Membership Privileges Publications Events International Development Initiatives Affirmative Action Climate Change CSR & Community Development Disaster Management Education Environment Industry - NGO Partnerships Public Health Rural Development Skills Development Social Development Special Abilities Sports Women Empowerment NewsRoom Centres of Excellence CII Institute of Logistics CII Institute of Quality CII - ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development CII - AVANTHA Centre for Competitiveness for SMEs CII - Naoroji Godrej Centre of Excellence CII - Sohrabji Godrej Green Business Centre CII - Suresh Neotia Centre of Excellence for Leadership CII - Triveni Water Institute CII - FACE Regions East Andaman Bihar Chhattisgarh Jharkhand Orissa West Bengal North Chandigarh Delhi Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu & Kashmir Punjab Rajasthan Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhand South Andhra Pradesh Karnataka Kerala Puducherry Tamil Nadu Telangana West Dadra - Nagar Haveli Daman and Diu Goa Gujarat Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura myCII.in CII Leadership Mr. Sumit Mazumder President, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) & Chairman & Managing Director, TIL Limited Dr. Naushad Forbes President Designate, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) & Director, Forbes Marshall Ms. Shobana Kamineni Vice President, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) & Executive Vice-Chairperson, Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Limited (AHEL) Mr. Chandrajit Banerjee Director General, CII   Over the years, leaders at the helm of CII have proved themselves to be visionary industrialists. They have been able to anticipate changes in the economic environment, identify emerging challenges and evolve action-solutions for development. A unique feature of CII has been a constant reinvention of itself into an institution that today is not only leading industry, but working for the progress of the nation as a whole. At critical turning points in the country's economic history, CII's leaders have demonstrated the courage to lead Indian industry into uncharted territories and engineer change. CII leaders have consistently promoted a policy of partnership and cooperation with all stakeholders, and particularly with the Government. This intrinsic partnership approach has played a major role in the evolution of Indian industry over the years, as it transformed from a frail entity insulated from the global economy into a strong and vibrant sector that is driving India's economic growth today. The key positions of leadership in CII are President, President-Designate, and Vice President. For 2015-16, Mr. Sumit Mazumder , Chairman & Managing Director, TIL Limited, is the CII President, Dr. Naushad Forbes , Director, Forbes Marshall, is the President-Designate, CII, and Ms Shobana Kamineni, Executive Vice-Chairperson, Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Limited (AHEL) , is the Vice President, CII. The strategic and organizational decisions are made by a Council of Past Presidents of CII, which charts its long term vision and adapts it to the emerging eco-system. In addition, CII has a number of dedicated national councils, committees and task-forces, headed by CEOs who frame policy suggestions and action agendas on specific sectors and issues. Regional Offices are headed by Chairmen and Deputy Chairmen, while state and zonal offices have their own Chairmen and Vice Chairmen. The CII Secretariat, staffed by highly skilled professionals, is headed by the Director General. The Director-General oversees the implementation of action agendas as evolved by the members, provides exemplary services, and leads the day-to-day management and operation of the vast organisation. Mr Chandrajit Banerjee is the Director General of CII from May 1, 2008. DG's Quotes We are happy to see that Ministry of Defence has taken cognizance of CII’s recommendations to prune the list and keeping it to the bare minimum…..We are also hopeful that the delays in granting / renewing Industrial Licensing would also be addressed at the earliest.  More   Articles Reforms now in take-off mode May 26, 2015 A strong show amid varied challenges May 22, 2015 A long road ahead for GST May 16, 2015 A closer partnership May 14, 2015 “Millions of Rural Migrants will Benefit” – A ... Apr 26, 2015 More  