Himachal Pradesh Road Map Home » Maps » Himachal Pradesh Map » Himachal Pradesh Road Network Map   Himachal Pradesh Road Map Kangra Shimla Mandi Kullu Una                        more.. हिमाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                 (in Hindi) River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Cities in Himachal Pradesh Manali Shimla Dharamshala Dalhousie Kasauli                        more... Travel to Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Himachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Subhash Baoli Shivkul Sankat Mochan Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una Hotels in Kangra              more... Assembly Polls HP Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities in Himachal Pradesh Colleges in Himachal Pradesh       Himachal Pradesh Road Network Map Click any location on the map and get the detailed Road map. Road Network Map of Himachal Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing entire road network of Himachal Pradesh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Facts about Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh is bordered by Jammu and Kashmir to the north and Uttar Pradesh to the south, to the Northwest is Punjab and Haryana is to the southwest. Uttaranchal is to the southeast of the state. With a sq Km of 55,653, the state is full of mountains, plains, hills, now peaked mountains, greenery and landscape. Tourists should carry a map to reach the right place as the place can get confusing due to the hilly region and the many roads that the state has. The state has many other towns like the Kullu, Dalhousie, Kangra, Dharmasala, Chamba, Manali, Dharmashala, Hamirpur etc, which are great places to visit. To reach these places a map can be very useful to find the exact roads and also places of interest while you pass by. Himachal Pradesh Roads Being a very important tourists and a place of many pilgrimage centers, the government is always striving to put up good roads for the convenience of the visitors. There are almost 2000 temples in the state of Himachal Pradesh and that is why people from all over the country visit the state many times a year. The twelve districts of Himachal Pradesh are well connected that provides great access for business and many other purposes. Due to the hilly region, the roads have to develop every time there is a natural disaster during bad weather. The state has a good road network, in which 9 are national highways and 19 state highways. There are around 45 major district roads connecting various places. The Government has taken up various plans to build the infrastructure of the state road. Many revolutionary projects are coming up that would upgrade the present conditions of the roads in the state. With proper roads the chances of developing the industries and factories in this hilly region are going to increase and with it most of the district can get access to hospitals, schools, colleges, etc. various grants have been provided by the central government to focus on the development of roads. Importance has been given to the rapid economic development of the state, which makes it necessary for the roads to be world class and to develop important sectors that can fetch revenue to the state like the horticulture, forestry, handicraft industry, agriculture etc all depend on good efficient road network. Steps have been taken to build these various sectors along with tourism to enhance the revenue of the state. The state has millions of foreign and Indian visitors and therefore it is necessary to provide the best for them. The state government along with the central government has made extensive plans to make Himachal Pradesh self sufficient and self reliant for a better state. Last Updated on : 13/06/2013 Himachal Pradesh Geography Population Languages Climate Pin code STD code Food Festivals Useful Information Himachal Pradesh Elections Schedule Assembly Constituency Chief Minister Election Commission Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map District Map District Map ( In Hindi) Forest Map Tourist Map Mineral Map Railway Map Road Map Himachal Pradesh Handicrafts Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule