Organic Farming AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Join the Editors Organic Farming View Poll Results: Are you practicing organic farming at your farm? Voters 20 . You may not vote on this poll Yes 16 80.00% No 4 20.00% Page 1 of 8 1 2 3 ... Last Jump to page: Results 1 to 10 of 72 Thread: Organic Farming LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… September 26th, 2013 #1 editorialteam Join Date Feb 2012 Posts 1,063 Organic Farming Dear Readers, Are farmers in India actually seeing benefits of organic farming? Or, is all this talk about benefits of organic farming only a city based discussion? Regards, Shweta - Editorial Team Reply With Quote September 26th, 2013 #2 editorialteam Join Date Feb 2012 Posts 1,063 Mr.Preetendra Singh Aulakh, Monsoon Harvest Farms says- Having practically done organic farming for the last 12 years, my experience has brought me to certain logical conclusions. The primary conclusion is that for a small farmer, where the whole family that includes father, mother, children, and other extended family members, and all are involved with the land, it is easier for them to do organic farming, The reason being that all the labor is from home and no external costs are incurred on the labor. Secondly, because the family has a small land holding, just a few cattle that they keep will suffice for them to produce organic manure and other inputs such as cow urine, etc. Now to replicate the same on a larger farm without the family toiling on the fields, you can compare the costs that will have to be incurred. It is reasons like this that are acting as a deterrent for the organic movement. Personally, I would agree with other organic farmers on the statement “it tough to go the organic way because the input cost is high when compared to returns”. Contrary to popular belief, the input costs are very high now and since we have to use a lot of labor in lieu of weedicides, the labor costs get much higher. And when the organic farmers says, “organic manure/fertilizer is insufficient for big farms “ I again agree with them. The reason being, yes, one requires a large quantity of organic manure and fertilizer which is mostly not possible to produce fully at one’s own farm. If it’s a small land holding, one can manage with one’s own cattle, but for slightly larger farms, it is not possible to create everything on the farm. The big point is that every action on the farm has a cost factor attached to it. Now with the labor costs being so high, it is getting extremely difficult to have a good economic situation. Even if one is to get say 30% premium on ones produce that is grown organically, it still is not sufficient to keep you at par with the conventional farmer. And that is working as a huge deterrent for many farmers to either not go the organic way or to give up on the organic way of farming. Monsoon Harvest Farms 381, 7th Street, New Suraj Nagri, Abohar, 152116 Punjab, India Mobile: 9810004480 / 095019 32997 Email: preetendra.singh@gmail.com Web: Monsoon Harvest Farms Contact Details Reply With Quote September 26th, 2013 #3 editorialteam Join Date Feb 2012 Posts 1,063 Mr.Sakthivel S, Manager Business Development, Rudras Breeders Poultry Farm says- We started a plan to produce organic country chicken in 2011 but dropped mainly because organics products are sold a premium price. Not by farmers but by middle men. When we visit YouTube, we see a lot of western farmers owning a front yard shop and branding their products in internet. So organic farming will reach masses and profit our farmers only when our farmers are educated to take the risk in selling their own products. Government and NGOs should help here. Rudras Breeders Poultry Farm 40/9 Babu Rao Street, Edayampatti, Jolarpettai 635851, Vellore district, Tamilnadu Mob: 9943330061, 7418341038 Email: ishasathish@gmail.com Web: PIONEERS IN ORIGINAL KADAKNATH CHICKEN Reply With Quote September 26th, 2013 #4 archidambaram Join Date Feb 2008 Posts 228 Blog Entries 1 I agree with Mr. Sakthivel. Organic farmer does not make any money, but sellers do. From my experience, I had grown organic paddy and sold as rice at less than market price for non organic rice. Main reason, being a farmer, I cannot do retail selling. And doing organic farming in a large farm land is almost impossible due to high labour cost and non availability of labour. AR. Chidambaram. Reply With Quote September 26th, 2013 #5 editorialteam Join Date Feb 2012 Posts 1,063 Mr. Hrishikesh Manian, Director, RenXSol ECotech Pvt. Ltd says- There are enough examples of farmers being benefitted by organic farming. It is just going back to our age old practices; it is only now that we city folk are warming up to organic produce. In due course the results will match the potential. RenXSol ECotech Pvt. Ltd. No 252, 1st Floor 6th Main, 7th Cross, MICO Layout, BTM 2nd Stage, Bengaluru-560076, Karnataka India Mob: 9686670330 Email: hrishi@renxsol.com / hrishikesh.manian@gmail.com Web: RenXSol Ecotech - renewable energy solutions Reply With Quote September 28th, 2013 #6 editorialteam Join Date Feb 2012 Posts 1,063 Mr. Satish Belhekar, Founder member, Managing Director, Shree Consultants, Pune. Direct - Flora Biotech, Pune, Managing Director says- In current scenario, due to this long supply chain in the food market, costs of produce till it reaches to the end customers becomes such high that no one wants to pay further than that only because is organic. I would like to give an example that one of my friends had grown "organic bananas" last year. As this was organic, ultimately the production (tonnage/acre) was much less than inorganic farming. Also we searched a lot to sale the same as "organic" branding but no one was ready to pay any single extra penny for organic. So he lost money due to less production as well as quality. Increased production is the only best tool for farmers to fight price fluctuations. Shree Consultants E5/502, Shivsagar Residency, Suncity Road, Sinhagad Road, Pune - 51 Maharashtra Mob: 9822750258 Email: satishgb1234@gmail.com Reply With Quote September 28th, 2013 #7 editorialteam Join Date Feb 2012 Posts 1,063 Mr. Srinivas Kavuri, Chief Consultant, VSR Consultants says- As on date, Organic farming didn’t catch-up at ground level because of the cost factor. The Government should provide sufficient incentives to farmers and manufacturers as well for developing Organic farming. In the long-run, say about 10-15 years, organic farming will definitely have positive effect on the food quality. But lot to be done on this front, to make it a success. VSR Consultants D.No.8-3-191/228, Flat No.G-1, SM Residency, Plot No.114/B, Vengalarao Nagar, Hyderabad. Mobile: 09177129798 Email: kavurisrinivas66@yahoo.com / kavurisrinivas66@gmail.com Web: VSR Consultants Reply With Quote September 28th, 2013 #8 editorialteam Join Date Feb 2012 Posts 1,063 Mr. S.Gopakumar, Founder Director, Mark Green Warren Estates says- My personal feeling is that agriculture in India should take the organic route keeping in mind global scenario’s and human health. In general the farmers response to organic is a mixed bag with good enthusiasm from serious planters and many with lot of reluctance. The main reasons which can be attributed is the lack of indepth awareness, fear of sales, no concrete govt. backup etc. Mark Green Warren Estates Mr. S.Gopakumar, Founder Director Email - gopakumar@markgreenwarren.com Reply With Quote October 1st, 2013 #9 atspl Join Date Jan 2013 Posts 64 Dear Sir The poor farmer is being misled and cheated in the name of organic farming.In the ideal situation, it may work for family depending on the farm for their sustinence.The family has to eke out at least their livelihood, which is impossible in current scenario. People ar mislet under the guise of organic farming. Of course, the farmer should look out for a mixture that gives good return and maintain the quality of the soil. He should use chemical weeding as well as mulching.He should recourse to foliar application of fertilisers to control cost and to get better result.He should go for such organic fertilisers that he can get from the land and the animals he keeps.He should tap every every avenue like vermicompost, gobar gas slurry compost, etc etc so that the cost is minimal and transport zero.To day the cost of transport can be pretty high.The handling expenses or wages are also high. The farmer should concentrate on cutting the costs down as he has little control on the product price. The so called proponents of organic farming are the white collar lot who have other means of income for the livelihood. Joseph Karukappally Agritect Trades & Services P Ltd, W.Island,Cochin-682 003. email:jkagritech@yahoo.com Reply With Quote October 1st, 2013 #10 deepakyb Join Date Sep 2013 Posts 11 Dear sir, Farmers are getting benefit and the main benefit is cost, by organic farming farmers are saving money. Government should approach farmers the benefits of organic farming. Regards Deepak Kumar Yogita Biofarming Jamshedpur, Jharkhand Reply With Quote Page 1 of 8 1 2 3 ... Last Jump to page: « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread chemical free farming , natural farming , organic farming View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off