Home Textile Exhibition,Home Furnishings Trade Show,Home Decorating Event,Home Decor Fair JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Home Furnishings Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Home FurnishingsTrade Shows Date : 09 Sep - 13 Sep 2015 Auckland Home Show -  New Zealand Auckland Home Show is a one stop shopping haven for people who love their homes. Auckland Home Show is the ONLY major international home show based in the fastest growing metropolitan region. Venue : ASB Showgrounds ,Greenlane New Zealand Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Jul - 06 Jul 2015 Trendset MÜnchen -  Germany TrendSet – International Trade Fair for Living, Dining and Lifestyle“ takes place in Munich. Trendset Munchen offers wide opportunities to new artists for exhibiting their antique jewelry, furniture, antique clocks etc. Venue : Messe Munchen ,München Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Jan - 30 Jan 2016 International trade fair for creative habitat design, furnishing, decorating and lifestyles -  Austria International trade fair for creative habitat design, furnishing, decorating and lifestyles is the most important furniture and deco accessories trade fair.this show is an annual ‘must’ for all painters, decorators, furnishers,.... Venue : Messezentrum Salzburg (Salzburg Exhibition Centre) ,Salzburg Austria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Aug - 19 Aug 2015 Seattle Gift Show -  United States Worldwide Exhibition of Gift Shops, Furnishing Stores, Jewelry and Stationery Stores Venue : Washington State Convention & Trade Center ,Washington United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Dec - 13 Dec 2015 Zak Doors & Windows Expo - Mumbai -  India Zak Doors & Windows Expo-Mumbai 2015 is india’s largest platform for the fenestration industry. every year at the expo, thousands of visitors and exhibitors share and exchange ideas, materials and solutions pertaining to doors, windows,.... Venue : MMRDA Exhibition Center ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Jan - 31 Jan 2016 Bauen & Energie Wien-Austria -  Austria International Fair for Healthy and Ecological Building, Modernization, Financing and Energy Saving. Venue : Messezentrum Wien (Vienna Exhibition Centre) ,Vienna Austria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 May - 31 May 2015 HIA Sydney Home Show -  Australia HIA Sydney Home Show 2015 is the tried, proven and trusted building and renovation event: it will significantly increase your company sales. every year more than 350+ leading building and renovation companies select this show to exhibit in.... Venue : Sydney Olympic Park ,NSW Australia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Aug - 06 Aug 2015 Las Vegas Market Show -  United States The Las Vegas Market Show is one of its kinds with an exclusive collection of home d?cor items, interior design products and services, indoor and outdoor decorative items,.... Venue : Las Vegas Market Show ,Las Vegas United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Jun - 17 Jun 2015 Fine Design Residential Furnishings Show-NeoCon -  United States Fine Design Residential Furnishings Show-NeoCon 2015 show is largest design center, encompassing showrooms and product lines of luxury furnishings, fabrics, wall and floor coverings, casual/outdoor furnishings, art, antiques, accessories and.... Venue : The Merchandise Mart ,IL United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Oct - 11 Oct 2015 Greater Cincinnati Kitchen, Bath & Remodeling Show -  United States Greater Cincinnati Kitchen, Bath & Remodeling Show 2015 is one of the world largest home improvments show whichb is displays showcasing the latest designs, techniques and products for the kitchen, bath and renovations to any area of the.... Venue : Duke Energy Convention Center ,Ohio United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Aug - 30 Aug 2015 Denver Modernism Show -  United States Denver Modernism Show 2015 will feature some of the very best vendors from the Rocky Mountain Region and around the country offering a wide selection of mid century modern, art deco, retro, pop and modernist furnishings, artwork and objects. Venue : National Western Complex ,CO United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Aug - 08 Aug 2015 Private Label Products Show -  India Private Label Products Show (PLPS) is India’s only international exhibition for private label products, own brand FMCG retail and contract manufacturing. New products and national & international suppliers will soon catch up on India’s.... Venue : Pragati Maidan ,New Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 May - 15 May 2015 Maison & Objet -  United States Miami offers a business platform in the heart of the Americas and their 954 million inhabitants. MAISON&OBJET AMERICAS aims to offer an annual event for the North and South American trade and visitors. It will bring together a selection of.... Venue : Miami Beach Convention Center ,Florida United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 May - 08 May 2015 Interzum Cologne -  Germany The world leading event for suppliers of the furniture industry. The latest ideas from the suppliers for the furniture and interiors industry can only be found at interzum. Venue : Exhibition Centre Cologne Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 Zak Interior Exterior Expo Chennai -  India Zak Interior Exterior Expo will provide an excellent platform to the exhibitors to exhibit a wide range of interior and exterior design accessories. Zak Interior Exterior Expo is an international meeting point where companies will present the.... Venue : Chennai Trade Centre ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 ZAK Interior Exterior Expo & International Furniture Fair -  India The event is an international meeting point where companies will present the latest trends in the world of Interiors, elborating technology, innovations, equipment and concepts for the Architects & Designers community. Venue : Chennai Trade Centre ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 ZAK Interior Exterior Expo & International Furniture Fair-Coimbatore -  India ZAK Interior Exterior Expo & International Furniture Fair - Coimbatore presents a wide collection of interior and exterior design accessories. t is planned as a one-stop to know the whos who of Interiors and Exteriors Expo & International Furniture.... Venue : Chennai Trade Centre ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Mar - 22 Mar 2015 Homedecor + Hometextile China -  China Homedecor + Hometextile China is a significant event for producers and suppliers of gift and decoration products, is an opportunity for people to live in style here and now rather than in the distant future. Venue : China Import and Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,Guangzhou China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Mar - 16 Mar 2015 Manila FAME International -  Philippines Manila FAME International 2015 is refreshing look to a whole new world of innovation and craftsmanship in home and fashion lifestyle daring you to explore and find elegance, sophistication and perfection in the show's.... Venue : SMX Convention Center ,Philippines Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Mar - 16 Mar 2015 SFEER Expo -  Belgium Event for Interior Decoration, Garden and Pool. It the unique combination of interior, garden and swimming pool show. It is the high-profile events and projects. Atmosphere fact is that grew into one of the most popular grants to anyone with a heart.... Venue : Flanders Expo Gent Belgium Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Mar - 15 Mar 2015 SEJEM DOM - HOME FAIR -  Slovenia The Home Fair is an international fair of construction, interior design products, products for managing a home and its surroundings, heating and air-conditioning equipment, construction materials and products, and products used for technical.... Venue : Ljubljanski sejem - Ljubljana Exhibition and Convention Centre Slovenia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Feb - 08 Mar 2015 Batibouw -  Belgium International Building, Renovation and Decoration Exhibition. Batibouw, the greatest professional fair of construction and renovation, will open its doors to professionals exclusively. Venue : Brussells Exhibition Centre Belgium Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Mar - 08 Mar 2015 Buffalo Home & Garden Show -  United States JOHN AND WHITNEY SPINKS of HGTV'S Flipping the Block will be appearing at the 2015 Buffalo Home Show March 7 & 8 at Noon and 4pm. John and Whitney Spinks at the Buffalo Home Show Fans of HGTV’s Flipping the Block rooted for married.... Venue : Buffalo Nigara Convention Center ,NY United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Feb - 08 Mar 2015 Cincinnati Home & Garden Show -  United States It’S Winter, It’S January, There’S Frost On The Course! Head Down To The  Annual Cincinnati Golf Show® Where You’Ll Always Find Unbelievable Deals On Equipment And Clothing, The Best Places To Golf Near And Far,.... Venue : Duke Energy Convention Center ,Ohio United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Feb - 08 Mar 2015 Mercanteinfiera Spring 2015 -  Italy This is the International Fair for Antiques, Modernism, Collector’s Art collection. Two major events in the spring and autumn in Parma, Emilia and in the heart of Italy, a stone\'s throw from the world to choose from thousands of pieces of.... Venue : Fiere di Parma ,Parma Italy