Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh and Tourist Destinations near Chhattisgarh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Travel Chhattisgarh Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Tribal Villages Haat Bazaars Ghotuls Indravati National Park Waterfalls Chitrakoot Teerathgarh Mandra Chitradhara Tamda Temples in Chhattisgarh Laxman Temple Gandheswar Temple Shivani Temple Mahamaya Temple Vishnu Mandir Turridham Shiva Temple Museums Anthropological Museum Raipur Open-Air Museum Human Science Museum Mahant Ghasi Memorial Museum Tourist Destinations in Chhattisgarh Bilaspur Travel Bhilai Travel Raipur Travel Bastar Travel Jagdalpur Travel Dongargarh Travel Hotels in Chhattisgarh Hotels in Korba Hotels in Bhilai Hotels in Jagdalpur Hotels in Raipur Hotels in Raigarh About Chhattisgarh History Geography Home » Chhattisgarh » Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh There are a variety of tourist places in Chhattisgarh most of which lie virtually unexplored. The unspoilt green forests, dotted with picturesque waterfalls, scenic plateaus and winding rivers offer a feast to eyes. The caves and forts of a forgotten era add to the variety of tourist attractions in Chhattisgarh. Myriads of wild lives hide in the forests of Chhattisgarh, which occupy a huge 42% of the state's land surface. Last but not the least important to mention is the lure of exotic tribal life of Chhattisgarh that acts as a magnet to attract tourist to the city of Chhattisgarh. Places to See in Chhattisgarh Kawardha Category : History & Culture The small age-old town of Kawardha is a tranquil retreat offering breathtaking views of nature and a rich tribal life. The royal palace of Kawardha introduces you to some finer glimpses of Indian royalty. The palace was built in the year 1936-37. The palace now caters to the accommodation needs of the tourists. Besides, the city also has a Radha Krishna Temple which is another source of attraction for the tourist. Bhoramdeo Mandawa Mahal and the Madan Manjari Mahal are other places worth a visit in Kawardha. Chitrakote Falls Category : Nature These horse shoe shaped waterfalls are 100 feet in height. One can often spot beautiful birds sitting at the corner of these waterfalls adding to the beauty of the place. The noise created by the falls is so loud that it is almost impossible to hear anything behind their noise. The falls are extremely beautiful to look at during the rainy season when the water acquires the brown color due to erosion of soil. Kanker Category : Nature This thousand year old town offers a splendid combination of forest, waterfalls and exquisite tribal villages for the amusement of the visitors. The palace at Kanker is still resided by the royal family of the area. The palace attracts a large number of tourists visiting the city of Chhattisgarh. Bhoramdeo Category : History & Culture It is often referred to as the Khajuraho of Chhattisgarh because of its beautifully carved erotic sculptures. The temple is built in Nagar style. The Shiva Linga in the temple is a beautiful piece of architecture. The outer walls of the temple are adorned with 54 erotic sculptures in various poses. Champaran Category : History & Culture The city of Champaran was the birthplace of Saint Vallabhacharya. Here, the birth anniversary of the revered saint is celebrated every in the months of April-May. It is one occasion that witnesses a large conglomeration of people to the place. An annual fair held in the months of Jan- Feb also attract a lot of visitors to the place. Bastar Category : History & Culture This near-perfect tribal land seems to send a wild invitation to the lovers of wildlife to explore the forests with waterfalls, wild animals, age-old temples, tribal dances and music. It is one of the most important eco-tourism destinations of the country. Bastar was once one of the largest districts in India. Seorinarayan Category : History & Culture The place is associated with legends in the Ramayana. The place derives its name from Shabri, a woman who served Lord Ram and his wife Sita while they were living in exile. Some consider the 10th or 11th century temple to be even more sacred than the temple of Lord Jagannatha in Puri. The walls of the Nar Narayan Temple in Seorinarayan have figures from Hindu mythology made on them. The annual festival held here attracts a large number of tourists from across the country. Indravati National Park Category : Wild Life Indravati National Park boasts of being the only tiger reserve in the state of Chhattisgarh. One can spot a wide variety of wildlife here. Apart from these the state boasts of 3 National Parks and 11 Wildlife Sanctuaries with a multitude of wildlife. Among these, Kanger Ghati National Park and Achanakmar Sanctuary are important tourist attractions in Chhattisgarh. Some endangered species like wild buffalo and hill myna are spotted here. Last Updated on: 5/09/2013 Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Travel to Chhattisgarh Travel to Bilaspur Travel to Bhilai Travel to Raipur Travel to Bastar Travel to Jagdalpur Travel to Dongargarh Flights to Raipur Flights to Raipur Travel Agents bilaspur About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule