Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Programmes/themes >> Working with Panchayats Working with Panchayats The history of the village-level Panchayat institutions in India goes back hundreds of years. But, after independence, the Panchayat system was neglected. DHAN Foundation realised that these institutions need to be vibrant and responsive to the needs of the people to bring about lasting progress, benefiting all. Thus, DHAN Foundation launched the programme, ‘Working with Panchayats’, to promote and strengthen the informal functional groups in the village to get involved in the Panchayat affairs. The programme integrates the existing traditional systems with the Panchayats to enhance the participation of the people and achieve synergy. The components of the programme are: Promoting functional groups (FGs) and village development forums (VDFs), strengthening and guiding working committees (WCs) to integrate with the Panchayat system. Facilitating preparation of multi-year micro planning for Panchayat Development by the community and make the working committees responsible for executing those plans. Advocating for enabling policies for effective decentralization through studies and publications, seminars and workshops. Promoting network of Panchayat Raj representatives at the Block and District level, and building their capacity in good governance. Creating awareness among the voters, youths, students on PRI, and ensuring benefits of the development programmes to reach the poor and vulnerable communities. Strengthening the Gram Sabha and making it a forum for performing social audit for transparent administrative systems. Enhancing the revenue for Panchayats through building corpus and undertaking income generating activities at village level. ‘Working with Panchayats’ theme is implemented in 25 Panchayats spread over five backward districts of Tamil Nadu, namely Cuddalore, Dindigul, Madurai, Nagapattinam and Theni. In addition to field locations, the programme coordinates a resource center, Center for Panchayat Affairs and Development (C-PAD), for enabling leadership capacities, thematic research, knowledge sharing, policy advocacy and networking. The programme focuses on strengthening the institutions at Panchayat level during the year. Efforts are taken for ensuring community participation in the Grama sabhas, Panchayat council and working committee meetings. Leadership development in the primary level functional groups was given high emphasis. Panchayats are facilitated to prepare a micro-planning document every year and ensure its subsequent implementation. As part of leadership development in working Panchayats, the Panchayat leaders were taken to model Gram Panchayats in Kerala for exposure visit. The programme made efforts to strengthen the relationship initiated already with the institutions working on Panchayat affairs. With Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development (RGNIYD), the Panchayat team is involved in national level research project on ‘Understanding Knowledge, Attitude and Practice of youth in Panchayat Raj Institutions’. In association with District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) of Tamil Nadu, the programme has taken up training program on ‘Role of NGOs in Development’ to ten batches of panchayat presidents. The Programme also works jointly with the DRDA to demonstrate National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) in five selected village Panchayats in Tamil Nadu. Along with National Institute of Rural Development (NIRD), the programme has taken up an impact study of NREGS in Tamil Nadu in four districts of Tamil Nadu. The programme has also initiated its works in an urban context. An exclusive project location to work with Madurai Municipal Corporation has been initiated to strengthen and facilitate urban local governance. ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved