Kerala Backwaters Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Kerala Travel Honeymoon in Kerala Hotels in Kerala Kerala Food How to Reach Kerala Airports in Kerala Tour Operators Kerala Attractions Kerala Backwaters Beaches in Kerala Wildlife in Kerala Hill stations in Kerala Kerala Water sports Shopping in Kerala Ayurvedic Resorts Pilgrimage Places Museums in Kerala Places to Visit in Kerala Trivandrum Travel Alleppey Travel Kannur Travel Kozhikode Travel Munnar Travel Thrissur Travel Wayanad Travel Kumarakom Travel Periyar National Park Thekkady Travel Kochi Travel Kovalam Travel Idukki Travel Mallapuram Travel Palakkad Travel Pathanamthitta Travel Varkala Travel Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya About Kerala Weather in Kerala History of Kerala Culture of Kerala Kerala Festivals Nehru Trophy Boat Race Champakulam Boat Race Aranmula Snake Boat Race Gramam Village Fair Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Cities in Kerala Lat Long Map Outline Map Districts in Kerala Kerala Road Map Kerala Railway Map Home » Maps » Kerala » Kerala Backwaters Kerala Backwaters Kerala Backwater Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing backwaters in Kerala. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The backwaters of Kerala are made up of over 900 km of interconnected waterways, rivers, lakes and inlets. The backwaters of Kerala are marked by a unique ecosystem wherein lagoons, lakes, canals, estuaries and deltas of several rivers meet the Arabian Sea. While hill resorts and beaches can be found in several parts of India, the backwaters are found only in Kerala. The Kerala backwater tours offer a perfect blend of scenic attractions and tranquility. One can travel on a traditional houseboat and enjoy the beauty of Kerala backwaters which make their way through a number of towns and cities. Kerala backwaters map provides a clear picture of various backwater tour destinations in Kerala. Some of the popular destinations for Kerala Backwater tours are: Kochi is one of the most visited Kerala Backwater destinations. Many backwater cruises begin or end in Cochin. Kerala backwater tourist attractions of Cochin can be enjoyed while staying at hotel or by staying at backwater houseboats while on Kerala backwater tours. Alappuzha is a district of immemse natural beauty. The best companion for exploring this place is the Kerala backwater houseboat. One can enjoy touring the attraction of Alappuzha in Kerala Backwaters India. Alappuzha is also famous for the Snake Boat Races held every year on Onam festival. The Kerala backwaters around Kollam, which extend from the Ashthamudi Lake, are mesmerizing. The boat rides on the sun-kissed water scores brownie points with most of the tourists visiting the Kollam backwaters. The splendid town of Kollam is renowned for being the gateway to the beautiful backwaters of Kerala. The backwater tour from Kollam to Alappuzha is the longest backwater tour in Kerala. Kasargod backwaters in Kerala offer holiday of a lifetime. The bewitching sunset on a Chandragiri cruise is an edenic and idyllic experience. One of the top draws of this journey is a ride on the Kettuvallam or the knot-boats. Tourists can also enjoy premier facilities at the Kerala backwaters houseboat. Kottayam is a beautiful Kerala backwater tour destination. The famous Vembanad Lake makes Kottayam a popular backwater of Kerala. One can see the historic churches and temples of Kottayam during Kerala backwater tours. The unexplored backwaters of Kozikode are popular for boating and water sports. Kozhikode is known for its historic buildings, beautiful green countryside, beautiful beach, hospitality and cosmopolitan culture. Kumarakom backwater in Kerala is an enamoring site with its exotic bionetwork. The extensive paddy fields, luxuriant mangrove forests and coconut woods, white lilies and variety of natural elements of the Kumarakom backwater is a must visit on Kerala backwater tours. Thiruvallam is a popular Kerala backwater tour destination. It is at the confluence of the two rivers, Killi and Karamana that Thiruvallam stands and the backwaters here are more special because of having been fed by them. The natural beauty of the region is enhanced by these river banks. Last Updated on : July 23, 2013 Hotels in Kerala Alleppey Hotels Angamaly Hotels Changanacherry Hotels Guruvayur Hotels Idukki Hotels Kannur Hotels Kasaragod Hotels Kochi Hotels Kollam Hotels Kottayam Hotels Kozhikode Hotels Kumarakom Hotels Malappuram Hotels Munnar Hotels Nilambur Hotels Palakkad Hotels Palghat Hotels Punalur Hotels Sultan Battery Hotels Thalassery Hotels Thekkady Hotels Thiruvananthapuram Hotels Thrissur Hotels Trivandrum Hotels Varkala Hotels Wayanad Hotels Travel to Kerala Travel to Alleppey Travel to Kumarakom Travel to Kannur Travel to Kozhikode Travel to Mallapuram Travel to Palakkad Travel to Pathanamthitta Travel to Thekkady Travel to Wayanad Travel to Kochi Travel to Kovalam Travel to Munnar Travel to Trivandrum Travel to Varkala Travel to Thrissur Places to Visit in Kerala Places to visit in Alleppey Places to visit in Kochi Places to visit in Kovalam Places to visit in Kozhikode Places to visit in Kumarakoram Places to visit in Munnar Places to visit in Thekkady Places to visit in Thrissur Places to visit in Trivandrum Places to visit in Varkala About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule