Welcome to our official website The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Welcome to our official website   Federation of Industry & Commerce of North Eastern Region (FINER) was established in 1992 and it is the leading apex body of Trade, Commerce and Industry of North East India. Read More AIMS To act as a catalyst in developing sustainable economy, trade, industry, commerce and the socio-economic conditions of North Eastern States and nation at large. For the creation and sustenance of an environment conducive to the growth of the industry, trade and commerce in the north-eastern states of India To guide its members to participate actively in the national economic construction and promote the stepwise perfection of the market economy system, so as to accelerate the process of comprehensive social progress Read More Resources CENTRAL GOVERNMENT NORTH-EAST INDUSTRIAL AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION POLICY (NEIIPP), 2007 The North East Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2007 of the Government of India have laid down a number of fiscal incentives for investors in North East India. The new policy would be valid for 10 years .The provisions of the NEIIPP,... Read More Contact us Meet us. Swahid Dilip Chakravarty Path, HouseNo.03 R.G Baruah Road,Guwahati-781005, Assam, India Tel: 91-361-2202537, 91-361-2200007 E-mail: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. website: www.finer.in Write us This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.        Follow us.     Twitter Feeds Tweets by @fineroffice Home About Finer What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com