The Road to Bali: WTO Negotiations and Developing Countries | Food Security Portal Food Security Portal About Us Contact Us Join Login Supporters Home Countries Commodities Policy Analysis Tools Data Dashboard Blog Food Security News Trade Evidence-Based Research The Road to Bali: WTO Negotiations and Developing Countries In Focus Improving Food Safety in Kenya Through the Private Sector IFPRI Launches Regional Food Security Portal for Central America and the Caribbean G20 Agriculture Ministers Meet in Istanbul to Discuss Sustainable Food Systems Categories Africa Asia Data Evidence-Based Research FAO Food Price Index FEWS NET Monthly Price Watch G20 G20 Mexico GIEWS Crop Prospects GIEWS Global Food Price Monitor Nov 4, 2013 by sgustafson In December, the Ninth WTO Ministerial Conference will open in Bali, Indonesia. Agriculture, and the links between trade and poverty alleviation, food security, and environmental sustainability, will appear again as key issues in the negotiations. The new Road to Bali blog series will provide analysis and dialogue about the critical issues being discussed in the official negotiations, civil society, and research circles, with a particular focus on the negotiations' potential implications for developing countries. Much like the 1952 Hollywood film of the same name, the WTO’s road to Bali has been largely a series of misadventures and misunderstandings, and has thus far had a very open-ended conclusion. In the film, when one main male character (George) wins the affections of both leading ladies, the other main male character (Harold) demands that the film continues and asks the audience to stay so they can see what happens next. The stalled Doha round negotiations have left global audiences, just like the film’s audience in 1952, waiting to see how the story will turn out. Over the next few weeks, we will try to touch on several of the many issues and interests that will be discussed in Bali, focusing specifically on the overall implications for developing countries’ economic growth and food security. Our hope is that this next round of negotiations will result in a substantive agreement that will not leave developing countries, like Harold, feeling left out in the cold. The Road to Bali blog series is intended to provide research-based information. Respectful, relevant comments and discussions are welcomed via the comment section below. You can also follow daily updates on the 9th Ministerial Conference on ICTSD's Bridges . sgustafson's blog Print Post new comment Your name: * E-mail: * The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly. Homepage: Subject: Comment: * Formatting help   IFPRI gratefully acknowledges the European Commission (EC) and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) for their financial support of the Food Security Portal. Facebook Twitter About Us The Food Security Portal, facilitated by IFPRI, aims to provide improved food security for the world's poor and increased resilience of global food systems against food and financial crises. The project brings together international, regional, and country-level data, news, and research aimed at meeting countries' immediate food security needs, as well as building long-term global food security. The open-access project encompasses a global research-based monitoring and capacity-strengthening device for successful identification and implementation of the appropriate policy actions in response to food crises. The Food Security Portal is designed to pool information in structured ways and ensure data quality, timeliness, and relevance, as well as the opportunity for collaboration among policymakers, development professionals, and researchers. Home Countries Commodities Policy Analysis Tools Data Dashboard Blog Food Security News Partners Contact Us Food Security Portal   |   Facilitated by IFPRI   |   2033 K St, NW   |   Washington, DC 20006-1002 USA Copyright ©2012 All Rights Reserved Share Home Countries Commodities Policy Analysis Tools Data Dashboard Blog Food Security News About Us Contact Us Join Login Supporters