Tughlaq Dynasty Map Home » History » Tughlaq Dynasty Map   Indian Dynasties Chola Dynasty Chalukya Dynasty Pallava Dynasty Chera Dynasty Pandyan Dynasty                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Tughlaq Dynasty Map Map of Tughlaq Dynasty Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing major cities and current country boundaries during the Tughlaq period. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. A man named Ghiyas-ud-din Tughlaq was recognized as the founder of the Tughlaq dynasty. The death of Ala-ud-din and the fall of the Khilji dynasty caused chaos all around and Ghiyas-ud-din was appointed by the nobles as the Sultan. It was when the Sultanate was facing a crisis that Ghiyas-ud-din took charge. Though being old he was strong enough as the Sultan. Once Ghiyas-ud-din became the Sultan he started taking into account the administration. Since all State's finances and the state treasury had been drained away by the Sultans of Ala-ud-din measures to control expenditure were implemented. He believed in the concept of the military power being the main power of the country. It was in 1325 that Ghiyas-ud-din died. Muhammed bin Tughlaq, Ghiyas-ud-din's son succeeded him after his death. There was no significant opposition when Muhammed bin Tughlaq ascended the throne of Delhi . Generally he found to be a confusing character which the historians and scriptures fail to describe. Often it is said he was a genius but some say that he was a lunatic. Also he is considered very intelligent and visionary as well. Though it is believed that Muhammed bin Tughlaq possessed great knowledge in various subjects it is said that he had just two drawbacks which led to his fall later: practical judgment and common sense. He was an ill-tempered man and so would hardly consider any advice or suggestion which led to the downfall of the empire. The empire attempted to expand but badly damaged itself. He did a blunder by rising the taxes above 50% of that at the time of Ala-ud-din and so due to this the people faced a tough time. The revenue administration was organized by him in a new manner. Due to such a rise in the taxes some farmers even left their lands and wanted to leave. The next thing he tried was reforms under his new monetary policies. The coinage system was edited by him completely which led to the creation of many new denominations of the existing coins, made of gold and silver. The situation became even more drastic when he introduced the copper coins. He wasn't seen taking any essential precautionary measures. Since he had no security and developed army there was no conquest and efforts for the expansion of the empire and no security from foreign attacks. He even shifted his capital from Delhi to Daultabad which proved to be his biggest mistake. The capital was changed and a new amazing city was created and even the connection between Delhi and Daultabad was provided. This dynasty has caused the major damages to the state of Delhi and after his death there were no successors left and gradually the Sultanate started to decline. Last Updated on : 4/2/2012               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule