Bangalore based IT professional’s experience in mango farming - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Bangalore based IT professional’s experience in mango farming Home Bangalore based IT professional’s experience in mango farming This is an updated version of an earlier article published in January 2012 Ramesh Kestur In January, Agriculture Information.com published an article on IT professional Mr. Ramesh Kestur’s successful mango farming venture, ‘Bangalore based IT professional’s experience in mango farming.’ He bought a 10-acre mango orchard in 2010, which has 200 mature trees and 100 planted last year. Mango Orchards is located in Srinivaspur, Karnataka. Mr. Ramesh only uses natural and organic farming methods of farming. This article received overwhelming response from all our members. They discussed and exchanged information on various issues related to mango farming. Intercropping Mr. Swamy praised Mr. Ramesh’s hard work in successfully establishing the orchard. He advises Mr. Ramesh to grow cashew as inter crop along with the mango trees. He further advices him to grow more fruit crops. Mr. Swamy owns a mango garden in Mulbagan, Karnataka. Mr. Ramesh agrees that he needs to intercrop to optimize usage of land and reduce the risks associated with mono cropping. He says, “We are working on planting arid and semi-arid zone fruit trees. I realized that there are quite a few varieties that can be grown. Cashew is one among them.” However, Mr. Abhishek Joshi, who has a mango orchard with cashew as intercrop over 70 acres of land in northern Karnataka, advices against planting cashew as intercrop. The Mango University in Dapoli suggested him not to intercrop both mango and cashew as both are of the same family and this might affect the mango trees. The university advised him to plant cashew in one plot and mango in another but not together. Vriksha suggests planting leguminous plants (dals) as intercrop for a mango orchard. Another member, Mr. G. Ananthan, too applauds Mr. Ramesh. He shares, “In advanced countries, mango yields are up to 10 – 12 tons per acre. This is possible by selecting the best yielding varieties and by adopting good cultivation practices. At present high density planting and ultra-high density planting methods are gaining momentum to utilize the land effectively and get maximum production in short duration.” Mr. Ananthan talks about the mango grafts his company offers, called reliance jumbo kesar mango, which are available for sale his farms at Andrapradesh, Tamilnadu, Maharashtra and Gujarat. He further lists the features of the grafts as high yielding variety with 10 – 12 tons per acre; has less fibre and is sweet; yields bigger fruit size (300 to 400 gm average weight per fruit); longer shelf life; higher pulp nut ratio; suited for high density planting and mechanization of farm operations; and yield starts from third year onwards. Member Jyona suggests growing rubber plantation in the South Canara region with vegetables as intercrop for 4 years. He maintains that it is 300% more profitable than mango. Mango Ripening Methods One member, Vriksha, wants to learn more about the eco-friendly dry hay method of ripening mangoes. He says that many farmers want to eco-friendly methods for ripening but due to the absence of proper guidance and knowledge they are forced to used calcium carbide and those who can afford are using ethylene chambers. He considers dry hay to be a wonderful solution. Another member, Mr. Panigrahi suggests the use of kendu and tendu leaves alternatively for ripening mangoes.  Mr. Swamy adds that in his villages the farmers use hay of baade hullu and thangadi soppu (in Kannada), which are available in the hills and also paddy grass can be used. Mr. Ramesh informs, “It is not just paddy straw. It is the hay that is used for thatched roof huts and it is very commonly available in villages. It is basically denser than paddy hay, which helps to trap heat and ripen faster. It renders a unique aroma to mangos.” Monkey Menace Chandra from a village in Nalgonda District of Andhra Pradesh discusses about the monkey menace in his village, which is so bad that people are scared to even cultivate vegetables. He seeks help from authorities and solution to the problem. He shares,”The villages keep the doors of their houses closed for the fear of monkeys entering and taking away the cooked food and utensils and even clothes. There are cases monkeys attacking the passers-by. The menace is more than the menace of wild animals.” Another member Arun informs about Indolite as a credible solution to scare away monkeys from ones premises. “This unique monkey scare device, made of polycarbonate, provides the most humane, innovative and economical solution to monkey menace,” he adds. Market for Mangoes Mr. Murali, also an engineer by profession from Bandapalli village, Srinivasapura taluk, Kolar dist., working with a multinational company, has a mango farm of 11 acres with 9 varieties of mangoes, including totapuri and neelam, from last 4years. He produces 85 – 95 tons of mangoes per annum. He used drip irrigation to water the orchard. Due to lack of time he sells his mangoes in his orchard itself. He wanted guidance from Mr. Ramesh regarding selling the mangoes in the right market. Another IT Bangalore-based IT professional, Mr. Patil is also exploring the field of agriculture. He too wants to venture into mango farming in future. Organic Farming Practices Izuddin wanted to learn more about organic farming methods phermone traps and phachagavya for pests and fruit flies, which Mr. Ramesh uses for pest management and nutrition management. So he directs Izuddin to the website: Science Tech Enterpreneur (December 2010) which has detailed information on pheromone traps and panchagavya. Member Szala thanks Mr. Ramesh for adopting and promoting organic farming, who also has an organic kesar mango orchard at Gir Forest of Gujarat. He suggests the installation of drip irrigation for better yields to all farmers. Mr. Ramesh responds to queries about his successfully mango farming practices, “This is the first year I harvested mango. I had to spend quite an amount on capital expenditure in cleaning up the weeds, and setting up drip irrigation, besides other expenses.  I was effectively negative the first year considering the capex involved. Hope to turn around this year if the yield and the rates are good!” Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr.Ramesh KN #1056, 27th Main, 9th block, Jayanagar, Bangalore 560069 Email – rkestur@gmail.com M – 09880642856 Farm address: #77, Annapoorna Farm, Mudimadagu village, Rayalpad post,Srinivaspura Taluk, Kolar district. Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Bangalore based IT professional’s experience in mango farming Related – articles, consultants, downloads Akhrani Farm – Mango Orchard Professional Agro Farm Development Rainbow Agro Enterprises – Contract farming Mr. Daneshwar Gawande – Organic farming You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables