Capital of Jharkhand Home » Jharkhand » Capital   Jharkhand झारखंड का नक्शा Jharkhand Map Capital of Jharkhand Jharkhand Cities Jamshedpur Ranchi Bokaro Dhanbad Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Reach by Train About Jharkhand Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Travel to Jharkhand Places to visit in Jharkhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Daasam Falls Sun Temple Population Sex Ratio Map Fact sheet education Universities In Jharkhand Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Lok Sabha Constituencies Business and Economy Ministers and MPs Government Agricultural Map Geography and History Mineral Map District Map in Hindi Hotels in Jharkhand Bokaro Hotels Deoghar Hotels Dhanbad Hotels Jamshedpur Hotels Kumardhubi Hotels Ranchi Hotels Language Jharkhand by Road Ranchi Airport Map Information Media People,Culture and Festivals Pin code STD code       Capital of Jharkhand The capital of Jharkhand is Ranchi, a beautiful city located at 620 meters above sea level. It is the administrative capital of Jharkhand, the new state of India, carved out of certain regions of Chhota Nagpur plateau with a predominant tribal population. Being the center of many political activisms, it was the evident choice as the capital of the new capital of the state. As the capital of Jharkhand, Ranchi is the home to all important government organizations and buildings, many private companies and non-government organizations, not to speak of the banks and corporations, have their head offices at Ranchi. Geographical Profile The town of Ranchi is located within the district of the same name. The picturesque Subarnarekha River girdles the town. The city is extremely beautiful and has many tourist getaways, close to the city. Falls and forest areas abound in the immediate vicinity of the city. Tourists visit the city as a tourist spot because of the great travel opportunities that it offers. Population and Education Profile The total population of Ranchi is a notch more than 1,500,000. However, it should be remembered that the pressure of population is increasing day by day. The sex ratio is quite balanced, with the male component being slightly above the total female population. Because of the many government offices, private offices, banks and hundreds of other organization having their base in the city, the Jharkhand capital is becoming the home of a plethora of human activities. As such the population of the Jharkhand capital is increasing steadily. The average literacy of Ranchi is 74 percent, much higher than the national average that hovers around 60 percent. Last Updated on : 1 July 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule