India Industry, Industry in India Business Plans Format BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Advertising Agency Travel Agency Restaurant India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Multinational Company Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Medical Agriculture Business Leaders Dhirubhai Ambani Azim Premji Mukesh Ambani Anil Ambani Anand Mahindra Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Mergers Acquisitions Refinance Top 10 Financial Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India SBI Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank HDFC Bank Vijaya Bank Allahabad Bank UCO Bank Top Brands in India Red Wine Shoe Vodka Beer Headphones Handbags Chocolate Rum Laptop Cosmetic Bag Watch B-Schools Top B Schools in India Online Business School IIM website IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi IIPM Pune S.P. Jain institute India Industry    Hotel Industry in India India Retail Industry India Software Industry Indian Manufacturing Confederation of Indian Ind. India Industry Sector India IT Industry Indian Banking Industry Indian pharmaceutical ind. Indian Telecom Industry Industries in India Reliance Industries India Cottage industry India Basic Metals Industry India Biscuits Industry India Bus Industry India Fertilizer Industry India Handicraft Industry India Heavy Chemical Industry India Machinery Industry India Metallurgical Industry India Steel Industry India Textile Industry India Truck Industry Logistics Industry You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home   » India-industry » India Industry India Industry Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  42  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 India Industry Latest News And Updates Tata Steel posts Rs.3,926 crore loss for 2014-15 May 21, 2015 10:25 AM Tata Group-owned Tata Steel on Wednesday said that under global subdued demand in steel consuming industries and increasing steel imports from China, it has incurred a consolidated loss of Rs.3,926 crores in 2014-15 compared to a profit of Rs.3,596 crore in 2013-14. Even as its net consolidated revenues declined by 6.1 percent at Rs.139,504 crore during the period under review against Rs.148,614 crore in 2013-14, steel deliveries also fell marginally to 26.32 million tonnes during 2014-15 against 26.56 million tonnes in 2013-14. "It has been a very challenging year for the steel industry with several macro headwinds at play. Steel realisations fell sharply during the second half of the year due to the deluge of imports combined with sluggish domestic demand. In addition, our performance was impacted by mining disruptions during the year," managing director T.V. Narendran said in a statement. Source: IANS Modi opens India's largest blast furnace plant May 11, 2015 10:22 AM Prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday inaugurated in Burnpur the upgraded steel plant of IISCO that has the country's largest blast furnace and has been modernised at a cost of Rs.16,000 crore. After modernisation, the plant's production capacity has increased from 0.85 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) to 2.9 mtpa. "This steel plant has been reborn and has the nation's largest blast furnace with a capacity to produce 2.9 million tonnes of steel. In times to come, the capacity of this steel plant will be increased," Minister of Steel Narendra Singh Tomar said during the plant's inauguration. Source: IANS Help transform Rajasthan, Raje urges India Inc. May 06, 2015 01:46 PM Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje has urged the Indian Inc. to set up industries in Rajasthan for a sustainable and inclusive development, as a kick-off to the Resurgent Rajasthan Partnership Summit later this year. Addressing a meeting of Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) in Mumbai on Tuesday evening, Raje said that the state has initiated policy, regulatory interventions and investment facilitation measures to enhance the ease of doing business in the state. "Rajasthan's position as an emerging market within the country is undeniable. We want to attract industrial investments which will bring about a transformation in the economic landscape of the state," Raje said. Source: IANS Over the years agriculture has been the major source of livelihood of the Indian population. However, after Independence the founding fathers saw the nation progressing with a decent industrial base. This triggered the formulation of programs and strategies to construct a proper infrastructure for speedy industrialization. India has been successful in achieving autonomy in producing different basic and capital products since independence. The productivity of the major Indian industries incorporates aircraft, vessels, automobiles, steam engines, heavy electrical equipment, construction machinery, chemicals, precision equipments, communication instrument, power generation and transmission tools and computers. Industrialization in India Since independence to 1980: During this period there was restrictive growth of private sector and government's permission was required to set up any private enterprise in India. Despite this the GDP grew at a rate of 1.4% per annum from 1940 – 1970. Other factors such as poverty and famine lowered India's economic growth rate during this period and with the presence of very few top producers of major industrial goods the absorption of domestic productivity was greater, which lead to monopolistic pricing. India during this phrase lagged behind in terms of economic growth as the rest of world grew and flourished through overseas trade. 1980 to mid-1990s: Post 1980s India saw liberalization and achieved further impetus in Mid-1991. The nation witnessed historical upsurge in per capita GNP. In 1994-95 the industrial output-growth registered 8.4% growth and the exports rose by 27%. This resulted in a 10% drop in inflation in the mid-1990s 1990s to 2000s: Since its liberalization policy, India has opened several public sector enterprises. The exports saw a 17% rise in 1994 and 28% in 1995-96. Over 90% of India's imports are backed by export revenues. At present the current account arrears is less than 1% of GDP and foreign-exchange profits are soaring at $20 billion. The food stocks have witnessed an all-time increase of 37m tonnes. The private sector, which was neglected by previous governments, contributes to two-thirds of India's GDP. The shift of the state's responsibility from a chief investor to a catalyst of private enterprise has paved way to a new accord on liberalization. Industries in India Experts believe that the contribution of India in the world GDP is estimated to increase from 6% to 11% by the year 2025, while on the flip side the contribution of US in world GDP is presumed to decline from 21% to 18%. This indicates towards the emergence of India as the third biggest global economy after US and China. The evaluation is supported by the overall development in all the sectors in India, in which the key sector is the industry sector. Going by the past records the Industry sector in India registered a growth rate of 6.2% in October 2003 which further increased by 4% in the corresponding month of the next fiscal year. Major Industries in India Textile Industry This industry covers a wide range of activities ranging from generation of raw materials such as jute, wool, silk and cotton to greater value added goods such as ready made garments prepared from different types of man made or natural fibres. Textile industry provides job opportunity to over 35 million individuals thus playing a major role in the nation's economy. It has 4 per cent share in GDP and shares 35% of the gross export income besides adding 14% of value addition in merchandizing sector. Food Processing Industry In terms of global food business, India accounts less than 1.5% inspite of being one of the key food producing nations worldwide. But this on the other hand also indicates the enormous possibilities for the growth of this industry. Supported by the GDP estimates, the approximate expansion of this sector is between 9-12% and during the tenth plan period the growth rate was around 6-8%. Food Processing Industry provides job opportunities to 1.6 mn people and it is estimated to expand by 37 mn by 2025. Chemical Industry: Indian Chemical industry generates around 70,000 commercial goods ranging from plastic to toiletries and pesticides to beauty products. It is regarded as the oldest domestic sector in India and in terms of volume it gives a sense of pride to India by featuring as the 12 largest producer of chemicals. With an approximate cost of $28 billion, it amounts to 12.5% of the entire industrial output of India and 16.2% of its entire exports. Under Chemical industries some of the other rapidly emerging sectors are petrochemical, agrochemical, and pharmaceutical industries. Cement Industry: India has 10 large cement plants governed by the different State governments. Besides this India have 115 cement plants and around 300 small cement plants. The big cement plans have installed competence of 148.28 million tones per annum whereas the mini cement plants have the total capacity of 11.10 million tonnes per annum. This totals the capacity of Indian cement industry at 159.38 million tonnes. Ambuja cement, J K Cement, Aditya Cement and L & T Cement are some of the major steel companies in India. Steel Industry: Indian Steel Industry is a 400 years old sector which has a past record of registering 4% growth in 2005-06. The production during this period reached at 28.3 million tones. India steel industry is the 10th largest in the world which is evident from its Rs 9,000 crore of capital contribution and employment opportunities to more than 0.5 million people. The key players in Steel Industry are Steel Authority of India (SAIL), Bokaro Steel Plant, Rourkela Steel Plant, Durgapur Steel Plant and Bbilai Steel Plant. Software Industry: Software Industry registered a massive expansion in the last 10 years. This industry signifies India's position as the knowledge based economy with a Compounded Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 42.3%. In the year 2008, the industry grew by 7% as compared to 0.59% in 1994-95. Mining Industry: The GDP contribution of the mining industry varies from 2.2% to 2/5% only but going by the GDP of the total industrial sector it contributes around 10% to 11%. Even mining done on small scale contributes 6% to the entire cost of mineral production. Indian Mining Industry provides job opportunities to around 0.7 million individuals. Petroleum Industry: Petroleum industry started its operations in the year 1867 and is considered as the oldest Indian industry. India is one of the most flourishing oil markets in the world and in the last few decades has witnessed the expansion of top national companies like ONGC, HPCL, BPCL and IOC. About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED