The budget allocated to each of its agency, indicating the particulars of all plans, proposed expenditures and reports on disb The budget allocated to each of its agency, indicating the particulars of all plans, proposed expenditures and reports on disbursements made. [ in pursuance of section 4(1)(b)(xi) of The Right to Information Act, 2005] [A] The Annual Budget Outlay in respect of Plan Schemes and Programmes of the Department for the year 2006-07 is as under:- Plan schemes of the Department: S. No. Name of Scheme/Programme Objective of the Scheme/ Programme Outlay 2006-07 (Rs. in crores) 1. Technology Mission on Oilseeds, Pulses & Maize (TMOP&M) a. Integrated Scheme of Oilseeds, Pulses, Oil palm & Maize (ISOPOM) b. Integrated Development of Tree Borne Oilseeds. To provide flexibility to the states in implementation of the programmes based on regionally differentiated approach and to promote crop diversification. 1. Improve the quality of seeds of TBO collected by unemployed women and tribal by augmenting handling through creation of appropriate infrastructure. 2. Promote the plantation of potential TBOs in wasteland through augmentation of superior planting material, production technologies and handling system. 3. Develop and refine the technologies for improved productivity, quality, value addition etc. by assisting capable institutions to take such programmes. 4. Create awareness through training, seminar, workshop, publication & publicity etc. among farmers and primary processing industries for improved agronomic practices and new technologies. 5. Generate income and employment opportunities for small and marginal farmers and other weaker sections of society, particularly those living below poverty line and women folk etc. 270.00 8.00 2. Credit Division a. Investment in Debentures of State Land Development Banks. b. National Agricultural Insurance Scheme(NAIS) The Scheme for “Investment in Debentures of State Land Development Banks” is a continuing Plan Scheme and has been in existence since 1966-67. Ordinary and Special Debentures are floated by State Land Development Banks (SLDBs) / State Cooperative Agriculture and Rural Development Banks (SCARDBs) for mobilization of funds for minor irrigation horticulture, plantation, farm mechanization, land improvement, customization of compound walls, cattle sheds and farm houses. NAIS is under implementation since Rabi 1999-2000 season with the objectives – to provide insurance coverage and financial support to the farmers in the event of failure of any of the notified crops as a result of natural calamities, pests and diseases; to encourage the farmers to adopt progressive farming practices, high value in-puts and higher technology in agriculture and to help stabilize farm incomes, particularly in disaster years. 50.00 500.00 3. Crops Division a. Technology Mission on Cotton Development MM-II(TMC) b Enhancing Sustainability of Dry Land Farming Systems c. Jute Technology Mission-Mini Mission II(New Scheme) To increase production and productivity of cotton. Increasing the agricultural productivity of dryland farming systems through rainwater harvesting and its utilization and adoption of improved dryland production technologies. 74.00 200.00 1.00 4. Drought Management Division a. Natural Disaster Management. Coordination and documentation of drought mitigation efforts at Central & State Level 0 .20 Dte. of Economics & Statistics a. Improvement of Agriculture Statistics b. Studies on Inputs for Agricultural Economic Policy and Development c. Forecasting & Remote Sensing Application in Crop Husbandry Basic objective of the Scheme is to collect and improve Agricultural Statistics of Principal Agricultural Crops and selected Horticultural Crops. The main objectives of the Scheme are (i) collection and compilation of field data on cost of cultivation and cost of production in respect of 27 Crops; (ii) generation of estimates of cost of cultivation and cost of production of various crops in different States covered under the Scheme; and (iii) construction of the indices of terms of trade between agriculture and non- agriculture sectors. The object is to undertake Research Studies on Agro-Economic problems of the country. To strengthen the system of Agricultural Statistics and Policy Formulation (1) Coordinating and strengthening the system of forecasting of crop production; (2) develop methodology and arrive at estimates of area and yield using Remote Sensing Technology; and (3) provide quarterly estimates of Agricultural production. 27.00 27.00 5.00 5. d. Forecasting Agricultural Output using Space Agro-Meteorology and Land Based Observation (FASAL-New Scheme) The scheme seeks to strengthen the current capabilities of early season crop estimation through combination of Remote Sensing and Agro-met and Land- based observations backed by Econometric tools. 4.00 6. Horticulture Division a. National Horticulture Mission b. Technology Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture in NE States, Sikkim, J&K, HP and Uttaranchal c. Integrated Development of Coconut Industry in India including Technology Mission on Coconut (implemented by Coconut Development Board) d. National Horticulture Board To promote holistic growth of Horticulture Sector covering fruits, flowers, vegetables, root & tuber crops, mushroom, spices, aromatic plants, cashew & cocoa, etc. Integrated development of horticulture in a Mission Mode to fully exploit tremendous potential for the horticulture development in these areas. Achieving a balanced development of coconut and its industry and promoting its marketing. 1000.00 205.40 40.00 100.00 (including Cold Chain) i) Development of commercial Horticulture through production and post harvest management ii) Capital Investment Subsidy Scheme for Construction/Expansion/ modernization of cold storages and storages for horticulture produce e. Micro Irrigation f. National Mission on Bamboo Technology & Trade Development g. Central Institute of Horticulture in Nagaland 1. To develop high quality horticultural farms in identified belts and make such areas vibrant with horticultural activity which in turn will act as hubs for developing commercial horticulture by adopting high-tech horticulture techniques. 2. To develop post-harvest management infrastructure, 3.To improve linkages between horticulture producers and marketers, 4. To create integrated network for marketing of horticulture produce, 5. To increase producer’s share in consumer’s price, 6. To encourage networking of schemes for resource mobilization with all other related agencies/organizations - both of Govt. of India and the respective States / UTs Govts., Financial Institutions and private agencies engaged in the field of horticulture promotion in the country. 7. To promote setting up of cold storages/storages in the country for reducing post harvest losses; creation of cold chain infrastructure; and modernization / rehabilitation of cold storages. To increase the coverage of area under drip and sprinkler irrigation in the country for improving crop productivity with efficient use of available water resources and to develop the skills of farmers and field functionaries through human resource development (HRD) To promote holistic growth of the bamboo sector through area based regionally differentiated strategies; extend the coverage of area under bamboo to potential areas; to promote post harvest management, product development and marketing; promote bamboo shoots as nutritional supplement; and to generate employment opportunities for skilled & unskilled persons, especially unemployed youths. 520.00 80.00 5.60 8. Information Technology Division a. Central Sector Scheme for Strengthening/Promoting Agricultural Information System in the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation To facilitate e-Governance and ICT applications in agriculture specially G2G and G2C services 37.50 9. Mechanisation &Technology Division a. Promotion and Strengthening of Agricultural Mechanisation through Training, Testing & Demonstration Human Resource Development for agricultural mechanization, performance evaluation of agricultural machines/ equipment and induction of improved / new technology in agricultural production 11.00 10. Policy & Plan Division a. National Commission on Farmers Study of various issues relating to improving the farming systems to achieve accelerated agricultural growth and the higher living standards for farmers 0.65 11. Agricultural Marketing Division a. Market Research Survey and Market Information Network b. Strengthening of Agmark Grading & Export Quality Controls c. Grameen Bhandaran Yojana. d. Development of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure, Grading To establish a nationwide information network for speedy collection and dissemination of market data for its efficient and timely utilization; to ensure flow of regular and reliable data to the producers, traders and consumers to derive maximum advantage out of their sales and purchases; and to increase efficiency in marketing by effective improvement in the existing market information system. Procurement of sophisticated equipments, chemicals and apparatus, AMC of the equipments and minor construction and repair works in Agmark Laboratories to enable them to carry out analysis of check samples and research samples in promoting the Grading and Standardisation of agricultural commodities under Agmark. The main objectives of the scheme include creation of scientific storage capacity with allied facilities in rural areas to meet the requirements of farmers for storing farm produce; to prevent distress sale of produce; promote pledge financing and marketing credit; and to introduce a national system of warehouse receipts for agricultural commodities stored in such godowns. To provide additional agricultural marketing infrastructure to cope up with 3.55 1.15 70.00 67.00 and Standardisation e. Grant –in- aid to National Institute of Agricultural Marketing (NIAM) f. Small Farmers Agri-Business Consortium(SFAC) the large expected marketable surpluses of agricultural and allied commodities including dairy, poultry, fishery, livestock and minor forest produce; to promote competitive alternative agricultural marketing infrastructure by inducement of private and cooperative sector investments; to promote direct marketing through reduction in intermediaries and handling channels thus enhancing farmers’ income; and to provide infrastructure facilities for grading, standardization. Training; Research Survey; Project Formulation; Education. To promote Agri-Business Projects 3.50 38.00 12. Natural Resources Management Division a. All India Soil and Land Use Survey Soil Survey of Watershed area etc. 11.00 13. Rainfed Farming Systems Division b. Watershed Development Council(WDC) Periodic monitoring of physical and financial progress of different externally aided and national watershed projects conducting periodic and mid-term reviews with members of World Bank / donor agencies review missions and appointment of consultants for providing technical assistance to the project. 1.35 14. Seeds Division a. Development and Strengthening of Seed Infrastructure Facilities for Production and Distribution of Seeds b. Other Schemes: (a) Scheme for Implementation of Protection of Plants Varieties and Farmers Rights Act, 2001 To develop and strengthen the seed infrastructure facilities including therein the private sector; and to improve the quality of farm saved seed, making provision for additional availability of seed during natural calamities; ensuring availability of quality seeds in North- Eastern and other remote areas of hill regions at reasonable price; and strengthening of quality control organizations. To stimulate investments for research & development both in public and private sector for dev. of new plant varieties by ensuring appropriate returns on such investments and to facilitate growth of seed industry in the country. To set up an Authority to implement the PPV&FR Act for providing of Protection of plant breeder rights and farmers rights. 90.00 10.00 (b) Restructuring of SFCI/NSC To strengthen the two PSUs in order to enable them to meet the enhanced role of supplying quality seeds to the farmers in the country. 5.00 15. Trade Division a. Capacity Building to Enhance the Competitiveness of Indian Agriculture To retain Agriculture as a remunerative and viable occupation, it is necessary to build capacities in the system, such that it is able to withstand the forces of globalization and compete wherever possible. While there are a large number of issues to be addressed in this context at the micro and macro levels, this scheme, aims to address some limited micro-level capacity creation. 1.00 16. Agricultural Census Division a. Agricultural Census Collection of information on structure of land holdings; tenancy particulars, cropping pattern; irrigation status and input uses 14.50 17. Integrated Nutrient Management Division a. National Project on Fertiliser Quality Control. b. National Project on promotion of Organic Farming Inspection and analysis of imported and Indigenous fertilizers. Training of State Enforcement Officers Production, Promotion and Market Development of Organic Farming in the country 3.40 27.00 18. Plant Protection Division a. Strengthening and Modernisation of Plant Quarantine Facilities in India b. Strengthening and Modernisation of 1. Issue of permit for import of plants and planting materials. 2. Inspection and release of imported consignments of plants and planting materials. 3. Inspection of plants and planting materials for export and issue of phyto- sanitary certificates. 4 Construction of office buildings of Plant Quarantine Stations under the Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine & Storage. (1) Implementation of Insecticides Act- 17.00 16.00 Pest Management in Country. c. Monitoring of Pesticides Residues at National Level This is a regulatory Scheme to implement the Insecticides Act, 1968. Major components are: - (a) Registration of pesticides by the Registration Committee (b) Testing of pesticides at Central Insecticides Laboratory. (c) Testing of Pesticides at the two Regional Pesticides Testing Laboratories. 2) Training of officers at National Plant Protection Training Institute. (3) Locust control and research. (a) Locust surveillance (b) Locust situation bulletin (c) Indo-Pak Border meetings (4) Integrated Pest Management (a) Sample roving pest survey (b) Field releases of bio-control agents (c) Area coverage (augmentation and conservation) (d) Training through farmers field schools (FFSs). (5) Release of grants in aid to States for setting up of bio control laboratories and State Pesticides Testing Laboratories. Aimed at monitoring the pesticides residues at national level. Sophisticated Machinery and Equipments is to be provided to the identified laboratories including the referral laboratory. The results of analysis of commodities are to be collected, collated and compiled with a view to check pesticides residues in agricultural commodities meant for domestic consumption as also for exports. 10.00 19. Extension Division a. Support to State Extension Programmes for Extension Reforms b. Establishment of Agri-Clinics and Agri-Business Centres. c. Extension Support to Central Institutes/DOE d. Mass Media Support to Agriculture Extension Extension reforms through new institutional arrangements Training of unemployed agriculture graduates in setting up of Agri-clinics and agri-business centers. Provide extension support to selected Central Institutes. Agriculture Extension through Mass Media 75.00 11.00 13.65 126.00 20. Cooperation Division a. Assistance to NCDC Programmes for Development of Cooperatives i) Assistance for Marketing, Processing, Storage, etc. programmes in cooperatively under/ least developed States/UTs. ii) Share capital participation in Growers’/Weavers cooperative spinning mills. iii) Integrated Cooperative Develop- ment Project in selected districts (ICDP) iv) Assistance to National Cooperative Federations. b. Cooperative Education and Training 1. To accelerate the pace of development programmes related to cooperative, marketing, processing, storage societies etc. in cooperatively under / least developed States / UTs. 2. Setting up of cooperative spinning mills by growers / weavers 3. Development of cooperatives in integrated manner in selected districts 4. To give assistance to National Level Cooperative Federations Urban Cooperative 1. Providing training and education, for manpower development, to the personnel in Cooperative Department of State Govts / Cooperative Societies 2. To create the fund and withdraw annual contribution of Government in a gradual manner 35.00 65.00 21. Macro Management Division Macro-Management of Agriculture(MMA) Scheme Supplementation / Complementation of States’ efforts through Work Plans by integrating 27 schemes, providing flexibility to the States to develop and pursue activities on the basis of their regional priorities. 910.00 22. Secretariat Economic Service a. Secretariat Economic Service 8.55 Total Plan Outlay for DAC 4800.00 23. Watershed Development Projects in Shifting Cultivation Areas(State Plan Scheme) 40.00 [B] Non Plan Schemes of the Department B.E. 2006-07 S.No. Name of Schemes B.E. (Rs. in lakhs) 1 National Agriculture Extn. Proj. I 582.18 2 Farm Information Bureau 87.82 3 Directorate of E&S 704.00 4 Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices 221.00 5 Other Grants 10.00 6 Grants to State Farms Corporation of India 0.00 7 State Farms Corporation of India 300.00 8 National Seeds Corporation 200.00 9 Plant Protection Administration 194.00 10 Locust Control & Research 466.00 11 Integrated Pest Management 473.00 12 Training in Plant Protection 412.00 13 Expansion of Plant Quarantine facilities 403.20 14 Technical and Administrative support for Plant Protection 16.00 15 Implementation of Insecticides Act 559.00 16 Tractor Training and Testing Stations 582.00 17 Directorate of Millet Development 38.54 18 Directorate of Rice Development 47.46 19 Directorate of Sugarcane Development 45.05 20 Directorate of Cotton Development 53.00 21 Directorate of Tobacco Development 16.65 22 Directorate of Jute Development 47.96 23 Directorate of Wheat Development 47.34 24 Loan for payment to sugarcane growers 0.00 25 Directorate of Pulses Development 39.00 26 Directorate of Oilseeds Development 63.00 27 Tech Mission on Oilseeds & Pulses Headquarters 41.00 28 Directorate of Arecanut & Spices 96.00 29 Directorate of Cashewnut Development 66.00 30 Department of Agriculture & Cooperation(Sectt.) 2790.34 31 Departmental Canteen 30.00 32 Market Survey & Investigations 683.00 33 Strengthening of Agmark Grading facilities 953.00 34 Export Quality Control 396.00 35 Cold Storage Control Order 43.08 36 Directorate of Marketing & Inspection 21.00 37 Farm Income Insurance Scheme(FIIS) 100.00 38 Contribution to Price Support Operation Reserve Fund of NAFED 26000.00 39 Councellor (Agri.) Embassy of India, Rome 123.00 40 Food & Agricultural Organisation 670.00 41 World Food Programme 458.00 42 Trust Fund of FAO Commission for Desert 15.00 43 Maintenance of FAO Office in India 6.00 44 Other Organisations 42.00 45 Demmurage Charges to WFP 6.00 46 All India Soil & Land Use Survey 135.00 47 Grants to Damodar Valley Corporation 35.00 GRAND TOTAL 38119.42 ******