Shopping in Amritsar Home »» Amritsar » Shopping   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Shopping in Amritsar Shopping is an important part of touring in India. The different ethnic items are the major attraction of the travelers. The collection of such items in the cities is all the more interesting as the options are wider. Just like most of the important cities of India, shopping in Amritsar is no less exciting. In the various shopping centers of Amritsar one can look for the various Punjabi handicraft items. The most famous among them are the traditional Phulkari works. One will get excellent shawls decorated with these embroidery. The traditional Punjabi garments are also very gorgeous and can be bought as wedding wears. The Patiala salwars worn by the women of this region are exceptionally attractive. To team with them get the Punjabi Jutis, the traditional shoes of the people of this region. While shopping in the city of Amritsar you can get the woolen garments, blankets and the carpets woven by the rural people of Punjab. The old city bazaars are the best places to go for shopping the traditional items. You can try out Guru Bazaar, Mochi Bazaar and Shastri Market to get hold of some elegant Patialas. There are also many stylish shopping complexes in the city where one will get to shop the modern brands. The pickles, jams and jellies of Amritsar, made the rural women of this region are also good things for carrying back home. Along with these items also do remember to get some dry fruits from Amritsar. Other items that you can look for while shopping in Amritsar are th traditional Punjabi jewelery and the lacquered wooden works. Amritsar Information People Population Location Restaurant & Bar Municipal Corporation Cuisine Living SGPC Transportation Nightlife Banks About Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Tourist Attractions Baba Atal Rai Tower Govind Garh Fort Amritsar Massacre Memorial Durgiana Temple Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Golden Temple Harmandir Sahib Ram Bagh Faridkot Fort Ram Tirath Temple Tarn Taran Mata Mandir Temple Bathinda Fort             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule