RFD Results Framework document for Chaudhary Charan Singh National Institute of Animal Health Baghpat Uttar Pradesh-250609 Section 1: Vision, Mission, objectives and Functions Vision To maintain the quality control of Veterinary biologicals and diagnostics in the country. Mission To provide the facility for testing, licensing and regulating the veterinary vaccines and diagnostics in the country. Objectives 1. To act as nodal institute to recommend licensing of veterinary vaccines in the country. 2. To make available facility for quality control of veterinary vaccines and diagnostic. 3. To make available standards for veterinary biologicals and diagnostics. Functions  Quality control of animal vaccines and diagnostics  Certification and licensing of veterinary biologicals and diagnostics  Inspection of vaccines production units to insure GMP. Section 2: Inter se Priorities among key Objectives, Success indicators and Targets Objectives Weight Action Success Indicator Unit Weig ht Excellent Very Good Good Fair Poor 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 1. Standardiza tion of quality control testing of vaccines 100 Preparation/revisio n of standard operating procedure for vaccine testing To maintain GLP No of SOP./ year 22 6 5 4 3 2 Procurement and maintenance of standard culture To test Sterility and potency No of culture procure d/Year 22 5 4 3 2 1 Sterility Testing To check the any contaminati on No of test/year 30 6 5 4 3 2 Safety Testing To check the safety of vaccine No of test/year 12 4 3 2 1 0 Potency Testing To check the efficacy of the vaccine No of test/year 12 4 3 2 1 0 Section 3: Trend Values of the Success indicators Objectives Weight Action Success Indicator Unit Actual value for FY 09-10 Actual value for FY 10-11 Actual value for FY 11-12 Actual value for FY 12- 13(upto July 2012) Projected value for FY 13-14 1. Standardiza tion of quality control testing of vaccines 100 Preparation of standard operating procedure To maintain GLP No of SOP./ year 05 05 06 03 05 Procurement and maintenance of standard culture To test Sterility and potency No of cultur e procu red/Y ear - - 09 04 05 Sterility Testing To check the any contaminati on No of test/y ear - - - - 06 Safety Testing To check the safety of vaccine No of test/y ear - - - 01 04 Potency Testing To check the efficacy of the vaccine No of test/y ear - - - - 03 Section 4: Description and Definition of Success indicators and Proposed Measurement Methodology  Testing of the veterinary vaccines as per the Indian Pharmacopeia.  Procurement of reference strains from authorised agencies  Maintenance of cultures by seed lot culture maintenance technique.  Animal experimentation for safety and potency testing Terminology & Abbreviations  SOP: Standard Operation Protocol/procedure  GLP: Good Laboratory Practices  IP: Indian Pharmacopeia Section 5: Specific Performance Requirements from other Departments/Agency Specific Performance Requirements from other Departments/Agency that are critical for delivering agreed results 1. Indian veterinary Research Institute : for providing Technical Support/Training and standard cultures 2. Drug Controller General of India: For notification and further regulations 3. Indian Pharmacopeia Commission: regarding standards methods for the testing of vaccines Section 6: Outcomes/Impact of activities of Department/Responsibility Centre (RC) Vaccines play an important role to safeguard the livestock health of the country. Production of potent safe and effective vaccine will be very important to achieve in maintaining the livestock health and disease control. This will be achieved by the activities proposed in the RFD.