Maharashtra Road Network Map Home » Maps » Maharashtra Map » Maharashtra Road Network Map   Maharashtra Road Map Ahmednagar Kolhapur Nagpur Nashik Pune Ratnagiri Satara Solanpur Thane                        more.. About Maharashtra History and Geography Climate Maharashtra Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Cities Economy Industrial Map Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Maharashtra Road Network Map Click any District/State on the map and get the detailed Road Network Map Road Network Map of Maharashtra Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing entire road network of Maharashtra. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Road Network of the State of Maharashtra Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation Limited (MSRDC) The roles and responsibilities of MSRDC include planning, designing, widening, development, building and maintenance of the roads, highways, bridges and flyovers. It has successfully completed the Suman Nagar Flyover, Mumbai-Pune Expressway, Panvel Bypass Project, and Barfiwala Flyover etc. Maharashtra has the largest network of highways in India with 18 national highways. The main national highways in Maharashtra are: NH 3, NH 50, NH 69, NH 7, NH 17, NH 211, NH 204, NH 4, NH 8, NH 9, NH 13, NH 16, NH 4B, NH 6, and NH 222. You can imagine the vastness of highways in this state by the fact that the total length of highways in the state of Maharashtra exceeds 3700 kms; whereas the total road network exceeds 265,000 km. Almost 98% villages are connected via the highways and modern roads in Maharashtra. National Highways 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 13, 16 and 17 link Mumbai to the neighboring states of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi and the rest of the country. The other major cities inside Maharashtra such as, Amravati, Washim, Ahmadnagar, Akola, and Jalgaon are also interlinked via these highways. Major Expressways and Highways Mumbai- Pune Expressway Mumbai- Pune Expressway in Maharashtra is the best and the most important expressway, which links financial capital Mumbai to the cultural capital of the state, Pune. It is surrounded by the scenic beauty and hill stations, which makes your trip a pleasurable experience. The distance from Andheri in Mumbai to Deccan in Pune is around 168 km, but the drive through the Expressway takes less than three hours, with all the intercity crossroads and traffic lights interruptions. Nagpur-Aurangabad-Mumbai Highway Nagpur-Aurangabad-Mumbai Highway connects two major Maharashtra cities Nagpur & Aurangabad with the capital Mumbai. Travelling through NH6 makes it possible to save around 65 km distance and the total travel time reduces to one-and-half hours approximately. Eastern Express Highway Eastern Express Highway is about 24km long; part of NH3, it is a major road of Mumbai metropolitan area. Eastern Express Highway is a six-lane highway with as many as 12 flyovers. Extending from CST Mumbai to Thane, it becomes Dr Ambedkar Road beyond Sion in central Mumbai. It is an extremely busy road with loads of rush hour traffic. Around 50,000 cars use this road every day. It is maintained under the Mumbai Urban Infrastructure Project. Sion Panvel Expressway Sion Panvel Expressway is a 25 km long under construction road in Mumbai metropolitan area, which connects Sion in central Mumbai to Panvel in the eastern suburban area via Navi Mumbai. An important and one of the busiest roads in the Mumbai, it links the financial capital to the National Highway 4. It is a much wider (12 lane) highway and you can take it from BARC Junction Sion till Kalamboli Junction Panvel suburban area. Western Express Highway Western Express Highway, an eight to ten lane arterial road of Mumbai is a 26km long highway from Bandra suburban area in the south Mumbai to the Mira-Dahisar in the north Mumbai. It important road for the commuters of Mumbai, it becomes NH8 in north to reach Delhi. It also passes through the Sahar International Airport. Yedshi-Latur-Nanded Highway Part of the Marathwada Integrated Road Development Project, Yedshi-Latur-Nanded Highway is a 240km long expressway in the state of Maharashtra linking two major cities Latur and Nanded and further with National Highway 9. The highway has a potential to further save more than 1.5 hrs of travel time between the city of Latur and Mumbai, under the new four lane expansion plan. Last Updated on : 09 September 2011 About Maharashtra History Geography Weather Topography Festivals Facts Rivers and Lakes Soil and vegetation District Fact Sheet Maharashtra Region Map Mumbai Central Map North Mumbai Map South Mumbai Map Maharashtra Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Rail Map Road Map Tehsil Map River Map Maharashtra Thematic Maps Forest Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Sex Ratio Map Handicrafts Map Industrial Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map