Development Comes with Problems for Wood Pellet Mills AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale Development Comes with Problems for Wood Pellet Mills Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Development Comes with Problems for Wood Pellet Mills LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 13 Hours Ago #1 rachel123 Join Date May 2015 Posts 10 Development Comes with Problems for Wood Pellet Mills In recent years, the increasing market demand for the wood pellet mill has promoted the fast development of the pellet machine industry. The wood pellet mill is an advanced powder material processing device. There are many reasons resulting in the common heating problem of the wood pellet mill motor and we usually decide the malfunction source by testing the working temperature of the equipment. Reasons causing the equipment motor heating problem are: on one hand, abnormal vibration or noise will also make the motor become hot; once the bearings of the wood pellet mill don’t operate properly, they will surely lead to the heating problem of the equipment motor. On the other hand, when the motor of the desulfurization gypsum wood pellet mill runs with too high or too low voltage or asymmetric three-phase voltage, it will lead the electric current to increase, thus heating and damaging the motor. Fote Machinery has many years’ experience of treating the heating problem for all kinds of wood pellet mills. As long as we pay attention to the heating problem and solve it timely, we will benefit much from the wood pellet mills. As the market competition for the wood pellet mill has been much fiercer. In order to strengthen its competitiveness and extend the market share, Fote wood pellet mill starts to enlarge its production scale. We aim to make the wood pellet mill occupy a great piece of market share in the world. For more helpful information about Fote and its wood pellet mills, please visit our official website: FTM China - Wood Pellet Mill & Briquetting Machine Leading Manufacturers . Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 09:42 PM .