VETERINARY COUNCIL OF INDIA-NOTIFICATION Skip to main contents | Accessibility Options | Screen Reader Access मुख्य सामग्री पर जाएं | अभिगम्यता के विकल्प Home About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Guidelines Dairy Development Fishery Fodder Large Ruminants(Bovine) Livestock Extension Livestock Insurance Livestock Health Piggery Development Poultry Small Ruminants Threatened Breeds Trade Bovine Breeding Trade Conferences Statistics Animal Husbandry Statistics Livestock Census Fisheries Poultry Reports Forms Grievances Public Grievances Contact Us Sunabeda Suratgarh Andeshnagar Breeds Chiplima breeds Dhamrod breeds Hessarghatta breeds Sunabeda breeds CHRS-centre names Suratgarh Breeds Tenders English हिन्दी में Welcome to Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries पशुपालन, डेयरी और मत्स्य पालन विभाग में आपका स्वागत है Search : खोजें : Home / ACTS & RULES / VETERINARY COUNCIL OF INDIA-NOTIFICATION VETERINARY COUNCIL OF INDIA NOTIFICATION New Delhi, the Ist April, 1992 G.S. R. 394 (E) - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 66 of the Indian Veterinary Council Act, 1984 (52 of 1984) the Veterinary Council if India with the previous approval of the Central Government hereby makes the following regulations, namely :-  (1) Short title and commencement – (1) These regulations may be called the Veterinary Council of India (fees and Allowances ) Regulations, 1992. (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Gazette of India. 2. Definitions – In these regulations unless the context otherwise requires -- (a) ‘Act’ means the Indian Veterinary Council Act , 1984 (52 of 1984 )  (b) ‘Council means ’the Indian Veterinary council of India constituted under the act; (c ) ‘Executive Committee’ ‘or committee’ means the executive committee or Committee constituted under sub section ( i ) of the section 12 of the Act; (d) ‘President’ means the President of the Council elected under sub section (4) of section 3 of the Act;  (e) ‘Vice President means’ the vice president of the council elected under sub section (4) of section 3 of the Act; (f) ‘Member ’means a member elected or nominated under section 3 of the act & the members of the committees co-opted under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Act; 4. The Secretary and other officers of the council shall be paid their travailing and daily allowances at the rates as applicable to central government employees of the corresponding grade under Travailing Allowance rules of the Central Govt. as amended from time to time.  5. The President of Council shall be the self controlling authority . 6. In other cases, the President shall be the authority competent to sanction air/air condition travel to entitled persons. 7. Under special circumstances in regard to cases not covered under these regulations, the president shall be the authority competent to sanction air/air conditioned travel if the work is in the council’s interest: Provided that such cases shall not be taken as president and be considered on individual merits. 8. All other matters pertaining to Traveling and Daily Allowances not covered by these Regulations shall mutatis mutandis be as per Traveling Allowance Rules of the Central Government, pending formulation of separate Traveling and Daily allowances Rules of the Veterinary Council of India.  9. The rates of Traveling and Daily Allowances shall be at the same rates as applicable to the Government employees of corresponding grade and shall stand revised consequent upon the revision of these Rules by the Government of India.  ( No. F. 4-3/91-VCI ) [1] PROF. Dr. Rama Kumar V. Secy. Help | Terms of Use | Site Map | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer | Hyperlinking Policy | Privacy Policy | Archives | Contact Us This website belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ©  2014 All rights reserved. Designed,Developed & Hosted by NIC