Places to Visit in Jharkhand and Tourist Destinations near Jharkhand Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Jharkhand Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Jharkhand Places to Visit in Jharkhand Daasam Falls Sun Temple Baidyanath Dham Hundru Fall Capitol Hill Jagannathpur Temple Tourist Destinations in Jharkhand Hazaribagh Travel Ranchi Travel Dhanbad Travel Hotels Hotels in Bokaro Hotels in Dhanbad Hotels in Ranchi Hotels in Jamshedpur Hotels in Deoghar About Jharkhand History Geography Home » Jharkhand » Places to Visit in Jharkhand Places to Visit in Jharkhand Tourism in Jharkhand contributes a major share in the economy of Jharkhand. With the coming of the foreigners in India, tourism of Jharkhand has grown by leaps and bounds. Jharkhand is known to possess diverse physical features like hills and forests within the territory. These hills and forests, along with the holy shrines, museums, wildlife sanctuaries, etc. largely contribute towards Jharkhand tourism. Places to See in Jharkhand The territory of Jharkhand possesses a wide range of tourist's sites that attracts tourists from the different parts of the world to come to the territory of Jharkhand. Among the major sites that contribute towards tourism at Jharkhand are: Ranchi Hills Ranchi Hill is one of the finest tourist destinations in Jharkhand . Surrounded by serene beauty all around and standing at a height of 2140 feet, the hill is an ideal retreat from the hustle and bustle of the busy cities. The greenery all around is a delight to one's eyes. Ranchi Hill of Jharkhand is situated in the center of the Ranchi city. The capital city of Jharkhand is accessible by airways, roadways and railways from various parts of India. Moreover, accommodation at Ranchi is not difficult as there are various hotels in different parts of the city. The main attraction of Ranchi Hill in Jharkhand is its shape. The hill is located on a flat land and looks amazing when viewed from a distance. Moreover, the hill top offers a breath taking view of the whole Ranchi city. Another attraction on the Ranchi Hill at Jharkhand is the temple of Lord Shiva which is considered very sacred. The temple remains crowded during the Shravanmas by the devotees for whom it is as sacred as the Baijnath Dham of Deoghar. An artificial lake is located on the Jharkhand Ranchi Hill. It is known as Ranchi Lake. Boating facilities are provided in this lake. Take this trip for it offers you a chance to explore the natural wonders of Ranchi. Daasam Falls Dassam Falls is one of the most important tourist destinations in Jharkhand. It is one of the finest waterfalls in the whole north eastern region of India. The fall is also known as Dassam Ghagh. Dassam Falls of Jharkhand attract not only national but also international tourists. Dassam Falls in Jharkhand is situated near Taimara village on Tata-Ranchi highway road. It is only 40 kilometers away from the state capital Ranchi. The river that forms the magnificent fall is Kanchi River. When it falls from the height of 144 feet, it becomes the Dassam Falls. The scene of water getting down with such huge force is unnerving. The sound of water echoes all around the place. Dassam falls of Jharkhand is one of the finest tourist attractions in Jharkhand. It is a perfect place to go out for excursion or picnic with your near and dear ones. Sun Temple The Sun Temple of Jharkhand is constructed by a charitable trust named Sanskrit Vihar under the leadership of Shri Ram Maroo, the managing director of Ranchi Express. Any one who visits the temple is mesmerized not only by its beauty but also by the exquisite surrounding which add glow to its lavish design. Sun Temple at Jharkhand is situated near Bundu stand on Tata-Ranchi highway. The temple is ideally situated away from the hustle and bustle of the crowded and noisy city amidst the beauty of nature. Sun Temple in Jharkhand is easily approachable through the metaled road from Ranchi by hiring a car or catching a bus. Even the route to reach the Sun Temple in Jharkhand through Ranchi is very beautiful. The route offers some of the finest picturesque locales of Chhota Nagpur Plateau region. So if you wish, you can go out on an excursion to the Sun Temple wherein you can enjoy amidst the scenic pleasure and also explore the nature's bounty. Baidyanath Dham Since, time immemorial, the tales of Hindu mythology have mesmerized innumerable souls, not only in India but all across the globe. Amongst the innumerable Hindu deities, the rebellion Lord Shiva, who is revered to be one of the most robust and glorious epitome of strength also happens to be the chief divinity in the temple in Baidyanath Dham. The shrine consecrated to Lord Shiva in Baidyanath Dham stands at a staggering 72 feet from the ground and is dowered with a pyramid shaped tower. The verandah that had been constructed in the northern facet of the Temple at Baidyanath Dham serves to be the venues where the 'lingam' or the image of Lord Shiva is bathed with an invigorating blend of milk and water. The lingam is actually a humongous slab of basalt, roughly cylindrical in structure with 5 inch diameter. Jamshedpur The venue entitled Jamshedpur in nestled in the heart of Jhatkhand and was the inspiration of Jamshedji Nusserwanji Tata who had laid the foundation stone of this scintillating locale. The splendid ambiance prevailing in Jamshedpur is a direct consequence of being silhouetted against the backdrop of the magniloquent knolls known as Dalma Hills and also spanned by the emerald blue waters of the Subarnarekha and Kharkai. Being aptly positioned in the eastern facet of the Singbhum district and also on the Chota Nagpur Plateau, Jamshedpur of Jharkhand proudly homes Tata Steel, the maiden Iron and Steel Plant in India. It was Lord Chelmsford, who had coined the name of this city to pay tribute to the great personality of Jamshedji Nusserwanji Tata in the year 1919. Netarhat The picturesque locale of Netarhat is situated at a distance of approximately 144 kilometers from the operational capital of Jharkhand regarded as Ranchi. The terrain of Netarhat is blanketed by the ominous presence of verdant woodlands and stupendous knolls that provides a distinct touch to it. As Netarhat in Jharkhand is sited on the Chota Nagpur Plateau, it is very comfortably accessible from any distant nook of India. The hills that flank the venue of Netarhat of Jharkhand are measured at a height of approximately 3700 feet from the sea level. The major assets of Netarhat at Jharkhand that has been drawing the attention of many eager holiday-makers as well as eco-tourists for many years now are the exotic views of sunrise and sunset. These times of the day are so pleasurable and enchanting that you just will not be able to take your eyes away. One of the best academic options catered to the people residing in Netarhat of Jharkhand is the famed educational institution known as Netarhat Residential School. During the summers, the temperature hovers around the 16 degree centigrade and 30 degree centigrade mark. The winters are rather chilly marked by temperature fluctuations between 1 degree and 10 degree mark. Last Updated on : 12/09/2013 Hotels in Jharkhand Bokaro Hotels Deoghar Hotels Dhanbad Hotels Jamshedpur Hotels Kumardhubi Hotels Ranchi Hotels Travel to Jharkhand Travel to Jharkhand Travel to Ranchi Travel to Hazaribagh Places to visit in jharkhand Places to visit in Ranchi Flights to Jharkhand Flights to Ranchi Travel Agents Dhanbad About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule