Greenhouse Solar Dryer - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Greenhouse Solar Dryer Greenhouse Solar Dryer Request Price Description Product Description Greenhouse Solar Dryer – Dawn of the revolutionary modern era technology. The Dryer offered by us finds extensive application in drying of food products like, fruits, vegetables, curry leaves, Coconut etc., The dryers are ranging from 100 square feet area to 1000 square feet area and the optimum size would be 500 to 600 square feet considering its commercial viability. GREENHOUSE SOLAR DRYER INSTALLED BY VIVUNES AT Thottiyam Banana producers group, Trichy District TN Overview on solar dryer features: Drying is a vital process adapted to enhance the shelf life of agricultural / horticultural produce and it is one of the most preferred methods of preserving agricultural and horticultural produce. Drying inhibits growth of micro organisms and pathogens by which enhanced storage life been envisaged. Traditionally, the food products are dried by spreading in thin layer in open sun. Though this method, it is economical and simple, but it has the draw backs like – no control over the rate of dehydration, non-uniform drying, chances of contamination due to exposure of products against rain, dust, storm, birds, rodents, insects and pests resulting in poor quality of dried products. We address this issues with a most preferred solution which is Greenhouse Solar Drying system to attain much faster rate of drying and preventing contamination and direct exposure of sunlight thereby retain its maximum nutrition value. Our Greenhouse Solar Dryer has an unique parabolic shape in cross section to harness solar energy to its optimum potential and to obtain sturdy structure withstand environmental impacts. The dryer is glazed with multiwall UV-Stabilized polycarbonate sheets to induce green house effect. PV-Ventilated Green House Solar Dryer offered by us provides better quality of dried products with excellent palatability to gain better market acceptance with commercial viability and provides platform for exporting their produce. If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above SKU: VIV1 . Category: Greenhouse . Tags: greenhouse , solar dryer . Social share Related Products Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Greenhouse Greenhouse Accessories Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Greenhouse Natural ventilated Green House (Poly House) Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Greenhouse Flat roof net house Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Greenhouse Dome Roof Net House Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Greenhouse Forced ventilated green house Free Read More Request Price Quick View Greenhouse Roof top poly house and green house Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE