Tender coconut - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Tender coconut Tender coconut Buy directly from supplier Request Price Description Product Description Tender coconut has 90 to 95 per cent water, the liquid within the coconut is the purest at this stage and is very healthy, wholesome and a nutritious drink, filled with amazing properties.It is the most natural way to replenish the supply of electrolytes in the body and prevents dehydration and acidity. These fresh tender coconuts are grown in our organic farm and are young with excellent nutritional value. Our organic coconuts are green coloured and loaded with natural sweetness and goodness and are available through the year. To extract the water, slice from the top and strain; apart from the liquid,the young coconut has a soft and tasty pulpwhich is wedged on the insides of the coconut. It can be easily scooped out with a knife and used as desired.Our organic tender coconuts are so pure that they are apt not only as a health drink, but as an alternative to aerated drinks and can be had daily. You can rejuvenate yourself using this naturally gifted fruit which contains the miracles of nature. If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: HF6 . Category: Fresh Produce . Tag: coconuts . Social share Related Products Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Fresh Produce , Organic Produce Organic grapes Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Fresh Produce Fresh Vegetables Free Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Inputs , Planting Material Deejay Vishwas – Hybrid Coconut Seedling Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Fresh Produce , Organic Produce Organic pomegranate Free Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Inputs , Planting Material Deejay Pushkala – Hybrid Coconut Seedling Free Read More Send enquiry Quick View Fresh Produce Grand Naine Bananas Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics irrigation magazine medicinal plants net pots npk organic fertiliser packaging