Jodhpur City Map Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Jodhpur City Map   Rajasthan Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar Amer Barmer Bharatpur Pali Sikar Nagaur                         more.. राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan History and Geography Weather Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Jodhpur City Map Jodhpur gets its name from its founder, Rao Jodha, teh Rathode chieftain. The Rathodes are believed to belong to the dynasty of the sun god himself (Surya Vansha) which has produced scions such as Lord Rama and King Harishchandra. It is believed that the city came into being in 1459 A.D. Jodhpur has been an important trading center of Rajasthan even in ancient times and is currently the second largest city of the state. City Map of Jodhpur Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest in Jodhpur City. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Jodhpur boasts of an airport, located a mere 5 km from the heart of the city. Regular flights connect Jodhpur airport with the major cities of India such as Jaipur , Mumbai, Kolkata and Delhi. Jodhpur is also a major railway junction and is well connected by the Indian Railways network to the rest of the state and country. A good number of RSTC buses and private luxury buses ply between Jodhpur and places such as Jaipur, Jaisalmer and Delhi. A number of festivals and fairs such as Nag Panchami (August-September), Marwar Festival (October), Nav Sati, Veerpuri Fair (July-August), Gangaur, Holi (March) and Diwali (Oct-Nov) are celebrated in the town amidst much gaiety and cheer. Vendors set up small shops on either sides of the street. A range of colorful fabrics, textile and dresses are put up on display. Ghagras embroidered with multi hued threads, sequins and mirrors, blockprinted durries, bandhani sarees, chunky tribal and silver jewellery, brass artifacts and colorful glass and lac bangles are one display. To commemorate the Marwar or the Maand Festival a number of events such as horse riding and polo are organized. Folk music and dance recitals are held all over the city. Kacchi Ghoodi and Jhoomar are the favorites for these festive celebrations. The city is the hub of a flourishing handicraft industry. The teeming bazaars and the attractive sweet shops are almost irresistible. The historic fort and the quaint charm of the old city make Jodhpur a tourist paradise. Some of the major tourist attractions in Jodhpur are Mehrangarh Fort Jaswant Thada Umaid Bhawan Palace Girdikot & Sardar Market Museum Balsamand Lakes & Gardens Mandore Mahamandir Temple Kailana Lake Osian Luni Fort The Dhawa A number of excellent accommodation facilities await the tourist at Jodhpur. Hotel Karni Bhawan,Hotel Ajit Bhawan, Ghoomar Hotel, Umaid Bhawan Palace, Ratanada Polo Palace, Taj Hari Mahal Jodhpur, Rajputana Palace and Raj Basera are all excellent hotels to live in. A number of budget hotels and other accommodation facilities are also easily available. Jodhpur Facts City Name Jodhpur Nickname Marwar, Sun City, Blue City, Gateway of Thar State Rajasthan District Jodhpur District Headquarters Jodhpur Tehsil/Taluk Jodhpur Ward (MC) 65, 2 (OG) Lat Long 26.23615,73.021889 Area 112.40 km2 (43.40 sq mi) Population as per 2011 1,033,918 Sexratio 900 Official Languages Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) STD Code 0291 Transport Air, Road, Rail Vehicle registration RJ-19 Food and Cuisine Makhaniya Lassi, Pyaaj Ki Kachori, Mirchi Bada, Dal Bati Churma, Lasan Ki Chutney, Mirchi Ka Kutaa, Gatte Ki Sabzi, Ker Sangri Sabzi Raab, Lapsi, Jaggery, Aate Ka Halwa, Kachara Mircha Sabzi, Kadhi Pakoda, Baajre Ka Sogra, Makhanbada, Mawa Ki Kachori, Malpua, Ghevar, Motichur Ke Laddu, Besan barfi, Thorr and Gulab Jamun, Bengali Rasgulla and Ras Malai ect. Religion Hinduism, Muslim, Jainism Festival Marwar Festival, Gangaur, Baithmaar Gangaur Mela, Teej, Nag Panchmi Fair, Sheetla Mata Fair, Baba Ramdev Pir Mela, Holi, Dipawali etc. Monuments Mehrangarh Fort, Umaid Bhawan Palace, Jaswant Thada, Ghanta Ghar and Flying Fox, Kaylana Lake and Garden, Balsamand Lake, Mandaleshwar Mahadev Temple (Mandalnath), Ratanada Ganesh Temple, Sardar Samand Lake and Palace, Masooria Hills, Veer Durgadas Smarak, Bhim Bhirak Cave etc. Places of interest Ganesh Temple, Government Museum, Jaswant Thada, Mehrangarh Fort, Rai ka Bag Palace, Raj Ranchhodji Temple, Siddhnath, Umaid Bhawan Palace, Umaid Garden, Osian Temple, Palette Raj Gallery, Mehrangarh Fort Museum etc. Markets Sojati Gate, Station Road, Tripolia Bazaar, Mochi Bazaar, Nai Sarak, Clock Tower, Sarafa Bazaar, Lakhera Bazaar, National Handloom, Shopping at Bhandari Exports, Shopping at Ganesh Handicrafts, Sardar Market, Ansal Royal Plaza, Blue City Mall, District Shopping Centre, Ashapurna Mall, Sun City Spices, Nitisha - The Designer Boutique, Johri Plaza, Minarva Centre, Kothari Complex, Hukumraj Mall, Indiabulls Mega Mall , Ansal Royal Plaza Mall, National Handloom Corporation, Vishal Mega Mart, Samsung Plaza etc. Hospital All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Mathura Das Mathur Hospital, Rajasthan Hospital and Research Centre, Rajasthan Cancer Cure Hospital, Shri Ram Hospital, Suncity Hospital and Research Centre, Goyal Hospital, Vasundhara Hospital & Fertility Research Centre, Bone and Joint Hospital & Research Centre, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Mahatma Gandhi Hospital, Military Hospital , Preksha Hospital, Rajdadiji Hospital etc. Hotel Umaid Bhawan Palace, The Ajit Bhawan Palace, Park Plaza Jodhpur, Ranbanka Palace, Kalinga Hotel, Hotel Sachdeva Excellency, Hotel Residency Palace, Hotel Suncity International, Shree Ram International, The Gateway Hotel etc. Industries Guljag Industries Limited, Synco Industries Limited, Chemical & Mineral Industries Pvt. Ltd, Uma Plastic Industries, Shri Uma Plastic Industries Pvt Ltd, Manglam Industries, Swastika Chemical Industries, Rishi Industries, Rahul Industries, Rollers for Bearings Stone Processing - Chemical & Mineral Industries Private Limited, Guljag Industries Limited, Gehlot Industries, Synco Industries Limited, Shree Chanchal Industries Pvt Ltd, Organo Snacks & Cereal Industries, Jainsons (India) Industries, Qualitech Metal Industries etc. University/College Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (IITJ), All India Institute of Medical Sciences, National Law University, National Institute of Fashion Technology, Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, Jai Narain Vyas University, Dr. S.N. Medical College, MBM Engineering College, Footwear Design and Development Institute, Indian Institute of Handloom Technology, Sardar Patel University of Police Security and Criminal Justice, Agriculture University, Urdu University, Petroleum University, Government Polytechnic College, Government College of Physical Education, Jodhpur National University, Marwar Engineering College & Research Centre, S.L.B.S Engineering College, Mayurakshi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Raj Engineering College, Aishwarya College of education etc. Notable people Maharaja - Hanwant Singh, Jai Narayan Vyas - Chief Minister of the Indian state of Rajasthan, Barkatullah Khan - Politician, Justice Kan Singh Parihar, Justice Chand Mal Lodha, Justice Guman Mal Lodha, L. M. Singhvi - Politician, Ashok Gehlot - Chief Minister of Rajasthan, Major Shaitan Singh - Awarded Param Vir Chakra, Mahipal - Actor, Chanda Kochhar - Managing Director & CEO of ICICI Bank, Shanno Khurana - Hindustani Classical Singer etc. Last Updated on : July 7, 2014 Cities in Rajasthan Ajmer Alwar Amer Banaswara Barmer Bharatpur Bhilwara Bhiwadi Bikaner Bundi Chittaurgarh Dungarpur Jaipurcity Jaisalmer Jhalawar Jodhpur Kota Kumbhalgarh Mount Abu Ganganagar Nagaur Neemrana Pali Pushkar Ranakpur Sawai Madhopur Shekhawati Sikar Udaipur Hotels in Rajasthan Ajmer Hotels Alwar Hotels Behror Hotels Bharatpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Dausa Hotels Jaipur Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jhunjhunu Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Khimsar Hotels Kumbhalgarh Hotels Mandawa Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Pali Hotels Phalodi Hotels Pushkar Hotels Ranakpur Hotels Sadri Hotels Sawai Madhopur Hotels Shree Mahavirji Hotels Sri Ganganagar Hotels Udaipur Hotels Travel to Rajasthan Ajmer Travel Barmer Travel Bharatpur Travel Bikaner Travel Bundi Travel Chittaurgarh Travel Fatehpur Travel Jaipur Travel Jaisalmer Travel Jodhpur Travel Kota Travel Kumbhalgarh Travel Mandawa Travel Mount Abu Travel Mukundgarh Travel Nawalgarh Travel Pushkar Travel Ranakpur Travel Samode Travel Sawai Madhopur Travel Shekhawati Travel Udaipur Travel Neemrana Travel Places to Visit in Rajasthan Places to Visit in Ajmer Places to Visit in Barmer Places to Visit in Bharatpur Places to Visit in Bikaner Places to Visit in Bundi Places to Visit in Chittaurgarh Places to Visit in Jaipur Places to Visit in Jaisalmer Places to Visit in Jodhpur Places to Visit in Kota Places to Visit in Kumbhalgarh Places to Visit in Mandawa Places to Visit in Mount Abu Places to Visit in Mukundgarh Places to Visit in Nawalgarh Places to Visit in Ranakpur Places to Visit in Samode Places to Visit in Pushkar Places to Visit in Udaipur             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule