Corporate House Promote Agriculture - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Corporate House Promote Agriculture Home Corporate House Promote Agriculture Do you think corporate houses should come forward and collaborate with NGOs to promote agriculture? Are you aware of any corporate house in India helping the farmers? Please share the details. Mr. Sanjeev Latkar, Director, DSK Milkotronics Private Limited says- I will support this 100% because there is a need because the automation used is very negligible may be 8% to 9%.  I wish corporate come and add to the supply chain. I belong to the dairy industry, hence can say milk sector in India is very unorganized sector though we are the largest producers of milk in the world. We have come across many NGO’s in many states, these people are getting funds to the dairy cooperatives and then they are spreading this concept to the village level, but they are very few. Among the NGO’s one is in Karnataka, Moksha-Yug they are in to micro finance, they set up their own dairy also and now they are expanding in a big way. Recently we had an interaction with SERP ( Society of Elimination of Rural Poverty). They are also in a big way giving these solutions because they found the SAG groups now they want the sustainable solution for the SAG groups also along with the other activities what they are doing. Dr Vijay Singh Thakur, Vice Chancellor, Dr Y S Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry says - The corporate houses are already collaborating with many NGOs for the promotion of the agriculture in different parts of the country. These collaborations include mushroom and flower cultivation, honey production, fruits and vegetables processing and their value addition. This is a welcoming and upcoming step and must be up scaled to tap full potential of this collaboration. Corporate houses like Adani Groups, Reliance etc. in apple marketing, different MNCs for seed production, Indofil, Rallies, BASF etc. in pesticides are helping the farmers. Mr. Munish Kumar, Founder & Managing Partner, Punjab Dairy Farm, says- It is quite difficult for any of the corporate houses. They are completely profit oriented business houses. Why will they come forward? Every task should have the business interests for betterment. Nabard would be the only organization which can provide the solutions to it. So far I had not seen any such corporate house yet. Prof. L. K. Vaswani – Director, KIIT School of Rural Management says - Such collaboration will be welcome provided NGOs create win – win situation for the farmers and the corporate. Mr. MK. Shajath Ali, Managing Partner, We Care Realtors, says- If their intention is to promote agriculture in India it is well and good and is always welcome. Nobody in India actually is helping the farmers, not even the Government. Mr. Kapil Sharma, Sr. Technical Officer, Central Potato Research Institute says- Yes, Agriculture is lifeline and industry is pipeline for development. Social responsibility factor also lies on corporate to keep the lifeline (agriculture) in good shape. Many corporate houses are helping in agriculture. I come across news regarding Rattan Tata Trust working for agriculture related project. Mr. Naveen Pratap Singh, Proprietor, Vinodhara Agri Tech says- Some corporate are contributing in some fields, but their focus theme is livelihood. So some time they are contributing in farm production and some time in allied agriculture business. TERI (Tata Environment Research Institute); WIPRO; Ford Foundation; SRTT; Himmothan, Dorabji Tata Trust, and Barclays Bank are some such corporate houses which help farmers. Manoj Singh, Director, Chandel Agritech Solutions says- We should not mix corporates with NGOs as main motive of corporates are profits while NGOs works mainly for upliftment of the society in all sectors. But there are certain corporates (like most of the input companies, irrigation companies, mechanical equipment companies etc) who are doing their best in agribusiness field directly with the farmers. The real need is focusing on improving the crop productivity, minimizing wastages, improving the supply chain management from production to consumer. Mr. Sunil Kumar, Proprietor Sree Guruvayoorappan Dairy Farm and Vaikundam Farm Resorts says, I don’t believe in corporate houses that spend 100 times the actual expense only to keep their luxuries at the expense of common man of India. NGOs could play a good level knowledge to be used for the development of the country and not for few. The country should totally grow. How can the PM of India say India is developing when majority of the Indians are crying for a square meal and the economic bosses sigh out after having a Taj meal? Mr. S.M. Karuppanchetty, Chief Operating Officer, Agri-Business Incubation (ABI) program says- Since the corporate have the scale and strength that NGOs in the ground level don’t have but the latter is better attuned to the demands at the grass roots level and thus more effective in implementing operations. We are in the process of getting corporates on board, following the Government’s initiative to have CSR mandatory spending up to 2%. We are thus looking to have corporates lend their CSR support to incubators be it in terms of funds and manpower and infrastructure resources. This will be another effective platform for PPP mode of operations in the sector. Almost all the major agro-companies are out there helping the farmers; for example, ITC’s e-choupal, DCM Shriram’s Kisan Haryali etc. Dr. N. Barathi, Director, Growmore Biotech says- Corporate houses should come forward and choose their NGOs to promote agriculture. I would go one step more in recommending corporate companies to go directly to the farmers and not to create another NGO as a middle man. If I see the sugarcane cultivation model in Tamil Nadu, it appeals me for their approach in having their field officers who directly approaches the farmer for technical assistant and harvest who are employed by the sugar factory management. The increase in productivity of the sugarcane, transfer of knowledge to the farmer from the research institutions and availability of agri loan at the same interest rate are the results of the direct approach to the farmers by the sugar factory – no middle man and the factory price reaches to the farmer directly. We have such examples in India. Our corporate should copy this model for other crops and create huge job opportunity for agri graduates. Dr. Manish Patel, Executive Director, Incotec says- NGOs are on their right track and fare enough in playing their role, there is no harm in shaking hands with corporate. Extension activity (lab to land) is very much needed in Indian agriculture as of now and for that such synergetic relationship with NGO will surely give good mileage to corporates as well to NGOs. I know many of them from seed sector as well from pesticide sector who really runs their special mission to help farmers in term of knowledge development as well to improve their skill. Some of them are Excel, UPL, Dhanuka from Pesticide sector and Mahyco, Bejo Sheetal, Namdhari , Nuziveedu from seed sector. Mr. Milind Bhandarkar, Founder, Alfa Tech India says- Actually today’s generation does not want to enter in agriculture, and it is a fact that a farmer when he grows agriculture products, they will not be sold and vice versa. So there should be fixed price for each & every commodity as in this case money always go to middle man and farmer and common man always suffer. The corporate & NGO should take care & should give proper justice to farmers. Dr. Ashoka, Manager, Agronomy Dept, Natural Remedies says- ITC Ltd. is the one, where I worked for a few years, having very good backward integration program. There are a couple of corporate companies like Pepsi, Dabur, Synthite, AVT Natural Products, Amira foods India, Appachi cotton Company Global Green company etc., involved in contract cultivation of Fruits, vegetables, medicinal plants, spices etc. in India. Mr. Ramesh Chandra Joshi, Owner and Farmer, Shivsagar Herbal Farm says- No as it leads to the exploitations of farmers. Farmer is not benefited. Mr. Hanumantha Rao, Ganga Kaveri Seeds says- Given the percentage of the population still dependent on agriculture and the relatively small holding corporate agriculture does not seem the way forward. The farmer needs advice on the best crop practices, which he will take from a government agency and not a private agency. There are many number of collaborative efforts between NGOs and corporate but the challenge is in scaling up these efforts. The e-choupal initiative of ITC was touted to be the biggest game changer in agriculture in recent times. However even this initiative is limited to just 3 states and just 3 crops at that. Ms. Saroj Patel, Director, Amrit Sanjeevani Herbal Herbotech Co.says- We are going to enter into joint venture with Reliance. It is helping farmers in a big way. Dr. Sandha, CEO, Jagriti-e-sewa says- The corporates must not have the tendency piggyback on NGOs to establish the chain and then bypass them. I know of Pepsi Foods in Punjab, growing Basmati Rice they are also working with farmers for citrus juices, for Tropicana Our Correspondent Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Osmanabadi Goat Farm Spices Board Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Corporate House Promote Agriculture Related – articles, consultants, downloads No related posts. You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water