Rajasthan Rivers Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Rajasthan Rivers   Rajasthan River Map Jaipur Kota Ajmer Udaipur Bhilwara Chittorgarh Baran Jhalawar Alwar                         more.. राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan History and Geography Weather Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Cities Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Rajasthan Rivers River Map of Rajasthan Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Rajasthan Rivers Network Map showing the River Flowing in and out of Rajasthan. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Rajasthan Rivers are divided into two major river systems. The rivers play a major role in the irrigation system of the state. Rajasthan is the largest state of India, which covers maximum area in the western part of the country. The state encompasses a huge area of the Thar Desert. As a result, there are very few rivers in the western part of the state. The Aravali Range acts as the water divider in the state of Rajasthan . This ancient mountain range has divided the river system of Rajasthan in two halves. Chambal and Luni are the two main rivers of Rajasthan. Chambal is the only perennial river of the state, which enters Rajasthan at Chaurasigarh, after originating from the northern slopes of the Vindhya Range. This river flows along the eastern border between Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Fed by its tributaries, Chambal flows northwards across the state and meets the Yamuna River. Luni, one of the major rivers in Rajasthan, originates from the Aravali Range, 7 kilometer north of Ajmer. This is the only river that flows across the western part of Rajasthan. The river flows to Gujarat, where it drains at the Rann of Kutch. Luni is a seasonal river, which is also comparatively shallow than other rivers of the state. This river is also supplemented by many tributaries, which flow from the Aravali Range. There are also other Rajasthan riversmm, which flow across the state. Most of these rivers are seasonal. Ghaggar is the intermittent stream, which flows through Rajasthan and disappears at the heart of the Thar Desert. Some of the other important Rajasthan Rivers are Kali, Banas, Banganga, Parvati, Gambhiri, Mahi, Kakni, Jokham, Sabarmati, Katli, Sabi and Mantha. Last Updated on : 2/10/2012 Rajasthan River Map Ajmer Alwar Banswara Baran Barmer Bharatpur Bhilwara Bundi Chittaurgarh Dausa Dhaulpur Dungarpur Jaipur Jalor Jhalawar Jodhpur Kota Nagaur Pali Rajsamand Sawai Madhopur Sirohi Tonk Udaipur             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule