STORM: Call for Proposals Ministry of Earth Sciences India Meteorological Department Government of India Development of Indian Specific Cloud-resolving scale model for Severe Weather Forecasting Call for Proposals India Meteorological Department (IMD) is implementing a programme on "Development of High Impact Severe Weather Forecasting system" under the 12th 5-year plan approved by the Ministry of Earth Sciences, which is the nodal agency for promoting earth & atmospheric sciences related R&D studies in the country. One of the key aspect of this programme is to develop an Indian specific high resolution cloud-resolving scale Model for Severe Weather forecasting based on WRF model frame work (I-WRF). The WRF model is used by many organizations/ academic communities in India and abroad. In order to make an integrated effort in sharing the expertise and resources in development of data assimilation and mesoscale modeling system utilizing national talents in collaboration with different institutions, many key issues are identified by a national brainstorming meeting, namely, (1) Improvement of dynamics and physical prameterization schemes, (2) Observations utilization including testbed data sets (STORM, FDP on Cyclone & Fog), (3) Convective Scale Data Assimilation with rapid refresh cycle, (4) Model Diagnostics, new products development and performance evaluation, (6) Ensemble and Probabilistic forecasting, (7) Visualization of observations, and model simulated products. The success of the new model will be measured by targeted skill scores for forecasting severe thunderstorms, cyclones, fog and heavy rainfall. Proposals are invited from the scientific community working at different universities, academic institutions, and research organizations in India to participate in the field experiment, and undertake research in the areas related to above objectives. Proposals should include details on methodology, work plan, financial implications, deliverables, time schedule, facilities available with the institute, requirements to execute the proposed study as well as detailed bio-data of the PI/Co-PI etc. Proposals should clearly include the existing skill scores (up to 72 hours lead time) of the present version of the WRF model being used for at least one or more of the 4 types of high impact weather events as follows. For thunderstorms, the current skill should include Probability of Detection (POD), False Alarm Rate (FAR) and Missing Rate (MR) of occurrence/ non-occurrence of the events, errors in intensity, location and time of occurrence of the events. For cyclones, the skill should include existing errors in location and time of genesis, maximum intensity, time of occurrence of maximum intensity, track, time and point of landfall. For heavy rainfall, the skill should include POD, FAR/ MR of occurrence/ non-occurrence of the events, errors in time and area (subdivision scale/ district or specific location) of occurrence. For fog, the skills should include (up to 48 hours) the errors in time of onset, lifting and duration of events. The proposal may be submitted (3 hard copies) in the prescribed format by MoES (http://moes.gov.in/RND/rnds.html) to the Projector Director, Severe Weather Programme, India Meteorological Department, Mausam Bhawan, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003. Phone: 43824356, 24642206, Email: swirl.india@gmail.com. In addition, a soft copy of the proposal is also required to be sent by email. The deadline for submission of proposals is 30 November 2014. However, an intent to submit the proposal should be submitted within one month from the date of publication of this advertisement.