SOLITAIRE Stainless Steel Glass Set Manufacturer & Exporters J J Plast List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory J J Plast Member Since : 2014 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Plastic Insulated Casseroles, Coaster Set Company Information Since the establishment in 2014 we, j j plast, have been manufacturing an impeccable quality range of plastic household items. Our range comprises steel hot-pot,plastic hot-pot,casserole, tiffin,cutlery,plastic handle cutlery,dinner set,airtight canisters,trays,coaster.more. Also, we pay special attention towards the environmental concerns, whereby, we have made sure that an environment friendly manner is followed to dispose the wastes. Further, our entire range of products finds application in numerous industries, owing to their reliability, flexibility, hygiene, and durability. Moreover, our ethical business practices, immense process knowledge, and expertly crafted products have allowed us to garner a long list of clientele all across the domestic markets. Under the visionary guidance of our owner, mr. Sachin chheda, we have been able to achieve a strong market presence. Owing to his leadership, vast experience, and in-depth knowledge, we managed to establish ourselves as specialized manufacturer and supplier of plastic household products. Other Info Packaging Facility : We,J J PLAST, have unique in-house packaging facilities. Corrugated boxes and thermocol sheets are utilized while packaging, to prevent any damage caused to the products when in transit. Our Workforce : Our workforce comprises of a number of engineers and designers, who work round the clock to design the best and the most effective solutions for our prestigious clients. The R&D department keeps at par with the latest trends of the markets and designs products accordingly. Our Strength : We, J J PLAST are outfitted with latest technology machines, which are high on production and low on cost. These machines are upgraded from time to time to keep them abreast with the changing technology. Market Reach : Owing to our superior quality products, competitive prices and timely delivery, our company has won the hearts of our clients not only in India but across the world. We regularly export our products to many international markets. Quality- Our Forte : We have a "Burning Desire to Excel" in all areas of our activity. Excellence is the standard we strive for at J J PLAST and we aim at achieving the zenith of performance by adopting a strategically designed Quality Management System. As a manufacturer, we maintain a well defined quality policy as per which each and every manufactured plastic Ware product is thoroughly tested at different stages of the production process. From the incoming raw materials to the final inspection of finished products, everything is done under the keen observation and supervision of a team of quality experts. In addition, we are equally concerned about the quality of products we source from others and always adhere to strict product delivery schedules. Our professionals work with the "can do" attitude and leave no stone unturned to serve our valued clients with the best products and services in the industry. Company Facts Business Type : Manufacturer / Exporters / Wholesale Suppliers Year of Estd. : 2014 Company Turnover : Rs. 5 to 25 Crore Approx. No. of Employee : 50 - 100 Ownership : Partnership Business Markets : Gulf and Africa Website : http://www.jjplast.in Featured Products/Services SOLITAIRE Stainless Steel Glass Set Stainless Steel Tiffins Serving Trays Coaster Set Plastic Handle Cutlery Set 4 Pcs Stainless Steel Insulated Casserole Set 5 Pcs Stainless Steel Insulated Casserole Set 4 Pcs Plastic Insulated Casserole Set 3 Pcs Plastic Insulated Casserole Set View E-Brochure 360° View on Google Search Contact Details Mr. Sachin Chheda Primary Number : 08042753196 Mobile Phone : +91-9833700051,+91-9322665704 » More detail Hot Products » 3 Pcs Plastic Insulated Casserole Set » 4 Pcs Plastic Insulated Casserole Set » 4 Pcs Stainless Steel Insulated Casserole Set » 5 Pcs Stainless Steel Insulated Casserole Set » Coaster Set » Plastic Handle Cutlery Set » Plastic Insulated Casseroles » Serving Trays » SOLITAIRE Stainless Steel Glass Set » Stainless Steel Canister » Stainless Steel Cutlery Set » Stainless Steel Dinner Set » Stainless Steel Insulated Casseroles » Stainless Steel Serving Bowl Set » Stainless Steel Tiffins Other Products » Solitaire Hot N Serve Casserole » Stainless Steel Hot Pot Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com