Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Work with Us Work with us Are you looking for an exciting and challenging career, not just another job? Are you looking for a career that will not only challenge your mind but also reward your soul? Do you feel an inner urge to change the situation of the poor and the disadvantaged? Are you yearning for an opportunity to contribute to the upliftment of their lives?   Then, DHAN Foundation might be just the right place for you! Who are we? DHAN Foundation is a premier development institution in the country, working for the upliftment of the poor and the disadvantaged segment of the community (Know more about DHAN Foundation). The Foundation has been promoted with the objective to bring in highly motivated and educated young women and men to the development sector. Our belief is that energetic and dynamic people like you develop new innovations and upscale novel interventions in combating poverty and creating a fair and equitable society. How DHAN works? ‘Give a man a fish, you feed for a day! Teach the man how to fish; you feed him for entire life!’ Fitting the above adage, DHAN Foundation’s approach is in enabling the poor to better their lives and achieve self-reliance. DHAN strongly believes that what poor need is not charity, but hope, not sympathy but entitlement, not delivery of services but an enabling environment to earn those services by themselves. We hope that this enabling approach will facilitate the poor to stand on their own by earning a decent income with dignity. This, DHAN achieves by promoting self-reliant people institutions, by organizing the poor. Thus creating an effective demand stream, where the poor have an opportunity to take up collective action for poverty reduction. So, to put in a nutshell, DHAN doesn’t claim itself working for the poor, but works with the poor, as partners in creating a poverty-free world (Know more about, how DHAN works). Thus in the broader perspective, NGOs or development organizations like DHAN Foundation, forming the gamut of development sector, are emerging as one of the key players in bringing about sustainable human and social development. The role and space for this sector is increasing rapidly both at the national and global level. At the same time, there is an ever-increasing demand for high quality human resources to work in the sector in contributing to the betterment of the poor. So, a career in development sector gives you the opportunity to unleash your potentials, in using your skill and knowledge to build a better society. Our DHAN family Currently, we are a family of 600+ staffs, recruited from reputed institutions from various disciplines such as agriculture, engineering, management and finance. We are equal opportunity employer, with people from different cultures and experience working with us and nearly 40% of them are female staffs. Together, we are reaching out to nearly 700,000 poor families spread over 10000 villages and slums in well over twelve states in the country, viz., Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Pondicherry, Kerala, Orissa, Jharkhand, Bihar, Assam, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. (Find out, where we work) What does a career in DHAN offers? So, now that you have decided upon your career in the development sector, we like to share with you, what a career in DHAN Foundation can offer. A career in DHAN Foundation gives you: Opportunity to recognize your innate potential and capitalize it for the betterment of the society Freedom of autonomy to perform your roles and responsibilities Continuous learning environment, to achieve excellence Exposure to various portfolios and platforms in the vast arena of development sector Constant support and mentoring from senior colleagues and peers Satisfying working environment with value-based conduct Who can apply? Graduates in Management, Engineering, Agriculture and allied sciences: for the post of Project Executives Post-graduates in Commerce, Computer Science or any discipline with computer proficiency: for the post of Programme Associates Graduates in Commerce, Computer Science or any discipline with computer proficiency: for the post of Programme Assistant Post graduates in any discipline with research experience: for the post of Research Associates Apply Now Download application form ( pdf format , MS word format ) Apply online, now! ﻿ news & events Inviting Applications from qualified Post Graduates and Professionals to pursue 2 years Post graduated in Development Management (MBA) Development Management programme in Community Radio, June 5-7, 2015 SBI Youth for India fellowship applications now open : DHAN Foundation is a partner of the SBI Youth for India fellowship program 2015-16. The program aims at providing opportunity for the young professionals to enjoy a life with grassroots. It would help them to unleash their skills and knowledge on various development activities for the betterment of the rural communities. To find out more about the programme please click.. DHAN Foundation has been chosen as one of the top 20 for the RISK AWARD announced by United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Reduction (UNISDR), Global Risk Forum (GRF Davos), and Munich Re Foundation. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 Walkathon 2015 Photos of DHAN Collectives More News >> support us Development of Humane Action (DHAN) stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved Back to Top