Travel to Alleppey - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Kerala Travel Honeymoon in Kerala Hotels in Kerala Kerala Food How to Reach Kerala Airports in Kerala Tour Operators Kerala Attractions Kerala Backwaters Beaches in Kerala Wildlife in Kerala Hill stations in Kerala Kerala Water sports Shopping in Kerala Ayurvedic Resorts Pilgrimage Places Museums in Kerala Places to Visit in Kerala Trivandrum Travel Alleppey Travel Kannur Travel Kozhikode Travel Munnar Travel Thrissur Travel Wayanad Travel Kumarakom Travel Periyar National Park Thekkady Travel Kochi Travel Kovalam Travel Idukki Travel Mallapuram Travel Palakkad Travel Pathanamthitta Travel Varkala Travel Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya About Kerala Weather in Kerala History of Kerala Culture of Kerala Kerala Festivals Nehru Trophy Boat Race Champakulam Boat Race Aranmula Snake Boat Race Gramam Village Fair Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Cities in Kerala Lat Long Map Outline Map Districts in Kerala Kerala Road Map Kerala Railway Map Home » Alappuzha » Travel to Alleppey Travel to Alleppey Alleppey Tourism Alleppey, or Alappuza as it is known in Malayalam is situated in "God's Own Country" Kerala and was also called "The Venice of the East" by Marco Polo. Shaded by coconut trees this laid back little town is a beautiful collection of canals, backwaters, beaches and lagoons and has become a very popular Indian travel destination. It's easy to get around Alleppey on foot and one can come across many interesting old trading houses along the canals while taking a relaxed stroll down the quiet little streets, enjoying the relaxed pace of village life. The highlight of a travel to Alleppey is the leisurely boat cruise through the stretch of backwaters enjoying the most entrancing scenery of palm-fringed banks, quiet water-bound villages, Chinese fishing nets, prawn farming and coir manufacture. Alleppey, one of the exotic sites of backwater tourism in the state of Kerala is better known as the "Venice of the East" for its labyrinth of lakes, lagoons and freshwater rivers crisscrossing it. How to Reach Alleppey By Air Reaching Alappuzha by Air is the easiest and fastest means to reach the Venice of the East in Kerala. The nearest airports are the Thiruvananthapuram, 150 kilometers away; Kochi, 85 kilometers away; and Nedumbassery, which is equally close to Alleppey. Traveling to Alappuzha by Air is hassle free and the tourists can also make a last minute booking in the online sites of the airlines. The tourists can fly down to Thiruvananthapuram Airport, which schedules regular domestic flights to this place. There are facilities of hiring cars near the airport terminals. Alleppey by Airways is also possible through the Nedumbassery Airport, which is only 85 km away from Alappuzha. The visitors can also board flight to Kochi International Airport and reach by rail Allepey Station or take the roadways to Alapuzzha on NH47, which also connects Salem to Kanyakumari. Alleppey by Air is the shortest and fastest route to the divine land of Kerela. Alappuzha is one of the most popular destinations for the tourists in south India. By Train Reaching Alleppey by train is easy from any part of India. Specially South India is very well connected to Alappuzha by regular trains. Any major city of South India or central India is connected by rail to Alleppey. The visitors can board a train from the metropolitan cities and reach Alappuzha. The time required Traveling to Alleppey by train depends on the route of the train and the distance required to cover. Alappuzha railway station is a major station, which link every important city in India. This railway station is easily accessible throughout India. There are direct trains to Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam and also to further North from this station. Alleppey by railways is very easy specially from cities like Kochi or Cochin, Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, New Delhi, Chennai, Bengalooru or Bangalore, Coimbatore, Mumbai or Bombay and Kolkata. Alappuzha by train is a journey accompanied by serene landscape in the backdrop. By Road Reaching Alleppey by Road is a memorable journey surrounded by the greenery of Kerela. Alappuzha is well connected to all the major roads and highways not only in its own state but also to the rest of South India. The national highways connect Alleppey to the entire India. Alappuzha is well-connected to almost all the major cities by road. Traveling to Alleppey by road is a pleasurable experience because of the surrounding atmosphere. The visitors can drive down to Alappuzha along the well connected road network transportation to all the major cities and towns of Kerala and the neighboring states. Alleppey Changanacherry Road is one of the major roadway of the city, that starts in NH 47. This road directly connects Changanacherry from Alappuzha. It also connects Pallathuruthi Bridge and then leads towards other main places of Kerela. A number of interconnecting roadways to different parts of South India makes traveling to Alleppey by roadways very easy. National Highway 47 crosses Alappuzha. The visitors can reach Alleppey by road conveniently because the road conditions are good. Alleppey Travel Tips Travel to Alappuzha is exciting with its backwaters tours in Kerala. Alleppey travel tips are necessary, while the tourists enter the Venice of the East with the glistening backwaters and absolute green backdrop. Alappuzha is a clean paradise and a storehouse of colorful marine life. The best time to visit Alleppey is during the months of August to December. Alappuzha is well connected to all the places of India by air, rail, road, and waterways. There are several tourist destinations in Alleppey like Pathiramanal, R-Block, Karumadikuttan, Kumarakodi, Krishnapuram Palace, Saradha Mandiram, Mavelikkara, Alappuzha Beach and Sea View park and many more. Stay in house boats are lifetime experience in Alleppey. This is one of the most popular activities , which relax the visitors completely and erase all the stress of daily life. Some houseboats have spa treatments, beauty salons and massage parlors. People also get engaged in fishing and do experimental cooking in traditional methods. A walk through the villages in evening is also rejuvenating. Shopping and strolling in the beaches are also the two most favorite past time of the Alappuzha travelers. The travelers should wear loose and comfortable clothes and should carry torch, mosquito repellent, mobile chargers, and compulsorily sun tan creams. Carrying some necessary medicines is also included in the Alleppey travel tips. Shopping in Alleppey Shopping in Alleppey for coir products will be a fascinating and feasible experience. Alleppey is famous for its coir products and carpets. Alleppey offers glimpses of the coir manufacturing process-from the coconut husk tot the final rope/coir yarn stage. There are also several shops selling coir matting and carpets. The fine quality, variety and reasonable price tag make these products stay high in the demand list of tourists. Besides Alleppey is also famous for its pepper, coconut oil, areca nut, cardamom, and sugar. Places to See in Alleppey Mullackal Bhagavathi Temple Alleppey Beach Nehru Trophy Boat Race Coir Manufacturing Process Last Updated on : 04/09/2013 More About Alappuzha Alappuzha Accommodation Alappuzha Education Alappuzha Health Alappuzha Information Alappuzha Vacation About Alappuzha Alappuzha Events Alappuzha History Alappuzha Economy Pincode of Alappuzha Alappuzha Geography Alappuzha Hotels Tours from Alappuzha About Alappuzha Travel to Kerala Travel to Alleppey Travel to Kumarakom Travel to Kannur Travel to Kozhikode Travel to Mallapuram Travel to Palakkad Travel to Pathanamthitta Travel to Thekkady Travel to Wayanad Travel to Kochi Travel to Kovalam Travel to Munnar Travel to Trivandrum Travel to Varkala Travel to Thrissur Places to Visit in Kerala Places to visit in Alleppey Places to visit in Kochi Places to visit in Kovalam Places to visit in Kozhikode Places to visit in Kumarakoram Places to visit in Munnar Places to visit in Thekkady Places to visit in Thrissur Places to visit in Trivandrum Places to visit in Varkala About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule