FAQs | Frequently Asked Questions - Compusoft Technologies   Home     Contact Us     Sitemap +91-22-4122 6029    info@compusofttechnology.com home why us? services clients careers reach us Blog Website Design Website Designing Content Management System Ecommerce Web Marketing Search Engine Optimization Social Media Optimization graphic Design Brochure Designing Press Ad Designing Logo Designing Business Card Design Letterhead Designing Corporate Identity Envelope Designing Poster Designing CD Cover Designing Mailer Designing Multimedia Flash Presentation Flash Banner Stall Design Hosting Domain Name Registration   FAQ's > Domain Names A domain name is also called a Web address. A domain name is used as an address for your Web site and e-mail, just like www.janesbagels.com and orders@janesbagels.com     What is a Domain Name?   Is a series of textual characters that identifies a specific IP address, uniquely identifies a website on the Internet. Domain names locate businesses, organizations, or other entities on the Internet. Using a domain name allows you to receive more visitors, less bounced emails, and the chance to make a lasting impression on the Web.A benefit of using your domain name is that regardless of how many times you change your access provider, your Email and website address will always remain the same.       How would I know if a domain name is available?   All you need to do is to let us know the domain name (.com or .net or .org.) you wish to obtain and book for your website to use, and we shall check whether the same is available for you. We would also be most willing to suggest possible alternatives based on your original request.       How could I get a domain name booked?   We can register an available domain name i.e. which has not already been booked by any other party on the Internet, be it a .com or .net or .org. You’d be asked to provide your various contact and technical information & to pay a nominal fee of USD 15.00 for 1 domain which will hold your rights to use it for a period of 1 year. You could also go ahead and book the domain for as many years as you like in one go.       How do I register a Domain Name?   Domain names ending with .aero, .biz, .com, .coop, .info, .museum, .name, .net, .org, or .pro can be registered through many different companies (known as "registrars") that compete with one another. A listing of these companies appears in the Registrar Directory on this site. The registrar you choose will ask you to provide various contact and technical information that makes up the registration. The registrar will then keep records of the contact information and submit the technical information to a central directory known as the "registry." This registry provides other computers on the Internet the information necessary to send you e-mail or to find your web site. You will also be required to enter a registration contract with the registrar, which sets forth the terms under which your registration is accepted and will be maintained.       How can I have my domain name renewed?   We shall take the responsibility of an approaching domain name expiry so that the contract could be renewed for a number of years you would prefer to reserve it for.     > Bandwidth Bandwidth is the maximum amount of data that can be transferred in a given time, usually measured in seconds. It determines how much data can flow through your site > Electronic Commerce/E-Commerce Refers to the ability to sell products through your Web site     What is E-commerce   An eCommerce, or Electronic Commerce, website allows you to conduct transactions online letting your customers order and pay for products or services through your website. > E-mail E-mail is short for electronic mail. It consists of messages, often just text, sent from one user to another via a network > E-mail Address This refers to an electronic mailing address to which e-mail may be sent and received > FTP File Transfer Protocol (FTP) allows you to upload files to your Web site from your computer. It's a necessity if you're using FrontPage or another Web site design software package to build and/or update your Web site. If you're using an online Web site design template provided by Network Solutions, you probably don't need FTP capability. > FTP Accounts File Transfer Protocol is the method of transferring files between two computers and a method of gaining access to files stored in a remote computer. Multi-User FTP gives you the ability to assign permissions to someone else to FTP pages to your site or you can even restrict it to a specific directory. > Homepage Also referred to as a Web page, the home page is the starting point of a Web presence. It is a sort of table of contents for everything that is on the Web site, offering direct links to the different parts of the site. > HyperText Markup Language (HTML) A programming language used to build Web sites; it defines how the Web pages will look and how the visitor will be able to move around the Web site. It used to be that you had to know HTML to design and build a Web site. But today there are online templates and tools, as well as software packages, which allow you to build a Web site without knowing HTML. > Keywords The actual words and terms that customers are using to search the Internet for products and services similar to yours. > Optimizing Optimizing refers to making a Web site search-engine-friendly so it ranks as high as possible on search engine results listings. Also called Search Engine Optimization (SEO), optimizing includes finding relevant keywords to describe your products and services; writing Web site content in a specific way that includes these keywords; analyzing your Web site for technical and design problems that may keep search engines from seeing the entire Web site; and submitting your Web site to search engines and directories. SEO is a very specialized field and usually requires the assistance of an SEO expert to achieve optimal rankings. > Search Engine A tool allowing users to search for information on the Internet using key words and phrases. Search engines explore the Internet and return a list of Web pages that are related to the key words or phrases entered. Popular search engines include Google®, Alta Vista®, Ask Jeeves®, Excite, Hotbot, Lycos® and Yahoo!®. Search engines are also a tool to market your Web site to potential visitors (see 'Search Engine Marketing' and 'Search Engine Optimization' for more)     What is the most used Search Engine?   Google is by far the most used search engine. It provides search results not only on it's home page, but powers other search engines' results as well. Google claims to have indexed over 3 billion pages, but in reality, that number is probably too small. More than 300 million searches a day filter through Google's fingertips > Search Engine Marketing (SEM) Use search engines to let people know about your site and drive traffic to your site. When a person searches on a term that is related to your Web site, a brief description of your site with a link to it will appear in their search results. There are a number of different ways to approach Search Engine Marketing. You can also pay to be listed on search results (in a different area from natural, non-paid search results) when a key word you designate is searched on. This is called 'paid placement' or 'paid search results.' Yahoo!® Sponsored Search and Google AdWords™ are two programs that allow you to pay for placement. > Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Search Engine Optimization (SEO) makes your site more appealing to search engines and gives them a better understanding of who they should send to your site. Optimizing your Web site should result in a high placement in 'natural search results,' or in the area where companies aren't paying to be listed.   What is SEO?   SEO is short for Search Engine Optimization. It is a collection of actions and practices that ensure that search engines index your website and that the engine rate your website as a desirable site for specific keyword searches. Essentially, SEO aims to get your website a higher search engine rankings for keywords most relevant to your business       Do I really need to optimize my web site for search engines?   If your website is a major source of business and you are looking at going virtual with a strong Internet marketing campaign, SEO should probably be one of your primary objectives. Another major incentive to opt for SEO is that more than 80% of all the Internet users run search engine keyword searches to look for what they need over the Internet. There are various SEO practices and you can choose which ones to go for. > Search Engine Submission This includes the submission of your Web site to search engines and a complete analysis of your site, identifying improvement on your Web site that can help your Web site get indexed by search engines more successfully.     What are search engine crawlers and spiders?   These are not a form of virus or worms. In fact, search engines crawlers or spiders are programs that browse through the Internet, look for pages, index the pages according to subject matter and usability and further rank them in comparison to other similar pages. These crawlers work on algorithms programmed by software engineers at the search engine company. The act of a search engine crawler traversing cyber space and browsing pages is called spidering.       What is the most used Search Engine?   Google is by far the most used search engine. It provides search results not only on it's home page, but powers other search engines' results as well. Google claims to have indexed over 3 billion pages, but in reality, that number is probably too small. More than 300 million searches a day filter through Google's fingertips > Template (Web site package) In the context of a Web site, a template is a Web page that has been pre-formatted for your use, allowing you to build your own Web site quickly and affordably. The template provides a basic structure for the Web page: for example, a template might place navigation elements across the top of the page, provide a space for a graphic or logo in the upper left-hand corner, etc. Many of the template elements can easily be customized. For example, you can change the background color of the page, insert a graphic or logo of your choosing, change text colors and/or fonts, and more. > Web Design The aesthetic and navigational architecture of a Web site. What is Web Design? "Web page design is a process of conceptualization, planning, modeling, and execution of electronic media content delivery via Internet in the form of technologies (such as markup languages) suitable for interpretation and display by a web browser or other web-based graphical user interfaces (GUIs)." What is the difference between a Professional Website Designer and a Professional Website Developer? Both are needed to build a flawless website. A web developer deals with code and scripting - building a website, and a web designer conceptualizes and plans out a website. Wett Designs handles both processes. What is Website maintenance? The ongoing work on a website to keep it up to date and looking fresh. Site maintenance is usually handled by an hourly rate. What content should I put on my Professional Website? The content on your site is dependant on your type of company and goals. An Entertainment Website may display high end graphics and photos and provide information about a person or group in a trendy manner, while a Small Business website that sells a product may be more interested in copy, product information and a clean navigation. > Web Hosting Web hosting is an online storage service for information, images, video, or any content accessible through the Web. What is shared / virtual web hosting platform? It means that you would be opting for a cost-effective solution, where you would be only paying for the space your website occupies on the server. You will be sharing it with multiple websites which have opted for a similar solution. This solution generally is appropriate for most sites, except for the technologically highly advanced websites carrying confidential data transactions which need the power of a dedicated server.   When can I start hosting my site? If your domain name linked to your hosting package is available/propagated and we've received your payment, your account will be activated same day. Your username and password will be mailed to you along with the control panel link to access and maintain your own website   > Web hosting package Network Solutions' Web hosting packages are designed for the advanced needs of a technical user who wants to maintain one or more Web sites. All of our packages include generous amounts of disk storage and data transfer, FTP accounts, e-mailboxes, sub-domains and directory pointers, domain name (with annual agreement), secure hosting with 99.9% uptime, scripting and database functionality, site traffic reports, and your choice of Unix or Windows platform. > Web Mail Web Mail allows you to access your e-mail account from anywhere using a Web browser. You should use Web Mail when you cannot access the computer that you have set up with POP access.     What is Webmail?   Webmail is an email service, which is used to check emails using a web browser such as "Microsoft Internet Explorer", "Netscape Navigator" etc.     > Web Page A Web page is a document created with HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) that is part of a group of hypertext documents or resources available on the World Wide Web. Collectively, these documents and resources form what is known as a Web site. Web pages can contain hypertext links to other places within the same document, to other documents at the same Web site, or to documents at other Web sites. They can also contain fill-in forms, photos, large clickable images, sounds, and videos for downloading. > Web Site A Website is a collection of HTML documents or Web pages, that are linked together and that exist on the Web at a particular server. Exploring a Website usually begins with the home page, which may lead you to more information about that site. A single server may support multiple Web sites.     What is a static website & Dynamic website?   A static website displays information through images, video, copy and other content. Viewers generally learn from the website without interacting with it.   A dynamic website requires interaction with a user in 'deciding' what content to display or what action to take, other than simply clicking on links. Examples are forms, ecommerce, secure pages, and requests for specific types of information.       How long does it take to build a website?   The time varies depending on the complexity of individual projects. The schedule involves a design process and development process in which work is delivered online to the client to view and make changes. The schedule is also determined by length of time it takes for clients to deliver content, assets and changes. In general, though, most of our projects take from 3 days to 3 months to complete, with many maintenance projects spanning years.                         Services       Need Help?                       - Website Designing - Content Management System - Ecommerce - Flash Presentation - Flash Banner - Stall Design - Ad Design - Logo Design - Corporate Identity - Business Card Design - Brochure Design - Letterhead Design - Envelope Design - Poster Design - CD Cover Design - Mailer Design - SEO - SMO - Hosting - Domain Name Registration - Why Us - Clients - Careers - Privacy Policy - Legal Disclaimer - FAQ's - Resources - Testimonials - Articles - Sitemap - RSS Feed - XML Sitemap Follow Us on     "TRADEMARK & LOGOS APPEARING ON THIS SITE ARE THE PROPERTY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OWNERS" Site Best Viewed in 1024 x 768 Resolution, and Internet Explorer 5.0 & ABOVE Copyright @ 2012 Compusoft Technologies