Jharkhand History and Geography Home » Jharkhand » Geography and History » History and Geography   Geography and History of Jharkhand Rivers Flora-Fauna Forests झारखंड का नक्शा Jharkhand Map Capital of Jharkhand Jharkhand Cities Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Reach by Train About Jharkhand Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Travel to Jharkhand Places to visit in Jharkhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Daasam Falls Sun Temple Population Sex Ratio Map Fact sheet education Universities In Jharkhand Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Constituencies Lok Sabha Constituencies Business and Economy Ministers and MPs Government Agricultural Map Mineral Map District Map in Hindi Hotels in Jharkhand Bokaro Hotels Deoghar Hotels Dhanbad Hotels Jamshedpur Hotels Kumardhubi Hotels Ranchi Hotels Language Jharkhand by Road Ranchi Airport Map Information Media People,Culture and Festivals Pin code STD code       Jharkhand History and Geography Jharkhand history and geography is a thorough study of the physiography of the territory of Jharkhand, as well as the past history of state. The history and geography of Jharkhand seems to be reflection of the socio-economic and political background of the territory of Jharkhand. Jharkhand Geography Talking about the geography of Jharkhand, it can be said that Jharkhand occupies a forest track in the Santhal Parganas and the Chhotanagpur plateau. Jharkhand is a mountain region which is covered with a dense growth of forests. An estimate of the geography of Jharkhand is as follows: Area - 79,714 square kilometers. Area of Cultivable land - 38 lakh hectares Net Sown Area - 18.04 lakh hectares. Total area under plantation and horticulture - 2.57 lakh hectares. Capital - Ranchi. Districts - 18 Chatra, Hazaribagh, Deoghar, Koderma, Palamu, Garwa, Dumka, Pakur, Sahibganj, Dhanbad, Ranchi, Gumla, Lohardagga, West Singhbhum, Godda, East Singhbhum, Giridih, and Bokaro. Jharkhand History Talking about the history of Jharkhand, it can be said that the Jharkhand history started after the partition of Bihar and Jharkhand. On 15th November, 2000, the territory of Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar: the southern part of Bihar was given a separate entity and named Jharkhand, which literally means 'the territory of forests'. After the independence of India, the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha initiated a movement for the creation of a separate state. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha launched a regular agitation during the post-Independence period and forced the government to create an autonomous body known as the Jharkhand Area Autonomous Council in 1995. It is this autonomous body that finally led to the formation of a separate state. Last Updated on : 1 July 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule