Wheel and Axle Scrap Manufacturer & Exporters S.V. OVERSEAS PTE. LTD. Singapore List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory S.V. OVERSEAS PTE. LTD. Member Since : 2014 | Country : Singapore Home Products Send Inquiry Blog Contact us Metal Scraps, Shredded Scrap, Galvanized Coil, Cold Rolled Sheets Company Information We are a steel & metals international trading house, headquartered in singapore. Our organization is broadly diversified catering to various segments of the metal industry, right from the pre-raw material stage to the end finish product, providing solutions to all our global metal clientele under one roof. However, the company's flagship product offering is ferrous scrap, accounting for the biggest share of the organization's revenues, with annual sales in excess of 300,000 mt ferrous scrap for the fy 2012-2013. The company's main presence has been the indian sub-continent (india, pakistan and bangladesh). We are selling material to all big steel mills in india, among our main corporate buyers we are selling regularly to jsl (jindal stainless limited), welspun steel limited, bhushan steel limited, mahindra, electrotherm, rohit – ferro tech group etc. In bangladesh, we are selling material to big mills like bsrm, modern steel mills etc. And similarly in pakistan also. With now jaguar steel and coal expanding its presence in asean and far-east markets, we aim to achieve good volume in far- east countries as well. On the supply side, we work only after exhaustive research of the credibility of our supplier, and work with direct shredders or yards and not traders. We always ensure top-commitment to our buyers in terms of quality, reliability and most competitive prices. We act as exclusive representatives for some of our uk, europe and usa recyclers. We source majority of our material mainly from the west, namely uk, usa and europe, followed by south america, russia, baltic and australia. We deal in more than 41 grades of ferrous scrap, offering the mill various options as per their requirements. Please check our website for the products that we can offer. Company Facts Business Type : Manufacturer / Exporters / Wholesale Suppliers Year of Estd. : 2012 Company Turnover : USD 10 to 50 Million Approx. Ownership : LLC (Ltd Liability Corp) Business Markets : India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Vietnam, South East and Far East Asian Countries Website : http://www.svoverseaspte.com Featured Products/Services Wheel and Axle Scrap Tin Bundle Scrap Shredded Steel 211 Scrap Rotor Drum Scrap Re Rollable Scrap Rail Track Scrap Rail Chair Scrap P&S Scrap Manganese Scrap Our Blog All About Manganese Scrap [ 16-Oct-2014 ] Manganese is a silver coloured metal that naturally occurs in the surface of the earth along with sulphur, oxygen and chlorine. Manganese has no taste or smell. It is an important chemical element with atomic number 25. It is mainly used as an industrial metal alloy. It is used as an alloy for making stainless steel. It helps in the prevention of rust and corrosion on steel. When oxidized, it changes colours and is thus used in various industries as pigment. Manganese Scrap is extensively used as an alloying agent in steel industry for making stainless steel products that are corrosion ... Read More... Ferrous Metal Scrap [ 16-Oct-2014 ] Ferrous scrap metal is used in the production of cast iron and steel. It is an essential raw material for the manufacturing of iron and steel products. Ferrous scrap is basically used iron and steel material extracted from automobiles, railway tracks, ships, Home appliances, farming devices, steel beams, bridges and food. Almost all major scrap supply is received from automobile and industrial iron and steel waste. When a sheet of iron or steel is cut for any purpose than the leftover metal becomes ferrous scrap. Ferrous metals are derived from different metal products like stainless steel, mild steel, carbon ... Read More... Search Contact Details Kuruvilla M Mobile Phone : +65-67504680 » More detail Hot Products » Aluminium Scrap » Blue Steel Scrap » Brass Scrap » Bushelling Scrap » Coal Lumps » Copper Scrap » Flat Steel Beams » Flat Steel Galvanized Coils » Flat Steel Plate Coils » Fully Finished Steel Products » HMS Scrap » Iron Ore » Lead Scrap » Manganese Scrap » P&S Scrap » Rail Chair Scrap » Rail Track Scrap » Re Rollable Scrap » Rotor Drum Scrap » Semi Finished Steel Products View more products Other Products » Ferrous Metal Scrap » Non Ferrous Metal Scrap Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com