States of India | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > India at a Glance > States of India States of India This section links Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents States of India   Website of Tamil Nadu Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find details about Tamil Nadu government, departments, administration, ministers, districts etc. Get details about welfare schemes for tribals, backward classes, most backward classes and minorities. Information about various online services such as e-Services, commercial taxes, etc. is given. Users can go through citizen’s charter and also download various forms like birth and death certificate, application for water connection, encumbrance certificate. Details of acts and rules, policies, budget, reports etc. are given. Users can register their grievances online. Official website of Karnataka Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find information on Karnataka state government, legislation, departments, boards, organizations etc. Users can avail e-Services such as e-Procurement, Bhoomi, Nemmadi, MPIC etc. Details are provided for district websites and important links such as Namma Aadhaar, budget, acts and rules, Jnana fellowship, government orders and notifications etc. Links are available for e-forms, grievance redressal of different departments, recruitment notifications, exam results and general notifications. Website of Union Territory of Chandigarh Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find information about the Union Territory of Chandigarh. Details are provided for Chandigarh administration, administrator, departments, e-governance etc. Information on online services such as bills payments, submitting grievances, applications, etc. is also provided. Link of NRI cell in Chandigarh is given. Get details about the city statistics, planning and architecture, museums, tourist destinations etc. Links of fighting corruption, public notices, telephone directory, helplines, citizen's charter are also available for the users. Website of Odisha state government Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get detailed information about Odisha. Details are given on the public representatives, state assembly, council of Ministers and Chief Minister etc. Profile of the state is also provided. Forms, policies and other documents are available for download. Online services such as e-Shishu, Bhulekh, Common Service Center, etc. are given. Users can find information about the investment opportunity in the state. Details about the departments, citizen services and tourism are also given for the users. Website of Assam Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get detailed information about Assam government and its various departments. Details on festivals, craft, culture, education and health services in the state are available. Links are provided for acts, rules, various recruitment and results notifications, reports, application forms, advertisements etc. Information is also provided on the famous tourist destinations, population, business etc.