INDIAN COUNCIL OF ARBITRATION Costly, time-consuming business disputes can take a real bite out of your company’s bottom line. That is why more and more companies are turning to the Indian Council of Arbitration (ICA), the undisputed leader in dispute resolution services in India. The ICA was established in 1965 as a specialized arbitral body at the national level under the initiatives of the Govt. of India and apex business organizations like FICCI etc. Based in New Delhi, the main objective of ICA is to promote amicable, quick and inexpensive settlement of commercial disputes by means of arbitration, conciliation, regardless of location . more... Eligible Voters for Election - GB Members - 2015 (as on 15th May, 2015) Associate Members Foundation Members Individual Members Ordinary Members Register your new contact details In order to update the contact details of all ICA members a Database updation Form is prepared and enclosed for your information and use. Please do the needful in order to help us update your contact information. The completed form may be send to the council by post or through email. (Download Form) Registration Fee for Arbitration Cases: w.e.f   08 - 05 -2012 Claims below Rs. 1 crore            Rs.  10, 000 Claims above Rs.  1 crore             Rs.  20,000   The Workshop will be held from 2nd July to 4th July, 2015 at Lotus Room, The Trident, Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400 021. The Workshop will discuss the academic as well as the practical aspects of domestic and international commercial arbitration. The participants will further be oriented on actual arbitration case and proceeding through mock arbitration exercise. Speakers and moderators include leading arbitration practitioners from UK, Hong Kong, Singapore and India. The Workshop is highly recommended for arbitrators, lawyers and in-house Counsel interested or involved in domestic and international arbitration. The seats are limited and on first-cum-first served basis. So rush for registration. For registration and further details, please click here. APPLICABILITY OF RULES OF INTERNATIONAL COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION OF THE COUNCIL As you are well aware, the Rules of International Commercial Arbitration of the Council has been effective from 1st January, 2014, which recommends a standard arbitration clause, as reproduced below, which may be included in any contract or agreement for resolution of any international commercial dispute/s without modification or modified as may be required or according to the parties’ preferences: more..... Mr. Arun Chawla Advisor Mr. D Sengupta Additional Director Team Leader ICA RELEASED ITS NEW RULES FOR INTERNATIONAL COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION The Indian Council of Arbitration (ICA) has recently published its new Rules of International Commercial Arbitration governing international commercial disputes for ICA commercial arbitrations initiated on or after 1st January, 2014 . Arbitration proceedings filed prior to 1st January, 2014 continue to be governed by the ICA Rules of Arbitration amended and effective from 8th May, 2012. There are a number of significant changes brought into the new Rules of International Commercial Arbitration, many of which appear designed to add increased flexibility to the parties and retain arbitration's promise of a streamlined, cost-effective alternative to traditional litigation. Click here to see the complete text of the new Rules of International Commercial Arbitration. ICA COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION & MARITIME ARBITRATION CLAUSES   Rules of International Commercial Arbitration Maritime Rules For complete text of the revised Maritime Rules (with effect from 1st September, 2014), click here. Constitution & Memorandum Rules of Arbitration and Conciliation (As Amended on and with Effect from 08-05-2012) Annual Report