Kelucharan Mohapatra India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Art and Culture » Kelucharan Mohapatra   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Kelucharan Mohapatra The doyen of Odissi, Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra was born on January 8, 1926 in Raghurajpur, Orissa . Kelucharan was a precocious child, he learnt to paint, sculpt and play the Khol drum at a very early age. He joined Gotipua troupes and folk theater groups when he was just nine. He was totally immersed in Odissi. He resurrected odissi when it was at the verge of extinction. In 1994 he set up an organisation, 'Srjan' to impart training to students in Odissi dance. Many famous classical dancers such as Sanjukta Panigrahi, Kukum Mohanty, Sonal Mansingh, Priyambada Mohanty, Minati Mishra and Bhartanatyam dancer Yamini Krishamurthy are disciples of guru Kelucharan Mohapatra. For his enormous contribution to Odissi, Kelucharan Mohapatra received many awards including Sangeet Natak Akademi award, 1966; Padma Shri, 1972; Padma Bhushan,1989; Padma Vibhushan, 2000; and Kalidas Samman from Madhya Pradesh government. To honor him the Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra award was instituted in 1995. This annual award is given for the contribution in the field of art. This Odissi exponent passed away on April 7, 2004 in Bhubaneshwar, Orissa, leaving behind a league of Odissi dancers to continue the work started by him.   Related Links   Odissi Sanjukta Panigrahi Protima Bedi Kumkum Mohanty Sonal Mansingh Kelucharan Mohapatra   Bharatnatyam Chitra Vishweswaran Padma Suvramanyum Mallika Sarabhai   Kathakali Anita Ratnam   Kathak PT. Birju Maharaj   Kuchipudi Vempati Chinna Satyam Raja and Radha Reddy Siddhendra Yogi Mrinalini Sadananda Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule