Places to Visit in Gujarat and Tourist Destinations near Gujarat Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Gujarat Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Gujarat Places to Visit in Gujarat Beaches in Gujarat Forts and Palaces in Gujarat Museums in Gujarat Historical Places in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Wildlife Sanctuaries Cities to Visit in Gujarat Ahmedabad Travel Gandhinagar Travel Vadodara Travel Porbandar Travel Bhavnagar Travel Junagadh Travel Rajkot Travel Surat Travel Dwarka Travel Bhuj Travel Gondal Travel Utelia Travel Zainabad Travel Gujarat Hotels Ahmedabad Hotels Junagadh Hotels Surat Hotels Rajkot Hotels Vadodara Hotels About Gujarat History Geography Weather Food Festivals Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Gujarat » Places to Visit in Gujarat Places to Visit in Gujarat Places to See in Gujarat The breathtaking state of Gujarat situated in the western coast of India is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the country. The state is reputed for its rich cultural heritage, historical significance, handicrafts and innumerable tourist attractions. Apart from being one of the most industrialized regions in India Gujarat is also a major tourist hub of the nation. A land of romance, charisma, mysticism, vibrant colors and infinite natural beauty Gujarat never fails to charm its many visitors Travel Maps Gujarat Tourist Map Beaches in Gujarat Forts and Palaces in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Wildlife Below is a list of the important tourist destinations in Gujarat Beaches in Gujarat Gujarat has one of the longest coastlines in the country. Sprinkled with enthralling beach resorts, shore temples and blue lagoons Gujarat is home to some of the finest stretches of beaches in the country. An ultimate combination of nature history and religious monuments Gujarat forms one of the most important tourist destinations in the Indian subcontinent. More ... Religious Places in Gujarat Gujarat is the seat of a lot of religious sites belonging to both Hinduism and Islam. Some such religious sites are: Dwarkanath Temple Somnath Temple Takhteshwar Temple Akshardham Temple Palitana Temples Kalika Temple Jama Masjid Raj Babri Mosque Rani Rupmati Mosque Narayan Temple Sidi Saiyad's Mosque National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries in Gujarat Gir Forest Natural Park Blackbuck National Park Marine National Park Vansda National Park Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary Wild Ass Sanctuary Nal Sarovar Bird Sanctuary Kutch Bustard Sanctuary Shoolpaneshwar Wildlife Sanctuary Ahmedabad Having immense historical significance due to its association with Mahatma Gandhi Ahmedabad is one of the most important cities in Gujarat. Thronged by visitors from different parts of the country this famous tourist destination in Gujarat is popular for its unique architecture which is a vibrant culmination of Islamic and Hindu styles. More ... Some of the popular places to visit in Ahmedabad are :  Sabarmati Ashram / Mahatma Gandhi's Home Calico Museum of Textiles Adalaj Step-well Hathee Singh Jain Temple Kankaria Lake, Bhadra Fort Shaking Minarets Gandhinagar Situated at a distance of about 25 kilometers north of Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar the capital of Gujarat offers numerous tourist sites like the Akshardham and Shamlaji. More ... Some of the popular places to visit in Gandhinagar are: Children's Park Sarita Udyan Deer Park Akshardham Temple Botanical garden and the shopping bazaars Jamnagar Located at a distance of 302 km from Ahmedabad, Jamnagar is another gem in the crown of Gujarat. Offering some of the finest specimens of architecture in the form of forts, palaces and religious structures Jamnagar never ceases to allure its visitors. Some of the tourist hotspots in Jamnagar include; Kotha Bastion Willington Crescent Lakhota Fort Solarium Jamsaheb's Palace Bohra Hajira Lakhota Museum Ranmal Lake Adinath Mandir Bala Hanuman Temple Bhid Bhanjan Temple Shantinath Mandir Bet Dwarka Beach Rozi Vadodara Known as the cultural capital of Gujarat Vadodara is speaks volumes about the culture and tradition of Gujarat. Reputed for its magnificent gardens, wonderful fine arts and folk dances Vadodara ranks tops the chart as far as tourist attractions in Gujarat are concerned. More ... Some popular tourist places in Vadodara are: Laxmi Vilas Palace Baps Swaminarayan Mandir EME Temple Vadodara Baroda Museum and Art Gallery Sayaji Bagh Vadodara Khanderao Market Maharaja Fateh Singh Museum Pavagadh A wonderful getaway Pavagadh is a small hill station known for its enthralling landscapes and serenity. Bestowed with the title of a world Heritage site Pavagadh is counted among the most visited tourist destinations in Gujarat. Some popular tourist places in Pavagadh are: Champaner Pavagadh Archaeological Park Pavagadh Hill Kalika Mata Temple Pavagadh Temple Machi Haveli Sadanshah Pir Dargah Champaner Nestled in the foothills of the Pavagadh hills in Gujarat, Champaner is the oldest rock formation in India. Home to a number of historical temples most of which are built in true Nagar style; Champaner serves as an archeologists delight. The other must visit in this town is the Jama Masjid which is an epitome of Indo Islamic style of architecture. Porbandar Mostly frequented by pilgrims throughout the year Porbandar is home to some of the finest sacred shrines that date back to ancient India. Offering a combination of rusticity along with modernity this city in Gujarat is counted as one of the best tourist destinations. More ... Some of the popular tourist attractions in Porbandar are; Kirti Mandir Arya Kanya Gurukul Sudama Mandir Bharat Mandir, and the Planetarium. Anand Anand city of Gujarat is popularly known as the 'Milk Capital of India'. Anand city is well known for the renowned 'Amul' dairy and its 'milk revolution'. 'The National Dairy Development Board of India and Anand Agricultural University are located in the city of Anand in Gujarat. Some of the popular tourist attractions in Anand are: Swaminarayan Mandir Ranchhodrai Dakor Temple Amul Dairy Museum Flo Art Gallery The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Veer Vithalbhai Patel Memorial Bhavnagar Bhavnagar is a principal trading port for the cotton materials produced in Gujarat. The port was established in 1743. The Bhavnagar lock gate can maintain ships afloat in the port of the city at low tide. It is not a place that can be considered as a tourist attraction. More ... Some popular tourist in Bhavnagar are: The Takhteshwar Temple Gandhi Smriti Museum or Gandhi Memorial Gangajalia Town Hall Gaurishankar Lake Samaldas College The Barton Library The Water Lock Gate Junagadh Junagadh in Gujarat is located at the base of the picturesque Girnar Hill. It is the point of departure for the tourists to the Gir Forest. Girnar Hill has got a number of temples. Junagadh is quite a fascinating town with a number of old buildings. However, very few tourists come to this place. The major reason behind this is the lack of publicity. People are perhaps not aware of the serenity and the aesthetic beauty of Junagadh. More ... Some popular attractions in Junagadh are: Akshar Mandir Bhavnath Temple Datar Hill Durbar Hall Museum Emperor Ashoka`s Rock Edicts Girnar Mountain Junagadh Intala the remains of Harappan Age Sakkar Baug Zoo Mandvi Gujarat offers you one of the finest beaches of India known as the Ahmedpur-Mandvi beach. The beach brings you adventurous water sports to be ever remembered. It is located at a distance of 298 kilometers away from Ahmedabad. The crystal clear water of the sea is the perfect place for swimming. Some tourist places in Mandvi are: Vijay Vilas Palace Shyamji Krishna Verma Smarak Rukmavati Bridge Kasi Vishvanath Beach Mandvi beach Topansar Lake Patan The history of Patan reached its epitome during the reign of the Solankis, the golden era of Gujarat. At that time, the city used to be a great place of learning as well as a prosperous center for trading. According to the Jain text, 'Kumarpala Rasa', Patan in Gujarat was a prosperous fortified town. Some of the tourist attractions in Patan are: Old Fort near Kalka Rani-ki-Vav and Trikam Barot-ni-Vav (Step wells) Sahstraling Sarovar Anand Sarovar Kalka Mandir Mahalaxmi Mandir Hingaraj Mandir Rajkot Rajkot in Gujarat owns the glory of being once the capital of the princely state of Saurashtra. Formerly it was a British government headquarters as well. Rajkot in Gujarat is the place where Mahatma Gandhi had spent the early years of his life. Here you can visit the Gandhi family home, the Kaba Gandhi no Delo. The house now holds a permanent exhibition of Gandhiji's belongings. More ... Some of the popular tourist places in Rajkot are: The Watson Museum Kaba Gandhi No Delo The Rajkumar College Mohandas Gandhi Vidyalaya Rashtriya Shala Aji Dam Sasan Giri Sasan Gir is a world famous lion sanctuary situated at the base of the Saurashtra peninsula in the western state of Gujarat. To the north and west are the Gir hills. The forest is a tropical dry deciduous type, having teak as the chief species. The Sasan Gir lion sanctuary project was started in 1972. Before and after independence, situations in Gir deteriorated speedily to the detriment of the Maldharis as well as the lions. So the government started to ponder over the matter. Surat Surat in Gujarat lies on the banks of the River Tapti. Earlier it used to be one of the chief ports of western India. There are evidences that this port served as a gateway to the then state of Gujarat. Parsis came and settled at Surat in Gujarat in the 12th century. In 1573, Surat came under the rule of Emperor Akbar. He could identify the immense potentiality of the region as a port. It was then that the city became a prime Mughal trading port. More ... Some of the popular tourist attractions in Surat are: The Chintamani Jain Temple Dutch Garden The Sardar Patel Museum Jawaharlal Nehru Garden Last Updated on : February 11, 2014 Hotels in Gujarat Ahmedabad Hotels Ankleshwar Hotels Bhavnagar Hotels Gandhidham Hotels Gandhinagar Hotels Jamnagar Hotels Junagadh Hotels Mahuva Hotels Mehsana Hotels Morvi Hotels Navsari Hotels Palanpur Hotels Rajkot Hotels Saputara Hotels Surat Hotels Vadodara Hotels Valsad Hotels Vapi Hotels Travel to Gujarat Travel to Ahmedabad Travel to Bhavnagar Travel to Bhuj Travel to Dwarka Travel to Gandhi Nagar Travel to Gondal Travel to Surat Travel to Utelia Travel to Vadodara Travel to Zainabad Places to Visit Gujarat Places to visit in Ahmedabad Places to visit in Bhavnagar Places to visit in Bhuj Places to visit in Dwarka, Gujarat Places to visit in Gondal Places to visit in Surat Places to visit in Utelia Places to visit in Vadodra Places to visit in Zainabad Travel Agents ahmedabad anand banas kantha bhuj gandhinagar surendra nagar vadodara About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule