Bhadrakali Temple Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Ahmedabad Travel Tourist Map How to Reach Shopping Hotels in Ahmedabad Travel Agents Weekend Trips from Ahmedabad Places to Visit in Ahmedabad Gardens in Ahmedabad Law Garden Bal Vatika Victoria Garden Lakes in Ahmedabad Chandola Lake Kankaria Lake Ahmedabad Wildlife Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary The Kamla Nehru Zoological Garden The Runn of Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary Religious Places in Ahmedabad Bhadrakali Temple Hatheesing Jain Temple Sidi Sayed Jhali Rani Sipri's Mosque Ahmed Shah's Mosque Swaminarayan Temple Akshardham Temple Amusement Parks Ahmedabad Metro Map Route Maps Hyderabad to Ahmedabad Mumbai to Ahmedabad Jaipur to Ahmedabad Goa to Ahmedabad Ahmedabad Map Road Map Railway Map District Map Tehsil Map Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Ahmedabad » Places of Interest » Religious Places » Bhadrakali Temple Bhadrakali Temple Bhadrakali Temple of Ahmedabad is situated inside the famous Bhadra Fort. The Bhadrakali Temple of Ahmedabad was constructed during the rule of Aazam Khan. The Bhadrakali Temple in Ahmedabad was believed to be built by the Marathas in the medieval India. Bhadrakali Temple in Ahmedabad is dedicated to the goddess Bhadrakali. Goddess Bhadrakali is worshiped by its devotee to acquire prosperity and wealth. Being one of the cogent deity in Hindu pantheon, the Bhadrakali Temple at Ahmedabad is visited by hordes of devout from across the country throughout the year. The goddess of the Bhadrakali Temple at Ahmedabad is worshiped during the famous Navaratri Festival in Ahmedabad. During the Navaratri Festival, which is considered as the major festival of the city, the Bhadrakali Temple is thoroughly decorated. The nine days festival is celebrated with great pomp and show in the temple premises. During this period, the Bhadrakali Temple witnesses thousands of tourists thronging in the Bhadrakali Temple to worship, dance in colorful outfits and enjoy the festival. Ahmedabad Bhadrakali Temple is worth visiting during this festival of song and dance. You will enjoy by dancing to the tunes of traditional music or eat hearty food if you visit the Bhadrakali Temple of Ahmedabad during this time. The Bhadrakali Temple of Ahmedabad lies very near to the beautiful Azamkhan Palace and a beautiful garden. The Bhadrakali Temple is one of the oldest temples of the city that still survived the ravages of time. The temple is as old as the city of Ahmedabad. About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule