Famous soldiers, Outstanding soldiers of Indian Army India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Defence » Famous soldiers   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Famous soldiers Indian army is the powerful land force of the Indian Armed Forces. It is a highly equipped military force. It consists of over a million brave soldiers. They are the pillars of the Indian army. The glorious achievements of these fearless soldiers have made us proud. According to the latest record, Indian Armed Forces is the third largest troop after United States and China. General J.J Singh is the Chief of the Indian Army. Param Vir Chakra, Maha Vir Chakra and Vir Chakra are some of the bravery awards given to the soldiers. There are many soldiers in the Indian Armed Forces who received those awards and have made us proud. The bravery of the Indian soldiers is seen in the following conflicts from the past: Jammu- Kashmir Operations - Naik Jadu Nath Singh, the great soldier was born on 21st November, 1916. He showed excessive courage in the Jammu & Kashmir Operations of 1947 and was awarded with the Param Vir Chakra. Bangladesh Liberation War (1971) - Lt. General Jagjit Singh Aurora was born on 13th February, 1916. This great Indian commander belonged to a Sikh family. Just after the completion of his graduation he joined the Indian Army and during the Indo-China conflict he became the Brigadier. Kargil War (1999) - Sanjay Kumar was the head scout of the Indian Army during this war. His contribution is really unforgettable. This great soldier was awarded with the Param Vir Chakra. Indo-China Conflict (1962) - In this war many Indian heroes were killed. Lt. General Jagjit Singh Aurora had participated in this war also . He played the role of a Brigadier and fought bravely. This great fighter passed away on 3rd May,2005.   Related Links   Army Famous soldiers Major Somnath Sharma General K. Sundarji Sam Manekshaw K.M. Cariappa Vikram Batra Navy Admiral Sureesh Mehta Air Force Famous Officers Marshal Arjan Singh Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule