AIC OF INDIA LTD. Sign In Agriculture Insurance Company of India Limited Search Home Evolution Notices Tenders Site Map Contact Us Our Company Offices Annual Reports Corporate Brochure Our People Chairman-cum-MD Board of Directors Management Stakeholders Channel Partners Our Products Present (with Forms) Future Our Business Business Profile - All India Business Profile - States/UTs Our Mandates Laws And Regulations Citizens' Charter Right To Information Grievance Redressal Whistle Blower Policy Public Disclosure & Compliance CSR Policy Privacy Policy    Agriculture Insurance Company of India Limited (AIC) respects and protects the privacy of the individuals who use AIC's Portal services. Individually identifiable information is not willfully disclosed to any third party without first receiving permission of the concerned individual, as explained in this Privacy Policy ("Privacy Policy"). The information shared with AIC will be treated as private. Adequate precautions have been taken to protect information relating to customers and their dealings with AIC from mischievous people and the fraudsters. We recognize that our customers expect privacy and security for their personal and financial affairs. We understand that, by selecting AIC for Insurance needs, the customers have trusted the Company to safeguard their personal financial information. We want to inform all about our commitment to protect the privacy of personal financial information with the following privacy principles and practices. What personally identifiable information is collected from customers? AIC collects information from customers regarding name, address(es), email address(es), mobile number(s) and other information as required in the registration process of the Proposal forms. Cookies A cookie is a data file that certain Websites write to the customer’s computer’s hard drive when she/he visits such sites. A cookie file can contain information such as a user identification code that the site uses to track the pages that have been visited by the customer and use the information commercially. AIC does not use cookies on its Portal. How AIC uses, collects, and retains customer information On its External Portal, AIC collects, retains, and uses information about the customer only when it is reasonably believed that it will help administer the business or provide products, services, and other opportunities to the customer. AIC collects and retains information about the customer only for specific business purposes. AIC uses information to:    Register the customers on the portal    Comply with all applicable laws and regulations     Help AIC to design or improve our products and services for customers benefit.      Understand customers insurance needs so that AIC can provide its customers with quality products and superior service.      To comply with laws, guidelines and regulations that governs the insurance services in the country. How AIC keeps customer information accurate It is in the interest of the customers, for AIC to have accurate, current, and complete information concerning them and their accounts. If the customers believe that AIC has incorrect information about them or their account please email AIC through the Contact Us provided on the portal or modify the profile information on the site as permissible. AIC will correct any erroneous information as quickly as possible. AIC’s security procedures to protect customer information AIC follows industry standard security practices to help prevent unauthorized access to confidential information about its customers. However, no method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage, is 100% secure, however. Therefore, while AIC strives to use commercially acceptable means to protect customer personal information, AIC does not guarantee its absolute security. How AIC restricts the disclosure of customer information AIC does not release customer information except as directed by law or as per customers mandate. AIC does not share specific information about customer accounts or other personally identifiable data with non-affiliated third parties for their independent use unless:     The information is provided to help complete a transaction initiated by the customer;      The customer requests or authorizes it;      The disclosure is required by/or directed by law; or      Customers have been informed about the possibility of such disclosure for marketing or similar purposes through a prior communication and have been given the opportunity to decline. Disclosing privacy commitment to the customer, AIC wants the customer to understand commitment to personal privacy and have formulated this privacy policy. This Privacy Policy is provided to:    A potential customer who expresses interest or makes inquires about AIC or its products and services or who would like a copy of our privacy policy      A customer who has established a relationship with AIC     A visitor to AIC's portal If anyone has any questions or concerns about this privacy policy, please send an e-mail to AIC at hoINFOTECHgroup@aicofindia.com or write to us at, IT Department, AIC HO, 13th Floor, “Ambadeep”, 14 Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi - 110001. Privacy Policy is subject to change periodically AIC reserves the right to modify this privacy statement at any time by posting the same on AIC Portal, so please review it frequently on the Portal. If AIC materially changes its privacy practices the same will be notified to all by posting a notice on AIC Portal.     IRDA Registration No. 126 | Insurance is subject matter of solicitation. Disclaimer Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Cancellation & Refund Policy Best viewed with Internet Explorer Ver 6.0. or above with a resolution of 1024x768.