ï»¿ INDEX FOR RKVY SUCCESS STORIES Success Stories Latest Success Stories Sl. No. Name of the State Title 1.         Andhra Pradesh 1.       Maximising with Mechanization 2.       Vegetable Cultivation with Pandals 3.       Advantage Andhra with Added Facilities 2.         Arunachal Pradesh 1.       Managing Topographical Constraints and Taking Advantage of Climate for Paddy and Vegetables Area Expansion 2.       Winning with Wayside Market Stalls 3.       Bringing Home the Bacon: Promoting Pig Farming 3.         Assam 1.       Assured irrigation for Increasing Cropping Intensity 4.         Bihar 1.        Areas with Farm Ponds Success is Sweeter than Sugarcane, through Precision Farming 2.       Promotion of Organic Farming 5.         Chhatisgarh   1.       Protection against PPR Disease 2.       Turning into Seed self sufficiency Quality Seed - A key to success 6.         Gujarat 1.       Forbidden Fruit Fly: Eliminating Male Mates for Saving Fruits using Integrated Pest Management Techniques 2.       Cattle Housing for Higher Production, Hygiene and Environmental Friendliness 3.       Taking Soil Testing Laboratories to the Farmers: Building Soil Testing Infrastructure in Partnership Mode 4.       Speed breaker on Salt March 5.      Areas with Farm Ponds Success is Sweeter than Sugarcane, through Precision Farming 7.         Haryana 1.       BLACK GOLD- Incentivizing Elite Murrah Buffalos for Germplasm and Higher Yield 2.       Increasing Productivity of Sugarcane by Ring Pit Method of Cultivation 3.       Sweet Water Ferried by Underground Pipes 4.       Areas with Farm Ponds Success is Sweeter than Sugarcane, through Precision Farming 8.         Himachal Pradesh 1.       Women Empowerment in Agriculture 2.       Safeguarding Sheep 9.     Jammu & Kashmir 1.       Vineyard Vigour in the Valley 10.     Jharkhand 2.       Silent Revolution - Success Story of Checkdams 1 1.     Karnataka 1.       Making the Best of Scanty and Variable Rains with Telemetric Rain Gauges & Weather Systems 2.       BHOOCHETANA Technology Adoption & Enhancement of Productivity in Dry Land Agriculture 3.       Fish Fry 4.       Electronic Tender System for Sale in APMCs 5.       Areas with Farm Ponds Success is Sweeter than Sugarcane, through Precision Farming 12.     Kerala 1.       Food Security Army 13.     Madhya Pradesh