Map of Rivers in Uttar Pradesh Home » Maps » Uttar Pradesh » Map of Rivers in Uttar Pradesh   Uttar Pradesh River Map Agra Allahabad Azamgarh Ballia Faizabad Jaunpur Lucknow Moradabad Muzaffarnagar                more.. उत्तर प्रदेश का नक्शा About Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                  (in Hindi) Railway Map Tehsil Map Road Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map Proposed New States Awadh Pradesh Bundelkhand Paschim Pradesh Purvanchal Yamuna Expressway Lucknow Metro Map Noida Metro Map Cities Industries Thermal Power Plants Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Travel to Uttar Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Forts and Palaces in Uttar Pradesh Temples and Shrines in Uttar Pradesh Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels             more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Uttar Pradesh Architectural Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Uttar Pradesh Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Uttar   Pradesh       Map of Rivers in Uttar Pradesh Click any neighbouring Districts / State on the Map and get the Detailed River Map River of Uttar Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Uttar Pradesh Rivers Network Map showing the River Flowing in and out of Uttar Pradesh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. What information can be gathered from the rivers maps of Uttar Pradesh? The river maps of this state show the names of the major rivers as well as their tributaries and distributaries flowing through Uttar Pradesh in the country of India. Color coded in blue, these river maps, like other river maps, even show the different location of the state through which they flow. Which rivers flow through Uttar Pradesh? The state of Uttar Pradesh has got thirty one rivers flowing through the place, which includes both long as well as small rivers. Some of the most important rivers of India like the Ganga, the Ghaghara, the Yamuna and the Sarayu flow though this state. As per the river map of Uttar Pradesh, some of the most noted north flowing rivers of the state are as follows: The Betwa The Dhasan The Chambal The Jamni The Karmanasa The Kanhar The Ken The Sindh The Rihand The Son The Tons or the Tamsa Following are the names of some of important south flowing rivers in Uttar Pradesh: The Ghaghara or the Karnali The Hindon The Gomti The Kali The Ramganga The Kukrail The Rohni The Sarayu The West Rapti The Varuna Last Updated on : July 22, 2014 Uttar Pradesh Rivers Agra Aligarh Allahabad Ambedkar Nagar Auraiya Azamgarh Baghpat Bahraich Ballia Balrampur Banda Bara Banki Bareilly Basti Bijnor Budaun Bulandshahar Chandauli Chitrakoot Deoria Etah Etawah Faizabad