Murali Krishnan.K. : Dairy Farming Consultant - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Murali Krishnan.K. : Dairy Farming Consultant Home Murali Krishnan.K. : Dairy Farming Consultant Armed with an experience of over 20 years in the Dairy farming industry Murali Krishnan K Armed with an experience of over 20 years in the Dairy farming industry, Mr. Murali     Krishnan K. currently provides dairy farming consultancy services from his Trivandrum base. Dealing mostly in large-scale dairy units, he provides comprehensive end-to-end consultancy services for planning and setting up a dairy farm, managing the day-to-day operations, upgradation to modern milking and farm management methods etc. Since milking and feeding are done in the early hours of the morning and in the afternoon, the dairy farming industry requires a different work schedule and system. The most important piece of advice Mr. Murali has to offer is, “The end product selling needs the investor’s complete supervision. In dairying, the presence of the owner is very much needed at site to check the routines regularly without prior information. You must conduct random checks of the feed purchase activity, feeding dairy cows & maintain records on the milk production per day. Please start with minimum numbers first, learn the art of dairying, feeding, breeding, housing the cows, milking, veterinary care etc. Then expand, as one knows the trick of the trade by now. Money is there from the front of the cow (Milk) and back of the cow (cow dung, urine, related money earning devices like organic manure production, vermi composting). Everything that comes out of the cow is money.” Nutritional Requirements of Cattle The nutritional requirements of cattle vary with the climatic conditions – it will differ from summer to winter. It also depends on the cow’s body weight and milk producing capacity. Mr. Murali advises reduction of concentrate feed during the monsoon season as green fodder is easily available. The nutritional requirements of a dairy cow are diverse for its all round development, energy, milk production and growth. Just grass feeding is not sufficient. Concentrate feeds are required to provide Proteins, Vitamins, Calcium and other Mineral supplementation. Talking about the ratio of grain to grass, Mr. Murali advises, “The ratio of grass to grain will depend on the nutritional content of the components expressed as the percentage of protein, fat, carbohydrate, minerals and vitamins. However a good concentrate mixture should have 17% to 18% of Digestible crude protein and more than 70 % total nutrients.” Milk Yield The milk yield of a dairy animal primarily depends on four factors: · Genetic ability of the animal · The feeding program followed · Herd management policies · Overall cattle health Indigenous cows have a lower milk yield as compared to exotic and crossbred cows. Quality and quantity of milk can be regulated at the optimum level by following correct feeding, care and milking practices. Types of Feed The type of feed will also differ with the state of the animal. (a) For cattle living in an open environment – High-nutritive ration of feed consisting of fermented cereal-grain or grass and legumes, grain, hay, if necessary (b) For lactating cows – More of silage-grain mix ration because of the high needs for high quality forages (c) For dry cows – Fermented feed stuffs compacted in a bale or green grass The ideal ingredients for making a feed are: · Maize · Dry Corn · Chaffed Corn silage · Alfa Alfa Hay · Beer Waste · Cotton Seed · Vitamins and Minerals Mr. Murali maintains, “Under the Indian conditions, a commercial mixture would be more suitable as it will have a combination of ingredients like grains, oil cakes, brans, tubers, molasses, vitamin and minerals etc and will be more balanced than a home-made organic grains mixture.” Mineral Content of Cattle Feed Good cattle feed should ideally contain the following: (1) Calcium  (2) Phosphorous (3) Magnesium    (4) Pottasium  (5) Sulphur (6) Zinc  (7) Manganese  (8) Copper (9) Cobalt  (10) Vitamin A,D3,E  (11) Salt. Requirement of Water The composition of milk is about 87% water. An adequate supply of quality water for dairy cattle is vital. Most farmers usually provide cows with free access to fresh water all through the day. The recommended water requirement levels are: 1. Dairy Calves (1-4 months) – 5 to 15 litres / day. 2. Dairy heifers (5-24 months) – 15 – 30 litres /day 3. Milking Cows – (15 litres) –70- 90 litres/day 4. Dry Cows – 50-55 litres. Using Milking Machines Modern milking machines are the answer to all labour shortage problems. Correct milking practices ensure that the milk yield is better and it also prevents the spread of udder-related diseases which can prove to be very expensive. Usage of milking machines is a more hygienic method of milking. The animals also get used to the rhythm of milking and hence are comfortable. When using skilled labour for milking, the owner can never be sure of the hygiene standards followed by the milker. The chances of udder injury to the cow’s teats are higher in case of hand milking. Mr. Murali advises, “You can to a certain extent rely on the automatic milk recording of the yield in Milking Parlour system with milk meters and finally milk getting stored in Bulk Milk Coolers with lock and key arrangement. But this is possible in a large dairy herd only. In small herds, milking with machine is possible but recording has to be done manually in presence of a supervisor. Remember to measure the milk by emptying the can after each milking.” Challenges Faced Mr. Murali said, “After doing my marketing management course, accepting a job in the dairy line was a challenge in 1990. The knowledge of dairy farmer’s was very little in those days and most of them took dairying for their family needs and agriculture. Convincing them to do dairy farming in a commercial way and to educate them on disease prevention and make improvements in feeding, was a challenging task as the farmers were very much reluctant to adopt modern methods as they believed more in traditional methods. Even though I took change of jobs, I never left dairy industry.” Mr. Murali is presently dealing with Milking Machinery, Milking Parlours of Herringbone, Parallell and Midiline or Swing types with Milk measuring devices and cow housing gadgets like Cow mats, Barn scrapers, Manure scrapers, Ear tags, Ear tag with applicators, Hoof trimming equipments, Calf feeding bottles, cow brushes etc. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr.Murali Krishnan.K. Dairy Farming Consultant  ”Karunamadhavam”,  Opposite Medical College High School Kumarapuram, Medical College Post, Trivandrum – 695011 Mobile: 9446352007/9447088234 Email : srivinayakatvm@gmail.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Murali Krishnan.K. : Dairy Farming Consultant Related – articles, consultants, downloads Parameshwar Hegde – Dairy Consultant Satya Sai Dairy Farm Model Dairy Farm Setting up a Dairy Farm You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables