FAQ | India For SafeFood About Us | Contact | FAQs Home Know Your Food Toxic Farming Hope & Relief Resources News Events You are here Home » FAQs FAQ What is toxic food? Our food is rendered toxic in numerous ways – one of the main reasons is the use of synthetic chemicals during the food production stage itself – chemical pesticides and fertilizers for instance, which then contaminate various resources and which end up as residues in our food (this includes drinking water, vegetables, fruits, grains and even milk, meat, eggs etc.). Additionally, contaminants can emerge from other sources including industrial pollution. Further, various additives used in food processing may also render our food toxic. Food with such chemical residues can cause a variety of health problems, even if the exposure is to very low quantities on a daily basis. These are called chronic impacts which will not show up immediately as health problems but get built up over a period of time. What are chemical pesticides and why are they used in farming? Chemical pesticides are created for killing ‘pests ’ in agriculture as well as at homes, and the term extends to chemicals created to kill snails, rodents and weeds too. The origin is said to be in warfare, used on human beings initially. In agriculture, pests and diseases of crops/plants are supposed to be leading to a lot of losses in production and therefore, economic and other losses to farmers. Pesticides are promoted to kill and control those organisms which are supposed to be creating these losses in agriculture. The science of pesticides rests on killing particular organisms. What is not talked about in the same breath as promoting pesticides as necessary evils to reduce crop losses is that problems with pests and diseases have actually intensified in the "Green Revolution" paradigm of farming, that pest incidence is connected to monocultures, chemical fertilizer use in crops and that pests become a bigger problem when Nature's balance is disrupted. How are chemical pesticides harmful?  Chemical pesticides are poisons that act on an insect's nervous system and other vital life systems. While some are ‘contact poisons ’, others are &lsquo systemic poisons ’. However, studies show that less than 0.1% of the pesticide used for pest control actually falls on the target pest; the rest of it dissipates into the atmosphere, to end up contaminating our soil, air, water and food. This contamination then leads to immediate or long-term effects on other living organisms too including human beings. While immediate harmful effects result from very toxic exposure in adequate quantities of the poison, long term effects are more insidious and are created through exposure to very small quantities of the poison over a period of time – making correlations in such long term poisoning is a very challenging task indeed, and requires us to depend on experiments in controlled conditions. However, not enough independent research exists on long term effects since regulatory systems created for allowing use of chemical pesticides do not insist upon either independent research or long term chronic impact assessment. Which chemical pesticides are banned? Why & by whom?  The registration of pesticides in India is the responsibility of a Registration Committee under the Ministry of Agriculture (which itself represents a conflict of interest, given that the Agriculutre Ministry also promotes pesticides) – a Central Insecticides Board and Registration Committee has been set up under a regulatory statute called Insecticides Act. Once in a while, special committees are set up (there is no provision in the law for automatic periodic reviews of pesticides) to look at particular pesticides and their continuation. Compared to the number of pesticides registered, very few chemicals have been banned or restricted in India. So far, 28 pesticides have been banned in India for manufacture, use, import or export; 2 banned for use but allowed for export; 4 formulations banned for manufacture, import and use; 7 pesticides "withdrawn"and 13 pesticides restricted. http://cibrc.nic.in/list_pest_bann.htm has the full list of these pesticides. However, it is found that banned and restricted pesticides do end up as residues in various samples tested for the purpose. These pesticides have been banned by CIBRC either on grounds related to their environmental and health effects or their lack of efficacy. In the case of some specific brands, it was after proof of bribery for registration emerged! In the case of Endosulfan, there is a ban on this chemical right now due to Supreme Court orders, when activists sought legal recourse. Is farming possible without use of chemical pesticides? How?  Yes, you can, as the Andhra Pradesh experience of NPM shows very, very convincingly. In fact, pesticides have ended up bringing in more pests as many analyses show. The balance in our farms, where certain "beneficial insects and organisms"were keeping the pests under control, got upset by chemical pesticides. Newer and more pests, in addition to resistance building up in pests have resulted from pesticides. NPM or organic farming looks at the science of pest management differently, understanding that Nature has in-built pest-predator relationships that need to be restored, that each pest has particular life stages and behaviour patterns that can be used to control its growth and proliferation, that diversity-based cropping is important to create "push-pull"factors for pests, that there is a relationship between soil and plant health and pest incidence, between fertilizer use and pest incidence, between monocropping and pest incidence and so on and so forth. This new science of pest management does not seek to kill pests to control them but seeks to manage them using a variety of processes and products of Nature. NPM shows that No Pesticides would mean No Pests, when accompanied by an understanding of crop ecosystems and soil eco-systems and therefore, by the adoption of some simple, inexpensive and safe practices. http://takingroots.in/ipm_npm will give you more information on all the practices available for successful NPM of crops, across crops for different pests. The next obvious question that one would have is: would not this decrease yields and production? Would not this mean losses to farmers then? NO! NPM reduces cost of cultivation for farmers, thereby improving their net profit margins. Further, an evaluation study (Evaluation Report (October 2010), Third Party Evaluation of Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY/National Agriculture Development Program) - Community Managed Organic Farming implemented by SERP: Dr R Ratnakar and Dr M Surya Mani, Extension Education Institute, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt of India) done by agriculture scientists of this Andhra Pradesh NPM experience shows that yields have actually improved in several crops or stayed the same in others. Farmers in the locations where NPM has been adopted are reporting lesser borrowings for farming costs due to reduced need for buying and using external inputs and greater net incomes. Acute pesticide poisoning cases have come down too. www.kisanswaraj.in/wp-content/uploads/Ecologically_sound_economically_vi... is a World Bank report on this project. A quiet and large revolution in Andhra Pradesh, led by women farmers is showing the path forward in this country. It is time that the path of these wise and well-informed women is followed by others. Apart from NPM, there are many other agro-ecological approaches like organic farming, natural farming, bio-dynamic farming and so on, practiced by lakhs of farmers in this country (with very little support from the government or others, essentially swimming against the tide) and if we all step forward to support such farming, our food can be made safer. You can see brief video films on this quiet revolution in Andhra Pradesh here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=npdd6DV0t7s (world bank film, 2010) - 8.44 mts http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sk7lVP2njsU (rural development dept, AP, 2008) - 5.14 mts http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3hrauuvA32Y (CSA - Kranthi Patham or Revolutionary Path: 2008) - 22.19 mts If farming is possible without chemical pesticides, why do farmers use these?  The government and the pesticides industry promote pesticides aggressively, without providing a level playing field for alternatives to pesticides to emerge. The research and extension systems of the government are also putting forward pesticides-centred solutions, including in large projects, even though Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is the official policy of India and even though the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) has brought out 77 IPM 'modules', most farmers in the country think that pesticides are inevitable in our farming. The amount spent on promoting chemical agriculture, including through various direct or indirect subsidies is not spent on promoting alternatives. An exception to this has been the Andhra Pradesh government's Rural Development Department's "Community Managed Sustainable Agriculture" programme which has proven that if the government is intent on taking the message of NPM or Organic Farming to farmers, it is indeed possible for them to adopt it on a large scale. How do I know if my food has chemical pesticide / toxins in it?  The Government of India runs an All India Network Project for monitoring pesticide residues; however, the reports are not made pro-actively public and the findings are at variance with dozens of independent studies which show that Indian food and natural resources are contaminated with chemical pesticides. Samples of food and water which were tested in labs for particular pesticides have revealed this. The All India Network Project on Pesticide Residues (a Government of India scheme to monitor residues through 21 laboratories around the country) shows that Cauliflower, Cabbage, Okra/Bhindi, Brinjal, Tomato, Bittergourd etc., amongst vegetables have shown up pesticide residues above MRLs in testing of samples in different states. Apple, Orange, Pear and Banana are also part of this list in addition to some foods like rice, wheat, milk, meat etc.. I / We do not want Chemical pesticide / toxins in my / our food. What do I / We do?  Please read Tips for Safe Food on www.indiaforsafefood.in for some thoughts and ideas on this. Who has initiated this movement for Safe Food?  A loose alliance of hundreds of organizations and individuals across India, who have come together to address issues related to our Food, Farmers & Freedom (in the context of seed and food sovereignty), called Alliance for Sustainable & Holistic Agriculture (ASHA), is spearheading this movement for Safe Food which will bring about a win-win situation for both farmers and consumers. You can visit www.kisanswaraj.in for more information or contact nishank.kisanswaraj@gmail.com for more information. How to join this movement for safe food?  There are numerous ways you can get involved. Organise events for spreading awareness... Join events closest to you.... Spread the word! Volunteer in the campaign.... Send your ideas/comments... Donate for the campaign... Home | Know Your Food | Toxic Farming | Science of Safety | Hope & Relief | Resources | Events Copyrights @ 2013 indiaforsafefood.in