Mongol Dynasty Map, Mongol Empire, Khan Dynasty Home » History » Mongol Dynasty Map   Indian Dynasties Chola Dynasty Chalukya Dynasty Pallava Dynasty Chera Dynasty Pandyan Dynasty                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Mongol Dynasty Map Map of Mongol Dynasty Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing the Mongol or Khan dynasty with capital cities and current country boundaries. Mongol empire existed from 1206 to 1368. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. The biggest land empire that ever any the history witnessed was that of the Mongol Empire. The Mongolian empire extended from the Yellow Sea in eastern Asia to the borders of the Eastern Europe. There were several time when even China, Korea, Mongolia, Persia (now Iran), Turkestan, and Armenia were included in the Mongol empire. Also parts of Burma, Vietnam, Thailand, and Russia are included in this vast empire. Eventually the Mongolians came to be known as the Tatars. In history they were the most savage conquerors who could ever exist. At the later stage of the 1100's, a Mongol chieftain Temujin rose to power as Khan. Temujin later became famous by the name of Genghis Khan. It is said by historians and texts that Genghis Khan was shrewd, ruthless, ambitious, and a strict disciplinarian. Once he became the undisputed master of Mongolia, he set out for his great conquest which even today is talked about. He trained an excellent military army and had plans to conquer China. Initially he started with attacking Xi Xia, which is situated along the northwestern border of China. Xi Xia was subdued by the Mongols and they turned to North China. It took several decades for the Mongols to conquer the Northern China, so much so that the North China wasn't conquered until Genghis Khan's death. Genghis Khan turned west toward central Asia and Eastern Europe in 1218 after he called off the North china conquest. While conquering several parts and travelling along the route the Mongols spread terror and destruction. It was in 1227 that Genghis Khan died. Ogotai, son of Genghis Khan was placed at the Europe throne. Ogotai died in the midst of some campaign to save the western European civilization. The Mongol generals returned to Mongolia after his death to elect a new Khan. Later in 1279, the conquest of China was completed by a grandson of Genghis Khan, Kublai Khan. His dynasty lasted until 1368. Though he further attempted to conquer Japan and expand his empire but was unsuccessful. He even allowed and entertained various religions in his rule. Since the Mongol empire was really vast, it was difficult to manage it and since there was no unity of cultures and so the Mongol Empire collapsed soon. The Mongol Empire began to decline when the expansion of the empire was at its peak in the late 1200's. Though fearless, dauntless fighters the Mongols had little experience in administration. Almost all the time they were dependent on others to look into their important affairs. Since others were handling their empire, the government became corrupt and administration became incompetent which resulted in revolts and protests within the empire and lack of ruling capabilities led to the fall of the biggest land empire in the history. Last Updated on : 5/29/2012               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule