Jodha Bai Ka Rauza Agra Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Agra Travel Tourist Map About Agra Weather Shopping Hotels in Agra How to Reach Taj Mahotsav Travel Agents Travel Tips Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri How to Reach Agra Agra Airport Agra Distance Chart Flights to Agra Agra Buses Trains to Agra Agra Route Map Delhi to Agra Varanasi to Agra Bharatpur to Agra Agra to Nanital Agra to Dehradun Agra to Lucknow Agra to Jaipur Agra to Allahabad Agra to Ajmer Tourist Destinations near Agra Mathura Travel Vrindavan Travel Bharatpur Travel Delhi Travel Jaipur Travel Ranthambore Travel more.. Agra Map Location Map Railway Map District Map Road Map more.. Home » Agra » Jodha Bai Ka Rauza Jodha Bai Ka Rauza Jodha Bai's Palace: Jodha Bai's Palace is the largest building in the harem complex of Fatehpur Sikri. It was built by Akbar for Jodha Bai, his principal queen. Tourists: If you are on a tour to Agra, you must visit Jodha Bai's palace to experience the charm of the red sandstone palace and the vicinity of the Fatehpur Sikri. Interior: Jodha Bai's palace reflects an amalgamation of Hindu and Islamic art. The courtyard has columns and curvilinear pillars. The main structure has chhaparkhats and chhatris. It also has semicircular domes and roofs in triangular shape Design motifs: The intricate stone latticework on the walls of the palace grabs attention of the visitors. The interior of the palace has motifs on walls like parrot, hams (swan), lotus, elephants, srivatsa mark, etc Jodha Bai Ka Rauza is an excellent example of the fusion of Hindu and Muslim architectures. The palace of Emperor Akbar's favorite queen-Jodha Bai, the place has distinct Gujarati and Rajasthani architectural patterns. After Akbar conquered Malwa he faced strong resistances from the Rajput kings. Akbar dealt with the problem diplomatically, allowing them to keep their kingdoms and getting into marriage alliances with the princesses of the Rajput clans. He married Jodha Bai, sister of Man Singh, the powerful ruler of Jaipur. She was his favorite queen and she got the permission to worship in the Hindu way in her palace. Last Updated on 01/06/2013 Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule