National Parks of Punjab Home » Maps » Wildlife » National Parks in Punjab   Punjab पंजाब का नक्शा Punjab Map Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bathinda Ferozepur                    more Districts of Punjab Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Punjab Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Punjab Places to visit in Punjab Wildlife Sanctuaries Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Punjab Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Telephone Directory Government and Politics Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Geography and History Handicrafts People Culture and Festivals Pin Code Universities In Punjab       National Parks in Punjab National Parks in Punjab Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the location of National Parks in Punjab. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Punjab, the cultural hot seat of North India has added another feather in its cap owing to its diverse natural heritage. Punjab Wildlife Tours are thus quite naturally a rage among the tourists. Tourists and spectators flock to the state to witness its amazing wildlife. One of Punjab's prized possessions is its assorted flora and varieties of wildlife. The Kanjli Wetland, Kapurtala houses some wildlife besides the sparkling, sylvan lake. The Satluj Water Body Wetland at Ropar is endowed with a reserve that shelters a large variety of animals and birds and also has recreational facilities provided through ample options of water sports for the adventure enthusiasts like angling, kayaking, canoeing, boating and long distance swimming. Punjab is also spectacular breeding ground for variegated species of resident as well as migratory birds. The state houses cormorants, herons, storks, pelicans, grebes, darters and several other varieties of birds that are a real treat to behold. Hari-ke-pattan, Amritsar, National Wetland & Wildlife Sanctuary is an eminent bird reserve of the state where nearly 350 species of birds from as far as Siberia seek refuge during the chilly winters. The wetland is also a breeding ground for varieties of freshwater fish. The Zoological Park, Chhatbir spreads across a rambling expanse and shelters as many as 52 varieties of animals and 62 varieties of birds. The zoo authorities take several measures to ensure that the animal enclosures closely resemble their natural habitats. The tiger safari at Ludhiana and the deer park on the Neelon-Ludhiana highway are also popular tourist haunts. A glimpse of Punjab's diverse heritage can be obtained by a mere stopover at one or all of the following sanctuaries: Hari-ke-pattan, Amritsar The colorful and exuberant state of Punjab abounds in tradition, history, folklore, grandeur, architectural splendor as well as panoramic natural beauty. Among the various parks and sanctuaries in Punjab, the Hari-ke-pattan, Amritsar, National Wetland & Wildlife Sanctuary deserves special mention. Punjab is noted for a multitude of reasons. The state with its rambling meadows also possesses a diverse natural heritage that is evinced by its numerous wetlands, bird reserves as well as menageries. Tourists have plenty of options ranging from the scintillating Lion Safari at the Chhatbir Zoo to kayaking in the waters of the Sutlej Wetlands or bird watching at Hari Ke Pattan. Hari-ke-pattan, Amritsar, National Wetland & Wildlife Sanctuary is one of Punjab's eminent wetlands and bird reserves. The oasis of idyllic green is situated near the districts of Harike, Amritsar, Kapurthala and Ferozepur and hence is flooded with local citizens as well as tourists. Kanjli Wetland, Kapurtala Punjab, the hot seat of India's cultural extravaganzas abounds in scenic beauty. Apart from the panoramic rhapsodies manifested by its picturesque landscape, the state also boasts of a diverse natural heritage. Kanjli Wetland, Kapurtala is a perfect example of the state's opulent natural resources. Kanjli Wetland came into being owing to the generous patronage of the Maharaja of Kapurthala. The erstwhile potentate had constructed a sparkling sylvan lake after building a barrage on the river Kali Bein. Many of Punjab's streaming rivers, rivulets and their tributaries discharge their water to the mighty Kali Bein, which subsequently flows to the tranquil lake. The lake gleaming under the saffron sunbeams like a mirage of quicksilver paints a charming picture of nature at its best. On the leftmost extremity of the lake rests a dense forest that shelters several species of wildlife in its dark wilderness. The Maharaja, an ardent lover of nature had built his jungle retreat on the banks of the lake, based on splendid French architecture and lovingly named it The Villa. The royal successors of the Maharaja currently reside in The Villa that overlooks a breathtaking backdrop. Satluj Water Body Wetland, Ropar One of Punjab's prized possessions is its assorted flora and varieties of wildlife. The Satluj Water Body Wetland, Ropar is endowed with a reserve that shelters a large variety of animals and birds. The wildlife sanctuary also has recreational facilities provided through ample options of water sports for the adventure enthusiasts like angling, kayaking, canoeing, boating and long distance swimming. Satluj Water Body Wetland at Ropar is dreams come true for birdwatchers and ornithologists alike. The bird reserve is one of a kind in the country and owes its nomenclature to a nearby village having the same name. Set in a stunning backdrop it houses several species of resident as well as migratory birds. The picturesque reserve's stunning beauty is accentuated by the presence of a 30 km wide crystal clear lake that gleams in the slanting sunlight like a jewel in a brass setting. The melodious twitters of the variegated species of birds that form the sanctuary's pride of place occasionally break the tranquil quietude of the oasis of idyllic green. Last Updated on : 05 April 2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule