Travel to Nainital - Tourism, Nainital Tourist Map Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Nainital Travel Shopping How to Reach Nainital Hotels Places to Visit in Nainital Lakes in Nainital Hanuman Garhi Temple Naini Lake Naina Devi Temple Naina peak or China peak The Mall Road Dorothy's Seat Snow View Point The Governor's House (Raj Bhavan) Nainital Zoo St. John's Church Jim Corbett National Park Cities to Visit Near Nainital Bhimtal Travel Naukuchiatal Travel Sattal Travel Kausani Travel Ranikhet Travel About Nainital Location Weather Uttarakhand Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Flights to Dehradun Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Home » Nainital » Travel to Nainital Travel to Nainital Nainital Tourism Among the wilderness of the Kumaon Himalayas, Nainital is an idyllic hill station. If you are dying to find a getaway from the daily grinds, take time off to travel to Nainital. In the state of Uttarakhand, Nainital is a beautiful hill station. Like many hill stations in India, Nainital also basks under the glory of the Raj era. When the Indian summer grew oppressive, the British officials sought refuge in the cooler retreats in the foothills of the Himalayas. That is how Nainital was discovered sometime in 19th century. With its placid lakes and lofty hills, the calm quaint village did not take long to gain British favor. Since then Nainital has never ceased to bewitch the visitors who travel to Nainital. Till date, a huge number of people from across the country travel to Nainital in search of an idyllic vacation. Travel to Nainital to see how the placid lake mirror the snow clad peaks that soar up to the sky, how the rolling mists ooze down the thickly wooded valleys. The tranquil surrounding would make you forget the worries and would put you on a refresh mode before you sit back to work. Pay a visit to the Naina peak, ride a boat to pedal across the Naini Lake, do a bit of stargazing at the observatory or just watch the mountains as you travel to Nainital - live up the moments, pleasant times might have never come to you so easily. How to Reach Nainital On the Himalayan valley of Uttaranchal, Nainital glitters like a jewel. Like few other hill stations in India, Nainital is a British discovery sometime in 19th century. Since then Nainital have not ceased to charm the travelers who come here in search of tranquil and breathtaking Himalayan beauty. By Air The nearest airport from Nainital is Pantnagar (70 km) with direct flights from Delhi. But Delhi and Lucknow are more convenient airports for reaching Nainital since none of these places are too far from Nainital and are well connected with the rest of India. By Road An extensive network of roads connect Nainital with prominent cities in Uttarakhand and other north Indian cities. You can reach Nainital by road from Delhi (310 km), Haldwani (40 km), Dehradun (300 km). By Rail It is quite convenient to reach Nainital by rail. Kathgodam (35 km) is the nearest railhead from Nainital. A well laid network of broad gauge railway links Nainital to Delhi, Kolkata and Dehradun. Shopping in Nainital Shopping in Nainital is a delightful experience. For a discerning shopper, it is impossible to return from a tour without shopping in Nainital. Fabrics and woolen garments are the most popular items for shopping in Nainital. Most of such woolens are woven by the women of Almora. A variety of sweaters, cardigans, caps and shawls in exquisite designs and brilliant colors would arrest your eyes. You can also pick up intricately carved cane sticks and multicolored candles in unique designs while shopping in Nainital. Like all hill stations, beautiful wood-carved utilities and objets d'art are also huge hits for shopping in Nainital. In the fruit market in Nainital, you can buy fresh-from-the-orchard apples, peaches and cherries. Hang out at the teeming shops at The mall for shopping in Nainital. The shops are replete with artifacts and souvenirs from various parts of Uttarakhand. Never mind if you need to bargain a little bit with the shopkeepers to get the reasonable prices. Places to Visit in Nainital Naini Lake Naina Devi Temple Naina peak or China peak The Mall Road Dorothy's Seat Snow View Point The Governor's House (Raj Bhavan) Nainital Zoo St. John's Church Last Updated on : 19/08/2013 Travel to Uttarakhand Travel to Auli Travel to Dehradun Travel to Haridwar Travel to Gangotri Travel to Bhimtal Travel to Kedarnath Travel to Mussoorie Travel to Nainital Travel to Ranikhet Travel to Dhanaulti Travel to Almora Travel to Rishikesh Travel to Uttarakashi Travel to Chamoli Travel to Pithoragarh Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Places to visit in Auli Places to visit in corbett Places to visit in Dehradun Places to visit in kedarnath Places to visit in Mussorie Places to visit in Nainital Places to visit in Rishikesh Places to visit in Uttarkashi Places to visit in Haridwar About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule