ESSO-INCOIS-Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services ESSO - Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (An Autonomous Body under the Ministry of Earth Sciences, Govt. of India) Menu Hindi Home Vacancies Tenders Library Feedback Sitemap Contact Us Menu Organisation Organisation About Us Mission Activity Spectrum Structure Human Resources Director's Desk Quality Policy Contact Us Services Services Marine Fishery Advisories Potential Fishing Zone Tuna Fishing Advisories Ocean State Forecast Tsunami Early Warnings Storm Surge Warnings Indian Seismic and GNSS Network Coral Bleaching Alerts Coastal Geospatial Applications Vulnerability Index Multi hazard Vulnerability Mapping Updates Of Climate Indices SST Anomaly ElNino IOD Data & Information Data & Information Insitu Data Remote Sensing Live Access Server Tropflux Data QC Manuals Project Datasets Publications Contact Us Ocean Observations Ocean Observations Modelling & Research Ocean Modelling & Research HOOFS HYCOM INCOIS-GODAS MOM TSUNAMI STORM SURGE Satellite Oceanography Satellite Oceanography ChloroGIN SATCORE ITCOocean ITCOocean Quick Links Quick Links International Interface International Interface IOGOOS SIBER IIOE Employee's Corner Employee's Corner INCOIS Mail Employee Self Service Portal INCOIS - INTRANET Weather Bulletins Weather Bulletins Visakhapatnam Chennai Kolkata Awards Immovable Properties Story of the Oceans Ocean Tutor Vacancies Vacancies Regular Temporary Tenders Annual Reports Photo Gallery News News News Clipings Ocean News Letter Library Library ESSO-INCOIS Knowledge Resource Centre eprints@ESSO-INCOIS eprints@MoES Users Feedback Home Services Coral Reef Coral Reef Mapping and Reef Health Monitoring Figure: Distrubution of Corals along the Indian Coast. Coral reefs are one of the most biologically diverse marine eco-systems on the Earth. Corals grow over geological time scales and have been in existence for about 200 million years. Corals reached their current level of diversity 50 million years ago. Coral reefs play an important role in marine ecosystem and support the habitats of flora and fauna in the sea. Ecologically, coral reefs are important because they are the counterpart to the tropical rain forest in terms of species diversity and biological productivity in the Ocean. The vast diversity of animal and plant species that contributes to its system and genetic heritage that it represents are increasingly at risk, since the last few decades. Coral reef enables the formation of associated eco-systems which allow the formation of essential habitats, fisheries and livelihoods. In addition, coral reefs are climatologically important because they provide an accurate long-term record of the climate change and help in extending our knowledge of seasonal climate variability in many remote tropical oceans. Coral reefs are present in the areas of Gulf of Kutch, Gulf of Mannar, Andaman & Nicobar, Lakshadweep Islands and Malvan. Coral eco-morphological maps were produced using satellite imageries for Andaman & Nicobar, Gulf of Kutch, Gulf of Mannar and Malvan areas are produced in 1:25,000 scales. These maps indicate the condition of corals, density, etc. and will be baseline information. It is proposed to bring out such maps at periodical frequency for comparing the conditions and the extent of the corals and for taking appropriate action to protect the coral eco-system. Major threats for the corals Natural: Environmental-Temperature, Sediment Deposition, Salinity, pH, etc Anthropogenic: Mining, Bottom Fishing, Tourism, pollution, etc. Background Currently, there are many global initiatives such as Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network (GCRMN), Global Coral Reef Alliance (GCRA), and International Coral Reef Initiative (ICRI) playing an important role in monitoring the reef zones and raising awareness in the public. To increase awareness regarding the importance of reefs, the ICRI has declared the year 2008 as the International Year of the Reef. Similarly, the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF), India has included the studies on coral reef under the Coastal Zone Studies (CZS). Satellite Oceanography is the feasible cost-effective technology to address the mapping and monitoring aspects of the coral reefs. The baseline maps are on coral eco-morphology for the Indian Reefs except Lakshadweep have been prepared. Objectives Monitoring of Coral Reefs Early warning on coral bleaching Generation of Health bulletins Applications Management of Coral Environs Impacts Research Services Coral Reef Coral Bleach Coral Bleaching Alert Documentation Mapping Menu Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Copy Right © ESSO- Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), Govt of India. All Rights Reserved.