Travel to Itanagar - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Arunachal Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Travel Agents Tourist Places in Arunachal Pradesh Picnic Spots Museums Pilgrimage Adventure Sports Ita Fort Buddha Temple Ganga Lake Polo Park Tawang Gompa Bumla Pass Apatani Villages Kile Pakho Taley Wildlife Sanctuary Cities to Visit in Arunachal Pradesh Along Travel Itanagar Travel Tawang Travel Ziro Travel Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels About Arunachal Pradesh History Geography Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Travel to Itanagar Travel to Itanagar Itanagar Tourism Itanagar is the capital of Arunachal Pradesh and is located at the foothills of the Himalayas. The city comes under the Papum Pare administrative district and is well connected to the rest of the country by road and air. Itanagar got its name from the historical Ita Fort which goes back to the 15th century. Itanagar's climate is warm, yet pleasant most of the year. Post-monsoon and winter months are cool, though summer months can get hot. Best Time to Visit The best time to visit Itanagar is from October to April. How to Reach Itanagar Being the capital of Arunachal Pradesh, Itanagar is very well connected and here is how you can get here. By Rail The nearest railway station to Itanagar is at Harmuti in Assam, which is located at a distance of 52 km from Itanagar. There are regular taxi services from Harmuti to Itanagar and they charge Rs.500-600 for the journey. Harmuti is well connected to other cities in the North East. By Bus Itanagar has a good road network and there are overnight express buses which connect Itanagar to Guwahati. Apart from that, the Arunachal State Transport Corporation run government buses connect Itanagar to other cities in the North East as well. By Air Lilabari in Assam is the nearest airport to Itanagar. Located 67 km from Itanagar, Lilabari is well connected by flights from Guwahati. Pawan Hans has helicopter services between Itanagar and Guwahati three times a week. Distance to Guwahati From delhi - 1959 KM From gangtok - 589 KM From chennai - 2718 KM From nagpur - 1883 KM From mumbai - 2746 KM From hyderabad - 2370 KM Guwahati Distance Chart Getting around Itanagar The best way to explore Itanagar, is on foot. That way you get to see more of the city and get acquainted with the character of the city better. Apart from that you can also hire autos or taxis which are available on a shared basis. Hotels in Itanagar Itanagar has quite a good choice of hotels, right from three star hotels to budget hotels to government lodges. Most of these hotels are located in the heart of the city, close to tourist attractions. Budget Hotels in Itanagar : Hotel Blue Pine Ganga Market Itanagar Arunachal Pradesh Mid Range Hotels in Itanagar : Arun Subansari Hotel Zero Point, Tinali Itanagar - 791111 Arunachal Pradesh Shopping in Itanagar Itanagar is a shopper's delight and you can pick up some very interesting items like woolen shawla, sarongs, wooden articles, Buddhist paintings, also known as Thangkas. Other interesting things you can pick up in Itanagar are woodcarvings, bamboo and cane items and bowls. Itanagar Cuisine Food in Itanagar is primarily non-vegetarian and is seasoned with bamboo shoots and local herbs. Apart from meat, plenty of leafy vegetables and maize is also consumed, along with fish and eggs. Apong is a local alcoholic beverage prepared using rice and millet. Restaurants in Itanagar Itanagar has many restaurants where one can get good and tasty food and restaurants here serve Indian, Continental and Chinese food apart from many local dishes. A few popular restaurants in Itanagar are: The Poong Nest (VIP Road) Hot Bite Restaurant (near hotel Arun Subansiri, near the city centre) Hotel Blue Pine (a family run establishment) Hotel Bomdila and Bhismak Restaurant Also popular in Itanagar are local bakeries, where you can sample some really delicious brown bread. Tourist Attractions in Itanagar Ita Fort Jawaharlal Nehru Museum Itanagar Wildlife Sanctuary Buddha Temple Ganga Lake Polo Park More on tourist attractions of Itanagar Last Updated on : 30/09/2013 Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Travel to Along Travel to Bhalukpong Travel to Bomdila Travel to Itanagar Travel to Tawang Travel to Ziro Places to visit in Arunachal-pradesh Places to visit in Itanagar Places to visit in Tawang Places to visit in Ziro About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule