Himachal Pradesh Map Home » Maps » Himachal Pradesh Map   Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate हिमाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                 (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Cities in Himachal Pradesh Manali Shimla Dharamshala Dalhousie Kasauli                        more... Travel to Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Himachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Subhash Baoli Shivkul Sankat Mochan Places to Visit in Shimla Travel to Manali Travel to Kullu Travel to Shimla Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una Hotels in Kangra              more... Assembly Polls HP Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities in Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh Colleges       Himachal Pradesh Map हिमाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Map of Himachal Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map of Himachal Pradesh with districts, railways, rivers and major road network. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Himachal Pradesh Location Map Himachal Pradesh District Map Cities of Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh Tehsil Map         Himachal Pradesh Road Map Himachal Pradesh Physical Map Himachal Pradesh Railway Map Himachal Pradesh Travel Map Himachal Pradesh bordering Jammu and Kashmir to the North and NorthWest, Punjab to the SouthWest, Haryana and Uttarpradesh to the South and Uttaranchal to the Southeast is spread in the area of 55,653 sq km. Shimla is the state capital and other major towns are Dharamshala, Kangra, Mandi, Kullu, Chamba, Hamirpur, Dalhousie and Manali. The state boasts of numerous picturesque tourist destinations, which are responsible for generating much of the revenue for the state. Agriculture, textile and burgeoning hydroelectric power export industry are the other sources of income for the state. A state in North India, Himachal Pradesh literally means a 'region of snowy mountains'. It is also sometimes referred as 'Dev Bhumi' meaning Abode of Gods. In the year 1950 Himachal Pradesh was declared as one of the Union Territories of India. Later on however, with the passing of Himachal Pradesh Act of 1971, it emerged as the eighteenth state of India. The word 'Hima' actually means snow in Sanskrit terminology. Acharya Diwakar Datt Sharma, an eminent Sanskrit Scholar from Himachal Pradesh named the state. Himachal Pradesh is among those states in India, which has a very per capita income. The state sells hydro electricity power to Punjab, Delhi and Rajasthan. The economy of Himachal Pradesh depends greatly on tourism, hydroelectric power and agriculture. Shimla serves as the state capital that was earlier the summer capital of the British. The head of each of the Districts in Himachal Pradesh is a Deputy Commissioner also known as Deputy Magistrate. For administrative purposes, the districts are further divided into sub-divisions, which are controlled by the sub-divisional magistrates. The sub-divisions are further divided into blocks. Blocks comprise panchayats that is the village councils and town municipalities. The law and order in the district is maintained by the Superintendent of Police. The twelve Districts of Himachal Pradesh are listed as below Bilaspur Chamba Hamirpur Kangra Kinnaur Kullu Lahul and Spiti Mandi Shimla Sirmaur Solan Una A number of pilgrimage centers and Hindu temples are situated in Himachal Pradesh. There are more than two thousand Temples in Himachal Pradesh. These Himachal Pradesh Temples are also magnificent works of architecture. The temples are the centers of attraction for the visitors and tourists. Many of them are also associated with ancient legends. Naina Devi Jawalmukhi Mata Chintpurni & Chamunda Devi/li> Baijnath & Laxmi Narayan Temple Baba Balak Nath Bijli Mahadev Hadimba Temple Renukaji Temples   Himachal Pradesh at a Glance   Area 55,673 km2 Population (Census 2011) 6,864,602 Females 2,989,960 Males 3,087,940 Urban Population 595,581 Rural Population 5,482,319 Population Density 109 Sex Ratio 974 Literacy Rate 83.78 Female Literacy 68.08% Male Literacy 86.02% Districts 12 Sub Division 52 Tehsils 75 Sub Tehsils 34 Towns 57 Developmental Block 75 Panchayats 3,243 Panchayat Smities 75 Zila Parishad 12 Nagar Nigam 1 Nagar Parishad 20 Nagar Panchayats 32 Urban Local Bodies 53 Census Villages 20,118 Inhabited Villages 17,495 Educational Institutions 17,000 Health Institutions 3,835 Motorable Roads 30,000 km National Highways 8 Himachal Pradesh State Information Capital Shimla Date of formation 25. Jan. 1971 Governor Virbhadra Singh Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal Tourist attractions Shimla, Kulu, Manali, Dharamsala Festivals Pori, Fulaich Major dance and music forms Mala dance, Rakshas Dance Arts and crafts. Pahari painting is done in the Basohli and Kangra styles; Kullu shawls and woollen caps are famous; the Chamba Rumal has Kangra style paintings embroidered on cloth. Languages Hindi, Punjabi, Kinnauri, Pahari Size 55,673 sq. km Population 6,864,602 Rivers Ravi, Beas, Chenab, Sutlej, Yamuna Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Pin Valley NP, Greater Himalayan NP, Renuka WS, Chail WS, Kalatope Khajjiar WS State animal Snow leopard State bird Western tragopan State flower Pink rhododendron State tree Deodar Major crops Wheat, rice, maize, barley Factoids The world's oldest democracy is believed to be a tiny, isolated village called Malana. Shimla was the summer capital of british India. No. of District 12 Last Updated on : October 15, 2014 Himachal Pradesh Geography Population Languages Climate Pin code STD code Food Festivals Useful Information Himachal Pradesh Elections Schedule Assembly Constituency Chief Minister Election Commission Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map District Map District Map ( In Hindi) Forest Map Tourist Map Mineral Map Railway Map Road Map Himachal Pradesh Handicrafts Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Dalhausi Rohtang Pass Chamba Places to visit in Dharamsala Travel to Dalhousie Places to visit in Kullu Manali Travel to Hamirpur Naggar Travel to Dharamshala Travel to Shimla Places to visit in Shimla Travel to Chail Travel to Kangra Travel to Kullu Travel to Manali             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule