Dayal bagh Locality Map, Agra home » Agra » Dayal bagh   Agra Localities Dayal Bagh Delhi Gate Sanjay Place Civil Lines Sikandra Pratap Pura Taj Nagari more... Agra Weather Pin Code STD code   Agra Travel Taj Mahal Travel to Agra Places to Visit in Agra Hotels in Agra Restaurants in Agra Flights to Agra Trains to Agra Buses from Agra Airport Travel Agents Distance Chart   Agra Education Schools Agra Map City Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Taj Ganj Map Agra Fort Map Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Cities in Uttar Pradesh Noida Lucknow Allahabad Kanpur Agra more.. Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                    (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map       Dayal bagh Map The place Dayal Bagh lies in the extended part of the city of Agra in Uttar pradesh . It is situated at a distance of 13 kms from the center of the city. Although Dayal Bagh lies in the outer fringes of the city of Agra, it is an important part frequented often by visitors. The chief tourist attraction in Dayal Bagh is the memorial built to commemorate the spiritual leader, Radha Swami. The memorial is a coalesce of the architecture of the mosque, temple and the gurudwara. Visitors from all over the world arrive to view this structure in Dayal Bagh. There are many educational institutes in Dayal Bagh as well like the Radha Swami Institute, the Technical College and Women's Training College. Dayal Bagh encompasses a huge area under which lie the Swamibagh, Jaganpura and Moti Bagh regions. The region is well connected by roads and trains from the Raja Ki Mandi railway Station that is located 5 kms away from the region. The Agra Airport lies 14 kms away from Dayal Bagh. The region has developed commercially due to its regular tourist influx. There are shopping markets present with varied products from which the tourists may choose their souvenirs. The tourists may also carry with them collectible items from Dayal Bagh. The carpets and rugs, a specialty of Dayal Bagh can be collected from: l Ajay Carpet Company 12-A, Tagore Nagar, Dayal Bagh, Agra # 2570730 Dayal Bagh is a beautifully decorated and planned region of Agra. The region is easily accessible from the city center. The area is designed to accommodate tourists and to cater to all their needs More Agra Locality Maps Belan Ganj Dayal Bagh Delhi Gate Foundry Nagar Jeoni Mandi Kamala Nagar Kamla Nagar MG Road Nehru Nagar Sanjay Place Shahganj Sikandra Tajganj Civil Lines Khandari Madhu Nagar Sadar Bazar Trans Yamuna Colony Daresi Road Hing Ki Mandi Road Mantola Namner Road Pratap Pura Raja ki Mandi Rakabganj Shahzadi Mandi Fatehabad Road Mahatma Gandhi Road Shaheed Nagar Taj Nagari Taj Road Last Updated on 25/06/2013               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule