 Census of India : Houselisting and Housing Census Data Your browser does not support script    You are here : Home / Announcement Of Best Papers To Be Awarded Attractive Prizes Announcement Of Best Papers To Be Awarded Attractive Prizes Announcement Of Best Papers To Be Awarded Attractive Prizes ANNOUNCEMENT   CENSUS DATA DISSEMINATION WORKSHOPS NOVEMBER – DECEMBER 2014   BEST PAPERS TO BE AWARDED ATTRACTIVE PRIZES   The Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India in collaboration with local Institute and University is organizing One-Day Data Dissemination Workshops at seven selected cities in the country with support from UN Agencies. The objective is to build awareness about availability and use of Census 2011 data. The collaborating Institutes and Universities are the principal partners in this endevour and have issued Invitations for Research Papers.   For details visit the websites of the Collaborating Institutes/Universities in each city: Ahmadabad         Gujarat University (Date of Workshop: 15 December 2014 Last date of receipt of paper: 29th November 2014) Allahabad            Allahabad University (Date of Workshop: 27th Feburary 2015) Bangalore            Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC) (Last Date: 15th November 2014) Chennai:              Madras Institute of Development Studies (Last Date: 5th December 2014) Delhi:                    Jawaharlal Nehru University (Date of Workshop: 3rd week of January 2015) Kolkata:               Indian Statistical Institute (Date of Workshop: 19th December 2014) Mumbai              Tata Institute of Social Sciences (Date of Workshop: 29th December 2014 Last date of receipt of paper: 14th December 2014) Each Workshop will have four technical sessions broadly covering (a) Population Dynamics, (b) Adolescents and Youth, (c) Literacy Status and (d) Work Status. Attractive Cash Prizes will be awarded to the authors of the three best papers at the end of each workshop. A jury appointed by the Institute/University will evaluate the papers. First Prize: Rs. 50,000/- Second Prize: Rs. 40,000/- Third Prize: Rs. 30,000/- Authors of the five best papers on each subject will be invited to present their papers at the Workshop. Eligibility Criteria to participate in the Competition: Enrolled Students and Research Scholars from within the Institute/University or from any other outside will be eligible to submit Research Paper in the Competition for award of Prize. Any individual person residing anywhere in India will be eligible to participate in any of the Data Dissemination Workshops held under the scheme. No TA/DA will be paid to any student, scholar or any other individual person for attending the workshop or for receiving prize, if awarded. Every person submitting Research Paper will have to submit a declaration stating that the same paper will not be submitted for consideration of award to any other Workshop orgnaised under the scheme. Officers or any official from the Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India or any of the Census Directorates will be eligible to submit Research Paper but will not be eligible to receive Prize. . Pamphlet for Census Data Dissemination Workshop 2014 by DCO Maharashtra and Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) Mumbai &nbsp Call for Papers on Census Data Dissemination Workshop 2014 [University of Allahabad]  