Industries in Rajasthan Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Rajasthan Industry   Rajasthan History and Geography Weather राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar                         more.. Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Rajasthan Industry Rajasthan started experiencing industrial development between 1950 and 1960. Large and small scale industries started springing up in the Kota, Jaipur , Udaipur, Bhilwara and other Industrial Estates of Rajasthan. The main industries of Rajasthan include textile, rugs, woolen goods, vegetable oil and dyes. Heavy industries consist of copper and zinc smelting and the manufacture of railway rolling stock. The other industries related to Private Sector include steel, cement, ceramics and glass wares, electronic, leather and footwear, stone and other chemical industries. Industries Map Of Rajasthan Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing Industrial Areas in Rajasthan. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Altogether the industrial sector accounts for about 32.5 per cent of the total share of the state's economy. During 1995- 96 and 2001-02, the industrial sector of Rajasthan experienced growth at the rate of 6.9% per annum. Textile Industry-Textile is the chief industry and the Rajasthan is considered as India's second largest producer of Polyester Fiber. It is grown in the Bhilwara district of Rajasthan. Besides these, Rajasthan is also involved in the large scale production of cotton and wool in the country. In total the production of Textiles accounts 21.96 % in the state. Rajasthan also produces huge quantities of spun yarn and hence is the fourth largest producer in India. Cement Industry - The state of Rajasthan is also the major producer of cement and accounts for 15 per cent of the cement output of the country. Chemical Industry - The chemical industry produces calcium carbide, caustic soda, sulphuric acid, pesticides insecticides and fertilizers. Salt Production - Rajasthan is the third largest producer of salt (sodium chloride) in the country and accounts for the country's one-tenth of salt production. The large mineral and metal deposits like zinc, copper, lignite, gypsum and mica in the state have also fostered the growth of a large number of industries that are involved in producing by-products by utilizing these natural resources. Last Updated on : 27 December 2010 Rajasthan Geography History Weather Area Languages Population Desert Quick Facts Soil and Vegetation Art Dress Fairs and Festivals Food Culture Rajasthan Factsheet Rajasthan Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map District Map in Hindi Jaipur Metro Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Location Map Mineral Map Physical Map Raiway Map Road Map Tehsil Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule