Software Professionals Turned Farmers - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Software Professionals Turned Farmers Home Software Professionals Turned Farmers IT professionals are increasingly taking up agriculture, not only as a hobby but also as a serious business venture. Coming from a different field, they are faced with a lot of challenges and also certain advantages. In AgricultureInformation.com’s discussion forum Agri Talk members discussed at length about the advantages, disadvantages and challenges IT professionals face in agriculture coming from a completely different field. Income for Agriculture vs. IT Job One member, Mr. Saravanan, queries about the income generated from farming when compared to a regular IT job. He says, “I am seeing in some sites that many young software professionals in India have become farmers. But I have a basic question in my mind for those IT guys who have turned farmers. The income one earns, as these two professions are totally diverse. I hope the average annual income one gets in agriculture will be equal to the average monthly income one gets in IT industry. And also, the income from agriculture will not be regular as it is monthly in IT. How are you guys managing? Please give your tips and techniques on this.” To Mr. Saravanan’s query, Mr. Anil Patil says, “You should know the real reason why many IT persons are looking at other avenues for earning. First life is highly stressful in IT industry and one needs to update himself constantly. Second hire and fire works like anything. If the company completes one project and is not getting a similar project the company simply fires the team or keeps them on bench for some time. This thought itself is stressful. As age advances and people turn 35 the tension increases.” [hidepost] He adds, “Now I meet many IT, IIM grads seeking consultancy for projects in agri areas. It is possible to make one or two lakhs a month in simple business, but in this field the only thing is hard working entrepreneur is required. In agri business many people fail or suffer because they do not plan. It requires a lot of experience to properly put a project idea in place. Secondly forward and backward linkages establishing is a must for success.” He further says, “I must say hardly 1 per cent of IT guys really take up agriculture as profession and they back out once they study the details of the projects. But please note 24% return can be achieved only in agro based projects. Agro based projects are better than traditional industries in profitability.” Mr. Saravanan agrees with Mr. Yadav that IT job is indeed stressful because of constant changes in technology; near zero error tolerant work environments, tough competition among peers, and the hiring-firing policies of the company. Another member, Dairyman maintains 24% returns is not an issue provided one takes up agriculture as seriously as their software development career. He is of the opinion that people should take up agriculture as a backup plan. He says, “It should be used a fall back option if something happens to their jobs. I suggest please gain some experience with small level pilot projects in agriculture and at the right time. In case you are laid off you can have your own venture up and running. I can tell you it will make you more assertive on job and also job will be less stressful. You may fall down many times but you will learn a lot and move ahead.” A member who is a doctor by profession also wants to venture in agriculture. He says, “This is one job which doesn’t have a retirement date. Moreover if our generation is not interested in agriculture then it will be forgotten in the future, so my message is friends don’t look it as another business but something as a heritage to be passed on and also for self-satisfaction.” Forward and Backward Linkage Mr. Saravanan wanted more information on establishing forward     and backward linkages. I also guess the 24% returns you are saying, must be from some special types of projects and not from traditional crops,” he asks. Planning Member Ms. Vimala who is also an IT professional is keen on taking up agriculture as a profession. She wanted to know how to plan and the important points to consider before taking up agri projects. “Is there any training on the same? Are they any success stories and the references for the same to get first-hand information? To Ms. Vimala’s enquiry member ulavan says, “Carefull planning is needed in the projects you choose and it also differs for each location. You should have practical knowledge or hire a trusted knowledgeble person to run your project. You can start in small scale and expand it with experience. If you get into agri profession to relive stress and as a hobby then choose your projects with minimum investment and risk.” Dedication and Hard Work Member Mr. Anthony Pratap is another IT professional who has taken up agriculture. He says, “I work for a BPO and obviously get paid one heft check. I was so stressed in my job that I was unable to spend quality time with my family and always wanted to sleep. I have been working on starting my agri project, and like other members said, perfect planning is required. A step at a time is the best approach. I was first fascinated with contractual farming as I found it to be less risky. However as I have been learning various way of farming and how the monetary flow works here, I have a lot of ideas. I have been telling my friends that agriculture is going to be the best business in the next decade. “ He adds, “People who have less investment can go for contract farming in livestock to start with. It is less risky and it give you an idea of farming. However agriculture need a lot of passion and not with the target of making money only. Obviously you can get there but it takes time to get there.” Mr. Shankara seconds Mr. Pratap that agriculture requires a lot of dedication and hard work to start with. “Agro/agri field is bit different from managing workforce. We have to learn to manage agriculture labours. Always better to start with small investment but not to stop there if you come across loss or find it difficult, you have to learn from failures and expand slowly,” he says. Member Safla shares his account about owning an IT business and giving it all up and taking up farming. He advises, “Take it from me, it is hard work, and if you are doing it for the income, forget it. But you should look at it as an investment in your health and mental wellbeing, which cannot be valued in terms of money. My advice is work for some time in IT, save some money, and invest part of it in a manageable size farm. If you can make the farm self-sustaining, that should do.” Future Potential Mr. A Sivakumar, chief consultant, Priya Nursery Garden, comments, “I am very proud to hear that IT people are venturing into agriculture. One thing I want to say is that these IT people’s forefathers are /were belonging to agriculture families. From the income of their forefathers they have completed their higher studies like B tech, BE (EC), BE( IT), BCA, MCA, and MS. So it indicates they are from agriculture families basically. He adds, “Daily I get minimum 10 phone calls from abroad regarding farming and related activities for consultancy. And also it’s a natural law like crop rotation. For example 20 years back everybody wanted to study engineering, 10 years back everybody wanted to study medicine and recent past everybody wanted to become an IT professional. But everybody is realizing that food for human is essential in the world and are opting for agriculture, horticulture, silviculture, apiculture, aquaculture, viticulture and vermiculture.” Mr. Mahesh Rao, too, feels agriculture is the future. “Agriculture has hugh potential future. Problem is pricing of agriculture commodities. It’s not scientific. As a result our farmers are getting poorer and poorer and majority of farmers are leading life less than a dollar/day. If all the educated people get involve in agriculture as one of their profession, then agriculture will improve, our food production will also improve.” He adds, “I too am an IT professional and am from agriculture family background. I am very much interested in agriculture and I love farming and I do farming.” Expenditure vs. Returns Mr. Venkatesh working as senior project manager in Infosys, says,    “I have a hectic schedule filled with client calls, project meetings and delivery schedules. I am just 33 and have all problems in my body because of this stress. So I decided one year back to take up some business. I opted for selected agri business because I saw a lot of potential in this field for the next 20 years.”  He informs that he brought 8 acres of land in the outskirt of Chennai. He says, “Do you know how much struggle I faced including cleaning the area, fencing, made a hut, applied for electricity, digg bore and did pipeline connection. To get into the place into shape I spend lakhs. Then only I realized why farmers commit suicide. I paid money for every department like VO, AD and Registeration. Finally my land is ready for farming.” He adds, “I decided to go with organic farming. I did a complete planning. I went to agriculture department and brought a drum seeding machine. Very first time, I sowed seeds using this drum seeding machine and waited for 10 days. To my dismay while the paddy grew 2 inches, the grass grew 5 inched. After 10 days, I was unable to find out which one was grass straw and which one paddy. So it was a total flop.” “I waited for next season. This time I went with regular method. This time I have put sufficient vitamins for my land. All my paddy straw grew well. I can say almost in around 15 kms from my land, my paddy straw was too good and grew well. Everyone in the town was talking about my paddy straw. I did everything on time. I had sprayed timely fertilizers and pesticides. Finally after 90 days I am seeing lots and lots of paddy grains in the straw. I was so happy that my project is successful. I waited for another 20 days to harvest it. But one fine day it started raining. It rained continuously for 4 days and all my paddy straw was destroyed. All my hard work and money was lost. As per my calculations I was supposed to get 10k in one acre land, but I ended up with 10k loss per acre plus my effort. After that day I haven’t farmed more than 9 months. Now I am still thinking of taking up dairy farming or cultivating casurina.  I have complete idea about all these things, but afraid to start again. But surely I will start by next 3 to 4 months. So what I want to warn the “software professionals” that it is not a easy business.” He lists challenges faced as: 1. Labour shortage 2. Can’t do pilot project or POC before doing this business 3. Lack of training imstitution; have to learn by trail 4. Dependence on nature He adds, “To my understanding, I don’t know how come they derived 24% ROI. The margin is less so if you decided to put your effort put it in the large land holding so that you get better returns.” Choosing the Right Crop Mr. Pratap sympathizes with Mr.Venkatesh and advises, “Yes agriculture is not fun and easy as people think. I too agree nothing can be done in 2-3 acres of land, if you want to do commercial farming, a min of 10 acres to 20 acres is required. In agriculture it’s best to start with goat production, emu or any contract farming. Take it really slow, grow stuff like coconut or fruit bearing. Check your soil to see what suits it best.” He adds, “I am venturing into agriculture and I have planned to make it my bread winner, not immediately, but in about 2 -3 years. Meanwhile I have decided to spend all my weekend there ensuring that things are going to be going the right way.” Responding to Mr. Venkatesh, Mr. Thiru, also an Infosys employee, says, “My father is a farmer and we are mid-size farmers. Since we are doing agricultural from last 40 – 50 years and still we are doing. Basically my father is spinning mill sider. My father’s hard work and planning gifted him 20 acres of dry land (hardly Rs. 1000 – 3000 rupees / acre) those days. Hardly had we got max Rs. 30,000 to 50,000 per year. That earning helped me do my post graduation and I became an IT professional. We sold nearly 15 acres of that land and bought 7 acres land with coconut trees (nearly 2.5 lakhs / acre) with very good water source and getting good income from coconut cultivation. Still we have some 7 acres of dry land. And now we are converting that with coconut plantation.” He adds, “I want to emphasise that agricultural is really a good and profitable business if you have enough knowledge. Weekend I go to my native and take care of jobs like purchasing fertilizers, and seeds. I get great good relief from day to day hectic schedule. If you people are having interest in agricultural with resources, please do.” Mr. Rao too empathizes with Mr. Venkatesh. “I planted areca nut and coconut trees in my land. Now they are 10 years old and started giving me fruits. We have total of 2.5 acres and our profit is around 60K per year. Though this is not a good profit still I feel happy visiting our farm. It’s very relaxing and peaceful. I manage most of my work over phone and in weekdays I visit my farm.” He adds, “I purchased one more agri land and like Venki I did everything: cleaning the land, making the land flat, dividing the land, putting fence, putting the borewell (got failed), taking electricity, and constructing a house. I spent good money on that 5 acres land and finally I planted mango trees. Its 1.5 year now they are growing good. He too suggests Mr. Venkatesh to try arecanut, coconut, mango, teak tree or other farming like emu farming. “We can make good money in paddy field but sometime nature plays with our life and we may incur loss. This uncertainty is common in agriculture. This is the reasons, farmer’s life is difficult,” he adds. Another member cautions Mr. Venkatesh, saying “I am also IT head working outside India. In the past 5 years I am also failing to manage a farm house with coconut trees because of as you mentioned people and the rainy weather as well. Now I have dropped the idea and planning to sell the farm because my learning was if you are not on the field, it’s not so easy to get it done.” Member Manjun Papanna says, “I was in software for 20 years and it was my interest to start agri work on my own. I bought mango farm and did everything like fencing, bore, electricity, and cleaning. Initially we tried with 2 acre of tomato where the rate peaked very recently, but my planning and execution was not good enough for the crop where I lost everything. Also I planted groundnut on one acre land which did not yield good result and ended-up consuming within my family members. It was a great and costly experience for me as I or my family is not from farming background. In fact I worked in the field so that I could learn.” “However my mango gives me consistent income. Now I’m in the process of banana plantation which I think would be better with respect to returns, experience and service. As you guys said planning and arrangement is most important in this field to achieve your goals,” he adds. Mr. Rajaguru from the ITES industry says , “I acquires 8 acres of land a year ago and started an integrated farm. As Mr. Venkat shared we have fenced, got a commercial e-connection, got a borewell erected, got the infra completed, commenced the fish unit of the farm, planted 250 timber value saplings, crossed successfully 65 days of our first batch of paddy cultivation in 2.5 acres.” Converting Dry Lands Mr. Thiru further says, “As Mr. Patil said, investing in dry lands and converting it into farms, is a good profitable business. One of my friends’ family in my village doing the same. They get the lands in cheap rates and by hardwork and planning convert it into farms and sell the same with very good profit. As per my knowldge they have done the same 4/5 times. Now they are crorepathis. People who are really interest in agri and profit can follow this.” Importance of Knowledge  and Information Gathering Another member emphasizes that before taking the plunge into agriculture, one needs to study various farms. He says “Look at the process followed, the practices followed and look beyond the normal process to refine some of the practices. That is where the challenge is. You should be willing to experiment with various formats. Agri management has essentially the following components: 1. Soil preparation  2. Soil management 3. Crop selection 4. Seed selection 5. Crop planting and management 6. Pest control 7. Water management 8. Fertilizer application 9. Weed management 10. Harvesting 11. Marketing. “In all the above, there are inefficiencies. You will have to choose techniques which suit the local farm hands to adapt themselves. The process is typical of any project management techniques. Only thing in agriculture is that you are at the mercy of nature. Mechanisation is possible if the holdings are large. Water management techniques can be best implemented in large holdings.” “Thumb rule today is that you can make around say 25-30K net in an acre if you have water. Some long term plants lime the casurina give a return of about 75-80K in 30 months with just the initial 6 months of effort. It is not very water intensive to cultivate it.” “My own experience shows that if you give your best, you get the best. There is tremendous opportunity available in the long run. Nothing succeeds like food business. You will have to feed the business with your produce. That is where the magic is,” he adds. Our Correspondent Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Software Professionals Turned Farmers Related – articles, consultants, downloads Next Generation Farmers Food Processing helps farmers to earn better! Mr. Amit – Vegetable Cultivation Yadrave-Magdum Agro Farm You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015