Central Information Commission i     All donations towards the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) are notified for 100% deduction from taxable income under Section 80G of the Income Tax Act, 1961     Shri Pankaj K.P.Shreyaskar, Joint Secretary was relieved from CIC w.e.f 8.3.2014 and directed to report to Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation . The Commission has not assigned him with any task on behalf of the Commission and neither is he part of any Transparency and Accountability Board of the Commission.     Check List for Second Appeal under Section 19 / Complaint(s) under section 18 of the Right to Information Act, 2005 and Right to Information Rules, 2012     Guidelines on Suo Motu Disclosure under Sec 4 of RTI Act, 2005, from DoPT, Govt of India     The Commission in its meeting dated 8.1.2013 decided that no action would be taken on the communications received as appeal against decisions of State Information Commissions since the Commission is not the Appellate body over the SICs. Further, such communications would be sent for weeding out within 2 weeks of its receipt in the Commission.     Persons seeking information from the Central Information Commission should pay application fee or further fee in favour of PAO, CAT, New Delhi if it is chosen to be paid by demand draft or bankers cheque or Indian Postal Order.     The Commission in its meeting dated 13 12 11 decided norms and procedure for according priority to appellants in hearing appeal/complaints filed before the Commission     The commission in its meeting dated 3 3 09 has decided that the Appeal/Complaint received through e-mail cannot be registered unless filed online or otherwise     CIC launches helpline facility at 011-61117666. Dialling this number you would get the status of the receipt by name, by diary number / diary year and by Complaint / Appeal file number. For any other information, kindly visit http://www.cic.gov.in.     Shri Vijai Sharma Information Commissioner Shri Basant Seth Information Commissioner Shri Yashovardhan Azad Information Commissioner         Shri Sharat Sabharwal Information Commissioner Mrs Manjula Prasher Information Commissioner Shri MA Khan Yusufi Information Commissioner Prof Madabhushanam Sridhar Acharyulu Information Commissioner Who are we? What do we do? Central Information Commission is constituted by the Central Government through a Gazette Notification. The Commission includes one Chief Information Commissioner (CIC) and not more than 10 Information Commissioners (IC) who will be appointed by the President of India.                       .... more The Central Information Commission/State Information Commission has a duty to receive complaints from any person.   .... more Your right to know Right to Information Act Do you know? You can inspect works, documents, records. take notes, extracts or certified copies of documents or records. take certified samples of material. .... more An Act to provide for setting out the practical regime of right to information for citizens to secure access to information under the control of public authorities, in order to promote transparency and accountability in the working of every public authority, the constitution of a Central Information Commission and State Information Commissions and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. .... more State Information Commissions Appeals and Decisions The State Information Commission will be constituted by the State Government through a Gazette notification. It will have one State Chief Information Commissioner (SCIC) and not more than 10 State Information Commissioners (SIC) to be appointed by the Governor.    .... more Any person who, does not receive a decision within the time specified, or is aggrieved by a decision of the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, may within thirty days from the expiry of such period or from the receipt of such a decision prefer an appeal to such officer who is senior in rank to the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer as the case may be, in each public authority. .... more