Organic Vegetables - Small Farms / Alternative Enterprises - Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Extension Main Page About Us Extension Offices EDIS Publications Conference Info Organic Vegetables UF/IFAS Publications | Other Universities or Federal Agencies | Additional Resources William Bartram’s 1776 account of the Cuscowilla Indian village onthe south edge of Payne’s Prairie, near present day Micanopy,describes a society that lived in balance with their environment(Figure 1). He published Travels through North and South Carolina, Georgia, East and West Florida in 1791. In it he described how they produced their food, saying: “They plant but little here about the town; only a small garden plot at each habitation, consisting of a little Corn, Beans, Tobacco, Citrus (and more). Their plantation, which supplies them with the chief of their vegetable provisions, lies on the rich prolific lands bordering on the great Alachua savannah, about two miles distance”. There were no synthetic fertilizers or pesticides. These savvy farmers grew crops organically. They took the time to understand their environment, and probably understood that their precious crop could be wiped out by insects or weed competition. Imagine these early farmers, moving through production areas; aware of every nuance regarding how various plants and insects interact. It is not a far stretch of the imagination. In fact, these farmers knew certain insects ate the crops while others ate insects. Today, these insects are referred to as being either “pests” or “beneficials”.  In fact, nowadays you can purchase “good bugs” to eat the “bad” bugs on your crop! During the 19 th century, the demands of population growth on food supply were met with new technologies including mechanized farming, chemical pesticides, commercial fertilizers and vigorous plant breeding programs. These methods made it possible to grow more food per acre than ever before. However, rising fuel costs and increased competition for once abundant natural resources like water motivate University of Florida/IFAS researchers to constantly look for ways to produce crops more efficiently while preserving theenvironment for many generations to come. Today, organic production is a combination of new technology and traditional methods. As a result of recent research, there are many new tools for organic farmers to use including soil analysis, plant nutrient monitoring and integrated pest management systems. Additionally, there are many new commercial organic fertilizers and pesticide products on the market which have made organic farming more user-friendly than ever. Consumers are showing their support for this method of production at the market. Demand for organic produce has increased 20% a year on average since 1990. This has resulted in higher profit potential for organic producers. For more information about organic vegetable production, please see the resources listed here or contact your local UF-IFAS County Extension office . UF/IFAS Publications Management Overviews Index for Specific Vegetable Guidelines Organic Vegetable Gardening Introduction to Organic Crop Production Organic Greenhouse Container Herb Production in South Florida: Fertilizer and Potting Media Growing Heirloom Tomato Varieties in Southwest Florida Planting Stock Seed Production and Seed Sources of Organic Vegetables Nutrient Management Producing Garden Vegetables with Organic Soil Amendments Pest Management Beneficial Insects and Mites Insect Management for Cucurbits (Cucumber, Squash, Cantaloupe, and Watermelon) Insect Management for Leafy Vegetables Natural Products for Insect Pest Management A Series on Diseases in the Florida Vegetable Garden:Watermelon Water Management Automatic Irrigation Based on Soil Moisture for Vegetable Crops Design Tips for Drip Irrigation of Vegetables Evaporation Loss During Sprinkler Irrigation Florida Irrigation Systems Scheduling Tips for Drip Irrigation of Vegetables Water Wells for Florida Irrigation Systems Food Safety Minimizing Food Safety Hazards for Organic Vegetable Production Systems Principles and Practices of Food Safety for Vegetable Production in Florida Small Farm Food Safety Series Other Relevant Topics General Guidelines for Organic Crop Production Resources from Other Universities or Federal Agencies Management Overviews Growing Vegetables Organically--University of Georgia Organic Fruits & Vegetables--Mississippi State University Organic Greenhouse Vegetable Production - ATTRA Organic Sweet Corn Production, North Carolina State University Postharvest Handling for Organic Crops, University of California Seed Production and Variety Development for Organic Systems-ATTRA Databases and Resource Guides NCAT's Organic Seed Suppliers Search Resource Guide to Organic & Sustainable Vegetable Production-- ATTRA On Farm Processing Farm Made: A Guide to On-Farm Processing for Organic Productions--The Kerr Center, University of Iowa Additional Resources Save Our Seed - a non-profit organization of farmers and southeastern universities to save organic heirloom seeds Home Gardening For Beginners Seed Savers Exchange - a non-profit organization of gardeners who save and share heirloom seeds Return to Organic Production     Download Adobe Acrobat Reader to view pdf files. Planning & Management Food Safety Livestock & Forages Crops IPM Forest Products, Environmental & Recreational Uses Freshwater Aquaculture & Farm Ponds Organic Production National Organic Program The Organic System Plan Marketing Vegetables Fruit Citrus Livestock Pest Management Fertility, Soil, & Irrigation Management Cover Crops & Forages Other Enterprises State & Federal Agencies Agricultural Weather Copyright 2006 | University of Florida | Site Feedback | EOI