 Horlicks Ahaar Abhiyan | NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India Jump to navigation NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India HOME CONTACT US Search Search form Search ABOUT US Overview History Vision/Mission Board Members Management Team OUR WORK Our Approach Where We Work Our Programmes Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness & Response GET INVOLVED Careers Internship Campaigns Volunteer Partnerships Power to Empower NEWS National International CARE India in Media Media Contact DONATE NOW You are here Home » horlicks ahaar abhiyan Horlicks Ahaar Abhiyan Submitted by admin on Fri, 2014-03-14 14:58 BRIDDHI This project in partnership and support from Brand Horlicks, of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Health aims in improving the nutritional status among severely malnourished children in the age group of 3-6 years. This is done through growth monitoring, growth promotion, behaviour modification and healthcare service delivery systems coordination. The project works towards enhancing the skill of the frontline health workers. Mothers are taught about feeding practices, alternative recipes etc. Gender issues are also addressed if it, affects the nutrition status of a girl children. The project is implemented in two blocks of Purulia district, West Bengal. 404 Anganwadi Centres are covered through the partnership with local district based NGO's and works directly with the target beneficiaries. Being over one year of its implementation the project has achieved A total population of 300000 (approx) reached by the project intervention in one year A total of 1358 severely malnourished children benefited Total 801 frontline workers trained in two rounds Among 15,282 children of 3-6 years, 1424 children identified as severely malnourished. Of all the children identified at the initiation of the project, 85% overcame to normal or moderate Three Gram Panchayats have been motivated to give their own funds towards addressing mal nutrition issues in their locality. CARE Initiatives CARE works with more than 200 districts, in a total of 13 states and union terriotories across India Engage educate empower Assurance of a secure life Livelihood Initiative Tsunami Power to Empower Cyclone Hudhud Horlicks Ahaar Abhiyan GiveAssure Help Shanti JK Flood crisis Join my village VIEW ALL Latest Publications Pages from booklet 1 pages from booklet hindi-7-2.pdf READ MORE Case Studies Education Health Livelihood Emergency Blog Resources © 2014 CARE India. All Rights Reserved