Beaches in Gujarat Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Gujarat Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Gujarat Places to Visit in Gujarat Beaches in Gujarat Forts and Palaces in Gujarat Museums in Gujarat Historical Places in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Wildlife Sanctuaries Cities to Visit in Gujarat Ahmedabad Travel Gandhinagar Travel Vadodara Travel Porbandar Travel Bhavnagar Travel Junagadh Travel Rajkot Travel Surat Travel Dwarka Travel Bhuj Travel Gondal Travel Utelia Travel Zainabad Travel Gujarat Hotels Ahmedabad Hotels Junagadh Hotels Surat Hotels Rajkot Hotels Vadodara Hotels About Gujarat History Geography Weather Food Festivals Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Gujarat » Tourism » Forts and Palaces in Gujarat Beaches in Gujarat Gujarat Beaches Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Map showing Beaches in Gujarat. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Gujarat has one of the longest coastlines in the country. Sprinkled with enthralling beach resorts, shore temples and blue lagoons Gujarat is home to some of the finest stretches of beaches in the country. An ultimate combination of nature history and religious monuments Gujarat forms one of the most important tourist destinations in the Indian subcontinent. List of Beaches in Gujarat Mandvi Beach - Kutch Somnath Beach, Somnath Ahmedpur Mandvi near Somnath Chorwad Beach near Somnath Beaches near Jamnagar Mandvi Beach Mandvi Beach is among the most beautiful Gujarat beaches. Situated along the Gujarat coastline in the port town of Mandvi, this is a private beach which once belonged to the erstwhile Maharao of Kutch. An ideal destination for a perfect holiday Mandvi Beach in Kutch is known for its pristine waters, sun kissed shores, enliven birdlife and enchanting fishing hamlets. Somnath Beach The Somnath Beach is counted among the finest Gujarat beaches. It is situated 6Km to the east of Veraval. Veraval is a town in Gujarat which is well connected by air, road and rail way. Visited by a host of pilgrims who visit the Somnath Temple this beach in Gujarat is known for its peace and tranquility. Away from the common din of daily life the Somnath Beach is a hub for nature lovers and bird watchers. Ahmedpur Mandvi Beach Ahmedpur Mandvi Beach is situated between Junagarh and Ahmedabad. It is ranked as one the most popular beaches in Gujarat. Characterized by dancing waves, crystal waters, soft white sands and a wide variety of some of the finest bird life this beach in Gujarat is a definite once in a life time visit. If swimming is what you like then do not hesitate to step into the water as this is also one of the safest Gujarat beaches. Chorwad Beach near Somnath A mesmerizing beach situated in the royal town of Chorwad, the Chorwad Beach in Gujarat is one of the major reasons behind the success of tourism in the state. The beach attracts tourists from all corners of India and the world due to its scenic spots and crystal blue waters. It also forms a major getaway to some of the other popular beach resorts in the state like Porbandar and Somnath. For people who enjoy boat rides on the gentle waves of the sea this place is just perfect. Beaches near Jamnagar There are about 42 islands in and around Jamnagar. Quiet and unpolluted the beaches near Jamnagar are a treat to every holiday seeker. The beaches in these areas are less populated and tide dependent. Characterized by soft sands, clean waters, rocky patches and flocks of birds the beaches near Jamnagar are among the most preferred Gujarat beaches. Some of the popular beaches near Jamnagar include Madhi Pirotan Balachadi Positra etc. Last Updated on : June 11, 2013 Places to Visit in Gujarat Beaches Forts and Palaces Museums Historical Places Temples Wildlife Sanctuaries About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule