Infochange Media Fellowships 2009 | ngogateway.com Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Latest : Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Posted 1 year ago MARS FOUNDATION Posted 1 year ago St.Theresa’s Educational Society Posted 1 year ago Ray Welfare Society Posted 1 year ago Narain Sewa Sansthan Posted 1 year ago WOMEN ORGANISATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRUST Posted 1 year ago Sewa Bhav Foundation Posted 1 year ago Panrui Swajan Welfare Society Posted 4 years ago Sampark Samaj Kalyan Sansthan Posted 4 years ago The Catholic Health Association of India Posted 4 years ago Home   >   Fellowship & Scholarships   >   Infochange Media Fellowships 2009 Infochange Media Fellowships 2009 By admin on September 3, 2009 www.infochangeindia.org invites applications for its 2009 Media Fellowships. These fellowships will be awarded to journalists, filmmakers and researchers reporting on a selected topic of research. The topic chosen must be related to social justice/sustainable development in India. www.infochangeindia.org (managed by the Centre for Communication and Development Studies) covers a diverse range of issues in the social sector – from environment, poverty, livelihoods, public health, women and child rights, social exclusion, displacement, migration, gender and sexuality to globalisation, trade and development, intellectual property rights, social entrepreneurship and much more. We welcome proposals that uncover and illustrate topical issues and contemporary debates in any of these fields. The final output must combine research and reportage with background, perspective, analysis and, when appropriate, views and information from experts. The fellowship must result in any one of the following outputs: 1. A series of five or more original articles (preferably with photographic documentation) on the proposed subject of research, totalling 7,500 words or more. These are to be submitted and uploaded on www.infochangeindia.org. 2. A series of three or more audio documentaries – each less than 20 mins in duration — on the proposed subject of research, to be featured in the Audio section of infochangeindia.org. If the documentaries are in a regional Indian language they must be subtitled in English. 3. One documentary film (not exceeding 30 mins duration) or a series of shorts (of broadcast quality, submitted in avi or mpeg formats) on the proposed subject of research, for upload in the Documentary section of infochangeindia.org. If the documentary is in a regional Indian language it must be subtitled in English. (All content researched and uploaded on www.infochangeindia.org may be submitted for publication/dissemination elsewhere one month after upload on our site, provided due credit is given to CCDS and infochangeindia.org as the supporting institution and the website where the material first appeared respectively. Films and audio stories produced as part of the fellowship must likewise carry the required credits to CCDS and infochangeindia) Duration The fellowships will be announced end-October. Fellows are expected to begin work by the first week of November 2009 and complete it by the first week of January 2010. All outputs are required to reach infochangeindia by January 10, 2010. Eligibility The fellowship is open to independent journalists, filmmakers and researchers living in India only. Working journalists may also apply, provided their organisations endorse their application and allow them time off for this fellowship If selected. Last date for submission of applications All applications must be received by September 30, 2009. Funding support The infochangeindia fellowships carry a grant amount of Rs 50,000 (subject to TDS as applicable). 50% of this amount will be disbursed on selection, to fund travel and research expenses. The balance will be released on successful completion of the project, submission and acceptance of stories/films. Infochangeindia reserves the right to ask for revisions in articles/documentaries submitted until its standards for upload are met. Grants will be withdrawn and the advance refunded by the fellow if the fellow fails to complete and submit her/his project on deadline or if the quality of the work submitted is not acceptable. The decision of the editors/editorial board of www.infochangeindia.org on the quality of submissions will be final. Application procedure All applications must be accompanied by 1. A detailed proposal (not exceeding 1,000 words) clearly stating the subject to be researched, the applicant’s perspective on this subject, and expected output in terms of X number of articles etc. 2. Travel likely to be undertaken for the research, with an estimated budget. 3. CV of the applicant. 4. Three samples of published work by applicants from the print media. At least one sample of broadcast/telecast work on CD by applicants from the electronic media. If any of these are in regional languages, they must be accompanied by a summary of their contents in English. 5. Working journalists submitting applications must enclose a letter from their editor stating that they endorse the application and will allow the fellow time off for the research if selected. 6. One letter of recommendation from a writer/editor/academician or other appropriate referee endorsing the applicant’s interest/expertise in the chosen subject of research and the candidate’s ability to successfully complete the project. Address to send applications to Applications may be addressed to Infochangeindia Media Fellowships Centre for Communication and Development Studies (CCDS) 301, Kanchanjunga Building, Kanchan Gully Off Law College Road, Pune 411 004 Telephone: 020-26852845/25457371 Applications not accompanied by CDs may be sent by email to mediafellowships@infochangeindia.orgThis e-mail address is being protected from spam bots, you need JavaScript enabled to view it and CC to infochangefellowships@gmail.comThis e-mail address is being protected from spam bots, you need JavaScript enabled to view it provided all scanned material is clearly legible and all attachments are zipped into a single file. Related Posts: Samaj Kalyan Foundation Spectra Organisation Shelter Fundraising Workshop :For Fundraisers & Senior NGO… Health, Education and Promotions Of Teeming Association In… Broadcast Quality Displacement Documentaries Documentary Film Filmmakers Gender And Sexuality Health Women India Www Indian Language Intellectual Property Rights Media Fellowships Mpeg Formats Original Articles Perspective Analysis Photographic Documentation Social Entrepreneurship Social Exclusion Social Justice Social Sector Topical Issues About admin Related Posts Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Equip Foundation Equip Foundation SHADOW-PAK SHADOW-PAK Winner Society Winner Society You must be logged in to post a comment Login Latest News pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile: A.... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym) –... Posted 8 months ago 0 Society for Peoples Integrated Development General information: Full Name of organization Society for People’s Integrated... Posted 8 months ago 0 Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Address: At – Bhalunka Po- Ramdaspur (Godisahi) Dist – Cuttack... Posted 8 months ago 0 Shri Durga Mahila Mandal (SDMM) Village & P.O. Ghanauli, District Roopnagar (Punjab) Shri Durga Mahila... Posted 8 months ago 0 Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) 1A, D. L. Khan Road,... Posted 8 months ago 0 Feedback Funding Agencies A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W Search Latest Popular Comments pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile:... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2.... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym)... Posted 8 months ago 0 Funding Agencies in India A M M Foundation “Tiam House” No 28, Rajaji... Posted 5 years ago 213 List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs American Jewish World Service Ananda Foundation Asia Foundation Baxter... Posted 6 years ago 116 Funding Agencies – C CAAC OF PIKE COUNTY 941 Market Street Piketon OH... Posted 6 years ago 91 Blog about human anatomy says: Awesome post.... Paul Ponniah says: Dear Sir, II, for Jeevan Sagar Trust, are w... Paul Ponniah says: Fine work for the Cause.... Recently Added pragati welfare society gariasathi Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Society for Peoples Integrated Development Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Copyright © 2007 - 14 | All Rights Reserved: advertisement advertisement