Mineral & Metals Trade Shows,Minerals Trade Event,Metal Industry Exhibition JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Mineral & Metals Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Mineral & MetalsTrade Shows Date : 22 Jul - 24 Jul 2015 Mine Entra -  Zimbabwe Mine-Entra is a specialised, international exhibition which caters for the mutually compatible sectors of mining, engineering and transport and their associated industries. Mid-year timing is for maximum convenience and corresponds to the.... Venue : Zimbabwe International Exhibition Centre (ZIEC) ,Famona Zimbabwe Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 23 Feb - 27 Feb 2016 Metav Dusseldorf -  Germany Metav Dusseldorf 2016 is one of the leading international fair for manufacturing technology and automation, which is offers right at the beginning of the year a platform for the personal interaction between suppliers and investors. exhibitors.... Venue : Düsseldorf Exhibition Centre ,Dusseldorf Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Sep - 04 Sep 2015 AIMEX -  Australia Australia's International Mining & Exploration Exhibition. Australia’s mining technology services industry is acknowledged as a world leader in providing innovative products and technical solutions to both the domestic and international.... Venue : Sydney Olympic Park ,Sydney ,New South Wales Australia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 24 Jun - 27 Jun 2015 Automotive Manufacturing Thailand -  Thailand Automotive Manufacturing-Thailand 2011 will once again be the “event of the industry,” an exclusive congregation of auto part makers from across the region to arm themselves with state-of-the-art technologies and innovations to serve.... Venue : Bangkok International Trade & Exhibition Centre (BITEC) Thailand Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Sep - 15 Sep 2015 Minerals Metals Metallurgy & Materials -  India International Trade Fair for Minerals, Metals & Metallurgy. MMMM is the ideal platform for technology transfer, business meets and joint ventures for identifying potential investors to boost industrial production, collaboration and.... Venue : Bombay Exhibition Center ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Jul - 28 Jul 2016 QME-Queensland Mining & Engineering Exhibition-Australia -  Australia QME-Queensland Mining & Engineering Exhibition-Australia is the largest regional event in the heart of the coal mining area, exhibiting products and services for the mining mineral processing, power generation, sugar processing and metal.... Venue : Mackay Showgrounds ,Mackay Australia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Oct - 11 Oct 2015 Mining Asia -  Philippines 10th International Exhibition of Equipment, Machinery Tools, Technology, and Support Services for the Mining Industry. Venue : SMX Exhibition and Convention Center ,Pasay Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Jun - 06 Jun 2015 ALUVI-Argentina -  Argentina ALUVI is the key to the exhibiting companies achieve excellent results in their range of products and services place; and the ideal place to start, strengthen and develop national and international trade links area. Venue : La Rural Predio Ferial ,Buenos Aires Argentina Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Aug - 29 Aug 2015 OIL & GAS AFRICA -  Tanzania, United Republic of The first Oil & Gas Africa - Int'l Trade Exhibition, will be held from the 27th to the 29th of August 2015. This event will be the hub for key players in the Oil and Gas industry, attracting leading oil, gas and petroleum companies from.... Venue : Mlimani Conference Centre, ,DAR-ES- SALAAM Tanzania, United Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Nov - 06 Nov 2015 TIM Expo Shanghai 2015 - the 13th Shanghai thermal insulation materials expo. -  China Shanghai Thermal Insulation Material and Energy-saving Technology Expo (TIM Expo Shanghai) is the most authoritative and influential trading expo in Asia-Pacific area. It attracts attentions of global thermal insulation industry. From real estate.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Apr - 29 Apr 2015 4TH OIL & GAS 2015 -  Kenya The 4th Oil & Gas Africa - Int\'l Trade Exhibition, 27th to 29th April 2015, is a hub for key players in the oil and gas community, attracting leading oil, gas and petroleum companies from around the world. This regional trade event serves the.... Venue : Kenyatta International Conference Centre ,NAIROBI Kenya Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Apr - 17 Apr 2015 MTA Metal Asia -  Singapore MTA MetalAsia 2015 is the largest international exhibition of machine tools, precision engineering, metalworking and manufacturing technology in the asean region.mta will focus on the technology and quality required to machine parts and.... Venue : Singapore Expo Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Apr - 17 Apr 2015 Outsource & Subcon -  Singapore Contract Manufacturing and Subcontracting Exhibition for Global Manufacturing Procurement and Outsourcing. Incorporated in MTA Venue : Singapore Expo Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jan - 13 Jan 2015 Tube Arabia -  United Arab Emirates The Construction And Manufacturing Sectors Are A Strong And Important Component Of The Middle East'S Economic Engine. Buoyed In Particular By The Booming Oil Markets, Construction And Manufacturing Has Been Boosting The Demand For Related.... Venue : Dubai International Exhibition and Convention Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jan - 13 Jan 2015 Tekno Tube Arabia -  United Arab Emirates Tekno Tube Arabia is the International Trade Fair for Industrial Machinery, Metal Working & Machine Tools, Tubes & Pipes, Molds and Dies Industry. It is an ideal platform which brings both exhibitors and visitors together.... Venue : Dubai International Convention & Exhibition Centre United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Oct - 09 Oct 2014 Aluminium-Germany -  Germany Aluminium 2014 is is the leading b2b platform in the world for the aluminium industry and its main applications. this is where the who-is-who of the industry meets. the trade fair unites producers, processors, technology suppliers and consumers.... Venue : Exhibition Centre Essen ,Essen Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 11 Sep - 13 Sep 2014 Annofer -  Turkey ANNOFER brings together the products and technologies associated with the whole supply chain of non-ferrous metals manufacturing and processing. Venue : Tuyap Fair Convention and Congress Center ,Istanbul Turkey Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 11 Jun - 13 Jun 2014 Teknomotive -  Italy Teknomotive 2014 is the only exhibition in italy with an international character dedicated to materials, technologies and subcontracting for the transport industry, which is providing an exellent platform for the related industry and related.... Venue : Brixia Expo ,BS Italy Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration « Prev 1 Next » Trade Shows by Month May 2015 Jun 2015 Jul 2015 Aug 2015 Sep 2015 Oct 2015 Nov 2015 Dec 2015 Jan 2016 Feb 2016 Mar 2016 Apr 2016 Trade Shows by Country Argentina Australia China Germany France India Italy Japan South Korea Mexico Russian Federation United Kingdom United States WELCOME GUEST Join Us! Its Free or Sign In For Supplier For Buyers Create your catalog FREE Suppliers... Get listed in our catalogs, advertise your products to thousands of buyers worldwide, and much more! Advertise FREE Get listed in our catalogs, advertise your products to thousands of buyers worldwide, and much more! Read More Post your Buy Requirement Get instant detailed quotes from pre-verified Suppliers Search Products / Suppliers Send inquiries directly to the Manfacturers/suppliers Read More General Links Home Contact Us Sitemap Help About Us Feedback Terms of Use Testimonials Advertise with Us Disclaimer Resources Email this Page Bookmark Page Make EI Home Page Trade Tool Kit Buy Offers Post Buy Requirement Post Products - FREE Services Directory Business Services Real Estate Tours & Travels Employment Services Matrimonials Services Business Directory Manufacturers Exporters Suppliers Service Providers Web Design By WeblinkIndia.NET - ISO 9001:2008 Certified © Copyright 2015. All Rights Reserved. ExportersIndia.com