ESSO-INCOIS-Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services ESSO - Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (An Autonomous Body under the Ministry of Earth Sciences, Govt. of India) Menu Hindi Home Vacancies Tenders Library Feedback Sitemap Contact Us Menu Organisation Organisation About Us Mission Activity Spectrum Structure Human Resources Director's Desk Quality Policy Contact Us Services Services Marine Fishery Advisories Potential Fishing Zone Tuna Fishing Advisories Ocean State Forecast Tsunami Early Warnings Storm Surge Warnings Indian Seismic and GNSS Network Coral Bleaching Alerts Coastal Geospatial Applications Vulnerability Index Multi hazard Vulnerability Mapping Updates Of Climate Indices SST Anomaly ElNino IOD Data & Information Data & Information Insitu Data Remote Sensing Live Access Server Tropflux Data QC Manuals Project Datasets Publications Contact Us Ocean Observations Ocean Observations Modelling & Research Ocean Modelling & Research HOOFS HYCOM INCOIS-GODAS MOM TSUNAMI STORM SURGE Satellite Oceanography Satellite Oceanography ChloroGIN SATCORE ITCOocean ITCOocean Quick Links Quick Links International Interface International Interface IOGOOS SIBER IIOE Employee's Corner Employee's Corner INCOIS Mail Employee Self Service Portal INCOIS - INTRANET Weather Bulletins Weather Bulletins Visakhapatnam Chennai Kolkata Awards Immovable Properties Story of the Oceans Ocean Tutor Vacancies Vacancies Regular Temporary Tenders Annual Reports Photo Gallery News News News Clipings Ocean News Letter Library Library ESSO-INCOIS Knowledge Resource Centre eprints@ESSO-INCOIS eprints@MoES Users Feedback Home Organisation Mission Our Mission To provide ocean data, information and advisory services to society, industry, government and scientific community through sustained ocean observations, and constant improvements through systematic and focused research in information management and ocean modelling. The major objectives of ESSO-INCOIS are: To establish, maintain and manage systems for data acquisition, analysis, interpretation and archival for Ocean Information and related services. To undertake, aid, promote, guide and co-ordinate research in the field of ocean information and related services including satellite oceanography. To carry out surveys and acquire information using satellite technology, ships, buoys, boats or any other platforms to generate information on fisheries, minerals, oil, biology, hydrology, bathymetry, geology, meteorology, coastal zone management and associated resources. To generate and provide data along with value added data products to user communities. To cooperate and collaborate with other national and international institutions in the field of ocean remote sensing, oceanography, atmospheric sciences/meteorology and coastal zone management. To establish Early Warning System for Tsunami and Storm Surges. To support the research centres in conducting investigations in specified areas related to oceanic processes, ocean atmospheric interaction, coastal zone information, data synthesis, data analysis and data collection. To organise training programmes, seminars and symposia to advance study and research related to oceanography and technology. To publish and disseminate information, results of research, data products, maps and digital information through all technologically possible methods to users for promoting research and to meet societal needs for improvement of living standards. To provide consultancy services in the fields of ocean information and advisory services. To co-ordinate with space agencies to ensure continuity, consistency and to obtain state-of-the-art ocean data from satellite observations. To encourage and support governmental and non-governmental agencies/organizations for furthering programmes in the generation and dissemination of ocean information. To undertake other lawful activities as may be necessary, incidental or conducive to the attainment and furtherance of all or any of the above objectives of ESSO-INCOIS. Organization About Us Mission Activity Spectrum Structure Human Resources Director's Desk Quality Policy Contact Us Menu Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Copy Right © ESSO- Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), Govt of India. All Rights Reserved.