Agriculture Investment Company, Agricultural Financial Services, Agriculture Financing Contact us "Society promoted by Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India" Home About Us VCA Scheme VCA Scheme Venture Capital Assistance Scheme - Brochure VCA Operational Guidelines (in English & Hindi) List of Banks with whom MOU has been signed by SFAC Utilization of Funds Earmarked for NER, SC & ST under VCA Scheme VCA Application Form - Revised VCA Presentation Simplification of Documentation Process under VCA Scheme-reg. View All Sanctioned Project Revised Fee For Consultant Under SFAC Schemes Track your VCA application Publication Farmer Producer Organizations Farmer Producer Organizations FPO Brochure State Level Producer Companies Detailed List of Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs-Statewise) SuGyan Krishidoot - Connect State Level Association PPP-MSP Resource Institutions(RIs) empanelled for promotion of Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) during XII Five Year Plan Equity Grant Status Status as on 05th May, 2015 Empanelled Institutions Process of Empanelment of Consultants Empanelled Consultants Technical Support Agency Others Media/ Press Releases Photo Gallery Publication State Level Roundtable Conferences For FPOs Events Online Discussion A New Dawn - A Film on FPO Produced by SFAC Archives Project Management Services Project Management Services HMNEH FMDCP PPP-IAD Publication Publication Krishi Sutra Onion & Potato Report Guidelines Home About us About us Overview Vision Mission Objectives Work Scope Secretariat Organizational Structure Overview India is an agrarian economy and agriculture continues to be the mainstay of the Indian Economy, whose contribution to the national gross domestic product is about 25% and provides livelihood for nearly 65% of the population. It provides employment to about 65% of the labour force, which accounts for nearly 27% of GDP, it contributes 21% of the total export and raw material to several Industries. Agricultural sector has tremendous potential for expansion of employment opportunities and consequently mitigating the levels of rural poverty. These objectives can be achieved only if concerted efforts are made to realize the untapped potential of this sector. Low productivity in many crops, imbalance in the regional development, post harvest losses and inadequate processing facilities are some of the major weaknesses. There is a greater need for efficient linkages between the producers and the consumers for expanding employment opportunities and increasing the rural income through better marketing of agricultural products.   Vision Promoting Agri-Business by encouraging institutional and private sector investments and linkages to ensure the empowerment of all farmers in the country. Mission To link small farmers to technology as well as to the markets in association with private, corporate or cooperative sector and if necessary, by providing backward and forward linkages. Objectives To catalyze agro-industrial growth in the country based on the principles of: (a) Ecological sustainability (b) Economic efficiency (c) Social equity To undertake or assist in undertaking programs for employment generation, growth and diversification of agriculture & agro-based industries to increase food production and export of agriculture products, in both primary and processed forms. To identify and promote post-harvest processing/manufactures units in the public , private and cooperative sector. To promote organization of marketing chain both for domestic and export marketing. To influence Government policies for agriculture, there by increasing the flow of resources and augmenting the rate of capital formation in agriculture sector. To pave the way for establishment of integrated producers’ organizations with forward and backward linkages. To prepare, print and publish papers, periodicals, monographs in furtherance of the objectives of the society. Work Scope SFAC in addition to the endeavors complying with its core objectives, also takes up implementation of the schemes and programs of various Government of India (GOI) Ministries and Departments and other Financial Institutions and Banks on a service charge basis. The SFAC society is currently implementing the following schemes and programs viz. The Schematic Pattern of Assistance from SFAC, out of GOI grants-in-aid for promotion of value addition in the hands of farmers, through setting up part-processing, Semi-processing and full-processing facilities, through the setting up of Agri-Business ventures all over the country mostly in collaboration with the private sector. and active corporation of commercial banks. SFAC also provides to agri-business projects involving value addition in the hands of the farmers. Most of these projects involve agri-partner and post harvest management, marketing etc. Horticulture Mission For North East And Himalayan States (HMNEH) on Behalf of the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, which seeks to create a viable alternative livelihood option for the people of NER, taking into account the entire gamut of horticulture development, with all backward and forward linkages in a holistic manner Secretariat SFAC secretariat is being strengthened in terms of man power resources, office equipment and utilization of external services so that it is enabled to play an effective role in promoting the interest of the farming community as a whole. Organisational Structure Small Farmers' Agri-Business Consortium NCUI Auditorium Building, 5th Floor, 3, Siri Institutional Area, August Kranti Marg, Hauz Khas, New Delhi - 110016. (T) +91-11- 26966017, 26966037 (F) +91-11- 26862367 (E) sfac@nic.in (W) www.sfacindia.com OUR TEAM Name : Sh. Pravesh Sharma Designation : Managing Director Office Telephone No. : 26862365 Name : Ms. Sapna Nigam Designation : Director (VCA) Office Telephone No. : 26569316 Name : Sh. D. Bhuyan Designation : Director (Projects) Office Telephone No. : 26562648 Name : Sh. S. K. DAS Designation : Field Officer Office Telephone No. : 0361-2340337 Mobile No. : 09436132237 Address : Jain Complex, 3rd Floor, G.S. Road, Near Dispur, Old Post Office, Guwahati-781005. Name : Sh. Rajesh Bhatnagar Designation : Finance Manager Office Telephone No. : 26966017/37 Name : Sh. Sushil Kumar Designation : Assistant Office Telephone No. : 26966017/37 Name : Sh. V.S. Rawat Designation : Assistant Office Telephone No. : 26966017/37 Name : Sh. Suresh Chand Bisht Designation : Assistant GR-II Office Telephone No. : 26966017/37 Name : Sh. Vikas Thakral Designation : Assistant GR-II Office Telephone No. : 26966017/37 Name : Sh. Kundan Singh Rawal Designation : Driver Office Telephone No. : 26966017/37 State SFACs Advertisement Tenders List of Empanelled Consultants of SFAC SFAC Logo Standards and Usage Manual What's New SFAC Participated in International Horti Intex 2014, Coimbatore Utilization of Funds Earmarked for NER, SC & ST under VCA Scheme VCA Application Form - Revised Archives Home About us VCA Scheme Farmer Producer Organizations Project Management Services Publication Photos Contact us © Copyright 2013 SFAC . All rights reserved. XML-Sitemap Developed, Designed & Maintained by Arete Software (A division of Arete Consultants Pvt Ltd) Social Media: Back to Top