Live Spirulina culture for sale - Page 3 AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale Live Spirulina culture for sale Page 3 of 3 First 1 2 3 Jump to page: Results 21 to 23 of 23 Thread: Live Spirulina culture for sale LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 2 Weeks Ago #21 motovilka Join Date May 2015 Posts 1 Hi Olari, I was wondering if you're still willing to sell some live spirulina for growing. If so please contact me at tina.munda@gmail.com Thank you for your consideration. Greetings from Slovenia P.S. It's very kind of you to offer us assistance with growing spirulina as it is very difficult to buy! Reply With Quote 6 Days Ago #22 earthiemama Join Date May 2015 Posts 1 Spirulina Culture I would LOVE to get a culture from you!! Please email me at info@earthiemama.com Thank yoU! Originally Posted by olari Hello, I am growing Live Spirulina at home for drying and consuming it my self at the moment. I figured that there are also more people who would be interested in growing it at home but the prices are very high for getting starter culture. If you want to buy live Spirulina culture, please PM me. I would be glad to sell you some strains. All the best, Olari Reply With Quote 1 Day Ago #23 mr15055 Join Date May 2015 Posts 1 Spirulina culture Originally Posted by olari Hello, I am growing Live Spirulina at home for drying and consuming it my self at the moment. I figured that there are also more people who would be interested in growing it at home but the prices are very high for getting starter culture. If you want to buy live Spirulina culture, please PM me. I would be glad to sell you some strains. All the best, Olari Hi I am from AUSTRALIA I am another crazy bugger , also are interested in growing Spirulina and Chlorella cultures . What can you tell me about your experiences growing Spirulina . I have bought Spirulina powder and taking it in a glass of water is difficult , but I now put it in capsules and get it into my body with no trouble. Where are you from in the world . It is winter here in south Australia so growing the spirulina outside will be a problem though I have made a glass house 1000 lt wine container cut in half with glass on top this should bring it up to temperature sooner maybe in August ect. What would you want for a starter culture . If I find a fish aquarium setup then I could get started otherwise it will be a while yet. My email address is: mr15055@internode.on.net Mark Rohrlach At the moment in the process of growing bamboo from seed and moringa trees from seed. Reply With Quote Page 3 of 3 First 1 2 3 Jump to page: « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread arthrospira , live spirulina culture , spirulina cultivation , spirulina culture View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 10:10 PM .