Rural, farming and agricultural industry news  CARS  LIVESTOCK  RURAL BOOKSHOP  RURAL PROPERTY  HORSE DEALS  JOBS  WEATHER  AGTRADER Mostly sunny Sydney, NSW NOW 13°C MAX 19°C Postcode   THE LAND QUEENSLAND COUNTRY LIFE STOCK JOURNAL STOCK & LAND FARM WEEKLY NORTH QUEENSLAND REGISTER Latest Multimedia Newsletters Mobile App Digital Edition Subscribe Login FACEBOOK TWITTER EDITOR'S PICKS Railing against endless reports Shedding light on El Niño uncertainty Milk wars: Farmers angered by Woolies ad PETA's protest peters out    THE little lost lamb wandered aimlessly along George Street, Sydney as if it were desperately seeking its mother among the crowed flock. LATEST NEWS PETA's protest peters out Winter's start set to chill southeast Murray Goulburn reveals float price Labour-hire taskforce makes progress Wool Week a winner for retailers Four-year high for EMI LGBTI hero from the bush Wagyu a good investment Wooltrade's online records WEATHER & CLIMATE News and resources on Australian weather and climate conditions, with drought report, warnings, rainfall and local weather links. Budget breakdown 2015 WANT to know how the 2015 Federal Budget will impact ag? Check out our full coverage HERE ... Beef 2015 Access Queensland Country Life's dedicated Beef 2015 webpage here. ‹ › Meet the team I love being a rural journalist because of the great diversity of my role in Canberra Colin Bettles Reporting agricultural market lows makes celebrating the high prices even sweeter Karen Bailey It's great being based in one of Australia's big grain producing regions Gregor Heard There is nothing more important, for people and the planet, than good agriculture Matthew Cawood It's great to be able to report on the latest research developments in such a progressive industry Ashley Walmsley Nobody tells it like it really is like a farmer.Telling their stories keeps your feet on the ground. Andrew Norris I enjoy telling the stories of innovation, resilience and determination that make agriculture great Jacinta Rose As a rural journo I get to tell the story of an industry I am incredibly proud of - agriculture Carla Wiese-Smith Stay updated Start your day with the biggest stories. Your newspaper now available on iPad/PC. Northern NSW water restrictions lifted 29 May 15  Temporary restrictions have been removed for thirsty irrigators in the Barwon-Darling, Namoi, Gwydir and Border rivers. PETA's protest peters out 29 May 15  THE little lost lamb wandered aimlessly along George Street, Sydney as if it were desperately seeking its mother... Honouring our Anzacs In honour of 100 years of Anzac, read our moving stories of rural Australia's WW1 sacrifice. Special feature WILD dog control measures are only half the battle – recording data for effective targeting is a huge task. And that’s where we come in. Read personal stories and find links to resources on our new mental health page Pilot dead in Mitchell chopper crash 29 May 15  THE Injune and Surat communities are mourning the loss of 40-year-old pilot Jeff Dean who was killed mustering north... Outback pub raises a glass for cancer 28 May 15  AN outback pub in remote Queensland isn’t the most likely of places to enjoy your Earl Grey. Fraser Coast's cattle comp comeback AFTER a weather-induced two-year hiatus, the Fraser Coast Show prime cattle competition thumped its way back into the program last Friday. Downs Wagyu 'ticks all boxes' THE Australian Agricultural Company (AACo) has claimed top gong in the Royal Queensland Food and Wine Show (RQFWS) branded beef and lamb competition - with Darling Downs Wagyu. Titmarsh family hope for better times PROLONGED drought and last year's dramatic dip in cattle prices forced the Titmarsh family to destock their Maryborough property to below half its carrying capacity. ‹ › Special feature Landcare In Focus: May 2015 Click to read the latest Landcare In Focus special. Young Farmers business bootcamp 29 May 15  THE Boot Camp for Young Farmers pilot program delivered across Victoria last week has been two years in the making. RFCS gets lifeline 22 May 15  THE emphasis of drought assistance was very much on northern NSW and Queensland in last week's budget, but... EU Angus exceed 300c/kg CATTLE broke through the 300 cents-a-kilogram barrier at Bairnsdale's store cattle sale last Friday for EU-accredited Angus cattle from the high country. Jingle rings in $40,000 IN A fitting celebration for the event's 50th year, the Wodonga Hereford National Show and Sale grossed in excess of $1 million. Myrtleford cows and calves to $1880 A PERFECT autumn morning led to strong result at the Myrtleford store sale on Friday. Hamilton cattle price boost SOUTH Australian buyers on the hunt for feeder and restocker cattle after recent rain - helped to lift prices at Hamilton yesterday. ‹ › Special feature Visit our Beef Week 2015 feature to see all the coverage from the event. Read personal stories and find resources to help you tackle succession planning Balco welcomes Chinese investor 29 May 15  SOUTH Australian hay exporter Balco Australia, which also has a depot at Brookton, has become the latest local... Time running out to win a HiLux ute 28 May 15  TIME is running out to get your entries in to win a Toyota HiLux ute courtesy of New Town Toyota and Kalamunda...