Datanetindia-ebooks : Explore Elction Result Analysis of Parliamentary (Lok Sabha) and State Assembly (Vidhan Sabha) Elections in India with Our Publications. Datanet India    IP Login About Us Contact Us   A Comparative Analysis of General Election Results of India : 2009-2014   This 354+ all coloured pages book is a comparative analysis of India's General Election of 2009 and 2014 with the help of 205 thematic maps, over 235 graphs and lots of stats. The electoral facts and figures with thematic maps perhaps have never been available in such a comprehensive manner as presented in this book. View Sample Indiastat India Top 10 Yearbook 2015 Key Statistics To Know India Better This seventh edition of the book continues to serves as a reference source of various interesting and amazing key statistical facts about India and the world. The information contains ranges from demographics, agriculture, economy, industry, infrastructure, sports, crime, travel and tourism, health and education to markets. All the interesting pieces of information have been presented in order of 10. The comparative facts of India and the world with India’s position in the world, for the major socio-economic attributes would serve as an eye opener for students, academicians, marketers, and travelers. View Sample Analysis of Haryana State Assembly Election Results 2009 - 2014 This report in a comparative analysis of Haryana state assembly election results 2009 and 2014 through the thematic maps. It consists of nine chapters viz; basic features, demographic profile, electoral features, election results, analysis of results, vote difference & swings, state level time series comparison, top ten raking of assembly constituencies and candidates and the supporting datasheets. It will facilitate to understand the performance of parties and candidates within a period of last two assembly elections. The book is aimed to serve as a post-election reference book for politicians, policy makers, researchers, psephologists, media professionals and academia who have interest in electoral politics of Haryana. View Sample Analysis of Maharashtra State Assembly Election Results 2009 - 2014 This report in a comparative analysis of Maharashtra state assembly election results 2009 and 2014 through the thematic maps. It consists of nine chapters viz; basic features, demographic profile, electoral features, election results, analysis of results, vote difference & swings, state level time series comparison, top ten raking of assembly constituencies and candidates and the supporting datasheets. It will facilitate to understand the performance of parties and candidates within a period of last two assembly elections. The book is aimed to serve as a post-election reference book for politicians, policy makers, researchers, psephologists, media professionals and academia who have interest in electoral politics of Maharashtra. View Sample Analysis of Jharkhand State Assembly Election Results 2009 - 2014 This report in a comparative analysis of Jharkhand state assembly election results 2009 and 2014 through the thematic maps. It consists of nine chapters viz; basic features, demographic profile, electoral features, election results, analysis of results, vote difference & swings, state level time series comparison, top ten raking of assembly constituencies and candidates and the supporting datasheets. It will facilitate to understand the performance of parties and candidates within a period of last two assembly elections. The book is aimed to serve as a post-election reference book for politicians, policy makers, researchers, psephologists, media professionals and academia who have interest in electoral politics of Jharkhand. View Sample Analysis of Jammu & Kashmir State Assembly Election Results 2008 - 2014 This report in a comparative analysis of Jammu & Kashmir state assembly election results 2008 and 2014 through the thematic maps. It consists of nine chapters viz; basic features, demographic profile, electoral features, election results, analysis of results, vote difference & swings, state level time series comparison, top ten raking of assembly constituencies and candidates and the supporting datasheets. It will facilitate to understand the performance of parties and candidates within a period of last two assembly elections. The book is aimed to serve as a post-election reference book for politicians, policy makers, researchers, psephologists, media professionals and academia who have interest in electoral politics of Jammu & Kashmir. View Sample Analysis of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana State Assembly Election Results 2009 - 2014 This report in a comparative analysis of state assembly election results 2009 and 2014 through the thematic maps. It consists of nine chapters viz; basic features, demographic profile, electoral features, election results, analysis of results, vote difference & swings, state level time series comparison, top ten raking of assembly constituencies and candidates and the supporting datasheets. It will facilitate to understand the performance of parties and candidates within a period of last two assembly elections. The book is aimed to serve as a post-election reference book for politicians, policy makers, researchers, psephologists, media professionals and academia who have interest in election politics of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states. View Sample 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Our Publications Select Shipping Location:      India    Rest of the world       SAARC Nation Datanet India Initiatives India's most comprehensive e-resource of socio-economic data A Cluster of 57 Associate Websites more Provides constituency-wise election data for all 543 parliamentary and 4120 state assembly constituencies, since independence more A storehouse of socio-economic statistical information of 620 districts of India A Cluster of 660 Associate Websites more Over 1000 key statistical facts about India and the world have been presented in order of 10 more 14 years of serving socio-economic & political research fraternity in India and abroad Recognized by for having the largest cluster of 717 websites providing socio−economic statistical data © Datanet India Pvt. Ltd.