Wildlife Sanctuaries in Assam, National parks of Assam Home » Maps » Wildlife » Sanctuaries and National Parks of Assam   Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Silchar Jorhat Haflong Nagoan Guwahati Tezpur Dispur Sibsagar                          more... असम का नक्शा Districts of Assam Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map National Parks of Assam Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Economy & Development Society Travel to Assam Places to Visit in Assam Wildlife Sanctuaries Kamakhya Temple National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Education in Assam Universities in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info       Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks of Assam Sanctuaries and National Parks of Assam Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the location of Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks of Assam. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The wildlife sanctuaries in Assam are a heterogeneous mixture of a variety of landscapes, plants, birds and animals. The suitable climatic conditions, geographical location and vast forest reserves have made Assam a favorable destination for birds, animals and natural vegetation. Assam is home to several wildlife sanctuaries and national parks that are the breeding ground for some of the rarest global species. The many wildlife sanctuaries in Assam provide shelter to large number of wildlife right from the Golden Langur to the horned rhinoceros. Popular Wildlife sanctuaries in Assam Chakrashila Wildlife Sanctuary The Chakrashila Wildlife Sanctuary is one of the most popular wildlife dens in Assam. Situated in the Kokrajhar and Dhubri districts of Assam, this wildlife sanctuary spreads over an area of 45.568 km2 on the Chakrashila Hills. The sanctuary was declared as a reserve forest in 1966 and in 1994 it was recognized by the state government as a wildlife sanctuary. Encompassing the Beel and Diplai Beel Lakes this wildlife sanctuary offers a host of wildlife attractions like Golden Langur, Indian Flying Fox, Indian False Vampire, Indian Pipistrelle, Rhesus Macaque, Short-tailed Mole, Chinese Pangolin, Short Nosed Fruit Bat, Asiatic Jackal and Bengal Fox and Hornbills. Also the sanctuary happens to be the second protected home of the endangered Golden Langur. Kaziranga National Park It is situated on the banks of the Brahmaputra River. This wildlife sanctuary in Assam spreads over 800 sq km of vast green vegetations. The backdrop of Kaziranga National Park Assam includes dry deciduous forests, rocky landscapes and tall thickets. The vast tracts of grasslands make bird and wild life watching extremely pleasurable. The major attractions in this sanctuary apart from the abounding natural beauty are the rhinos. The entire park can be visited in a jeep and you can actually see the animals from just a few centimeters away. The Hoollongapar Gibbon Sanctuary It was constituted in 1997. This wildlife sanctuary is in an isolated region in Assam and is sure to give you goose bumps. Surrounded by tea gardens and long stretches of grasslands this wildlife sanctuary in Assam is reputed throughout the country for its rich biodiversity. If you are a true animal lover then this is just the right place for you. The Hoollongapar Gibbon Sanctuary is home to the only gibbons in India; the hoolock gibbons, and Bengal Slow Loris, Northeastern India's only nocturnal monkey. Dibru-Saikhowa Wildlife Sanctuary It is popular all over the country for its collection of wild horses known as Feral Horses. This sanctuary is home to some of the rarest white winged species. The sanctuary houses a number of unique and beautiful migratory birds. Bura-Chapori Wildlife Sanctuary The colorful and exuberant state of Assam abounds in tradition, history, folklore, grandeur, architectural splendor as well as panoramic natural beauty.Bura-Chapori Wildlife Sanctuary is set in a breathtaking locale that covers a moderate expanse of 44.06 sq. km. The wildlife reserve lies on the northern bank of the turbulent Brahmaputra River in Sonitpur District. Bornadi Wildlife Sanctuary Assam is blessed with abundant scenic magnificence. It has a wealth of rarest and highly endangered species of wildlife including Pygmy Hog, Golden Langur, Clouded Leopard, Hoolock Gibbon, White-Winged Woodduck, Tiger, Hispid Hare, Swamp Deer, etc. Bornadi Wildlife Sanctuary is considered as one of the important protected areas in Assam for the protection of primate diversity. You will be stunned by the idyllic beauty of the Sanctuary with the majestic Himalayas on one side and the Bhutan on the other. East Karbi Anglong Wildlife Sanctuary The treasure trove of Assam's natural heritage is housed in Karbi Anglong District' Wildlife Sanctuary. The sanctuary encompasses a net area of 221.81 sq. km and is strategically located to facilitate tourism and accessibility to the state. East Karbi Anglong Wildlife Sanctuary houses a plethora of exotic flora as well as rare species of wild animals and birds. The reserve is use to protect and preserve variegated species of resident and migratory birds. A sylvan lake of captivating beauty surrounds the reserve. Deepor Beel Bird Sanctuary It is a proposed sanctuary in Assam that is supposed to be situated amidst a zone of idyllic bliss with its lush greenery sprinkled with sparkling water bodies. The sanctuary's premises exude an aura of tranquility and the melodious twitters of birds are a welcome break that occasionally disturbs the quietude. As the name signifies Deepor Beel Bird Sanctuary, Guwahati is being constructed to shelter abundant species of birds dappled in vibrant hues. The Department of Forests, Assam has listed over 120 species of birds to be housed in the sanctuary. They include numerous kingfishers, fishing eagles, adjutant storks and a plethora of ducks. Laokhowa Wildlife Sanctuary The state of Assam is gifted with wide range of flora and fauna. There are numerous wildlife sanctuaries in Assam. If you want to enjoy the wildlife diversity of the state you can visit the wildlife sanctuaries like Laokhowa wildlife sanctuary, Kaziranga National Park, Sonai rupai wildlife sanctuary, Chakrashila wildlife sanctuary, Pobitora wildlife sanctuary, Bura-chapori wildlife sanctuary, Gibbon wildlife sanctuary, East karbi anglong wildlife sanctuary, Bornadi wildlife sanctuary, Pobha or milroy sanctuary, Gorampani wildlife sanctuary, Nambor wildlife sanctuary. Gibbon Wildlife Sanctuary It derived its name from the Gibbons (Bunopithecus hoolock), which are one of the rarely found primate species in India. After relentless demand by the locals and various NGOs, the Gibbon Wildlife Sanctuary was established in 1997. The sanctuary was originally a part of Hollongapar Reserve Forest rich in various plant species. The Forest has been named after the species of trees: Holong (Diperocarpus Macrocarpus) and Agar (Aquilaria agallocha). Apart from these, the other plant species found in the sanctuary are Garcinia spp., Terminalia mycocarpe, Artocarpus chaplasha, Mesua ferra, Lagerstromia speciasa, and several species of bamboo, Michelia champaca, ferns and orchids. Bordoibam Bilmukh Bird Sanctuary It is an imminent sanctuary shared between the districts of Lakhimpur and Dhemaji of Assam. Nature lovers can get a glimpse of the state's diverse natural heritage on a visit to the proposed picturesque site of the Bordoibam Bilmukh Bird Sanctuary, Lakhimpur, Dhemaji. The sanctuary's site is located at a magnificent locale that overlooks a breathtaking fresh green backdrop. The idyllic green paradise is dotted by sylvan lakes and sparkling water bodies that accentuate the scenic rhapsodies of the surroundings. Nambor Wildlife Sanctuary The land of mystic hills, Assam is the perfect stopover for tourists on a Northeast Indian sojourn. The jungle-clad hills and valleys are the homes of several species of wild animals that provide a glimpse of the state's diverse natural heritage. Nambor Wildlife Sanctuary is an eminent sanctuary of Assam. Situated amidst an oasis of idyllic green and dotted by sylvan water bodies that glitter like a mirage of quicksilver, Nambor Wildlife Sanctuary is a moderately sized sanctuary that stretches across an expanse of 37 sq. km. The sanctuary is a haven for wild animals like the regal elephants and the majestic predatory Royal Bengal Tigers, the country's national animal. wildlife/ birding itinerary Assam wildlife/ birding itinerary is a very talked about topic with tourists and sightseers alike. The gateway to the mystic northeastern frontiers abounds in dense forests, wildlife sanctuaries and national parks. Quite naturally, these wildlife tours are a rage with tourists. Assam wildlife's claims to fame lie in the two legendary UNESCO World Heritage Sites of Kaziranga National Park and the Manas National Park. Kaziranga is the natural habitat of the near extinction Great Indian one horned rhino. Manas National Park, on the other hand is a picturesque reserve lying a the junction of the jungle-clad Himalayan foothills and the Manas River is one of the nine elite Tiger Reserve Projects in the country that are committed to protecting the endangered national animal, the Royal Bengal Tiger. Last Updated on : 05 April 2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule