IL&FS Cluster Development Intiative You are missing some Flash content that should appear here! Perhaps your browser cannot display it, or maybe it did not initialize correctly. About Us Services Projects Careers Downloads Contact Us Re -Tender Notice for Procurement of Goods & Service under Cotton Technical Assistance Programme 'Date of Release of Tender Document: 31.10.2014 Last Date of Submission - 15.11.2014 (EOD)'   |   Tender Document for 'Supply, Delivery & Installation of Laboratory Equipments' for Biopesticide Laboratory to be set up in Uganda   |   Tender Document for 'Supply, Delivery, Installation & Commissioning of Ginning related Plant & Machinery on Turnkey Basis' for Setting up of Regional Knowledge Cluster cum Training Centre on Post Harvest & Ginning Technology in Benin   |   Tender Document for Supply of Laboratory Equipment's for Biopesticide Laboratory to be set up in Uganda.   |   Supply of Sewing Machines & Accessories for Centre for Training in Apparel Manufacturing in Nigeria & Malawi   |   Supply, Delivery, Installation & Commissioning of Ginning Plant & Machinery on Turnkey Basis for Setting up of Regional Knowledge Cluster cum Training Centre on Post Harvest & Ginning Technology in Benin   |   We are proud to be associated as Knowledge Partner at 3rd Global Economic Summit (GES) 2013 Home We believe inhandholding India's industrial growth through considerable contribution from the MSMEs, by providing them with strong infrastructure enablers through a collaborative approach, thereby ensuring trade related compliances & creating a conducive framework for MSMEs to move up the value chain efficiently and expeditiously Our Initatives Industrial Clusters : We offer complete business service framework inclusive of end to end solutions for development of a cluster. The services range from project design, development, engineering and financing. Development of Rural/ Artisan Clusters : We have an extensive experience of designing, developing, mobilising resources and managing sustainable livelihood solutions artisan clusters. Our projects involve mapping of the sectors and resources, gap analysis, strategy for upliftment of sector and implementation framework to address the gaps Agro & Rural Cluster Development : As part of our focus on interventions in infrastructure at cluster level in various sectors, we recognise agriculture and food processing as a priority sector. We offer industry solutions on value chains along with services focusing on capacity building of stakeholders, linkages and related policy advisory. Policy Advisory : Recognising the fact that an enabling policy environment is a pre requisite to holistic development of clusters, we have been working actively with central and state governments, international agencies and industry associations in formulating development schemes and interventions. Cluster Initiatives in Africa : We have been working proactively in Africa to build cluster competitiveness to frame synergies and innovative, collaborative projects across sectors including agriculture, food processing and textiles. The Cotton Technical Assistance Programme for Africa (CTAP) is one such project under this initiative. The Programme aims to strengthen the cotton value chain in Africa to fortify the competitiveness of the sector. Disclaimer  |  Privacy Policy  |  Sitemap Copyright © 2013 IL&FS Cluster Development Intiative. All Rights Reserved. Best viewed at 1024 x 768. Powered by IL&FS Education and Technology Services Limited