Official Website of Chandigarh Administration Agriculture The Union Territory, Chandigarh has a limited area under agriculture. The agriculture land is being gradually acquired for the expansion of Chandigarh City. The Cultivated area has shrunk from 5441 hectares in 1966 to 1300 hectares in 2005-06. 880 farming families cultivate this area. The holdings wise details of farming families are as under:   No. of families having land up to 2.1/2acres 600   No. of families having land up to 5acres 215   No. of families having land above 5acres 65   Total 880 Out of 1300 hectares cultivated land, 1285 hectares is irrigated. The main sources of irrigation are deep-bore tube-wells installed by the Chandigarh Administration and shallow tube-wells installed by individual farmers. The farmers of Union Territory, Chandigarh who keep large number of milch cattle have taken to fodder cultivation to cater the demand of milch cattle. Therefore, the area under food grain crops are decreasing. The main food grain is wheat and its sown nearly in about 600 hectares and the fodder is sown nearly in about 1000 hectares in both the season. The Chandigarh Administration is providing following facilities to the farmers:- Timely supply of inputs like Pesticides, fertilizers, seeds and garden tools. Supply of adequate irrigation water from the deep-bore tube-wells. Arranging of farmers study tours/camps. Supply of ornamental fruit plants, seeds and seeds and seedling of flowers and vegetables on reasonable cost. In order to bring all-round development in the filed of agriculture and to have optimum benefits form the remaining land, following schemes are under implementation and also have been  proposed for implementation in the 11th Five year Plan 2007-2012, with an outlay of Rs.20.00 laces and Rs. 4.00lacs for Annual Plan 2007-08:- Extension and Farmers training study tour: This scheme was introduced during the 7th Five year Plan with the objective of acquainting Union Territory, farmers with the latest and improved farming techniques and has proved to the very useful. Under the scheme the farmers are taken to Punjab Agriculture University Ludhiana and other reputed Agricultural Institutions located in other States to witness the on going agricultural activities. The farmers for study tour have to be selected by making announcement from Gurudwaras of the concerned village and the gram panchayat of said village have to be informed about the study tour so that willing farmers could not left for the opportunity of being provided. For future study tour it is proposed the willing farmers have to deposited Rs. one hundred to village panchayat in advance so that only willing farmers can take the benefit of such tour, the money would be refunded to the concerned farmers during course of study tour. Organic Cultivation of Seeds & Horticulture Chandigarh is a growing and developing City because of its importance as Union Territory is the Capital of Punjab and Haryana. It depends on out side help for the supply of fruits and vegetable. This arrangements is not stable. In this context it is proposed to create and convert the U.T. villages as hinterland for the supply of fruits and vegetable to city population and also to utilize the back yard space of the houses for growing vegetables/fruits plants. Keeping in the felt needs as mentioned above, the Department has already set-up a nursery near Lake Club for supply  of fruits, ornamental plants, seeds and seedlings to urban and rural people. The Department intends to develop the nursery on large scale for supply of fruit/ornamental plants to the rural as well as urban people. The plant Nursery near Lake Club was established to supply quality seeds/seedlings of flowers and vegetables on reasonable rates. The ecological problems caused by using anti-eco-chemical has local national and global consequences, protection of environment and conservation of natural resources are the prime duty of each and every person. Since we all are part of the environment and environmental concern should reflect in every sphere of our life and therefore plantation of more and more plants is the important aspect for the improvement of the environment. To provide good environment and technical guidance, the Kitchen Garden Nursery be strengthened on large scale, with plenty of ornamental and fruits plants, apart from supplying pesticides, seeds and seedlings of flowers and vegetables on reasonable rates. The object of this scheme is to maintain and provide good environment to city residents. The nursery at lake is open to all for purchase of plants, seeds, seedling and availing the faculty of know-how. Every citizen can avail above said facilities on reasonable rates prescribed by the department. Technical officials are available at the nursery from 9.00 A.M. to 5.00 P.M. to listen the grievances of the people and to provided expert knowledge for development of plants. There is no charge for providing know-how to the people. The rate list of plants has been displayed at the sale counter at nursery and these rates have to be revised time to time. Supply of Wheat and Fodder Seeds on 25% discount Since the majority of farmers in Union Territory, Chandigarh are small/marginal, the individual efforts to purchase small quantity of new high yielding seeds of wheat are not fruitful and farmers face difficulty on this account. It is therefore, proposed to procure the wheat seed of latest varieties and to supply the same to the farmers on 25% discount, in order to popularize the use of high yielding seeds of wheat crop and to get maximum production. In Union Territory, Chandigarh the area under agriculture is decreasing due to acquisition of land by the Chandigarh Administration for development of Chandigarh City. The farmers of Union Territory Chandigarh who keep large number of milch cattle have taken to fodder cultivation to cater the demand of milch cattle. Therefore, area under different crops are decreasing and farmers are demanding quality seeds of fodder crops to get better yield of greed fodder so that they may be able to fulfill the demand of fodder to some extent as the area under agriculture is not even sufficient to meet the fodder demand of cattle. Keeping in view of above facts, the department of agriculture has been providing above seeds on 25% discount to the farmers of Union Territory, Chandigarh. The seeds so have been procured have to be distributed to the farmers on first serve basis. The farmers who desiring to obtain the seed of fodder/wheat has to apply on simple paper to the District Agriculture Officer duly recommended by the gram panchayat of concerned village of the Union Territory, Chandigarh and has to deposit 75% cost of above seed with the Sub Inspector of Agriculture Department. Grant of Insecticide License for sell, stock etc Due to introduction of various household insecticides  to control house insects, the numbers of companies have introduced various insecticides in different trade names for which agriculture department has to grant insecticides license under the Act. On receipt of the application, the department is bound to issue license with in 7 days for the grant of or renewal of a license to sell, stock or exhibit for sale or distribute insecticides:- Application for the grant or renewal of above license sell be made in Form VI or on Form VII , as the case may be, to the Licensing Officer alongwith principal letter of manufacturer, quality control affidavit and manufacturing license. The Applicant has also to submit an undertaking that he shall abide by the terms and conditions of the insecticides Act, 1968 and has also to submit rent deed ownership or rent receipt of the premises where the business of insecticides have to be carried out. The fees for the grant or renewal of a license should be Rs.20 for every insecticide for which the license is applied, subject to a maximum of Rs.300/-. Detail of Employees Mobile Numbers Sr. No. Name of Employee Designation Mobile Number 1. Sh. Jai Ram Singh A.D.O. 9988251080 2. Sh. Gurmeet Singh Sub Inspector cum surveyor 9878903875 3. Sh. Bhajan Dass Sub Inspector cum surveyor 9464329801 4. Sh. Gurmail Chand Supervisor 9417959989 5. Sh. Channa Singh Beldar 9988133106 6. Sh. Ram Raj Beldar 9815917204 7. Sh. Varinder Kumar Beldar 9417736675 8. Sh. Avtar Singh Beldar 9592599099 9. Sh. Mukesh Kumar Peon 9569984838