Geography of Gujarat Home » Gujarat » Geography of Gujarat   Gujarat History Geography Weather गुजरात का नक्शा Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Region Map District Map Road Map Railway Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Port Map Ahmedabad Metro Map Cities Ahmedabad Anand Surat Vadodara Dwarka                        more.. Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Gujarat Places to visit in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Beaches Wildlife Sanctuaries Hotels in Gujarat Ahmedabad Hotels Saputara Hotels Surat Hotels Vadodara Hotels Rajkot Hotels Jamnagar Hotels              more... How to reach Airports Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Schools Universities in Gujarat India Map in Gujarati World Map in Gujarati Gujarat Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Gujarat       Geography of Gujarat Going through the geography of Gujarat , one would know that Gujarat is home to many different topographical features and landscapes. The geography of Gujarat deals with the following: climate and natural features rivers dams national parks major cities, etc. Talking about the climate and natural feature of Gujarat, has diverse climatic conditions. Some of the important features of the climate and natural features of Gujarat are: Winters in Gujarat are mild, pleasant and dry- the day temperature is around 83° F and at night is 53° F. Summers are extremely hot and dry - the temperature in day is 115° F, whereas the night temperature is 90° F. Monsoon is generally hot and extremely humid - the temperature at day is 100° F but at night is 80° F. Sometimes, due to heavy rainfall, severe flood occurs in some parts of the region. Another aspect of the geography of Gujarat are the rivers. The major rivers flowing through Gujarat are: Narmada Sabarmati Tapi Purna Damanganga Rukmavati, etc. The geography of Gujarat would be incomplete without a reference to its dams. Some major dams are built on the rivers Narmada, Tapi, Damanganga, Sabarmati. Other dams are Dantiwada-Sipu Dams, Indrasee Hatmati, Wanakbori, etc. The third constituent of the geography of Gujarat is National Park. Some of the important national parks of Gujarat are: Gir Forest National Park Blackbuck National Park Vansda National Park Marine National Park, etc. Among the major cities of Gujarat are: Ahmedabad Vadodara Jamnagar Junagadh Gandhinagar, etc. As we can see, Gujarat is, speaking in terms of geography, a rich nation - it provides a wide range of geographical features. Last Updated on : 30 September 2011 About Gujarat Geography History Weather Area Facts Districts Factsheet Flora and Fauna Topography Textiles People Dresses Food Art and craft Fairs and Festivals Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Outline Map Lat Long Map Elevation Map Mandal Map District Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Industry Map Agriculture Map Railway Map Road Map Tehsil Map River Map Gujarat Thematic Maps Agro Climate Zone Map Fisheries Zone Map Handicrafts Centres Map Geo Environmental Map Map of Ports in Gujarat Forest and Vegetation Map Relative Humidity Map Soil Salinity and Erosion Map Gujarat Minerals Map Oil and Gas Fields Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule