Janaagraha Chennai Volunteer experience - Ms Dona | ngogateway.com Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Latest : Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Posted 1 year ago MARS FOUNDATION Posted 1 year ago St.Theresa’s Educational Society Posted 1 year ago Ray Welfare Society Posted 1 year ago Narain Sewa Sansthan Posted 1 year ago WOMEN ORGANISATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRUST Posted 1 year ago Sewa Bhav Foundation Posted 1 year ago Panrui Swajan Welfare Society Posted 4 years ago Sampark Samaj Kalyan Sansthan Posted 4 years ago The Catholic Health Association of India Posted 4 years ago Home   >   Volunteer Experiences   >   Ms Dona – Volunteer with Janaagraha Chennai Ms Dona – Volunteer with Janaagraha Chennai By admin on April 11, 2009 Working as a volunteer for Jaanagraha Centre For Citizenship & Democracy. I was moved by the work they were doing, so absorbed by a newfound sense of purpose, that the experience became more meaningful then I could have imagined.It gave me an opportunity to interact with people from various social backgrounds.This exposure gave me an insight into the various problems faced by people residing in the urban areas. Working in collaboration with the “Jaago-Re” team,I understood the importance of participative democracy,its significance and ways of bringing participative democracy by starting at the individual level, encouraging the youngsters to vote,creating awareness and facilitating the process. One of the unique characteristics that I found about Jaanagraha was that there was no hierarchy and there was open communication between all the members of the organization. I felt that I was a part of the change. Though there was a level of commitment between all the members I always felt the freedom to express all my thoughts and ideas. Volunteering not only helped me to learn and expand my knowledge, but also to grow as a practical person and at the same time was a fun experience. About Janaagraha J anaagraha is a not-for-profit institution started in December 2001 by two founders – Ramesh and Swati Ramanathan. From a movement to include people’s participation in public governance it has now evolved into a robust institution for Citizenship and Democracy. If you would like to Volunteer with Janaagraha in Chennai please mail balmur.che@gmail.com else Click here Related Posts: World Youth Organization Sita Gramodyog Vikas Sansthan (SGVS) Service and Research Institute on Family and… Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) People for Peace Service Society dona janaagraha chennai About admin Related Posts Interview: Mr Balamurugan – Coordinator Janaagraha Chennai – Part 1 Interview: Mr Balamurugan – Coordinator Janaagraha Chennai – Part 1 You must be logged in to post a comment Login Latest News pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile: A.... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym) –... Posted 8 months ago 0 Society for Peoples Integrated Development General information: Full Name of organization Society for People’s Integrated... Posted 8 months ago 0 Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Address: At – Bhalunka Po- Ramdaspur (Godisahi) Dist – Cuttack... Posted 8 months ago 0 Shri Durga Mahila Mandal (SDMM) Village & P.O. Ghanauli, District Roopnagar (Punjab) Shri Durga Mahila... Posted 8 months ago 0 Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) 1A, D. L. Khan Road,... Posted 8 months ago 0 Feedback Funding Agencies A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W Search Latest Popular Comments pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile:... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2.... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym)... Posted 8 months ago 0 Funding Agencies in India A M M Foundation “Tiam House” No 28, Rajaji... Posted 5 years ago 213 List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs American Jewish World Service Ananda Foundation Asia Foundation Baxter... Posted 6 years ago 116 Funding Agencies – C CAAC OF PIKE COUNTY 941 Market Street Piketon OH... Posted 6 years ago 91 Blog about human anatomy says: Awesome post.... Paul Ponniah says: Dear Sir, II, for Jeevan Sagar Trust, are w... Paul Ponniah says: Fine work for the Cause.... Recently Added pragati welfare society gariasathi Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Society for Peoples Integrated Development Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Copyright © 2007 - 14 | All Rights Reserved: advertisement advertisement