 Northern Region Farm Machinery T Northern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute Hisar (Haryana)   TESTING CHARGES TESTING MPR April, 2015 T esting Facilities Govt. of India set up the testing wing of this Institute in the   year 1972. It acts as an important link between manufacturers and users of Agricultural machines as well as other agencies responsible for the introduction and popularization of farm equipments. Two types of tests i.e. commercial and confidential are carried out at the Institute. Commercial tests are aimed to verify the declarations / claims of the manufacturer/ applicant for performance characteristics of machines that are in or ready for commercial production. Confidential tests are carried out for providing confidential information on the performance of machines, whether ready for commercial production or not or to provide any special data that may be required by the manufacturer / applicant. The testing wing of this Institute is equipped with specialized and modern   scientific equipments/ instruments for conducting various tests on a wide range of agricultural machines The testing wing has following operational laboratories for testing of Agricultural machines and equipments E ngine Test Laboratory. Plant Protection Equipment Test Laboratory. Irrigation Pump Test Laboratory Implement Test Laboratory. Fuel Filter Test Laboratory. Design and Drawing Section. Instrumentation Cell. Computer Cell and Reprographic Section. This Institute is authorized by the Ministry to test Combine Harvesters. The testing wing is fully commissioned to take up the tests on Self-propelled combines and engines having output capacity from fractional horsepower up-to 700 kW. The institute has also been authorized to issue CMVR certificates to the combine harvester manufacturer under rule 126 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989 by Ministry of  Road Transport and Highways . Apart from the above regular testing activities, the testing wing also takes up the evaluation of samples under Consumer Protection Act through District Consumer Redressal Forum. List of Machines Eligible for Subsidy List of Test Reports Released since Inception List of CMVR Reports Released pdf