Cattle - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Cattle From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search "Cow" redirects here. For other uses, see Cow (disambiguation) . For other uses, see Cattle (disambiguation) . Cattle A Swiss Braunvieh cow wearing a cowbell Conservation status Domesticated Scientific classification Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Mammalia Subclass: Theria Infraclass: Eutheria Order: Artiodactyla Family: Bovidae Subfamily: Bovinae Genus: Bos Species: B. taurus Binomial name Bos taurus Linnaeus , 1758 Bovine range Synonyms Bos primigenius , Bos indicus Cattle —colloquially cows [ note 1 ] —are the most common type of large domesticated ungulates . They are a prominent modern member of the subfamily Bovinae , are the most widespread species of the genus Bos , and are most commonly classified collectively as Bos taurus . Cattle are raised as livestock for meat ( beef and veal ), as dairy animals for milk and other dairy products , and as draft animals ( oxen or bullocks that pull carts , plows and other implements). Other products include leather and dung for manure or fuel . In some regions, such as parts of India, cattle have significant religious meaning . From as few as 80 progenitors domesticated in southeast Turkey about 10,500 years ago, [ 1 ] according to an estimate from 2003, there are 1.3 billion cattle in the world. [ 2 ] In 2009, cattle became one of the first livestock animals to have a fully mapped genome . [ 3 ] Some consider cattle the oldest form of wealth, and cattle raiding consequently one of the earliest forms of theft. Contents 1 Taxonomy 2 Etymology 3 Terminology 3.1 Singular terminology issue 3.2 Other terminology 4 Characteristics 4.1 Anatomy 4.1.1 Gestation and size 4.1.2 Udder 4.1.3 Male genitalia 4.2 Weight 5 Cognition 5.1 Discrimination 6 Senses 6.1 Vision 6.2 Audition 6.3 Olfaction and gustation 7 Cattle genome 8 Domestication and husbandry 8.1 Usage as money 8.2 Modern husbandry 8.3 Sleep 9 Economy 9.1 Cattle meat production 9.2 Dairy 9.3 Hides 10 Feral cattle 11 Environmental impact 12 Health 13 Oxen 14 Religion, traditions and folklore 14.1 Hindu tradition 14.2 Other traditions 15 In heraldry 16 Population 17 See also 18 References 19 Notes 20 Further reading Taxonomy See also: Bos and Bovinae Cattle were originally identified as three separate species: Bos taurus , the European or "taurine" cattle (including similar types from Africa and Asia); Bos indicus , the zebu ; and the extinct Bos primigenius , the aurochs . The aurochs is ancestral to both zebu and taurine cattle. [ citation needed ] Now, these have been reclassified as one species, Bos taurus , with three subspecies: Bos taurus primigenius , Bos taurus indicus , and Bos taurus taurus . [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Some sources [ who? ] prefer the name Bos primigenius for the combined species. Żubroń , a cross between wisent and cattle Complicating the matter is the ability of cattle to interbreed with other closely related species. Hybrid individuals and even breeds exist, not only between taurine cattle and zebu (such as the sanga cattle , Bos taurus africanus ), but also between one or both of these and some other members of the genus Bos  – yaks (the dzo or yattle [ 6 ] ), banteng , and gaur . Hybrids such as the beefalo breed can even occur between taurine cattle and either species of bison , leading some authors to consider them part of the genus Bos , as well. [ 7 ] The hybrid origin of some types may not be obvious – for example, genetic testing of the Dwarf Lulu breed, the only taurine-type cattle in Nepal, found them to be a mix of taurine cattle, zebu, and yak. [ 8 ] However, cattle cannot successfully be hybridized with more distantly related bovines such as water buffalo or African buffalo . The aurochs originally ranged throughout Europe, North Africa , and much of Asia. In historical times, its range became restricted to Europe, and the last known individual died in Masovia , Poland, in about 1627. [ 9 ] Breeders have attempted to recreate cattle of similar appearance to aurochs by crossing traditional types of domesticated cattle, creating the Heck cattle breed. Etymology Cattle did not originate as the term for bovine animals. It was borrowed from Anglo-Norman catel , itself from medieval Latin capitale 'principal sum of money, capital', itself derived in turn from Latin caput 'head'. Cattle originally meant movable personal property , especially livestock of any kind, as opposed to real property (the land, which also included wild or small free-roaming animals such as chickens — they were sold as part of the land). [ 10 ] The word is a variant of chattel (a unit of personal property) and closely related to capital in the economic sense. [ 11 ] The term replaced earlier Old English feoh 'cattle, property', which survives today as fee (cf. German : Vieh , Dutch : vee , Gothic : faihu ). The word "cow" came via Anglo-Saxon cū (plural cȳ ), from Common Indo-European gʷōus ( genitive gʷowés ) = "a bovine animal", compare Persian gâv , Sanskrit go- , Welsh buwch . [ 12 ] The plural cȳ became ki or kie in Middle English, and an additional plural ending was often added, giving kine , kien , but also kies , kuin and others. This is the origin of the now archaic English plural, "kine". The Scots language singular is coo or cou , and the plural is "kye". In older English sources such as the King James Version of the Bible , "cattle" refers to livestock, as opposed to "deer" which refers to wildlife. "Wild cattle" may refer to feral cattle or to undomesticated species of the genus Bos . Today, when used without any other qualifier, the modern meaning of "cattle" is usually restricted to domesticated bovines. [ 13 ] Terminology Look up cattle  or cow in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. An Ongole bull A Hereford bull In general, the same words are used in different parts of the world, but with minor differences in the definitions. The terminology described here contrasts the differences in definition between the United Kingdom and other British -influenced parts of world such as Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland and the United States. [ 14 ] An "intact" (i.e., not castrated ) adult male is called a bull . A wild, young, unmarked bull is known as a "micky" in Australia. [ 15 ] An un branded bovine of either sex is called a "maverick" in the USA and Canada. An adult female that has had a calf (or two, depending on regional usage) is a cow . A young female before she has had a calf of her own [ 16 ] and is under three years of age is called a heifer ( / ˈ h ɛ f ər / HEF -ər ). [ 17 ] A young female that has had only one calf is occasionally called a first-calf heifer . Young cattle of both sexes are called calves until they are weaned , then weaners until they are a year old in some areas; in other areas, particularly with male beef cattle, they may be known as feeder calves or simply feeders. After that, they are referred to as yearlings or stirks [ 18 ] if between one and two years of age. [ 19 ] A castrated male is called a steer in the United States ; older steers are often called bullocks in other parts of the world, [ 20 ] but in North America this term refers to a young bull. Piker bullocks are micky bulls (uncastrated young male bulls) that were caught, castrated and then later lost. [ 15 ] In Australia, the term "Japanese ox" is used for grain-fed steers in the weight range of 500 to 650 kg that are destined for the Japanese meat trade. [ 21 ] In North America, draft cattle under four years old are called working steers. Improper or late castration on a bull results in it becoming a coarse steer known as a stag in Australia, Canada and New Zealand. [ 22 ] In some countries, an incompletely castrated male is known also as a rig . A castrated male (occasionally a female or in some areas a bull) kept for draft purposes is called an ox (plural oxen); "ox" may also be used to refer to some carcass products from any adult cattle, such as ox-hide, ox-blood, oxtail, or ox-liver. [ 17 ] A springer is a cow or heifer close to calving. [ 23 ] In all cattle species, a female twin of a bull usually becomes an infertile partial intersex , and is called a freemartin . Neat (horned oxen, from which neatsfoot oil is derived), beef (young ox) and beefing (young animal fit for slaughtering) are obsolete terms, although poll, pollard or polled cattle are still terms in use for naturally hornless animals, or in some areas also for those that have been disbudded or dehorned . Cattle raised for human consumption are called beef cattle . Within the American beef cattle industry, the older term beef (plural beeves) is still used to refer to an animal of either sex. Some Australian, Canadian, New Zealand and British people use the term beast , especially for single animals when the sex is unknown. [ 24 ] Cattle bred specifically for milk production are called milking or dairy cattle ; [ 14 ] a cow kept to provide milk for one family may be called a house cow or milker . A "fresh cow" is a dairy term for a cow or first-calf heifer who has recently given birth, or "freshened." The adjective applying to cattle in general is usually bovine . The terms "bull", "cow" and "calf" are also used by extension to denote the sex or age of other large animals, including whales , hippopotamuses , camels , elk and elephants . See also: List of animal names Singular terminology issue Cattle can only be used in the plural and not in the singular : it is a plurale tantum . [ 25 ] Thus one may refer to "three cattle" or "some cattle", but not "one cattle". No universally used singular form in modern English of "cattle" exists, other than the sex- and age-specific terms such as cow, bull, steer and heifer. Historically, "ox" was not a sex-specific term for adult cattle, but generally this is now used only for draft cattle , especially adult castrated males. The term is also incorporated into the names of other species, such as the musk ox and "grunting ox" ( yak ), and is used in some areas to describe certain cattle products such as ox-hide and oxtail . [ 26 ] A Brahman calf "Cow" is in general use as a singular for the collective "cattle", despite the objections by those who insist it to be a female-specific term. Although the phrase "that cow is a bull" is absurd from a lexicographic standpoint, the word "cow" is easy to use when a singular is needed and the sex is unknown or irrelevant – when "there is a cow in the road", for example. Further, any herd of fully mature cattle in or near a pasture is statistically likely to consist mostly of cows, so the term is probably accurate even in the restrictive sense. Other than the few bulls needed for breeding, the vast majority of male cattle are castrated as calves and slaughtered for meat before the age of three years. Thus, in a pastured herd, any calves or herd bulls usually are clearly distinguishable from the cows due to distinctively different sizes and clear anatomical differences. Merriam-Webster, a US dictionary, recognizes the sex-nonspecific use of "cow" as an alternate definition, [ 27 ] whereas Collins, a UK dictionary, does not. Colloquially , more general non specific terms may denote cattle when a singular form is needed. Australian, New Zealand and British farmers use the term "beast" or "cattle beast". "Bovine" is also used in Britain. The term "critter" is common in the western United States and Canada, particularly when referring to young cattle. [ 28 ] In some areas of the American South (particularly the Appalachian region), where both dairy and beef cattle are present, an individual animal was once called a "beef critter", though that term is becoming archaic . Other terminology A cow's moo Sorry, your browser either has JavaScript disabled or does not have any supported player. You can download the clip or download a player to play the clip in your browser. Problems playing this file? See media help . Cattle raised for human consumption are called " beef cattle ". Within the beef cattle industry in parts of the United States, the term "beef" (plural "beeves") is still used in its archaic sense to refer to an animal of either sex. Cows of certain breeds that are kept for the milk they give are called " dairy cows " or "milking cows" (formerly "milch cows"). Most young male offspring of dairy cows are sold for veal , and may be referred to as veal calves. The term "dogies" is used to describe orphaned calves in the context of ranch work in the American West , as in "Keep them dogies moving". [ 29 ] In some places, a cow kept to provide milk for one family is called a "house cow". Other obsolete terms for cattle include "neat" (this use survives in " neatsfoot oil ", extracted from the feet and legs of cattle), and "beefing" (young animal fit for slaughter ). An onomatopoeic term for one of the most common sounds made by cattle is "moo" (also called lowing ). There are a number of other sounds made by cattle, including calves bawling , and bulls bellowing . Bawling is most common for cows after weaning of a calg. The bullroarer makes a sound similar to a bull's territorial call. [ 30 ] Characteristics Anatomy Dairy farming and the milking of cattle was once performed largely by hand, but is now usually replaced by machine Cattle are large quadrupedal ungulate mammals with cloven hooves . Most breeds have horns , which can be as large as the Texas Longhorn or small like a scur . Careful genetic selection has allowed polled (hornless) cattle to become widespread. Cattle are ruminants , meaning their digestive system is highly specialized to allow the use of poorly digestible plants as food. Cattle have one stomach with four compartments, the rumen , reticulum , omasum , and abomasum , with the rumen being the largest compartment. Cattle are known for regurgitating and re-chewing their food, known as " cud " chewing. The reticulum, the smallest compartment, is known as the "honeycomb". Cattle sometimes consume metal objects which are deposited in the reticulum and irritation from the metal objects causes hardware disease . The omasum's main function is to absorb water and nutrients from the digestible feed. The omasum is known as the "many plies". The abomasum is like the human stomach; this is why it is known as the "true stomach". The cud is then swallowed again and further digested by specialized microorganisms in the rumen. These microbes are primarily responsible for decomposing cellulose and other carbohydrates into volatile fatty acids cattle use as their primary metabolic fuel. The microbes inside the rumen also synthesize amino acids from non-protein nitrogenous sources, such as urea and ammonia . As these microbes reproduce in the rumen, older generations die and their cells continue on through the digestive tract. These cells are then partially digested in the small intestines, allowing cattle to gain a high-quality protein source. These features allow cattle to thrive on grasses and other vegetation . Gestation and size The gestation period for a cow is about nine months long. A newborn calf's size can vary among breeds, but a typical calf typically weighs 25 to 45 kg (55 to 99 lb). Adult size and weight vary significantly among breeds and sex. The world record for the heaviest bull was 1,740 kg (3,840 lb), a Chianina named Donetto, when he was exhibited at the Arezzo show in 1955. [ 31 ] The heaviest steer was eight-year-old ‘Old Ben’, a Shorthorn / Hereford cross weighing in at 2,140 kg (4,720 lb) in 1910. [ 32 ] Steers are generally killed before reaching 750 kg (1,650 lb). Breeding stock may be allowed a longer lifespan, occasionally living as long as 25 years. The oldest recorded cow, Big Bertha , died at the age of 48 in 1993. Udder A cow's udder contains two pairs of mammary glands , (commonly referred to as teats ) creating four "quarters". [ 33 ] The front ones are referred to as fore quarters and the rear ones rear quarters . [ 34 ] Male genitalia Further information: Bull § Reproductive anatomy Bulls become fertile at about seven months of age. Their fertility is closely related to the size of their testicles , and one simple test of fertility is to measure the circumference of the scrotum: a young bull is likely to be fertile once this reaches 28 centimetres (11 in); that of a fully adult bull may be over 40 centimetres (16 in). [ 35 ] [ 36 ] Bulls have a fibro-elastic penis. Given the small amount of erectile tissue, there is little enlargement after erection. The penis is quite rigid when non-erect, and becomes even more rigid during erection. Protrusion is not affected much by erection, but more by relaxation of the retractor penis muscle and straightening of the sigmoid flexure . [ 37 ] [ 38 ] [ 39 ] Weight Adult weights of cattle always depend on the breed. Smaller kinds, such as Dexter and Jersey adults, range between 272 to 454 kg (600 to 1,001 lb). Large Continental breeds, such as Charolais, Marchigiana, Belgian Blue and Chianina, adults range up to 635 to 1,134 kg (1,400 to 2,500 lb). British-breeds, such as Hereford, Angus, and Shorthorn, mature between 454 to 907 kg (1,001 to 2,000 lb), occasionally higher, particularly with Angus and Hereford. [ 40 ] Bulls will be a bit larger than cows of the same breed by a few hundred kilograms. Chianina bulls can weigh up to 1,500 kg (3,300 lb); British bulls, such as Angus and Hereford, can weigh as little as 907 kg (2,000 lb) to as much as 1,361 kg (3,000 lb). [ citation needed ] It is difficult to generalize or average out the weight of all cattle because different kinds have different averages of weights. However, according to some sources, the average weight of all cattle is 753 kg (1,660 lb). Finishing steers in the feedlot average about 640 kg (1,410 lb); cows about 725 kg (1,598 lb), and bulls about 1,090 kg (2,400 lb). [ 41 ] In the United States, the average weights of beef cattle have steadily increased, especially since the 1970s, requiring the building of new slaughterhouses able to handle larger carcasses. New packing plants in the 1980s stimulated a large increase in cattle weights. [ 42 ] Before 1790 beef cattle averaged only 160 kg (350 lb) net; and thereafter weights climbed steadily. [ 43 ] [ 44 ] Cognition Discrimination Cattle behave less aggressively towards familiar individuals compared to unfamiliar individuals when they are forming a new group. They are able to discriminate among familiar individuals, and among humans. [ 45 ] Cattle can discriminate between images of heads of their own species and other animal species. They are also to distinguish between familiar and unfamiliar individuals of their own species. Furthermore, they are able to categorize between familiar and unfamilar individuals. [ 45 ] Senses Vision Cattle are a prey animal and to assist prey detection, their eyes are located on the sides of their head rather than the front. This gives them a wide field of view of 330 o but limits binocular vision ( and therefore stereopsis ) to 30 o to 50 o compared to 140 o in humans. [ 45 ] [ 46 ] This means they have a blind spot directly behind them. Cattle have good visual acuity (1/20). [ 45 ] Cattle have two kinds of color receptors in the cone cells of their retinas . This means that cattle are dichromatic , as are most other non-primate land mammals. [ 47 ] [ 48 ] There are two to three rods per cone in the fovea but five to six near the papilla . [ 46 ] Cattle can distinguish long wavelength colours (yellow, orange and red) much better than the shorter wave lengths (blue, grey and green). Whilst having good colour sensitivity, this is not as good as humans or sheep. [ 45 ] A common misconception about cattle (particularly bulls) is that they are enraged by the color red (something provocative is often said to be "like a red flag to a bull"). This is incorrect, as cattle are red-green color-blind . [ 49 ] [ 50 ] The myth arose from the use of red capes in bullfighting ; in fact, two different capes are used. The capote is a large, flowing, magenta and yellow cape. The more famous muleta is the smaller, red cape, used exclusively for the final, fatal segment of the fight. It is not the color of the cape that angers the bull, but rather the movement of the fabric that irritates the bull and incites it to charge. Audition Cattle hearing ranges from 23 Hz to 35 kHz. Their frequency of best sensitivity is 8 kHz and they have a lowest threshold of –21 db (re 20 μN/m–2), which means their hearing is more acute than horses (lowest threshold of 7 db). [ 51 ] Sound localization acuity thresholds are an average of 30°. This means that cattle are less able to localise sounds compared to goats (18°), dogs (8°) and humans (0.8°). [ 52 ] Because cattle have a broad foveal fields of view covering almost the entire horizon, they may not need very accurate locus information from their auditory systems to direct their gaze to a sound source. Vocalisations are an important mode of communication amongst cattle and can provide information on the age, sex, dominance status and reproductive status of the caller. Calves can recognize their mothers using vocal and vocal behaviour may play a role by indicating estrus and competit