Prakash Padukone: Profile, Biography and Records India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Sports » Prakash Padukone   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Prakash Padukone Prakash Padukone is a renowned badminton player of Indian origin who has created the record of being the National Champion from the year 1970 to 1978. Prakash Padukone was born in Bangalore city, Karnataka in the year 1955. Having a keen interest in badminton, Prakash Padukone used to watch the tournaments played by famous players with great curiosity. This very interest and his personal zeal made him the National Junior Champion at the tender age of 14. In the year 1971, Prakash Padukone won both the boy's and men's singles tournament. Achieving the gold medal at the Commonwealth Games in the year 1978 was a big boost to his career. The triumph in the All England Badminton Championship is the next big leap in the career of Prakash Padukone which took place in the year 1980. Prakash Padukone went to Denmark in the year 1982 in order to have an improved array of training opportunities. The Badminton Academy established by Prakash Padukone in 1994 in the city of Bangalore is currently one of the best institutions in India. Some of the major achievements of Prakash Padukone in the field of badminton are listed below: Receiver of Padmashree award in the year 1982 National senior champion from 1971 to 1979 Winner of First Open Prize money tournament in Pune in the year of 1981 Receiver of Arjuna Award in 1972 Winner of Dutch Open in 1982 English Masters at royal Albert Hall of London in the year 1979 Gold medalist at commonwealth Games of 1978 Winner of hong Kong Open in the year 1982 Trained the team that bagged the silver medal in the Men's Event & bronze medal in the Women's Event, Commonwealth Games of 1998 Bagged bronze medal in the 1983 Copenhagen World championships Today, the name of Prakash Padukone has become synonymous to the badminton maestros of India. He's also extremely famous because of the fact of being the father of the extremely famous actress Deepika Padukone. Last Updated on : February 3, 2014   Related Links   Famous Badminton Players of India Anup Sridhar Prakash Padukone Saina Nehwal Aparna Popat Pulella Gopichand Dipankar Bhattacharya Chetan Anand Parupalli Kashyap P. V. Sindhu             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule