Shimla city Map Home » Maps » Himachal Pradesh » Shimla City Map   Himachal Pradesh Cities Map Manali Shimla Dharamshala Dalhousie Kasauli Chamba Kullu                        more.. हिमाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                 (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel to Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Himachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Subhash Baoli Shivkul Sankat Mochan Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una Hotels in Kangra              more... Assembly Polls HP Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities in Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh Colleges       Shimla City Map City Map of Shimla Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Shimla city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Himachal Pradesh   Chamba City Map Dalhousie City Map Dharamshala City Map Solan City Map         Kasauli City Map Kullu City Map Manali City Map Shimla City Map     other cities of Himachal Pradesh  >>   Travel Map of Himachal Pradesh   Manali Travel Map Shimla Travel Map         Shimla or Simla is the capital of Himachal Pradesh and is located in the north of India. Bounded by towns like Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur, Solan and Sirmaur, it is also the former summer capital of the British India. With a good number of scenic places, green hills, and snow-capped peaks, Shimla is blessed with immense natural splendour. The city derives its name from Shyamala Devi, an incarnation of goddess Kali. The buildings of the city are designed in neo-Gothic and Tudorbethan style of architecture. Besides the temples and the palaces, there are many colleges and research institutions in Shimla. The city comprises many hill stations including Bushahr, Darkoti, Balson, Khaneti, Dhami, Kumharsain, Madhan, Ratesh , Sangri and Rawingarh, to name a few. Geography: Shimla is located at an altitude of 2,202 metres and experiences a cold and chilly weather during winters. In the month of December, it also gets snowfall which is a major tourist attraction in this region. It can be visited throughout the year as every season has something to offer to the visitors. While in summers, people can relish the walks and trekking along the scenic beauty of this place,in winters they can enjoy ice-skating and other sporting activities. However, the best time to visit Shimla is from April to August and from December to January. Popular Attractions: The 'Queen of Hill Stations', Shimla is one of the prominent tourist destinations in north India. There are many places of interest in the city. Some of them are: Christ Church and St. Michael's Cathedral: The Christ Church was built in 1846-1857 and is the second oldest church of north India. The stained glasses on the windows of the Church enhance its beauty and represent hope, faith, patience, charity and humility. Jakhu Hill and Jakhu Temple: The Jakhu Hill is the highest peak in the city that offers a beautiful and a scenic view of the town. On top of the hill, there is a temple devoted to Lord Hanuman. The temple is also a home to a large number of monkeys who are generally fed by the visitors. Himachal State Museum and Library: The museum built in 1974 has a collection of Pahari sculptures, paintings, textile, jewellery, costumes etc. The library has a range of historical books and manuscripts. Summer Hill: It is a township located about 5 kms away from The Ridge along the Shimla-Kalka railway line. During his visit to Shimla, Mahatma Gandhi had lived in this lovely township. The Mall: It is the main shopping street of the city with many clubs, restaurants, bars, tourist offices etc. Gaiety Theatre, an old British theatre and a centre for many cultural activities, is also located here. There are many more places of interest in Shimla including Jutogh, Tara Devi Temple, Junga, Totu, Kufri, Kali Bari, Potter Hill, Prospect Hill, Elysium Hill and Sankat Mochan temple. There are many hotels in Shimla which fulfil the accommodation needs of the tourists, ranging from budget hotels to three or five star hotels. One can also find accommodation in government-aided or private guest houses. There are many restaurants at The Mall where you can enjoy a variety of food and cuisines. The dhabas here offer delicious food at reasonable prices. For the shopping lovers, there are many shops in Shimla, especially in the Lower Bazaar, Lakkar Bazaar, The Mall and the Tibetan Bazaar. Here you can buy goods like handicrafts, metalwork, toys, tweeds, Himachali shawls, caps and many more. How to reach: The Jubarhatti airport is the nearest airport to the city, havingdirect flights from Delhi and Chandigarh. Taxi and cab services can be easily availed from the airport to reach the main town. Through rail, Shimla is connected to Kalka by an amazing narrow gauge rail track that has 103 tunnels, longest being over a kilometre long. Kalka is connected to Delhi and Chandigarh with regular trains plying between the two stations. A toy train runs between Kalka and Shimla, which covers a distance of about 96 km in five to six hours. The National Highway 22 connects Shimla to Chandigarh. Shimla can also be reached easily from the neighbouring states via road. One can take buses run by the state governments or private owners or can opt for a private/shared taxi to reach the town of Shimla. WBST06515 Shimla City Information Country India State Himachal Pradesh District Shimla Established Year 1864 Area 25 km2 (10 sq mi) Population 171817 as Census January 2011 Population Density 120/km2 (300/sq mi) as Census January 2011 Language Himachali, English, Punjabi, Hindi Official Languages Hindi Literacy Rate 83.64% as Census January 2011 Sex Ratio 915/1000 Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Pin code 171 001 Area code 177 Lat Long 31.1033° N, 77.1722° E Religion Hinduism Festivals Bharara Fair, Bhoj Fair, Lavi fair, Pathar Ka Khel, Sipi Fair, Summer Festival, Baisakhi, Rhyali. University Himachal University Sister Cities Carbondale, Illinois, USA Sports Golf, Ice skating, Mountaineering, Paragliding, skiing, Trekking, River Rafting. Airport Shimla Airport Railway Station Shimla Railway Station (SML) Tourist Attractions Christ Church, Junga, Totu, Mashobra, Kufri, Chharabra, Chail, Sanjauli Nearby Tourist Attractions Jakhoo Temple, The Ridge of Shimla, Shimla State Museum, Tara Devi Temple, Sankat Mochan Popular Things Jakhu Temple, Fagu, Kalka - Shimla Railway, Gaiety Theatre, Viceregal Lodge Notable People Shahid Javed Burki, Horatio Boileau Goad, Anupam Kher, Priety Zinta, Rahat Kazmi, Salmaan Taseer, National Highway National Highway 22 Last Updated on : May 26, 2015 Cities in Himachal Pradesh Chamba Dalhousie Dharamshala Kangra Kasauli Kullu Manali Shimla Solan Shimla Tourism Shimla Tour Shimla Tourist Map State Museum Tara Devi Temple Arki Shimla Wildlife Sukh Sagar Resort Trekking The Mall Summer Hill Sankat Mochan Temple Tatapani Wildlife Parks Wildflower Hall Star Resort Shimla Christ's Church The Ridge of Shimla Chail Shimla Tour Packages Shimla Skiing             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule