Adi Godrej India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Business Economy » Adi Godrej   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Adi Godrej The co-founder and the managing director of the Godrej Group of companies, Adi Godrej, was born into a business family and left India at the age of 17 to study business management. He obtained both his bachelor's and the master's degree in management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and came back to India to join the family business. Before Adi joined the family business, Godrej was into the manufacturing of locks and soaps. Adi made the management structure more systematic and modernized and initiated the process of improving the standards of the products. Even in the era of controlled economy, the company reached a high standard under the leadership of Adi Godrej. Today, Godrej manufactures a wide range of products spanning from household products to locks, furniture and home appliances. The name itself has become synonymous with quality and commands a lot of faith from the consumers. Adi has made the best possible use of the process of globalisation in the country. The Godrej company has several offices and manufacturing units located in over fifty countries throughout the world. Adi is also a great supporter and well wisher of the World Wildlife Fund. The company has built a huge 150 acre mangrove forests in the township of Vikhroli in Mumbai apart from building a school for the children of the employees. The company has also built a management institute at Hyderabad .   Related People   Businessmen & Industrialists Cyrus Pallonji Mistry K.P. Singh Aditya Birla Kiran Mazumdar Shaw Srichand Hinduja Kumar Mangalam Birla Ashok Hinduja Lakshmi Mittal Adi Godrej Lalit Suri Amar Bose Mukesh Ambani Arun Sarin Nandan Nilekani Azim Premji Rahul Bajaj B.M. Munjal Ramalinga Raju Bhai Mohan Singh Ratan Tata Dhirubhai Ambani Raunaq Singh Ghanshyam Das Birla Sunil Mittal J.R.D. Tata Swaraj Paul Economists Amartya Sen Jagdish Bhagwati Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule