Jaw Crusher Manufacturer Uttar Pradesh India by Shri Krishna Welding & Engg. Works | ID - 949997 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Shri Krishna Welding & Engg. Works Member Since : 2007 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Pulverizer Machine, Double Drive Pulverizer, Grinding Pulverizer Home » Product » Jaw Crusher Jaw Crusher Product of long experience and skilled workmanship. We are recognized as one of the most dependable jaw crusher manufacturers and suppliers in india. The use of mild steel for the fabrication of the body makes the industrial jaw crusher highly durable, efficient and economical. Further, portable jaw crusher is also available in the array loaded with all the advanced features. the crushing is achieved between the fixed jaw held in the body and the swing jaw held in the jaw stock. The main driving shaft-which is eccentric, gives elliptical-to and fro motion to the jaw stock. The discharge opening is adjustable hence the size of the end product can be controlled by the control lever. the two heavy cast iron flywheels are provided to ensure steady running. Drive arranged either direct through the flywheels or through a suitable pulley. Salient features jaw stock made of heavy duty cast ironmild steel with provision to held the swing-jaw. Swing jaw are made of manganese alloy iron or steel and are replaceable, can be used both ends. Fixed jaw are made of manganese iron alloy or steel and are replaceable, can be used both ends. Check plates have two fold purposes. First it holds the fixed jaw with the body and secondly it protects the sides of the body from the wear. Tie rod made of steel. Meant for holding the jaw stock. Toggle plate is made of cast iron. It imparts the rolling motion to the jaw stock. Fly wheels made of heavy duty cast iron for ensuring the smooth running and providing reserved power to the jaws. Bearing all bearings are heavy duty ball bearing and roller bearing. Control lever to adjust the discharge opening of the crusher. SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Sanjay Khare Fax No : +91-0512-22374 Mobile Phone : +91-9793203370 » More detail Product Range » Cool Grinder » Disintegrator Machine » Double Drive Pulverizer » Eccentric Sieve Machine » Grinding Pulverizer » Hammer Mill Machine » Jaw Crusher » Metal Disintegrators » Pin Mill Grinding » Pulverizer Machine » Ribbon Blenders » Roller Mill » Three Roller Mill Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com