Agriculture Sector of Indian Economy Business Plans Format BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Advertising Agency Travel Agency Restaurant India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Multinational Company Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Medical Agriculture Business Leaders Dhirubhai Ambani Azim Premji Mukesh Ambani Anil Ambani Anand Mahindra Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Mergers Acquisitions Refinance Top 10 Financial Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India SBI Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank HDFC Bank Vijaya Bank Allahabad Bank UCO Bank Top Brands in India Red Wine Shoe Vodka Beer Headphones Handbags Chocolate Rum Laptop Cosmetic Bag Watch B-Schools Top B Schools in India Online Business School IIM website IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi IIPM Pune S.P. Jain institute Indian Sectors         Export Sector Financial Sector Industry Sectors Manufacturing Companies Private Sector Public Sector Agriculture Sector Sectoral Analysis Export Sector Import Sector Retail Sector Service Sector Tourism sector Sectoral Trends IIP You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Sectors » Agriculture Sector of Indian Economy Agriculture Sector of Indian Economy Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  24  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 Agriculture Sector of Indian Economy is one of the most significant part of India. Agriculture is the only means of living for almost two-thirds of the employed class in India. As being stated by the economic data of financial year 2006-07, agriculture has acquired 18 percent of India's GDP. The agriculture sector of India has occupied almost 43 percent of India's geographical area. Agriculture is still the only largest contributor to India's GDP even after a decline in the same in the agriculture share of India. Agriculture also plays a significant role in the growth of socio-economic sector in India. In the earlier times, India was largely dependent upon food imports but the successive stories of the agriculture sector of Indian economy has made it self-sufficing in grain production. The country also has substantial reserves for the same. India depends heavily on the agriculture sector, especially on the food production unit after the 1960 crisis in food sector. Since then, India has put a lot of effort to be self-sufficient in the food production and this endeavor of India has led to the Green Revolution. The Green Revolution came into existence with the aim to improve the agriculture in India. The services enhanced by the Green Revolution in the agriculture sector of Indian economy are as follows: Acquiring more area for cultivation purposes Expanding irrigation facilities Use of improved and advanced high-yielding variety of seeds Implementing better techniques that emerged from agriculture research Water management Plan protection activities through prudent use of fertilizers, pesticides, and cropping applications All these measures taken by the Green Revolution led to an alarming rise in the wheat and rice production of India's agriculture. Considering the quantum leap witnessed by the wheat and rice production unit of India's agriculture, a National Pulse Development Programme that covered almost 13 states, was set up in 1986 with the aim to introduce the improved technologies to the farmers. A Technology Mission was introduced in 1986 right after the success of National Pulse Development Programme to boost the oilseeds sector in Indian economy. Pulses too came under this programme. A new seed policy was planned to provide entree to superior quality seeds and plant material for fruits, vegetables, oilseeds, pulses, and flowers. The Indian government also set up Ministry of Food Processing Industries to stimulate the agriculture sector of Indian economy and make it more lucrative. India's agriculture sector highly depends upon the monsoon season as heavy rainfall during the time leads to a rich harvest. But the entire year's agriculture cannot possibly depend upon only one season. Taking into account this fact, a second Green Revolution is likely to be formed to overcome the such restrictions. An increase in the growth rate and irrigation area, improved water management, improving the soil quality, and diversifying into high value outputs, fruits, vegetables, herbs, flowers, medicinal plants, and bio-diesel are also on the list of the services to be taken by the Green Revolution to improve the agriculture in India. About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED