CropIn Technology Solutions - mobile app for farm management - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop CropIn Technology Solutions – mobile app for farm management Home CropIn Technology Solutions – mobile app for farm management Smart farm management with mobile app “In India we have been following the classical approach of agriculture and have not been successful to improve the productivity of farms and farmers. There are lots of factors such as fragmented land, lack of advance agriculture technology, poor package of practices and information gap. So we created this mobile app to cater to some of these challenges,” says Mr. Chittaranjan Jena, CTO, CropIn Technology Solutions and adds, “We believe what you can’t measure, you can’t improve. This app helps to digitize the record keeping of farms, plan and manage package of practices, accurately manage farm inputs, thereby increasing the overall productivity. It also analyses past data and learns from it to improve recommendations and POP.” Bangalore-based CropIn Technology Solutions took almost 18 months to build the mobile app for farm management. The company explains the app as a smart guide that tells user what needs to be done every day to manage his farms and farmers. It lists all the farmers/farms that are to be managed. The farm manager/user can measure the plot and provide/recommend right quantity of seeds/seedling needed. The scheduled package of practices is recommended to the farmer before a few days when tasks are due and helps the farmer doing right thing at right time in right manner. It is a cloud-based app which can be configured in a few hours based on the need of the customer. The mobile app runs on basic Android phones having 2G and GPS support. Companies involved in contract farming are the customers of CropIn Technology Solutions. The mobile app captures all farm observations for the user to analyze the impact of various parameters of farm productivity. It helps to capture the growth of the crop visually at different stages. It helps to record any issues in the farm taking visuals of the issue, voice of the farmer and other quantitative information such as probable percentage of crops damaged due to the issue. It helps the user with recommended action for the issue which he/she can pass on to the farmer to follow. Once any farm issues are raised, a central agronomy team can look at these issues with the clear visuals and already provided recommendations to farmers and may suggest a better solution. The app is also weather-sensitive and adjusts the recommendations based on weather forecast. It even has a feature to show prices of various crops at different mandis. It provides harvest information at farm gate or factory gate from farmers and acknowledges with a printed receipt to the farmer for the received harvest which can be printed through a Bluetooth printer. It helps to create and track harvest consignments which is being shipped to the processing center so that labor and other resources at the warehouse can be planned. Besides above mobile features, all generated data from mobile can be viewed from web from any location as soon as the data in the mobile is captured. The CropIn app processes and brings lots of business insights from this data to identify productivity gaps and recommends action to improve them. “Finally this app produces traceable crops since it captures data at all stages of the crop, making your crop compliant to lots of global standards,” says Mr. Jena. He shares a success story: “Jaypee Farms saved substantially on the seed input when they got the accurate area of the plots of farmers enrolled with them for contract farming. Before that if a farmer declares 4 acres of plot they were getting seed input for 4 acres even though the plot might be of 3.5 acres. So there was wastage of seeds and if you put excess seeds in a plot the farm productivity also goes down.” He adds, “Once the package of practices was planned, field staff knew where to go and which farmer to meet. So they saved lots of cost on resources. Timely raising issues and addressing them made sure of good yield.” Speaking about the cost of this mobile app, Mr. Jena says, “The cost is very low and not a deterrent. We have many features and the cost varies based on the features opted by customers. It could be as low as Rs. 100/Acre/Year.” The app is claimed to be user friendly. All farm observations are recorded periodically. The app adjusts the forecasts periodically on quantity of the harvest and when it’s going to come. “So always users know what is coming and when it is coming,” he adds. CropIn Technology Solutions (formerly called CropEX) was started in August 2010. In time to come, the company officials plan to make it the de-facto platform for agriculture for different stake holders to collaborate and produce best results in agriculture domain. Contact details- CropIn Technology Solutions Pvt Ltd (Formerly Called CropEX) No 681, I st Floor, 15 th Cross, 100 ft Road, Beside VM Ware Building, JP Nagar 2nd Phase, Bangalore Mobile: 9880012480 Email – chittaranjan.jena@cropin.in Website: http://www.cropin.co.in Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > CropIn Technology Solutions – mobile app for farm management Related – articles, consultants, downloads Chandel Agritech Solutions Chandel Agritech Solutions RenXSol Ecotech – solar based solutions Acclaim Technology Services You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water