ICRW | Where Insight and Action Connect The International Center for Research on Women (ICRW) Search this site: Advanced Search | Tips Donate Now Subscribe Facebook Twitter RSS Who We Are Staff List Experts Board of Directors Leadership Council Institutional Review Board History Financials What We Do Adolescents Child Marriage Child Marriage Facts and Figures Preventing Child Marriage Agriculture & Food Security Economic Empowerment Assets & Property Rights Employment & Enterprise Development HIV & AIDS Stigma & Discrimination Population & Reproductive Health Fertility & Empowerment Network Violence Against Women Engaging Men & Boys Emerging Issues Innovation Women & Technology Advocacy & Policy Engagement Building Capacity Measurement & Evaluation Research & Analysis Strategic Guidance Where We Work Global Presence Asia Regional Office East Africa Regional Office How to Work With Us Institutional Expertise Partner Organizations Career Opportunities Requests for Proposals Support Us Join Our Community Publications Publications ICRW Library Peer-reviewed Publications Publication Search Media News and Commentary ICRW Media Coverage Press Releases Multimedia Blog Publications ICRW Mourns the Loss of Former Staff Member, Paula Kantor ICRW mourns the loss of Dr. Paula Kantor, Senior Scientist of Gender and Development at the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) – former Senior Rural Development Specialist at ICRW – who died yesterday in the aftermath of a terrorist attack on the hotel she was staying at in Kabul, Afghanistan. Read More>> ICRW and Partners Expand Landscape for Monitoring HIV-related Stigma and Discrimination ICRW worked with partners to integrate new measures of stigma and discrimination towards people living with HIV into global measurement tools. These tools will help government and health officials better target their efforts to reduce HIV infections. Read More>> New Report: Assessing the Quality of Care for Women's Reproductive Health Services in Bihar, India ICRW today released a report that describes where the gaps are within facilities that provide sterilization and IUD implementation for women in Bihar, India. The report contains a host of recommendations that could be implemented immediately to ensure family planning services are performed in a safe, sanitary environment where women’s rights and entitlement to quality, comprehensive health care are respected. Read More >> New ICRW Report on School Dropout in West Nile, Uganda Highlights Harmful Gender Norms A new report by ICRW explores the reasons behind school dropout for girls in West Nile, Uganda, where only six girls are enrolled in secondary school for every ten boys enrolled. The report provides insights into the factors that are contributing to high drop out rates for girls, as well as policy recommendations to help girls continue their education. Read More>> ICRW Honors Three Global Leaders With Champions for Change Award In celebration of International Women's Day, the International Center for Research on Women held a special event in London to honor three global leaders for their achievement in advancing the rights of women and girls worldwide.  Read More>> We Must Empower and Support Girls in Crisis Her Majesty the Queen of the Belgians, an honorary members of ICRW's Leadership Council, penned an OpEd for Devex on how adolescent girls are uniquely vulnerable when crises and conflict hits. Ahead of an ICRW-sponsored International Women's Day event on the topic, she outlines a path forward for meeting girls' needs and highlights her commitment to protecting and empowering girls around the world who face enormous challenges every day. Read More>>       VIDEO: 2015 Champions for Change Awards This year, ICRW honored three global leaders for their achievements in advancing the rights of women and girls worldwide. Watch highlights from the event. You shop. Amazon gives. Girls Not Brides ICRW is the proud co-chair of Girls Not Brides USA, a coalition of organizations working to end child marriage,  and a branch of the global partnership of the same name.   Click here to read the latest news  and visit Girls Not Brides  to learn more about the global movement.  ICRW: Turning Insight Into Action for nearly 40 Years ICRW has been the world’s premier applied research institute focused on women and girls for almost four decades. Our evidence-based insight seeks to optimize programs, influence policies and identify scalable solutions that help them lead safer, healthier and more empowered lives. Learn more about us » What's New Worldwide Sexism Increases Suicide Risk in Young Women Thu, 05/28/2015 The Guardian ICRW's Suzanne Petroni was quoted in a Guardian article on some of the reasons behind why suicide tops the list of causes of death for girls ages 15-19 worldwide. Petroni talks about the need for more evidence and research, which is necessary to help shed light on the full picture of challenges facing the world's women and girls. More » Nigeria Bans Female Genital Mutilation: African Powerhouse Sends ‘Powerful Signal’ About FGM With New Bill Wed, 05/27/2015 International Business Times ICRW’s Stella Mukasa, director, gender, violence and rights is quoted in this article about a new bill signed this week by Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan, which criminalizes female genital mutilation. More » Suicide Is Now The Biggest Killer of Teenage Girls Worldwide. Here's Why Tue, 05/26/2015 The Telegraph ICRW President Sarah Degnan Kambou and Suzanne Petroni, senior director, gender, population and development are featured in this article, which focuses on this shocking statistic and the reasons behind why self-harm is now the leading cause of death for girls between 15 to 19 years old.    More » Ugandan Singer Faces 10 Years In Prison For A Nikki Minaj-Inspired Music Video Tue, 05/26/2015 ThinkProgress ICRW’s Stella Mukasa, director, gender violence and rights tells ThinkProgress that the anti-pornography law in Uganda is a rollback on women’s rights as the law is not only discriminatory but is an attack on freedom of expression. More » India Marital Rape Victims' Lonely Battle For Justice Tue, 05/26/2015 BBC News With the recent controversy stirred by an Indian government minister telling parliament that marital rape could not be criminalized, this article highlights studies showing the prevalence of marital rape in India, including a study conducted by ICRW. More » More ICRW news » Featured Blog Post Rebuilding Nepal After Devastation Hits The strongest earthquake in more than 70 years recently devastated Nepal, killing thousands and leaving three million people homeless. Sarah Kambou, President of ICRW, writes about global and grassroots organizations helping to alleviate suffering and re-build Nepal for a more prosperous future. Featured Publication The Quality of Care in Provision of Female Sterilization and IUD Services - An assesment study of Bihar ICRW on Twitter Tweets by @ICRW View Site Map CAREERS   CONTACT US   DONATE NOW   EVENTS   MEDIA   PRIVACY   SUBSCRIBE   TERMS AND CONDITIONS   WHO WE ARE ICRW Staff List ICRW Experts ICRW Board of Directors ICRW Leadership Council ICRW New Leaders Circle   WHAT WE DO Adolescents Child Marriage Agriculture & Food Security Economic Empowerment Assets & Property Rights Engaging Men & Boys HIV & AIDS Population & Reproductive Health Stigma & Discrimination Violence Against Women Emerging Issues Innovation Women & Technology Advocacy & Policy Engagement Building Capacity Measurement & Evaluation Research & Analysis Strategic Guidance WHERE WE WORK Global Presence ICRW Asia Regional Office East Africa Regional Office   HOW TO WORK WITH US Join Our Community! Institutional Expertise   SUPPORT US Donate Now   PUBLICATIONS Library   © 2015 International Center for Research on Women (ICRW) 1120 20th St NW Suite 500 North Washington, D.C. 20036 Tel: 202.797.0007 Fax: 202.797.0020 E-mail: info@icrw.org News & Commentary RSS Press Center RSS Publications RSS Multimedia RSS ICRW Perspectives Blog RSS Careers Contact Us Privacy Credits ICRW is an Organization You Can Trust: In 2013, 97% of ICRW's annual operating expenses were used to directly support research and programs to benefit women and girls in developing countries. ICRW is a registered 501(c)3 nonprofit organization. All donations are tax deductible to the fullest extent allowed by law. DONATE. ICRW received a 4-star rating for sound fiscal management and commitment to accountability and transparency, the highest rating from Charity Navigator. ICRW is a Charity Partner of Global Impact, an alliance of over 100 U.S.-based International Development organizations.