Assam Railways Home » Maps » Assam Map » Assam Railways   Assam Rail Network Map Sonitpur Karbi Anglong Nagaon Dibrugarh Tinsukia Golaghat Kamrup                          more... Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Districts of Assam Roads Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel Map Sex Ratio Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Assam Economy Society Assam Tourism Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Education in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info       Assam Railways Tinsukia Railway Map Barpeta Railway Map Bongaigaon Railway Map Cachar Railway Map   Chirang Railway Map Dhemaji Railway Map Dhubri Railway Map Dibrugarh Railway Map   Dima Hasao Railway Map Goalpara Railway Map Golaghat Railway Map Hailakandi Railway Map   Jorhat Railway Map Kamrup Metropolitan Railway Map Kamrup Railway Map Karbi Anglong Railway Map   karimganj Railway Map Kokrajhar Railway Map Lakhimpur Railway Map Marigaon Railway Map   Nagaon Railway Map Nalbari Railway Map Sibsagar Railway Map Sonitpur Railway Map   Udalguri Railway Map Assam is the largest and the most conveniently accessible state in the north east states. Railways first enter in Assam in 1881 when Assam Railway & Trading Company set up the meter gauge track. The track was mainly constructed for tea and coal transportation. In January 1958, two railway networks were formed, the North Eastern Railway and the Northeast Frontier Railway. The railway route length in Assam is approximately 2434 km long. Assam is well linked through Rail Services to major Indian cities. One can conveniently avail trains from metropolitan cities like from Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai and other cities in the country. The railhead of the state is in the capital city Guwahati and has direct train services from major cities in India. The Rajdhani Express from New Delhi and Saraighat Express from Howrah in Kolkata are the fastest trains to Assam. Railways are the easiest and cheapest way to travel to and within Assam. The Railways Ministry has carried out various developmental actions in the State's Railway including extension of rail line to connect with the other Northeast states of Meghalaya, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh through Assam. A few new passenger trains were introduced to connect various places within the state during the last few years. Last Updated on : 12/04/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule