PROTON Crop Booster - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products PROTON Crop Booster PROTON Crop Booster Buy directly from supplier Request Price Description Product Description The farming with saline water is difficult and loss making. It decreases the productivity of the soil and ultimately the farmers have to bear the great losses. In some cases they even has to abandon the land due to non fertile. PROTON Crop Booster is designed to decrease the salinity of the irrigated water. It comes with 10 years warranty. Major benefits of the PROTON Crop Booster • Better development of first fruits and flowers • 25% reduction in inferior grade fruit growth. • Better quality & bigger fruits • Increase in quantity of fruits grown • Plants develop improved stress resistance • Speed of crops’ standing. • Vigorous development of root system. • Reduces the scale forming in the drip lines. • Improves the microbial action in the soil • Difference in green mass compared to others. • Easy to fit and remove no need of plumber. Benefits to the farmer • Dramatically increase the crop yield (150% reported) • Increases the profit • Early crop production so early returns • Increase the keeping quality of fruits and vegetables so earns more returns from the harvest. • Reduces the fertilizer cost and so savings money • No additional cost for maintenance Benefits of PROTON Crop Booster • Increased root growth • Moisture holding capacity of soil increases • Less energy required for the irrigation. • Saves water • Increases fertilizer efficiency and reduces chemical cost. • De scaling of pipe and drip which increase the efficiency of drip irrigation performance. • Support in increasing the microbial growth of soil APPILCATIONS • Flood irrigation system in agriculture field • Drip & micro irrigation system • Sprinkle irrigation system • Golf irrigation system • Green house micro irrigation and fogging system • Misting system • Lawn sprinkler system • ½”,1”, 2”, 2.5”, 3”, 4” and more as per your specification. • House hold purpose with different specification. CONCLUSION In controlled large-scale field experiments it was found that magnetic treatment affects the quality of irrigation water. It was shown that treated water contributes to an increase in farm yields in crop farming, yield being expressed in quantity & Quality of the produce and in the specific economic contribution. If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: KTCI4 . Category: Nutrients . Social share Related Products Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Nutrients Bioniconema Free Read More Request Price Quick View Nutrients Potassium Humate Granules -75% Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Nutrients Nurture – Panchagavya Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Inputs , Nutrients Potassium Humate 90% Black shiny powder Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Nutrients Phytotune – tunes plant health Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Nutrients Organic mix Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics irrigation