India Packaged Fruit Based Beverage Market Outlook to 2019 AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Press Releases India Packaged Fruit Based Beverage Market Outlook to 2019 Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: India Packaged Fruit Based Beverage Market Outlook to 2019 LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 2 Days Ago #1 rajbksh Join Date Jan 2014 Posts 36 Blog Entries 2 India Packaged Fruit Based Beverage Market Outlook to 2019 • Future Growth of India Packaged Fruit Based Beverage Market is expected to be led by Packaged 100% Juices and nectars segment. • The market leader, Coco-Cola India is expected to maintain focus on its brands Maaza and Minute Maid to compete with other players in the industry. Ken Research announced its latest publication on “ India Packaged Fruit Based Beverage Market Outlook to 2019 – Driven by Rising Health Consciousness, Changing Lifestyles and Increase in Personal Disposable Income” which provides a comprehensive analysis of the packaged fruit based beverages in India. The report covers various aspects such as market size of India Packaged Fruit Based Beverage market, as well as market size of India packaged 100% Juices and Nectars market and India packaged fruit drinks market individually, segmentation on the basis of rural and urban demand, distribution channel, geographical demand and value of imports for fruit juice concentrates. The report is useful for fruit based beverages manufacturers, wholesalers of food and beverages, retail chains, manufacturers of cold pressed juices and players operating juice bars and new players venturing in the market. The package fruit based beverages market in India has witnessed substantial growth in recent years on account of rising demand for healthy beverages fueled by growing awareness, urbanization and an increase in working women population. Increasing urbanization in the country has been leading to change in lifestyles and choices of people. Along with this, surging populace of middle class income segment with increased health awareness has further escalated the demand for nutritional products such as juices in the country. Additionally, the tendency to experiment with new and exotic flavors is increasing amongst the urban population The packaged fruit based beverage market in India is comprised of large companies such as Coco- Cola and PepsiCo which posses a large product portfolio of fruit based beverages. The India packaged fruit based beverage market revenues have grown at a CAGR of 21.6% from 2010-2014. According to the research report, the India Packaged Fruit Based Beverage Market will incline at a considerable CAGR rate thus exceeding INR 165.1 Billion by 2019 due to the shift in consumers’ preference from carbonated drinks to fruit based beverages coupled with surging middle class. “To be successful in packaged fruit based beverages industry in a developing country like India, with population exceeding one billion, the manufacturers need to constantly innovate, add new products to portfolio, modify packaging, change their product mix, and increase time to market. Additionally, supply chain strategies need to be highly customized to cater to issues such as procurement, sourcing and distribution”, according to the Research Analyst, Ken Research. Key Topics Covered in the Report: Packaged Fruit Based Beverages - Market Size by Revenue - Manufacturing Process and Supply Chain - Market Segmentation by o Fruit Drinks, 100% Juices and Nectars o Geography o Rural and Urban Demand o Distribution Channel - Trends and Developments - Government Rules, Policies and Initiatives - Imports of Fruit Juice Concentrates - Competitive Landscape and Market Share - Growth Drivers - Challenges and Opportunities - Future Outlook - Macro Economic Parameters Key Product Categories Mentioned in the Report - 100% Juices - Nectars - Fruit Drinks - Juice Bars - Cold Pressed Juices - Companies Covered in the Report - Coco-Cola India - PepsiCo - Dabur - Parle Agro - New Entrants (ITC, Hector Beverages, Rasna, Britvic, and Capri-Sun) - Cold Pressed Juices Companies (Raw Pressery, Food Ideas Private Limited (Jus Divine), Jus Pressed, and Antidote) - Juice Bars Players (Joost Juice Bars, Has Lifestyle Ltd., and Juice Lounge) Related Reports: Thailand Energy and Sports Drink Market Outlook to 2017 - Driven by Organized Food and Beverage Retail Sector India Energy and Sports Drink Market Outlook to 2017 - Led by Young Population Aged 15-35 years Indian Non-Alcoholic Beverages Market Outlook to 2015 - Rising Health Consciousness among Consumers Source: India Packaged Fruit Based Beverage Market Contact: Ken Research Ankur Gupta, Head Marketing & Communications Ankur@kenresearch.com +91-9015378249 Reply With Quote Tags for this Thread fruit beverage market , fruit drinks market , fruit juice industry , juice bar emerging market View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 06:40 PM .