Vehicle Maintenance Home » Useful Information About Automobile » Vehicle Maintenance Vehicle Maintenance Vehicle Maintenance is the most important ingredient for a happy journey and a long life of your vehicle. A well maintained car would never desert you when you need it the most. So here are some tips for a safe drive lifelong. General Maintenance Under this category we provide some simple guidelines to ensure that your vehicle doesn't have any problems on an everyday basis. Engine Oil : To prevent engine corrosion, it is very important that the engine maintains the amount of oil it is supposed to receive. Negligence in this aspect will lead to a deteriorating engine performance, resulting in less mileage. Lights : It is important for the lights to be properly focused, for your own and for the oncoming vehicle's safety. Travel on low beam so that it does not hinder your view. Tyre Pressure : The required amount of air pressure needs to be strictly maintained if your car is to get the right mileage and pick-up. Water: If your engine uses water for cooling, take care to ensure that it is regularly changed. Water can also be used for cleaning the windshield. Some other tips Get your vehicle serviced only at authorized service stations Always use genuine spare parts. Give your vehicle anti-rust coating before the monsoons. Check the engine oil level once every two weeks. Also check the levels of coolant and water in the radiator and battery. Drive at a moderate speed of 45-55 km/h to maximize fuel efficiency Avoid accelerating and braking abruptly. Shut up the engine whenever you expect to wait. Avoid riding on the clutch pedal, and release the clutch pedal fully while driving. Use air-conditioning only when necessary. Maintain proper air pressure in your tire to improve mileage. Preventive Maintenance Today's automobiles can accumulate a lot of mileage with very little evidence of wear and tear, making it easy for vehicle owners to avoid looking under the hood while their vehicle is running well. But preventive maintenance can be a valuable investment, increasing fuel efficiency and saving the expense of emergency repair service and the inconvenience of a breakdown. Preventive maintenance is all about; looking, checking, and replacing automotive components before they fail. Read through the tips to help you to know your car better. Airfilter : Check it every month. Replace it when it becomes dirty or as part of a tune -up. It is easy to reach, right under the big metal 'lid', in a carbureted engine; or in a rectangular box at the forward end of the air in a duct hose assembly. Battery Extreme caution should be taken while handling a battery since it can produce explosive gases. Always wear protective glasses and gloves. Belts: Inspect belts and hoses smoothly. Replace glazed, worn or frayed belts. Replace bulging, rotten or brittle hoses and tighten clamps. If a hose looks bad, or feels too soft or too hard, it should be replaced. Brake Fluid: Check the brake fluid monthly. First wipe dirt from the brake master cylinder reservoir lid. Pry off the retainer clip and remove the lid or unscrew the plastic lid, depending on which type your vehicle has. If you need fluid, add the improved type and check for possible leaks throughout the system. Do not overfill. Engine Oil : Check the oil after every fill up. Remove the dipstick and wipe it clean. Insert it fully and remove it again. If it is low, add oil. To maintain peak performance, the oil should be changed every 3,000 miles or 3 months, whichever comes first. Replace the oil filter with every oil change. Exhaust : Look underneath for loose or broken exhaust clamps and supports. Check for holes in muffler or pipes. Replace the rusted or damaged parts. Have the emission checked at once per year for compliance with local laws. Shock Absorbers : Look for signs of oil seepage on shock absorbers, test shock action by bouncing the car up and down. The car should stop bouncing when you step back. Worn or leaking shocks should be replaced. Always replace shock absorbers in pairs. Tires: Keep tires inflated to recommended pressure. Check for cuts, bulges and excessive tread wear. Uneven wear indicates tires are misaligned or out of balance. Transmission Fluid: Check transmission fluid monthly with engine warm and running, and the parking brake on. Shift to drive, then to park. Remove dipstick, wipe dry, insert it and remove it again. Add the approved type fluid, if needed. Never overfill. Washer Fluid : Keep the windshield washer fluid reservoir full. Use some of it to clean off the wiper blades. Wiper Blades : Inspect the windscreen wiper blades whenever you clean your windshield. Do not wait until the rubber is worn or brittle to replace them. They should be replaced at least once per year, and more often if smearing occurs. Last Updated on 1/3/2012 Useful Information about Automobile Automobile Tips Transmission System Motor policy Know Your Car The Electrical System Modern Suspension System Vehicle Maintenance