Christmas in Goa: Celebration and Decoration Home » Christmas in Goa   Goa Weather History Culture गोवा का नक्शा Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Cities Panaji Calangute Vasco da Gama Margao Mapusa Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Christmas in Goa Christmas in Goa is one of the most important festivals that is celebrated with a lot of enthusiasm. Like all the other parts of the world, Christmas in Goa is celebrated on 25th December. The day marks the birth of Lord Jesus. The festival is marked with a lot of merrymaking and revelry. People from all the communities in Goa join hands to celebrate the festival. Moreover, Goa Christmas celebrations begin with the singing of Christmas carols, which is followed by offering prayers in the church and exchanging gifts. Dancing and parties form an inevitable part of Christmas in Goa. During the festival, the people of the city dress themselves in the finest of their clothes. People decorate their houses with Christmas trees. The Christmas trees are decorated with beautiful items such as candies, sparkling stars, cotton flakes, cakes, socks, gifts and a number of other decorative items. During the Christmas, the Goans decorate their houses with colorful papers and poinsettias. Even the churches are decorate for the occasion. The market places in the city are also decorated with tinsel and buntings. It is remarkable that the celebration of Christmas in Goa is not restricted only to the Christians. People belonging to various communities participate in the festival with immense enthusiasm. In fact, every of the city seems to come alive with the festivities. The beaches in Goa forms the center of the festivities during this time. Loud music, dance and revelry, clubbed with sumptuous dishes mark the festivities of Christmas in Goa. Christmas Celebrations and Decorations in Goa Christmas in Goa celebrations include exchanging gifts and offering prayers. The nativity scene is evoked by creating clay statues and artifacts made up of millet grass, box board and hay. Creating clay statues form an important part of the Christmas festival and it is reminiscent of the birth of Jesus in the stable of Bethlehem. The celebrations of Christmas at Goa begin in the evening of 24th December. The festivities begin with decorating the Christmas tree. Decorating the Christmas tree form an integral part of the Christmas celebrations in Goa, which begins on the day before the Christmas. On the eve of 24th December, the people of Goa decorate Christmas tress with many decorative items including socks, candies, stars, bells, gifts and many small figures of animals and birds. However, the actual celebration begins on the eve of 25th December, which is marked by loud music and dancing. Dancing, pealing of church bells and fireworks form an intrinsic part of the Christmas Day celebrations in Goa. Feasts also form an important part of the Christmas celebrations. On the Christmas day, the Christians organize special feasts. The sumptuous foods and beverages characterize the Christmas celebrations in Goa. Moreover, family reunions and partying also include the celebrations of Christmas. On the Christmas Eve, many families observe Midnight Mass. The Midnight Mass commemorates the birth of Jesus at midnight. Therefore, the people of Goa sing Christmas carols and hymns during the midnight. The Midnight Mass in Goa is characterized by the sounding of bells and lighting candles. Decorating the house with Christmas tree forms an important feature of the Christmas celebrations in Goa. On the eve prior to the Christmas, the Christmas tree is decorated with a number of geometrical figures, paper cuttings, small figurines of birds, squirrels, lambs and horses, moons, stars and bells. The people of Goa also use beautiful gifts and colorful socks to decorate the tree. Different types of fruits are also used to adorn the Christmas tree on this occasion. Beaches in Goa Christmas Food in Goa Chruches in Goa       Hotels in Goa Places to Visit in Goa Resorts in Goa         Restaurants in Goa Waterfalls in Goa         Last Updated on : 28/11/2013 Christmas Events in India 2013 Ahmedabad Bangalore Hyderabad Kolkata Pune Jaipur Goa Chandigarh Chennai Delhi Mumbai             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule