Highlights of our Achievements : The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. Skip to main content Text Size: Contrast Scheme: Home Submit Query Feedback Related Links Faq Contact Us Search: You are here: Home Highlights of our Achievements Print (Opens in a new window) Large Print (Opens in a new window) Highlights of our Achievements CCI has been championing the interest of Indian cotton farmers for more than three decades and is the single largest cotton trading company in the country. Serving the cotton farmers of the country in realizing fair price of their produce, by operating more than 258-300 procurement centers on All-India basis. CCI remains present in the market yards from day one of the kapas arrivals so as to ensure fair competition at the time of auction. Serving Textile Industry by playing a leadership role of a dependable supplier of quality cotton on most competitive terms. It has earned a reputation for maintaining quality, adhering to sale terms and for delivery schedules both in domestic as well as international market. To supply cotton to the textile industry at competitive prices, CCI keeps on selling cotton on day-to-day basis and does not speculate on prices. We also believe in transparent working and fair trade practices. We also strike a balance between offering fair price to cotton growers and excellent pre and post sales services to cotton buyers. Achieved all targets of annual programme for use of official languages. CCI has been honoured with first prize for Indira Gandhi Raj Bhasa shield for 19th time. CCI is a profitable and MOU signing Company with the Ministry of Textiles, Government of India since 1992-93 with MOU ratings of Good to Excellent. Quick Links About Us Open List Hon'ble Minister of State Textiles (Independent Charge) CCI - An Organisation Board of Directors Highlights of Achievements Objectives Operations Network Procurement of Kapas Sale of Cotton Financial Performance Brief note on Financial Performance Ten Year Financial Result Annual Report Developmental Activities National Cotton Scenario Current Cotton Scenario Press Releases CSR Statistics Vigilance Citizens Charter Right to Information Act Technology Mission on Cotton (TMC) Property Return (Immovable) Lokayukta Return Public Notices Open List Tenders Auctions Awards Recruitment Notices Complaint Policy (101.71 KB) Centralized Public Grievance Redress And Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) E-Magzine / E-Journal Open List Rajbhasha Rashmi Quarterly Report (140.12 KB) Day's Sales Quotes Export Sitemap Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Disclaimer Help Accessibility Statement Website designed and developed by: Barrierbreak Technologies | © 2011 The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. All Rights Reserved.