Indian Agribusiness Systems Indian Agribusiness Systems Latest news and analyses, price data for commodity traders.! Free Trial » Home About Us Services Subscriptions FAQ Forgot Password?   |  Register now Grains Rice Wheat Maize Pulses Chana Peas Moong Tur Urad Masoor Veg Oil Soya Oil Palm Oil Rapeseed Oil Oil Seed Soyabean Rapeseed Groundnut Oil Meal Soya Meal Rapeseed Meal Sugar Sugar Jaggery (Gur) Cotton Cotton Guar Guar Seed Guar Gum Spices Red Chillies Black Pepper Turmeric Cardamom Jeera Coriander Animal Feed Feed Ingredients Plantation Rubber Tea Coffee Others Mentha Oil Castor Seed You are here: Home About Agriwatch About Agriwatch Agriwatch.com is brought to you by Indian Agribusiness Systems Pvt. Ltd. (IASL), a company started by a group of young technocrats and trade professionals who have had a long association (cumulatively more than 150 years) with the Indian Agribusiness Sector. The agribusiness sector is characterized by multi layered channels on the Agricultural Input and Output side, poor quality of information and analysis about Demand, Supply, Prices, Market Trends for various agri-commodities. The promoters of this organization, coming from an Agricultural background felt the need to address these anomalies in this sector and therefore have come together to create a professional team and an organization to deliver value to the participants at all the levels in this sector. Objectives The Company primarily aims at filling out the information and communication gap that exists in various sub-sectors of the Agricultural Economy in general and Agricultural Commodities trade in particular. For achieving this, the Company is making use of the latest developments in information technology. The ultimate objective of the Company is to reach the highest level of sophistication in the Agribusiness sector so as to achieve a perfect flow of information, analyses, communication and e-commerce. The specific objectives of the Company are as follows: Information-enable various participants in the Agribusiness sector such as the farmers, Traders, Processors of Agricultural Outputs, Suppliers of Agricultural Inputs etc. by providing latest and accurate information. Provide valuable analyses to the trade participants that will enhance their decision taking abilities in trade. Sunil Khairnar Mr. Sunil Khairnar has been working in the agribusiness and development sector in India for more than 20 years. He is a B.Tech in Agriculture Engineering and a Management Post Graduate from IIM Ahmedabad. His specialization, inter alia, includes i) Local and International Commodity Trade; ii) Agriculture and Rural Development; iii) Skill Development of Micro Entrepreneurs and youth for jobs. He as recently acquired some knowledge in the Rural Healthcare domain. Mr. Khairnar has also conceptualized and founded the following organizations: Mr. Khairnar is the Founder & Chairman of Indian Society of Agribusiness Professionals (www.isapindia.org). ISAP is a non-government, not-for-profit organisation incorporated in 2001, under Section 25 of the Indian Companies Act. It is one of the largest networks of agriculture and allied sector professionals in India. ISAP acts as a bridge between this network of Indian agricultural community and various other stake- holders of this sector (Governments, International Organizations, Bilateral Developmental agencies, Corporate, Academia, and End-users) through large-scale projects on the field. ISAP has also broadened its horizon recently in other rural development areas like Skill development, Dairy Development and Rural Healthcare. ISAP has a dedicated full time staff of more than 200 people across 25 field offices in more than 15 states. Indian Agribusiness Systems Pvt. Ltd. in March 2000 (www.agriwatch.com) which is one of the best known organizations in the agri-commodities information and consulting services space in India. IASPL works out of Noida in the NCR region. Founder and Advisor at Indian Society of Healthcare Professionals (www.ishpindia.org). ISHP was conceptualized and established in April 2010 to work in various aspects of the rural health care arena in India. ISHP runs 3 small careline centers in Noida, Lucknow and Dharwad among other healthcare development projects in multiple states in India. Mr Khairnar was also, associated earlier as Director with private entities like National Bulk Handling Corporation(www.nbhcindia.com), Mission Biofuels and was elected to board of Directors of International Food and Agribusiness Management Association for 2010-11. V N Saroja CEO, Indian Agri Business Systems Pvt Ltd Qualifications PGDM (IIM Ahmedabad) Experience: Ms. Saroja has in the past consulted to organizations in a wide range of sectors, and established and grown India's largest careers website - naukri.com. She is a Co-founder of Movico Technologies, a company that works on mobile technologies especially remote access, video/audio streaming and VAS. Bhaskar Natarajan Qualifications MS - University of Cincinnati, US (1994) BE - VJTI, Mumbai, (1991) Strong knowledge of hedging, risk-management and procurement strategies in commodities. Nearly 5 years experience trading futures & options on US equities. Nearly 3 years experience trading F&O in Nifty and individual stock futures & options in India. Over 8 years experience in the US in various roles from software programmer to software technical architect, at Computer Sciences Corporation, USA, one of the largest systems-integrators in the world. Conceived, designed and operationalized several publications including the "Agriwatch Commodity Weekly" - a weekly tabloid newspaper on commodities, the "Indian Commodity Market Report" (ICMR) - a monthly commodity journal and "Commodity Canvas" a fortnightly magazine on commodities and the futures markets. Also train and monitor all analysts in their understanding of futures markets, arbitrage, hedging, contract rollovers, open interest and trading strategies. Being the resident expert in technical analysis, train members of the technical analysis teams on chart reading and interpretation of patterns. Responsible for delivery of all custom research projects for corporates. At AgriWatch, Bhaskar is the head of research and products. He designs tailored research content for the customers, who vary from trader to the biggest of the corprotes, uses a lot of quantitative tools to create these products. He has been with AW for over 9 years. Key Team Sunil Khairnar V N Saroja Bhaskar Natarajan Grains Rice Wheat Maize Pulses Chana Peas Moong Tur Urad Masoor Veg Oil Soya Oil Palm Oil Rapeseed Oil Oil Seed Soyabean Rapeseed Groundnut Oil Meal Soya Meal Rapeseed Meal Sugar Sugar Jaggery (Gur) Cotton Cotton Guar Guar Seed Guar Gum Spices Red Chillies Black Pepper Turmeric Cardamom Jeera Coriander Copyright © 2015. All Rights Reserved. Indian Agribusiness Systems Private Limited Company Information About Agriwatch Careers Clients Contact FAQ Services Customized Research Consulting Services Market Intelligence Research Spot Market Prices Research Reports News & Commentaries Technical Analysis Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Disclaimer