Change Text size A    A     A  Home  |  Site Map  |  Circular Search  |  CPENGRAMS  |  Innovative Idea  |  Discussion Forum  |  SANKALP  |  BHAVISHYA Search   Pensioners' Portal About Us Organisation All About Pension Noteworthy Aggrieved ? Circulars/Forms Guidelines Related Resources FAQs Travel/Reservation Citizens Health Services/CGHS State Govt. Pensioners Sixth Central Pay Commission      Pension Calculator Calculate your Pension, Gratuity & DR     Photo Gallery   Contact Us Feedback Terms of Use   Report Broken Links Chief Administrative Medical Authorities - Pensioners Portal [See Rule 20 (3)] Chief Administrative Medical Authorities in the States and Union Territories (U.T.) STATES S. No. Name of the State Designation and Address 1 Andhra Pradesh    Director of Health Services, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad 2 Arunachal Pradesh  Director of Health Services, Arunachal Pradesh, Naharlagun. 3 Assam Director of Health Services, Assam, Shillong. 4 Bihar  Director of Health Services, Bihar, Patna. 5 Chhattisgarh Director of Health Services, Chhattisgarh, Raipur. 6 Goa Director of Health Services, Goa, Panjim. 7 Gujarat Director of Medical Services, Gujarat, Ahmedabad. 8 Haryana Director of Health Services, Haryana, Chandigarh 9 Himachal Pradesh  Director of Medical and Health  Services, Himachal  Pradesh, Shimla. 10 Jammu and Kashmir Director of Health Services, Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar/Jammu (Tawi). 11 Jharkhand  Director of Health Services, Jharkhand, Ranchi. 12 Karnataka Director of Health Services, Karnataka, Bangalore. 13 Kerala    Director of Health Services, Kerala, Trivandrum. 14 Madhya Pradesh  Director of Health services, Madhya Pradesh, Bhopal. 15 Maharashtra (i)The Superintendent, JJ.Group of Hospitals, Mumbai or the Civil Surgeon,Pune, if the applicant is to be examined by a Medical Board. (ii) Civil Surgeon of the District concerned or the Presidency Surgeon, Mumbai, if the applicant is not to be examined by a Medical Board.    16 Manipur Director of Medical and Health Services,Manipur, Imphal. 17 Meghalaya Director of Health Services, Meghalaya, Shillong. 18 Mizoram Director of Health Services, Mizoram 19 Nagaland     Director of Health Services, Nagaland, Kohima. 20 Orissa Director of Health Services, Orissa, Bhubaneswar. 21 Punjab Director of Health Services,Punjab, Chandigrah. 22 Rajasthan Director of Medical and Health Services, Rajasthan, Jaipur. 23 Sikkim Director of Health Services,Sikkim, Gangtok. 24 Tamil Nadu Director of Health Services and Family Planning, Tamil Nadu, Chennai. 25 Tripura Director of Health Services, Tripura, Agartala. 26 Uttar Pradesh Director of Medical and Health Services, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow. 27 Uttaranchal Director of Medical and Health Services,Uttaranchal, Dehradun. 28 West Bengal   Director of Health Services,West Bengal, Writers Building, Calcutta UNION 1 Delhi (i) The Chairman of the Central Standing Medical Board, Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia  Hospital, New Delhi. (ii) The Chairman of the Central Standing Medical Board, Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi. 2 The Andaman and Senior Medical Officer, Nicobar Islands Andamanand Nicobar Islands, Port Blair. 3 Lakshadweep Director of Medical and Health Services,Lakshadweep, P.O. Kavaratti (via),Head Post Office, Calicut. 4 Dadra and Nagar Medical Officer of Health, Haveli  Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Silvassa. 5 Daman and Diu Director of Health Services, Goa, Panjim. 6 Pondicherry Director of Health Services, Pondicherry. 7 Chandigarh Medical Officer of Health, Union Territory of Chandigarh,Chandigarh