Noida City Map Home »» Maps » Uttar Pradesh » Noida City Map   Uttar Pradesh Cities Agra Aligarh Allahabad Ghaziabad Gorakhpur Jhansi Kanpur Lucknow Mathura Meerut Noida Varanasi                    more.. उत्तर प्रदेश का नक्शा Uttar Pradesh History of Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                  (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Uttar Pradesh Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map Proposed New States Awadh Pradesh Bundelkhand Paschim Pradesh Purvanchal Yamuna Expressway Lucknow Metro Map Noida Metro Map Industries in UP Thermal Power Plants UP Government Uttar Pradesh Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Travel to Uttar Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Forts and Palaces in Uttar Pradesh Temples and Shrines in Uttar Pradesh Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels             more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Uttar Pradesh Architectural Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Uttar Pradesh Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Uttar   Pradesh       Noida City Map Noida City Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Noida City Map showing major roads, metro lines, national highway, vegetation, waterbody and state boundary. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. New Okhla Industrial Development Authority, also known as Noida, is taken care by New Okhla Industrial Development Authority management. On April 17, 1976, Noida's administration came into existence. April 17 is celebrated as 'Noida Day'. During the Emergency in India in the year 1975-1977, this administration was set in order to bring a thrust of urbanization. Noida city was formed under the Act of UP Industrial Area Development. Noida also has a Film City with many media-Related companies present there. Noida is situated in the state of Uttar Pradesh in its district Gautam Budh Nagar. The distance between Delhi and Noida is around 20 kilometres to southeast. The distance between Noida and the headquarter of the district Greater Noida is also about 20 kilometres to northwest and the distance between Noida and Uttar Pradesh's capital Lucknow is about 457 kilometres to northwest. Noida is encircled by the River Yamuna on west and south-west, the Delhi city on north and north-west, Ghaziabad and Delhi's cities on north-east, and river Hindon on the east, north-east and south-east. Noida comes under Yamuna River's catchment area, and is situated on an old river bed. The city's soil is considered rich and with characteristics of loam. The administrative headquarter of the district is in Greater Noida, which is a nearby town. However, the District Magistrate (DM) of the district, who is the highest government official, is located in Noida. The Gautam Budh Nagar Lok Sabha constituency and Vidhan Sabha, which is the state assembly, constituency is in Noida. Among the National Capital Region, Noida is the 17th clean place in India. The National Capital Regions Gurgaon and Faridabad rank 87th and 237th respectively in India when it comes to cleanliness. During summers, Noida's climate is very hot from March to June. The temperature varies from minimum of 23 degrees Celsius and the maximum of 45 degrees Celsius. During monsoons, the climate gets very hot and humid from mid-June to mid-September. Noida chilly winters are marked by the cold waves coming from the Himalayas. During the peak winter time, the temperatures can fall to as low as 3 to 4 degree Celsius. Noida also faced a lot of issues with smog and fog during this time. The city is covered by a dense fog, which reduces the visibility on streets, mostly in January. Noida has the Delhi Metro facility till the City Centre from Delhi and also to Vaishali. The Metro service in Noida started in November 12, 2009 (10 months in advance), due to the Commonwealth Games. Metro will further expand in Noida and will also cover Greater Noida. Noida has three important expressways - DND Flyway, Noida-Greater Noida Expressway and Yamuna Expressway. DND Flyway connects Delhi and Noida in no time and is highly preferred by the office-goers. Yamuna Expressway connects Agra via Mathura to Noida. Recently, a lot of residential developments have been taking place in the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway's adjacent area. The city has access to DTC, UPSRTC and private buses. People can choose auto-rickshaws, cycle rickshaws or taxis for small-distance travel. However, Noida doesn't have direct rail connectivity. The railway stations can be accessed at nearby areas like Anand Vihar and Ghaziabad. Last Updated on : November 22, 2014 Colleges in Noida/Greater Noida Animation Colleges in Greater Noida Engineering Colleges in Noida MBA Colleges in Noida Animation Colleges in Noida Hotel Management Colleges in Greater Noida MCA Colleges in Greater Noida BBA Colleges In Noida Hotel Management Colleges in Noida MCA Colleges in Noida BCA Colleges in Greater Noida Law Colleges in Greater Noida Polytechnic Colleges in Greater Noida BCA Colleges in Noida Law Colleges in Noida UPTU Colleges in Greater Noida B Pharma Colleges in Noida Mass Communication Colleges in Greater Noida UPTU Colleges in Noida Engineering Colleges in Greater Noida Mass Communication Colleges in Noida Education Centers in Noida Uttar Pradesh Cities Agra Aligarh Allahabad Ayodhya Azamgarh Badaun Ballia Bareilly Basti Bhadohi Bijnor Chandauli Chandausi Chitrakut Deoria Etah Etawah Faizabad Ferozpur Ghaziabad Gokul Gonda Gorakhpur Greater Noida Hapur Hardoi Jaunpur Jhansi Kanpur Lalitpur Lucknow Mathura Meerut Mirzapur Moradabad Muzaffarnagar Noida Pilibhit Saharanpur Sambhal Sarnath Sitapur Sultanpur Unnao Varanasi Vrindavan Noida Places to Visit in Noida Educational Centres ATMs Banks Medical Facilities Public Places Restaurants Noida Map Noida Metro Map Greater Noida Map The Buddh International Circuit Map About Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Quick Facts People Fairs and Festivals Taj Mahotsav Music Thermal Power Plants Travel to Uttar Pradesh Travel to Agra Travel to Allahabad Travel to Ayodhya Travel to Ghaziabad Travel to Gorakhpur Travel to Jhansi Travel to Kanpur Travel to khushinagar Travel to Lucknow Travel to Mathura Travel to Noida Travel to Sarnath Travel to Sravasti Travel to Varanasi Travel to Vrindavan Places to visit in Uttar Pradesh Places to visit in Agra Places to visit in Allahabad Places to visit in Ghaziabad Places to visit in Gorakhpur Places to visit in Jhansi Places to visit in Kanpur Places to visit in kushinagar Places to visit in Lucknow Places to visit in Mahura Places to visit in Sarnath Places to visit in Shravasti Places to visit in Varanasi             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule