Gujarat Map Home » Maps » Gujarat Map   Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Outline Map Lat Long Map Elevation Map Mandal Map District Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Industry Map Agriculture Map Railway Map Road Map Tehsil Map River Map Ahmedabad Metro Map गुजरात का नक्शा Thematic Maps Agro Climate Zone Map Fisheries Zone Map Handicrafts Centres Map Map of Ports in Gujarat Gujarat Minerals Map Oil and Gas Fields Map About Gujarat History Geography Weather Cities Ahmedabad Anand Surat Vadodara Dwarka                        more.. Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Gujarat Places to visit in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Beaches Wildlife Sanctuaries Hotels in Gujarat Ahmedabad Hotels Saputara Hotels Surat Hotels Vadodara Hotels Rajkot Hotels Jamnagar Hotels              more... How to reach Airports Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Schools Universities in Gujarat India Map in Gujarati World Map in Gujarati Gujarat Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Gujarat       Gujarat Map गुजरात का नक्शा Map of Gujarat Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing major roads, railways, rivers, national highways, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Gujarat Location Map Gujarat District Map Gujarat River Map Gujarat Road Network Map Gujarat Railway Map The capital of Gujarat is Gandhinagar with Ahmedabad as the largest city. The population of Gujarat State is 50,671,017 (2001 census). Gujarat covers an area of 1, 96,024 sq km and shares its border with states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra . The state has a literacy rate of 79.8 percent. Gujarat is the 7th largest state in India in terms of area. The 196,024 sq kms of area in the state is divided into 26 districts at present. The state of Gujarat had 17 districts when it was formed in the year 1960. All the northern districts of the Bombay, which was a state in its own till then, were a part of Gujarat after 1960. The 26 districts of Gujarat are: Ahmedabad, Amreli, Anand, Banaskantha, Bharuch, Bhavnagar, Dahod, Dang, Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Kheda, Kutch, Mehsana, Narmada, Navsari, Panchmahal, Patan, Porbandar, Rajkot, Sabarkantha, Surat, Surendranagar, Tapi, Vadodara and Valsad. Gujarat Districts Facts The biggest district in the State of Gujarat in terms of area is Kutch District which has Bhuj as its city headquarters. The district covers 45,652 sq kms of the total area in the state and the population density in the district is that of 33. Gandhinagar is the smallest district in terms of area in Gujarat. The total area covered by the district is merely 649 sq kms. This added to the presence of Gandhinagar, the state capital after which the district is named makes it, the district with most population density. Total population in the district is 1,387,478. The most populated of all the districts in the state is the Ahmedabad District which also is the 8th most populous district in India. The district shares its borders with Mehsana in the North, Surendranagar in the West, Kheda in the East and Bhavnagar in the South. Dang district is the least populated district in the state. Around 226,769 people live in the district as per the census 2011.The district extends to 1764 sq km in area. Valsad district is located to the Southern most end of the state of Gujarat and it has covers an area of around 3034 sq km in the state of Gujarat. The Valsad district shares its border with Navsari District to the North. Navsari district is located in an area of 2211 sq km. Jamnagar district located on the Southern Coast of the state of Gujarat covers an area of around 14125 sq km. The district map of Gujarat will show you the all the districts demarcated clearly in grey dotted lines and all the district headquarters are marked in grey circles. Gujarat State Information Capital Gandhinagar Date of formation 1. May. 1960 Governor Shri Om Prakash Kohli Chief Minister Anandiben Patel Tourist attractions Gir NP, Somnath Temple, Dwarka, Palitana Festivals Navratri, Kite Festival, Kutch Utsav Major dance and music forms Bhavai Arts and crafts Bandhani or tie-and-dye fabric; woven Patola fabric; rich embroidery by the Rabari tribals including Soof embroidery. Languages Gujarati Size 196,244 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 60,439,642 Rivers Sabarmati, Mahi, Narmada, Tapti, Banas, Saraswati, Damanganga Forests and wildlife sanctuaries. Gir NP, Wild Ass Sanctuary Kutchch, Nal Sarovar Bird Sanctuary, Velavadhar NP, Vansda NP State animal Asiatic Lion State bird Greater flamingo State flower Galgota State tree Mango Major crops Groundnuts, cotton, tobacco Factoids It is possible to climb down the richly-carved step-wells or vavs of Gujarat. The ancient fort Uparkot was first built by the Mauryas. No. of District 33 Last Updated on : November 1, 2014 Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Outline Map Lat Long Map Elevation Map Mandal Map District Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Industry Map Agriculture Map Railway Map Road Map Tehsil Map River Map Gujarat Thematic Maps Agro Climate Zone Map Fisheries Zone Map Handicrafts Centres Map Geo Environmental Map Map of Ports in Gujarat Forest and Vegetation Map Relative Humidity Map Soil Salinity and Erosion Map Gujarat Minerals Map Oil and Gas Fields Map About Gujarat Geography History Weather Area Facts Districts Factsheet Flora and Fauna Topography Textiles People Dresses Food Art and craft Fairs and Festivals Travel to Gujarat Travel to Ahmedabad Travel to Bhavnagar Travel to Bhuj Travel to Dwarka Travel to Gandhi Nagar Travel to Gondal Travel to Surat Travel to Utelia Travel to Vadodara Travel to Zainabad Places to Visit Gujarat Places to visit in Ahmedabad Places to visit in Bhavnagar Places to visit in Bhuj Places to visit in Dwarka, Gujarat Places to visit in Gondal Places to visit in Surat Places to visit in Utelia Places to visit in Vadodra Places to visit in Zainabad             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad