Hotels in Madurai, Hotels in Trichy, Hotels in Thanjavur | Sangam HotelsSangam Hotel - Star Hotels | Home Our Hotels Trichy Thanjavur Madurai Chettinad About Sangam Packages Reservation News Blog Contact Us + 91-452-4244526 Trichy Thanjavur Madurai Chettinad Loading Current - - - - Sangam Hotel Trichy Situated just 5 km from the Rockfort temple, Sangam Hotel in Trichy contains over 90 executive rooms with 4 star amenities set to international standards. Avail pickups from the Trichy airport (5 Km) and Railway station (1 km). VISIT WEBSITE Sangam Hotel Thanjavur Situated amidst the temples of Thanjavur, Sangam Hotel embodies tradition embedded with modern day amenities. Sangam Hotel in Thanjavur provides the best means for our visitors to experience the cultural essence of the city. VISIT WEBSITE Sangam Hotel Madurai Situated just 4 km from the Meenakshi Amman Temple, Sangam Hotel in Madurai is ideal for pilgrims and businessmen alike. With over 50 spacious rooms, we provide packages for those wishing to experience the temple city. VISIT WEBSITE Chidambara Vilas Chettinad Chidambara Vilas is a boutique offering from the Sangam Group, providing you a rare insight into the ethnology of the Chettiars. We provide an authentic experience enabling you to relive the lifestyle of the “Nattukottai Chettiars”. VISIT WEBSITE About Sangam Hotels The Sangam group was established at Trichy in 1975 and has grown over the past two decades to become one of the landmark brands in the cities of Trichy, Madurai and Thanjavur. The Sangam group is identified through its star rated hotels at central locations in these cities. Sangam has distinguished itself in the service of the millions of tourists who visit these cities, which are renowned indian cultural destinations and ancient cities with iconic architectural and archeological locations. Read More... Review Sangam Hotels 4 stars - based on 226 reviews Hotel Sangam Tiruchirappalli Sangam Hotel Madurai - Rooms Dining Facilities Location Sangam Hotel Trichy - Rooms Dining Facilities Location Sangam Hotel Thanjavur - Rooms Dining Facilities Location Chidambara Vilas - Rooms Dining Facilities Location F L & LEGAL | TERMS & CONDITIONS  