DIRECTORATE OF MARKETING AND INSPECTION The Directorate of Marketing and Inspection (DMI), an attached Office of the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation under Ministry of Agriculture, was set up in the year 1935 to implement the agricultural marketing policies and programmes for the integrated development of marketing of agricultural and other allied produce in the country with a view to safeguard the interests of farmers as well as the consumers. It maintains a close liaison between the Central and the State Governments The Directorate is headed by Agriculture Marketing Adviser to Government of India and has its Head Office at Faridabad (Haryana), Branch Head Office at Nagpur (Maharashtra) and 11 Regional Offices/ Sub-Offices headed by Dy. Agricultural Marketing Advisers (Dy.AMAs.) at Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Chandigarh, Jaipur, Lucknow, Bhopal, Kochi and Guwahati and the Central Agmark Laboratory at Nagpur. Besides, there are 26 Sub-Offices and 11 Regional Agmark Laboratories (RALs) spread all over the country as per the details given below:- Regional Office Sub-Office Regional Agmark Laboratories 1. Delhi Dehradun  Okhla 2. Kolkata 1. Patna 2. Bhubaneswar 3. Ranchi Kolkata 3. Mumbai 1.Nasik 2.Ahmedabad 3.Rajkot 4.Surat 5.Margaon 6.Pune 7.Sangli 1.Mumbai 2.Rajkot   4. Bhopal Raipur Bhopal 5. Chennai 1.Bangalore 2.Madurai 3.Hubli Chennai 6. Kochi 1.Calicut 2.Trivandrum Kochi 7. Hyderabad 1.Guntur 2.Vishakhapattanam Guntur 8. Guwahati Shillong 9. Lucknow 1.Kanpur 2.Varanasi Kanpur 10. Jaipur Nil Jaipur 11.Chandigarh 1.Jammu 2.Amritsar 3.Abohar 4.Shimla Amritsar The main functions of the DMI are the following:-  1. Rendering advice on regulation, development and management of agricultural produce markets of the States/Union Territories; 2. Promotion of Standardization and Grading of agricultural and allied produce under the Agricultural Produce (Grading & Marking) Act, 1937; 3. Development and Implementation of Agricultural Marketing Research and Information Network(MRIN) scheme; 4. Promotion and Implementation of Rural Godown; 5. Implementation of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure Grading and Standardization scheme;  6. Training of personnel in agricultural marketing; and 7. Marketing Extension;