Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Citizen's Charter Citizen's Charter Vision To serve as a National Institution for research, education and training in the area of post harvest processing of crops of wetlands and storm prone regions To undertake basic, applied and adoptive research in post-production sector of cyclone/storm prone areas and wetlands, also including plantation, spices and other important crops To act as a National Organization for information on post-production systems of mandated crops To undertake transfer of technology, consultancy and analytical services for raw and processed agricultural commodities To establish linkages with related processing industries and other academic as well as R and D institutions for achieving its goals effectively Mission Gaining an increased understanding of living organisms with a view to increasing its application in the grain industry Developing a strong human resource capacity for the processing industry Providing a sound scientific basis for decision making in food security, safe environment and addressing the concerns of the consumers Generate and upgrade the scientific knowledge in the area of food grains for maximizing, conservation and utilization of food grains Value addition to the food grains and development of food products with safety through the application of newer technologies by R and D work Assist the existing industries for better performance in terms of efficient functioning, by-product utilization and effluent management Promote growth of new food industry, entrepreneurship, upgrading the skill of industrial manpower and management by imparting training programme  Storage of grains, insect pest management and safeguarding the quality of food grains and products Shelf-life improvement of food grains/products by packaging and improved technology Environmental protection and work safety measures in food industries MANDATES Basic, applied and adoptive research and development in post harvest processing, preservation and value addition of cereal grains, pulses, millets and oil seeds, and crops of wetlands and storm prone regions, including plantation, spices and other important crops. Research and development for creating environment friendly methods of utilizing the vast biomass in the country and food industrial wastes for increased economic returns of the producers and processors. Education and training for creating strong human resource capacities for the food processing industry and academic institutions in the country. Training for upgrading the skills of academicians, research students and food processing entrepreneurs and manpower for promoting growth of new food industry and entrepreneurship in the country. Consultancy to existing food industries or for creation of new food industries for better performance, efficient functioning, and for by-product and waste utilization and effective effluent management. Information generation and flow at National Level on post harvest processing, preservation and value addition of foods and to create linkages with related industries, academia and R and D Institutions across the country and around the world, and Analytical services to food industries and research institutes for testing the food and other organic samples and providing reports on the proximate and ultimate compositions. SERVICES OFFERED BY IICPT TO STAKE HOLDERS Degree Courses in Food Processing The Institute began offering formal degree courses at Bachelor, Master and Doctoral levels in Food Process Engineering from 2009-10 academic years. In B. Tech. program, 40 students are admitted every year, 20 students are admitted in two M. Tech. programs (one in Food Process Engineering and the other in Food Science and Technology) and 5 in the Ph.D. programs. The B. Tech program is of 4 years duration, the M. Tech will be of 2 years duration and the Ph. D will usually be of 3 years duration. The courses are affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. These courses help to create leaders in food processing who can take Indian food processing sector forward. New students are admitted in July-August each year. IICPT admits students from across the country following the prescribed government regulations. Food Quality Testing IICPT analyzes and issues reports on raw and processed foods and organic matter samples. Major constituents include moisture, fat, protein, fiber, FFA, peroxide value, mineral contents, toxin, pesticide residues are analysed. Food processing entrepreneurs, rice millers, packed food manufacturing industries, distillery units, mineral water manufacturers, farmers, and academicians are some of the beneficiaries of the Food Analysis Laboratory. This laboratory is accredited by NABL. Training Programs Training and continuing Education are essential parts of personal growth and development and they help in the advancement of science and technology. IICPT has excellent trainers in food processing areas who are leading scientists in different sectors of food processing and preservation. The types of training programs offered by IICPT include food processing technology training for skill development, food safety and analytical instruments handling and food product development trainings. Participants in the training programs derive boundless benefits in their chosen areas of works. The employability of students and research students will enhance; academicians will update their knowledge base in frontier areas of food processing: farmers and Self Help Group members will benefit by venturing in the sunrise sector for economic betterment and entrepreneurs already in the business of food processing expand their business. IICPT has established Training cum Business Incubation Centre. The center offers following hands-on training and skill development training programs ranging from one day and up to 6 months.  For more details click here..........   No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com