Related Links : The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. Skip to main content Text Size: Contrast Scheme: Home Submit Query Feedback Related Links Faq Contact Us Search: You are here: Home Related Links Print (Opens in a new window) Large Print (Opens in a new window) Related Links Ministry of Textiles, Govt. of India. - The Ministry of Textiles is responsible for policy formulation, planning, development export promotionand trade regulation  in respect of the textile sector. This includedall natural and manmade cellulosic fibres that go into the making of textiles,clothing and handicrafts. Textile Commissioner, Mumbai. The Office of the Textile Commissioner was established in 1943 during the Second World War period for arranging the supply of cloth to the defence forces as well as civilian population. After the end of World War II, the Textile Commissioner was given the regulatory function of administering the prices, distribution and control of certain varieties of cloth meant for civilian consumption in the post-war conditions of scarcity. Technology Mission on Cotton. With the liberalization of world trade following the progressive phasing out of the Multi Fibre Arrangement (MFA), quality and price competitiveness are becoming the most important criteria for good export performance of Indian Textiles. Even for domestic use the textile goods will have to excel in quality and be competitive in price because the Indian markets would become flooded with foreign goods that will find unlimited access into our country after 2004. Cotton Association of India (formally East India Cotton Association). A compendium of all matters relating to every branch of the Indian Cotton Trade, containing exhaustive information and statistical tables relating to crops, exports, imports, prices, stocks, consumption, government notifications etc. The Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council (Texprocil). Since its inception in 1954 as an autonomous, non-profit export promotion body, TEXPROCIL has become the international face of Indian Cotton Textiles successfully facilitating exports. For the foreign buyer, it has opened the entire range of Indian cotton yarns, fabrics and made-ups and has become the one-stop source for it. Indian Handlooms cluster - An Initiative of O/o Development Commisioner - Handlooms. The handloom sector is known for its heritage and the tradition of excellent craftsmanship. It provides livelihood to millions of weavers and craftsperson. The industry has not only survived but also grown over the decades due to its inherent strengths like flexibility of production in small quantities, openness to innovation, low level of capital investment and immense possibility of designing fabrics. Government of India has continued to accord priority to this sector. An imperative step has been taken by the office of Development Commissioner – Handlooms, Ministry of Textiles Government of India to promote and develop its exclusiveness for the global market. It’s a comprehensive and innovative attempt among others to promote merchandising and marketing both at the domestic and international levels which is central to the success of the handloom sector. Brand equity of handlooms is the need of the hour. The Jute Corporation of India Ltd. - The World's Largest Agency in Raw Jute Procurement & Trade. The Jute Corporation of India Ltd. (JCI) was set up in 1971 as an official agency by the Government of India with the aim to provide minimum support price (MSP) to the jute cultivators and also work as a helping hand in the raw jute sector. JCI was established by the Indian Government for the welfare of the jute growers, for example, granting them a certain amount of funds with the help of which they can have their own farming sector of jute. The JCI was first started as a small official agency at the beginning but then slowly it expanded its networking and now has almost spread in 7 states successfully for jute growing. The states which are eminent for jute growing in India include West Bengal, Bihar, Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Orissa, and Andhra Pradesh. Top Quick Links About Us Open List Hon'ble Minister of State Textiles (Independent Charge) CCI - An Organisation Board of Directors Highlights of Achievements Objectives Operations Network Procurement of Kapas Sale of Cotton Financial Performance Brief note on Financial Performance Ten Year Financial Result Annual Report Developmental Activities National Cotton Scenario Current Cotton Scenario Press Releases CSR Statistics Vigilance Citizens Charter Right to Information Act Technology Mission on Cotton (TMC) Property Return (Immovable) Lokayukta Return Public Notices Open List Tenders Auctions Awards Recruitment Notices Complaint Policy (101.71 KB) Centralized Public Grievance Redress And Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) E-Magzine / E-Journal Open List Rajbhasha Rashmi Quarterly Report (140.12 KB) Day's Sales Quotes Export Sitemap Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Disclaimer Help Accessibility Statement Website designed and developed by: Barrierbreak Technologies | © 2011 The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. All Rights Reserved.