Career Form Home About Us Why Us Managerial Team Our Services Our Clients Our Presence Careers News & Events Contact Us Careers   For more details call 022-4009 5034 or email at hr@indiancommodities.com Name * I wish to apply for the Position of * Email ID * Address * Mobile No * Upload Resume *                Job Vacancies Sr No. Date of notification Designation Location Job Description Job Specification 1 08 April 2015 Assistant Manager Operations / Manager Operations Mumbai - Nariman Point • To control operations across India. • To make sure Daily/Weekly/Monthly report is received from the respective Hub Managers. • Supersize every incoming and outgoing stocks on Daily Basis. • Control & check expenses of Hub as per delegated powers. • To check and pass the monthly expenses of Regional/Area/Hub Managers as per Head Office policy. • To visit the locations outside Mumbai for the purpose of surprised Audit/Inspection of the locations time to time as per need for vigilance, control & troubleshooting purpose. • Stock Reconciliation. • Stock Insurance. • Monthly Billing. • Any other work assigned due to exigency of work. • Graduate/ Post Graduate. • At least 5 years experience in Collateral Management • Strong background and work experience in Warehousing, Collateral Management & allied activities. • Excellent computer skills and proficient in excel, word, outlook, and access 2 24 January 2015 Hub Staff Rajasthan • Submitting daily attendance of CM's,Security Guards and all hub employees to HO by 11.00 a.m. • Forwarding of consolidated monthly attendance sheet to HO for salary processing on last working day of the month by 11.00 a.m. • To maintain Personnel file of all CM's & Security Guards working under their hub. • Checking monthly expense bills of CM & W.M before forwarding to HO. • Release formalities(i.e. preparing gate pass or updating of gate pass etc) • Submitting of weekly report to bank & HO • Preparation of data for monthly reconcillation and forwarding to HO for onward transmission to bank. • Forwarding of roaming report received from Audit Executives to HO. • Follow up with bank for completion of reconcillation. • Making all kind of correspondence and mails on behalf of Hub Managers-Area Manager as and when required. • Looking after operational requirements of hubs and see the availability of the same from HO within proper TAT. • All kind of basic office work. • Submission of Tele phone Bills & Broad Band bills with proper justification for arranging payment. • UP keeping of office records,furniture and fixtures. • Maintain confidentially and respect the trust of management w.r.t. to all the responsibilities handled. • Carry any other responsibilities as assigned by the hub manager from time to time. • Minimum Graduate from any field. • Minimum one year of experience with similar profile. 3 09 December 2014 Business Development Executive Mumbai - Nariman Point • Identify and develop business opportunities for the Company’s creative solutions in industrial and product designs as well as the Company’s creativity services • Define and follow up of yearly targets and objectives. • Develop and implement strategies for new products and services. • Determine new opportunities by analyzing business needs. • Provide direction, guidance to ensure alignment with the Company’s strategies. • Increase the company’s involvement with existing client. • Develop and deliver the business plans through carrying out research, formulate market analysis and deliver accurate business reports. • Serves as a lead facilitator both internally and externally for new avenues. • Develop and manage client communication tools such as the corporate website. • Pro-actively hunt for target banks and establish communications with those in commodity financing which can be benefitted from our Company’s services. • Further develop multi-tier relationships to organically grow the clients’ accounts. • Build referral and lead generation network. • Develop the corporate brand strategy. • Develop and manage marketing tools and collateral for existing and new clients. • Implement business models so as to create new ventures. • Forecast long and short-range market potential for Management’s analysis. • Adopt a hands-on approach in monitoring the implementation and execution of marketing programmes. • Bachelor Degree/Master in Business Administration/Marketing or equivalent. • Knowledge in Product and Market development. • Negotiation skills, Team Player, Communication Skill. • Field Work. • Outstanding needs analysis, positioning, business justification and closing skills. 4 09 December 2014 Recieptionist Mumbai - Nariman Point • Ensure working status of Telephone, Internet, Pantry, housekeeping, AMC, Fax, Printer, etc. • Ordering of stationery & Maintaining records of the same. • Updates appointment calendars. • Handling Couriers –International & Domestic. • Overall responsibility to ensure smooth running of Office Administration. • Maintaining all Stock records, Sewri Stock, Office Stock to Uniform stocks in routine. • To check all Internet, Telephone bills and then submit to accounts department. • Handling front office, receiving & forwarding calls. • Sending/Receiving fax, noting telephone messages. • Greet visitors and determine the nature of their visit; maintain visitor logs; alert appropriate party of visitor arrival or direct visitors to appropriate office, department or employee. • Scanning of visiting cards, maintain contacts database. • Coordinating Appointment requests in front office - checking with other officials on his/her availability & informing the person seeking his appointment. • Scheduling of Weekly Business Calendar. • Scheduling of Meetings and e-mailing the same. • Preparing & Emailing Agenda of the meetings to the participants if required. • Handling Pre Meeting Requisites – Documents, Presentations, Visiting Cards, etc. • Booking of Conference/Meeting room availability in advance. • Preparing & e-mailing minutes of the meetings to the participants. • Carry out instructions given by the management team and head office. • Administer all reservations, cancellations and no-shows, in line with company policy. • Assist in keeping the reception area clean and tidy, at all times. • Deal with all enquiries in a professional and courteous manner, in person, on the telephone or via e-mail • Minimum Qualification is HSC • FeMale only will be considered for this position. 5 09 December 2014 Office Boy / Peon Mumbai - Nariman Point • Candidates will be doing outdoor work such as payment collection, cheque drop, RTGS, NFT and document transfers etc. • Responsible for material/ paper delivery and pickup • Helping in Internal Department Coordination for papers / files / registers • Doing all miscellaneous work as instructed by any staff member • Minimum Qualification is SSC • Males only will be considered for this position. 6 16 October 2014 Hub Manager Karnataka / Andhra Pradesh • Will be in charge for all the locations functioning under his Hub • Responsible for the Business Development and profitability of the Hub • Achieving & increasing collateral management & warehousing projects and to streamline business accordingly • Attend Bank Officials and periodically visit the locations under him • Maintain good relations with banks • Graduate or Post Graduate • Post graduate will be preferred • Atleast 3 years of experience into warehousing • Computer knowledge is must • Collateral Management and Warehousing knowledge of Agri- commodities is a must 7 16 October 2014 Assistant Hub Manager Karnataka / Andhra Pradesh / Punjab / Madhya Pradesh • Responsible for the functioning and business development of the entire Hub and the number of Clusters under him • Responsible for the recruitment, training and admin issues (if any) • Responsible for all the formalities and Legal documentation related to Collateral Management and Warehousing, Quality Management/Testing and quantity of the commodity pledged viz. Marketing Report, Receipts. • Responsible for Daily transactions such Disbursements and Releases and shall be communication through reports on daily basis. Also he shall be submitting Closing Stock report on daily basis • Postgraduate or Graduate. Post graduate will be preferred • Minimum 2 year experience into warehousing • Basic computer knowledge • Collateral Management and Warehousing knowledge of Agri- commodities is a must 8 16 October 2014 Audit Executive Madhya Pradesh / Punjab / Haryana / Rajasthan • Internal Audit of all the Locations and Warehouses • visit all Location as and when instructed • Take regular reports and information from all the locations functioning under his Hub • Graduate with minimum 5 yrs experience into Warehousing • Knowledge of local agricultural market • Ready to Travel Home | FAQs | Sitemap | Feedback | Disclaimer © Indian Commodities ( A Division of Suvidh Commodities E Com Pvt. Ltd.) Website designed by Compusoft Technologies