Maurya Dynasty, Mauryan Empire Home » History » Mauryan Empire   Indian Empires Mughal Empire Mauryan Empire Marathe Empire British Empire Vijaynagar Map                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Dynasties History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Mauryan Empire Mauryan Empire Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing highlights the area conquered and ruled by the Mauryan dynasty. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. Towards the end of 327BCE, Alexander the Great attacked and invaded the valley of Kabul and within few months after this invasion he conquered Taxila, defeating the King Porus from where he reached the eastern border of Punjab. Alexander had greater plans and he wanted to capture Magadha in the lower Ganges valley but since his troops of soldiers refused to go any further he was refused to so south. In 325BCE he left the place which is now Karachi. Though his conquests had been spectacular, Alexander never conquered India. Not even Punjab and Indus valley completely came under his possessions. Alexander died in 323BCE but before his death he deployed his troops west of Indus. This invasion had completely changed the history of India. A young man in Taxila thought that what a European could do, an Indian could do far better and began to train an army. This man took over the control of Magadha. He was none other than Chandragupta Maurya. This is where the Mauryan Empire began to develop. The great Brahman teacher, Kautilya was Chandragupta's 'guru'. Once when he invaded Punjab he was lucky enough to be able to conquer the Nanda throne. He got his much needed chance when the successors of Alexander tried to subdue the eastern leaders who united against him; this is when he captured Taxila. When the situation stabilized a little in the former kingdom of Alexander, on of his successor offered a peace treaty to Chandragupta. But when he recognized the Mauryan Empire he gave up the eastern territories which led to 'epigamic rule' (which means two dynasties intermarried). By now the Indus and Ganges valley had been united by Chandragupta. Great services were seen at that time and the capital Patna was turned into a very beautiful city. This was when Kautilya, Chandragupta's teacher wrote 'Arthashastra', a guide to statecraft. Chandragupta wasn't that deeply into Brahmanism. As the Jainist scriptures suggest Chandragupta converted to Jainism before death in favor of his to be successor and son, Bindusara. Bindusara Maurya was Chandragupta's son and the lawful successor of the Mauryan dynasty. His rule lasted till 297BCE. He is the least popular out the three Mauryan rulers. It is said that he is the man who conquered the country between two seas (which means central India). Ashoka succeeded his father in 272BCE and proved to a great conqueror. Except for the south India he united the Indian subcontinent. After the massacre and bloodshed in Kalinga war the king converted to Buddhism. After the conversion Ashoka was very keen on 'ahinsa' (non violence). South India and Sri Lanka could never be conquered by him because he rather went out on missionaries for converting others to religious beliefs. Several 'stupas' were constructed by him and slaughter of animals was forbidden. It was after the death of Ashoka that the Mauryan Empire began to decline. Greek descendants in 240BCE came in and began invading and conquering the Mauryan Empire sites. In 184BCE Greek culture began to flourish in the south of the Hindu-Kush range. When Demetrius, the Greek ruler died his sons looked after the kingdom and kept fighting against the already shrunken Mauryan Empire. Later they even captured Patna which was the capital of the Mauryan kingdom. Last Updated on : 5/16/2012 Mauryan Empire Maps Magadha 5th Century Nanda Empire 323 BCE Chandragupta Maurya    Empire 320 BCE Chandragupta Maurya     Empire 305 BCE Chandragupta Maurya    Empire 300 BC Maurya Empire during    Ashoka 265 BCE               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule