Ashok Hinduja India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Business Economy »Ashok Hinduja   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Ashok Hinduja Ashok Hinduja, the youngest of the Hinduja family, one of the most famous and wealthy business companies in the world, takes care of the Indian end of the family business. A man of 56, and a staunch believer in astrology, Ashok Hinduja can be rightly termed as a workaholic. He believes into the mantra that there is no shortcut to success and with the help of lucky stars, one can crack the jackpot. Ashok Hinduja handles the various philanthropic and public services in India. Apart from that taking care of the Hinduja College, the strikingly modern and decorated Hinduja hospital is also his responsibility. Ashok Hinduja is one name that takes care of the Hinduja publications in India. The company mostly famous as the Hinduja Brothers, has its own structure of working, as it operates from the whole world at the same time. He succeeded in impressing the business world , helping the Iranian government during the potato-onion crisis, that no business group has done before. AP as called by his friends and acquaintances, he surprised everyone by associating business relationships between India and Iran. Ashok Hinduja was trained in business management while still in school. He joined his family business right after his graduation from Bombay university. In fact, among his brothers he was the youngest to join his family business. No tea, no aerated water, a strict vegetarian, Ashok Hinduja has an immense love for the Bombay film industry. His love for films passed on to his children, he has them associated with the Bombay Film industry. An avid fan of Amitabh Bachchan, he is known to have financed some of his films. Ashok Hinduja's business in India surrounds around Finance and banking, transport, energy, information technology, media and communications. The famous Ashok Leyland company we know is owned by Ashok himself,that has brought a revolution in transportation business.   Related People   Businessmen & Industrialists Cyrus Pallonji Mistry K.P. Singh Aditya Birla Kiran Mazumdar Shaw Srichand Hinduja Kumar Mangalam Birla Ashok Hinduja Lakshmi Mittal Adi Godrej Lalit Suri Amar Bose Mukesh Ambani Arun Sarin Nandan Nilekani Azim Premji Rahul Bajaj B.M. Munjal Ramalinga Raju Bhai Mohan Singh Ratan Tata Dhirubhai Ambani Raunaq Singh Ghanshyam Das Birla Sunil Mittal J.R.D. Tata Swaraj Paul Economists Amartya Sen Jagdish Bhagwati Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule