Jawaharlal Nehru Home » Personalities » Jawaharlal Nehru   Personalities of India Jawahar Lal Nehru Message to Nation Childhood and Family Nehru and Gandhi Foreign Policies Nehru's Nationalism Role in Indian National Congress Nehru's Last Day's Nehru as Prime Minister Economic Policies Education Social Reformer Mahatma Gandhi Civil Disobedience Dandi March Gandhi in South Africa Non-Cooperation Movement Satyagraha Quit India Movement Non-Violence Emergence of Gandhi Gandhi and Women Sabarmati Ashram Gandhi and Secularism Role in Indian National Congress Childhood to Assassination Economic Ideas of Gandhi       Jawaharlal Nehru Celebrating the essence of Nehruism Jawaharlal Nehru, one of the central figures of Indian politics during India's struggle for independence and the first Prime Minister of India was born on 14th November 1889 in Allahabad. As a son of an influential Indian barrister and politician he grew up in the lap of luxury with governesses and tutors. His early schooling was in India and at the age of 15 he went to England to attend the Harrow School. Later he joined Trinity College to study natural science. After this he joined Inner Temple in London to train himself as a barrister. He returned to India in 1912 and joined Allahabad High Court Bar, Uttar Pradesh . On 8th February 1916, at the age of 27 he married Kamla Kaul. Next year their only daughter, Indira, was born. 1920 proved to be the turning point in the life of anglicized Jawaharlal Nehru. Once traveling in train he overheard General Dyre gloating over Jallianwala Bagh massacre. He vowed to fight the imperial rule and joined Indian politics. He was strongly influenced by the Gandhian views and was the supporter of Mahatma Gandhi in freedom struggle. Under the influence of Gandhi he, along with his family, abandoned his western possessions and lifestyle and started using 'Swadeshi'. He was a very good orator and a prominent organizer. Soon he became one of the popular political leaders of north India. In 1924 he was elected as the president of Municipal Corporation of Allahabad. Dissatisfied by British officials and corruption amongst civil servants, he resigned from his post within two years. He was not in the favor of dominion status for India within the British Empire, as recommended by his father. He strongly criticized the Nehru report prepared by his father Motilal Nehru. Jawaharlal Nehru, the man who made a tryst with destiny, was a leader who kept his promise and led India to freedom. The first Prime Minister of India , he came to the forefront of the Indian freedom struggle after Jallianwalah Bagh massacre. Devoted to the cause of freedom, he was a representative of a whole new generation of India. World Peace and all round development of India were the main concerns of this great statesman. 'Chacha Nehru', as he was fondly called by children, was amongst the prominent names behind the establishment of the Non Aligned Movement (NAM). Pt Jawaharlal Nehru was not just a man or a Prime Minister, he was a phenomenon who gave shape to the dreams of independent India and permeated the lives of Indians. On his 118th birth anniversary, Maps of India tried to unfold the chapters of his life with the help of articles and write-ups about this leader of India. To mark his birthday, we also organized a special quiz contest - NEHRU QUIZ on November 14th 2007. For more information click here . Last Updated on : August 8, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule