 Government of India, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture Skip to Main Content | Screen Reader Access | | | | हिंदी में | Follow us on Twitter Home Acts & Rules Statistics Minimum Support Price(MSP) Advance Estimate of APY(English) Advance Estimate of APY(Hindi) Estimates of Area Production of Horticulture Crops Horticulture Area Production Information System (HAPIS). District Wise Production data for horticulture crops. Productivity of horticulture crops Yield Comparision Year 2011-12(Final Estimate) Year 2012-13(Final Estimate) Year 2013-14(Final Estimate) Year 2014-15(First Advance Estimate) Agriculture Census Animal Husbandry & Fisheries Directorate of Economics & Statistics(DES) Citizen Charter RFD Schemes & Guidelines Schemes Info Guidelines Miscellaneous Parliament Questions CPGRAMS Recruitments Tenders Reach Us Contact Us Telephone Directory Feedback & Grievance About Us Divisions DAC Organisation Presentations Reports and Publications Programmes & Schemes Agriculture Contingency Plan Circulars and Notifications CACP FAQs RTI e Governance Projects Related Links Recent Initiatives Productivity of horticulture crops. Yield Comparision in Horticulture State Wise. CMS for Translation of various Portals including(mkisan & Farmers Portal). In Order to Facilitate quick and periodic translation of websites a content management system for the purpose of translation has been created and has been initially commisioned for mkisan. Click here for details Handbook on Horticulture Statistics 2014 released The establishment of a comprehensive horticulture database is crucial for ensuring effective planning to facilitate a systematic development of the horticulture sector in the country. The data also helps in exploiting the huge export potential for the sector. The present “Hand book on Horticulture Statistics” has been divided into seven different sections dealing with Socio-Economic indicators, Outlays and Expenditure under Horticulture activities, Area and Production of Horticulture crops, Prices and Arrivals, Export and Import of Horticulture Produce, Consumption of Horticulture crops and World Scenario. Click here for more Information All Mobile Based Services Enabled through mKisan Portal of Ministry of Agriculture Mobile based services for farmers and other stakeholders being delivered through organisations, departments and offices of Central & State Govts down to the Block level (including State Agriculture Universities, Krishi Vigyan Kendras, Agro-Meteorological Field Units) have been brought together under a single umbrella viz. mKisan portal of the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. The URL is www.mkisan.gov.in . mKisan Portal subsumes all mobile based initiatives in the field of Agriculture & allied sectors. It brings together SMS (both Push and Pull), Interactive Voice Response System, Unstructured Supplementary Services of Data or USSD (which is essentially Interactive SMS and can facilitate data entry and query on Web Portals without internet), Mobile Apps and Services. Further details of mKsan Portal can be seen at http://mkisan.gov.in/aboutmkisan.aspx. A presentation can be seen here Administrative Approvals of Projects titled "Development of Surtable Technology for Increasing the Productivity of Pulses In Rice Fallows". Administrative Approvals of Projects titled "Development of Surtable Technology for Increasing the Productivity of Pulses In Rice Fallows" and "Enzymatic pretreatment in the processing of pigeon pea" have been issued. Click here for more Information on Pulses In Rice Fallows and Enzymatic pretreatment in the processing of pigeon pea. What's New Minutes of Kharif Campaign 2015. The National Conference on Agriculture for Kharif Campaign, 2015 was held on 7th-8th April, 2015 under the Chairmanship of Secretary (A&C) at the National Agriculture Science Centre, Pusa Complex, ICAR, New Delhi. Click here for more Information. Impact Evaluation Study on National Mission on Micro Irrigation(NMMI), June-2014 Allocation of funds for financial year 2015-16 under Soil Health Card (SHC) Scheme Allocation of funds for financial year 2015-16 under Soil Health Management (SHM) Scheme Inviting Objections & Suggestions on Draft Insecticides,Rules,1971 Agroforestry: Integration of Agriculture with Trees in Food Production System To give specific focus on development of agroforestry, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India, brought out the National Agroforestry Policy in 2014. Agroforestry systems include both traditional and modern land use systems, where trees are managed together with crops and or/ animal production system in agricultural settings. Agroforestry systems offer means to address to a significant extent the present challenges of food, nutrition, energy, employment and environmental security. Given the fact that land holding size is shrinking, tree farming combined with agriculture is perhaps the only way forward to optimize the farm productivity and thus, enhancing livelihood opportunities of small farmers, landless and the women. Click here for more Information. Pre-Kharif DAC-ICAR Interface Organised On March 31, 2015. The Pre-Kharif DAC-ICAR Interface was organised on March 31st under the Co-chairmanship of Secretary (A&C) and Secretary (DARE) –cum-Director General (ICAR) at 3.00 pm in the Committee Room, No. 142, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi participated by senior officers of DAC, DAHD&F and Scientists from ICAR. The DAC-ICAR Interface is a national research-extension convergence mechanism, whereby, subject matter Divisions of Department of Agriculture and Cooperation (DAC) and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) interact intensively to identify the thrust areas for research and development and development strategies for making full use of new technologies. Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries (DAHD&F) is also actively involved in the Interface. Prior to the Interface, various Divisions of the DAC and DAHD&F in consultation with their counterparts in the ICAR interact and formulate Group Recommendations on key technology issues for the forthcoming crop season. These Group Recommendations are further deliberated in the interface and the outcome is shared with the states in the ensuing National Conference on Agriculture for Kharif/ Rabi Campaign. Click here for more Information. e-book showing achievements of DAC & DAHDF(270 Days) mKisan-Unleashing the power of Mobile in the hands of Farmers. mKisan is an effective medium for providing timely knowledge inputs or advisories to the farming community,so as to increase their productivity and ensure best remunerations for their Produces. Award Winning Photographs