Location Map of Andhra Pradesh Home » Maps » Andhra Pradesh Map » Andhra Pradesh Location Map   Andhra Pradesh History Geography Climate आंध्र प्रदेश का नक्शा Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Hyderabad Metro Stations Map Cities Amaravati: Andhra's New Capital Hyderabad Tirupati Vishakhapatnam Vijayawada Warangal                    more.. Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Andhra Pradesh Places to visit in Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels         more... How to reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education in Andhra Pradesh Universities in Andhra Pradesh       Andhra Pradesh Location Map Location Map of Andhra Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Map showing the Location of the State Andhra Pradesh with in India Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The global location of the state of Andhra Pradesh is between 77° and 84°40'East Longitude and 12°41' and 22°North Latitude. It is located in the southeastern part of India. Andhra Pradesh is the third largest state in India. The total area that is covered by the state is about 2, 75,068 Sq.Km. The state of Andhra Pradesh is surrounded by the Indian states of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. While Maharashtra, Chattisgarh and Orissa border Andhra Pradesh in the North and Tamil Nadu in the south, Karnataka in the West bound the state. The state is enclosed by Bay of Bengal from the East. Among the other Indian cities in southern India, the state of Andhra Pradesh is the largest and the most populous with a total population of 76,210,007. The whole state can be segmented into three main regions. These regions are: - The Coastal Andhra, which comprises of Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, Ongole and Nellore districts. It is also known as the Northern Circars. The Rayalaseema or Ceded districts, which consists the districts of Kurnool, Cuddapah, Chittoor and Anantapur. The Telangana region- comprises of districts like Khammam, Medak, Nizamabad, Aadilabad, Nalgonda, Warangal, Karimnagar, Mahbubnagar and Hyderabad The state is adorned with many hilly areas, which runs vertically and almost divides the state in to two halves. Andhra Pradesh is fortunate to have three big rivers running through it. These rivers are Krishna, Pennar and Godavari. Other than these main rivers there are many other rivers flowing through the state. The state of Andhra Pradesh has distinct topographical conditions. While in the northeast it is densely covered with forest, the coastal plains have fertile and flat lands suitable for cultivation of paddy. The state is blessed with a good many number of sea-beaches that attracts the tourist all round the year. Last Updated on : 20 June 2013 Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Elevation Map Outline Map Physical Map District Map Railway Map Road Map Latitude Longitude Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel Map Proposed Andhra Pradesh Map Sriharikota Location map Andhra Pradesh About Climate History Geography Languages Population Districts Factsheet Distance Chart Pin code STD code   States Location Map   Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Bihar Chhattisgarh Goa Tripura Uttaranchal Uttar Pradesh West Bengal Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu & Kashmir Jharkand Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Tamilnadu Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Orissa   Union Territories Location Map   Andaman and Nicobar Chandigarh Dadra and Nagar Haveli Daman & Diu Lakshadweep Pondicherry Delhi             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule