User User Manual for Nav Krishi Content Scheduling & Management System (CSMS)             1. Introduction   2. Product Features   3. Operating Instructions   3.1.     General Information :   3.2 .    For Programme Viewers/Listeners   3.3 .    For Programme Producers 3.3.1. Login for Doordarshan 3.3.2. Login for All India Radio 3.3.3. Login for DAC   1.  Introduction Mass Media Support to Agriculture Extension, a central sector scheme, is launched by Department of Agriculture & Cooperation for agriculture extension. The country wide mass media network of Doordarshan (DD) and All India Radio(AIR)   is being utilized   as a vehicle to reach the masses due to its massive penetration.  The scheme envisages producing and transmitting programmes, covering a wide spectrum of topics in agriculture and allied fields to bring the latest information and knowledge to the farming community.   The Nav Krishi Programme Scheduling & Management System basically aims to capture the broadcast schedule with programme contents produced by different production centres; map them with the respective relay centres and disseminate it through web for the wide access across the country.   The basic objectives of the system are: To improve the dissemination of station wise progarmme schedule & contents in advance.   Wide publicity through web for deeper  penetration and readily access to local Print Media, Farmers, Extension Workers, NGOs etc.   Content quality improvement and identification of need based programmes for addressing   area specific requirements through feedback mechanism.   Improved Monitoring of Agricultural Programme under Mass Media Scheme.   To create Agriculture Programme Database & provide search facility.  2. Product Features The main product features are: General information on Scheme and Station Names  To view station wise programme schedules of DD National, Regional & Narrowcasting and AIR stations with contents To provide station wise Programme Feedback To provide programme suggestion or give request for programme Programme search (will be incorporated in next version) Password protected login for data entry by DD and AIR stations . 3. Operating Instructions Type the http://dacnet.nic.in/csms   URL at any Internet browsers to access the CSMS. The following main page of the system will appear: The main page is divided into 3 parts, namely: General Information(Left part of the screen):  For Viewers(Middle part of the screen) For Programme Producers(Right part of the screen) 3.1   General Information : : The viewers can select the options under this part to know about the scheme and see the name of DD and AIR stations of their interest. 3.2 For Programme Viewers/Listeners : The middle part of the screen is dedicated to Viewers to check/facilitate:   ·         Nav Krishi Programme schedules of DD & AIR: Viewers/Listeners can see the programme schedule of the DD/AIR station after clicking this option. ·         Programme feedback : The viewers/listeners can give the feedback about the programme, telecasted by the DD/AIR stations. ·         Suggestion on Programmes or Request for programme: The viewers/listeners can give their suggestions or request for the programme of their interest. ·         Contact Addresses : The viewers/listeners can contact for any help. 3.3 For Programme Producers : This part of the screen is designed for DD, AIR and DAC officials to feed, update and monitor  the programme schedule with contents.  It facilitates the following:   Login for Doordarshan Login for All India Radio Login for DAC 3.3.1  Login for Doordarshan : After selecting this option next screen will appear and prompt the DD official to select station name as a login and password. To distinguish National, Regional and Narrowcasting Centres,  ‘ Na ’, ‘ RK ’ and ‘ NC ’ are added as suffix with Regional and Narrowcasting Stations respectively. The station suffixed with ‘Na’ stands for National (i.e. Delhi(DD1)-Na for DD-National), ‘RK’ stands for Regional Centres(i.e. Ahmedabad-RK for Ahmedabad Regional Centres)  and ‘NC’ stands for Narrowcasting(i.e. Agartala-NC for Agartala Narrowcasting Centre) centers. Each station is assigned a password. The user is requested to change the password and maintains its secrecy. After selecting the correct station name as described above and typing password, next screen will appear as follows: The above screen facilitates following options: · Programme Entry : Using this option user can enter the segment wise new programme schedule in advance. The data entry screen is shown below: All the options are self-explanatory but for user’s convenience, fields of the data entry screen are explained below:   Select Date(DD), Month and Year at Date of Telecast and type time of telecast under     Time of Telecast fields. Select Programme Language in which programme is produced from drop down box. Type name of Anchor/Presenter under Anchor/Presenter field. The Segment Sr.No . is auto incremented. It will get automatically incremented while entering new segments. Type segment duration in Minutes(min.) & Seconds(sec.)   and complete details of segment under segment details field. Select whether the segment is new or repeat under New/Repeated Programme field.   Select the appropriate segment type for the programme segment from drop down box.   The segment types are given below: Interactive programme (includes Interview, discussion and quiz) Documentary/docudrama  (Film etc.) Infotainment (Folk dance, Folk Song & Musical Filler) Promotion campaign/TV Spot/Advt. Agri news Weather Prices Crop seminars Advisories Others   Type name of the Expert(s), Designation & Organization of Expert(s) and Contact address/contact no. under   the Expert’s Name, Designation & Org. and Expert’s Address/Contact Info. fields respectively.          Programme Update : User can update/delete the already entered programme schedules. The fields under the screen are the same as in Programme Entry Screen, which are described above.   Programme Report : User can see the schedule of programme between selected target dates and take printout. Type the Date under FromDate (From) and ToDate (To) fields for which programme schedule to be viewed or report to be generated. Enter date “November 1, 2005” as 01/11/2005. Feedback Report : User can see the feedback report for feedback received during the different period. Enter  FromDate and ToDate as explained above for a period in which feedback is to seen.     Change Password : User must change the password in time to time and maintains its secrecy.  For changing the password click on Change Password. Next screen will prompt you to enter the old password, new password and confirm the new password. After entering the old password, type new password and retype the new password for confirmation.  This will change password and make it effective for next login.  Remember the new password, as old password no more will be valid after change of password. 3.3.2 Login for All India Radio : After selecting this option next screen will appear and prompts the AIR official to select station name as login and password as explained under section 3.3.1(Login for Doordarshan) . Each station is assigned a password. The user is requested to change the password and maintains its secrecy.  The login screen appears as follows: After selecting the correct station name and typing  correct password, the following  screen will appear: The above screen facilitates following options: Programme Entry : Using this option user can enter the segment wise new programme schedule in advance. The data entry screen is shown below:   All the options are self-explanatory but for user’s convenience, fields of the data entry screen are explained below: Select Date(DD), Month and Year at Date of Telecast and type time of telecast under     Time of Telecast fields. Select Programme Language in which programme is produced from drop down box. Type name of Anchor/Presenter under Anchor/Presenter field. The Segment Sr.No . is auto incremented. It will get automatically incremented while entering new segments. Type segment duration in Minutes(min.) & Seconds(sec.)   and complete details of segment under segment details field. Select whether the segment is new or repeat under New/Repeated Programme field. Select the appropriate segment type for the programme segment from drop down box.   The segment types are given below: Interactive programme (includes Interview, discussion and quiz) Documentary/docudrama  (Film etc.) Infotainment (Folk dance, Folk Song & Musical Filler) Promotion campaign/TV Spot/Advt. Agri news Weather Prices Crop seminars Advisories Others   Type name of the Expert(s), Designation & Organization of Expert(s) and Contact address/contact no. under   the Expert’s Name, Designation & Org. and Expert’s Address/Contact Info. fields respectively.              Programme Update : User can update/delete the already entered programme schedules. The fields under the screen are the same as in Programme Entry Screen, which are described above.   Programme Report : User can see the schedule of programme between selected target dates and take printout. Type the Date under FromDate (From) and ToDate (To) fields for which programme schedule to be viewed or report to be generated. Enter date “November 1, 2005” as 01/11/2005. The sample programme report is given under section 3.3.2 .   Feedback Report : User can see the feedback report for feedback received during the different period. Enter  FromDate and ToDate as explained above for a period in which feedback is to seen.   Change Password : User must change the password in time to time and maintains its secrecy.  For changing the password click on Change Password. Next screen will prompt you to enter the old password, new password and confirm the new password. After entering the old password, type new password and retype the new password for confirmation.  This will change password and make it effective for next login.  Remember the new password, as old password no more will be valid after change of password. 3.3.3   Login for DAC : After selecting this option the next screen will prompt you to enter the login name and password. It will    provide separate screens for system administration and progarmme monitoring.   System Administration :  This screen provides all the option for entering and updation of mater data records such as State, District, Station, Segment type etc.  User has to login as the ‘Admin’ to use the options.     Programme Monitoring : This screen is designed for monitoring the programme schedules, programme contents and feedback reports. The main options are: o        Programme search(will be provided in next version) o        Programme schedule o        Feedback & suggestion reports         Specific Operating Instruction The DD/AIR Station needs a Microsoft Windows PC Client and preferably broadband Internet connectivity to access the CSMS.  