Imphal West District Map Home » Maps » Manipur » Districts » Imphal West District Map   District of Manipur East Imphal West Imphal Churachandpur Ukhrul Tamenglong              more.. मणिपुर का नक्शा Manipur Manipur Map Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Capital Imphal City Map Bishnupur City Map > Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Travel to Manipur Places to visit in Manipur Wildlife Sanctuaries Govindajee Temple War Cemetery Agricultural Map Geography Economy Media Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies- Inner Parliamentary Constituencies- Outer Government Education Universities In Manipur History Mineral Map Society and Culture Sex Ratio Pincode STD code       Imphal West District Map District Map of Imphal West Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Imphal West District Map highlights the National Highways, Major Roads, District Headquarter, etc in Imphal West . Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Imphal is the capital of Manipur, which has been divided into two districts, West Imphal and the East Imphal. West Imphal lies in the valley region and is a tiny plain that is surrounded by plains of other districts. West Imphal has its own natural beauty and is full of culture and rich heritage. Geographical location West Imphal lies between 24.30 degree north and 25.00 degree north latitudes and between 93.45 degree east and 94.15 degree east longitudes. The city is surrounded by other districts on all sides, with the Imphal east and the Thoubal districts to the east, Senapati districts to the North, Thoubal and Bishnupur to the south, Bishnupur and Thoubal districts to the west. The land of West Imphal is fertile and made up of alluvial soil. The main rivers that can be seen draining the west Imphal are Imphal River, Nambul River and its tributaries. Industrial progress As far as progress is concerned, we can see much progress in the west Imphal as there are many industries set up here like the handloom and handicrafts, traditional cottages, small scale industries like the bed sheet, pillow cover, mosquito net, chadar, scarf, shawl etc. There are other industries like the cane industry, jewelry, bamboo industry etc. Some of the large scale industries are the spinning mill at Loitang Khunou and at Takyel that is a bicycle factory and the electronic factory that assembles TV sets. People of West Imphal Original Manipur is constitute around the major population and there are also migrants but in small numbers. Meiteilon is the language of West Imphal. The people here observe various festivals and cultures and wear traditional clothes during feasts. West Imphal has many kinds of cultural institutions like the Manipur Jagoi Marup, Jawaharlal Nehru dance academy etc. The people here eat rice, vegetables, fruits, meat, fish etc. Places of interest West Imphal is great attraction for tourists. It has various places of interest like the Shree Shree Govindjee Temple, adjoining the Palace of the Maharajas. It is a beautiful temple that has shrines of Krishna, Balaram and Jagannath on two sides of the main deity. Women's market is another unique market, were you can see tow section of market, one with fresh vegetables and fruits and the other with handlooms and household goods and is run exclusively by women. War cemeteries is another attraction, were you can see the cemeteries of the Indian and British soldiers who fought and died in World War II. Last Updated on : 15 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule