Microsoft Word - New Microsoft Office Word Document _2_   By Speed Post No. 11-7/2013-GA.II Government of India Ministry of Agriculture Department of Agriculture & Cooperation *** Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi Dated: the 23rd December, 2013 To As per list. Subject: Supply of sanitary related items in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi -invitation of quotations - regarding. Sir, I am directed to say that Department of Agriculture & Cooperation intends of procure subject items as mentioned in the enclosed performa. The terms and conditions of the contract shall be as under: i) The contract for sanitary items shall initally be awarded for a period of One Year which can be extended upto 3 years subject to satisfactory service rendered by the contractor during the currency of the contract. The Department reserves the right to reject or to accept any quotation in whole or in part without assigning any reason thereof. The contractor approved for supply shall ensure supply of best/latest manufactured material available in the market and acceptance of the stores shall be the prerogative of the Department to the bench mark standards determined by the Department. ii) The goods have to be delivered at Krishi Bhavan free of cost for which no transportation charges will be payable by the Department. In case the vendor fails to supply the commodity at Krishi Bhavan within 5 days from the date of issue supply order, the Department has the right to procure the goods from open market at the risk and cost of the contractor. The vendor shall be required to compensate the Department for any loss incurred in such repurchase. iii) In case the contractor fail to cope with the work load or does not render satisfactory services, the contract awarded to him shall be cancelled forthwith without giving any notice or without assigning any reason whatsoever and his performance security and balance payment due to him, if any, shall be forfeited. In this connection, decision of the Department shall be final and binding on the contractor. iv) The tenderer whose quotations are finally accepted, shall have to deposit a sum of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand Only) in the form of Fixed Deposit receipt from any of the scheduled commercial Bank duly pledged in the favour of Pay & Accounts Officer (Sectt.-I), Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi as performance security. The same shall stand forfeited in case of adverse performance & not adhering to the terms & conditions of the contract. v) The quotations shall be sent in the enclosed quotation Proforma devised for the purpose and its columns or their arrangement shall neither be tampered with nor amended/modified. The rates should be quoted both in figures and words and no alterations/over-writings are permitted. The quotations shall be valid for acceptance by the Department for a period of 45 days. vi) The contracts shall normally be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder for majority of the items and ready to match the L-1 prices for rest of items and who is competent to perform/otherwise eligible and accepting that terms/conditions. vii) In case of any dispute in the resultant, the decision of Director/Deputy Secretary (GA), Department of Agriculture & Cooperation shall be final & binding. viii) The quotations shall be submitted in two parts viz Technical Bid/Financial Bid (Annexure –I & Annexutre II) separately under one big cover specifically mentioned Bids for sanitary item in DAC. The financial bids of only technically quallified bidders/firms will be considered. ix) Interested and competent firms may submit their quotations in a sealed cover addressed to the UNDER SECRETARY (GA), DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE & COOPERATION, so as to reach him lates by 3.00 P.M. on 15th January, 2014. The quotations may be dropped in the tender box kept near Reception Office, Gate No.1, Krishi Bhavan, and New Delhi. The quotations are to be submitted in the prescribed proform enclosed along with Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) of Rs.7,000/- (Rupees Seven Thousand Only) in form of Demand Draft in favour of Pay & Accounts Officers (Sectt.-I), Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi. The covers should be super scribed as under: “QUOTATIONS FOR SUPPLY OF SANITARY ITEMS IN DAC” The quotations will be opened at 3.30 P.M. on 15th January, 2014 in room no.15, Krishi Bhavan. Tenderers or their authorized representatives may be present at the time of opening of the tenders. It is requested that the terms and conditions of the contract mentioned in the above paragraphs may please be read and understood before sending quotations. For any clarification in this regard or deliverable expected, undersigned may be contracted on any working day before 14th January, 2014. Yours faithfully (Raj Kumar) Under Secretary to the Govt. of India Tel. No.23384929 Copy to: 1. NIC-DAC for placing/uploading this on the website of the Department. 2. Central Procurement Portal. ANNEXURE – I To The Under Secretary (GA), Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Room No.14, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi-110011. Subject: Supply of sanitary related items in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi -invitation of quotations - regarding. Sir, I/we intend to submit the quotation on the subject captioned abnove and hereby consent to agree/accept all the terms and conditions stipulated in Department of Agriculture and Cooperation letter No. 11-7/2013-GA-II dated I/we undertake the documents are genuine/authentic and nothing material has been concealed and that I/we are not debarred by any Government organization and competent to contract. I/we understand that the contract is liable to be cancelled, if found to be having obtained, through fraudulent measns/concealment of information. (Signature of Authorised Signatory) Name of the bidder: Complete Address: Contract Nos & Address (work), if any: No. Name of the items 1. Name of the Firm 2. Name of Authorised representative and his Mobile/Tel. No. 3. Address of the Firm. 4. EMD Details (Amount Name of Bank Branch, DD No. and date 5. Experience Details (Last 3 year experence in Govt. Deptt.) along with satisfactory performance certificate from concerned Deptt./Orgnization. 6. The details of registration(s) Viz. incorporation of firm. 7. The details of the PAN and sales Tax ANNEXURE-II QUOTATION FOR SUPPLY OF SANITARY RELATED ITEMS Sl No. Name of the items Unit Rate (in Rs.)(In figures & Words) 1 Finit 5 Ltr One 2 Broom Nariyal Tilli (wt 500 gms One 3 Cleanzo (5ltr ) One 4 Duster Floor Big Size (36 X 36) One Dzn 5 Napthelne Ball Grade I Snow white One Kg 6 Surf Excel 750 gms Packing One 7 Colin 500 ML One 8 Finit / Presure Pump One 9 All Out Machine One 10 All Out Refill One 11 FaceTissue Paper 200 Pulls One 12 Liquid Dettol Soap 250 ml One 13 Odonil Stick ( Balsara ) 100 Gm One 14 Broom Phool 500 gm(Best Quality) One 15 Phenyl Black 5 Ltr (Tiger Brand) One 16 Room Freshner ( premium) 300 ml One 17 Sani fresh 500 ml One 18 Wiper Floor Big One 19 Jala Brush with 10 ft long Bamboo One 20 Plastic Mug One 21 Dustbin With lid Big size with padal F/O One 22 Toilet paper (Roll) One 23 Platfrom Brush 3 ft Hard Brush One 24 Brasso 500 ml One 25 Lizol 500 ml One 26 Baygon Power Spray 500 ml One 27 Vim Popular per kg One 28 Bucket 15 Ltr One 29 Liquid Soap Homacol 10 Ltr One 30 Acid Bottle 1 Lt (A Grade) One 31. Aggarbati 100 gm per packet Five pkt 32 Mouse Trap Iron Grill (Big) One 33 Hit (Cockroach) One 34. Hit (Black) One 35. Rassi (Cotton) OneKg 36. Kapoor (Brik) One Kg. 37. Quber Urinal One Dz. 38. Duster One Dz. TERMS & CONDITIONS i) The contract for sanitary items shall initially be awarded for a period of One Year which can be extended upto 3 years subject to satisfactory performance of the firm. ii) The contractor approved for supply shall ensure supply of best/latest manufactured material available in the market and acceptance of the stores shall be the prerogative of the Department to the bench mark standards determined by the Department. iii) The goods have to be delivered at Krishi Bhavan free of cost for which no transportation charges will be payable by the Department. In case the vendor fails to supply the commodity at Krishi Bhavan within 5 days from the date of issue supply order, the Department has the right to procure the goods from open market at the risk and cost of the contractor. The vendor shall be required to compensate the Department for any loss incurred in such purchase. iv) In case the contractor fail to cope with the work load or does not render satisfactory services, the contract awarded to him shall be cancelled forthwith without giving any notice or without assigning any reason whatsoever and his performance security and balance payment due to him, if any, shall be forfeited. In this connection, decision of the Department shall be final and binding on the contractor. v) The delivery of items will have to be made in room No.36-A at krishi Bhavan, Rajendra Prasad Road, New Delhi. No Transportation/Cartage charges will be paid for the same. vi) The Department reserves its rights to terminate in full or in part contract at any time without assigning any reason. The contractor will not be entitled to claim or any compensation against such termination. vii) All matters/disputes pertaining to the ender and the rest of the contract shall be settled by the Head of Department or officer nominated by him for the purpose. The contract terms are interpretable under applicable Indian Laws and subject to jurisdiction of Delhi Courts. (M.K. Shukla) Section Officer(GA-II)