Madhya Pradesh Map Home » Maps » Madhya Pradesh Map   Madhya Pradesh मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Indore Bhopal Jabalpur Gwalior Ujjain Sagar Neemuch Morena                    more... Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Madhya Pradesh Map मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Map of Madhya Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing major roads, railways, towns, district boundaries, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Madhya Pradesh Location Map Madhya Pradesh District Map River Maps of Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh Road Network Map Madhya Pradesh Rail Network Map           Travel to Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh (MP) state is situated in central India. The state is bordered by different states - to its northeast lies Uttar Pradesh, to its southeast lies Chhattisgarh , to its south lies Maharashtra, to its west lies Gujarat and to its northwest lies Rajasthan. MP is popularly known as the Heart of India. MP's capital is Bhopal , which is also the largest city here. Madhya Pradesh is the second biggest state in India with a population of 72,597,565 (2011 consus), and hence it ranks sixth in India as far as the population is considered. Hindi is a standard language spoken in Madhya Pradesh. Besides that, people also speak various regional variants, which are also different Hindi dialects. Apart from all this, Malvi is spoken in Malwa, Nimadi is spoken in Nimar, Bundeli is spoken in Bundelkhand and Bagheli is spoken in Bagelkhand and southeast of the state. Other languages are also spoken such as Telugu, Gondi, Bhilodi (Bhili), Korku, Nihali (Nahali) and Kalto (Nahali), which the tribal groups speak. Because the Marathas had ruled this place, a substantial number of people speak Marathi here. Because Gujarat is very close to the state, many people also are familiar with Gujarati. Agar-Malwa became the 51st district of Madhya Pradesh, as per the decision taken by the state government. It started functioning from 16 August 2013, covering 2,785 sq km and having a population of about 4,80,000. The district of Shajapur was bifurcated for this purpose, and tehsils of Nalkheda, Susner, Badoud, and Agar were included in Agar-Malwa. Madhya Pradesh State Information Capital Bhopal Date of formation 1. Nov. 1956 Governor Ram Naresh Yadav Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan Tourist attractions Sanchi Stupa, Gwalior Fort, Orchha Fort, Khajuraho, Ujjain Festivals Gana-Gour, Ganga, Dashami, Hareli Major dance and music forms Gaur Dance, Muria Dance, Relo Songs Arts and crafts Wall paintings or bhittichitras; Chippas or hand-block printers; battubai dolls. Languages Hindi Size 308,244 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 72,626,809 Rivers Narmada, Tapti, Betwa, Son, Chambal Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Bandhavgarh NP, Kanha NP, Pench NP, Indrawati Tiger Reserve, Kheoni WS State animal Swamp Deer State bird Paradise flycatcher Major crops Rice, wheat soybeans, spices Factoids One half of Bhawani Mandi station on the Mumbai- Delhi railway line lies in Madhya Pradesh and the other half lies in Rajasthan. Pench and Kanha forests in the Satpura ranges, and Bandhavgarh in the Vindhyas, are all tiger reserves. No. of District 51 Blogs about Madhya Pradesh Should There Be a Nationwide Ban on Slaughter of Cows? : Very recently, the Indian Government has banned cow slaughter in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. This is a decision that has seen a fair share of dissension. Now, Rajnath Singh has stated that NDA will try and make this a nationwide affair. He has, however, stated that this decision will be taken only after a consensus has been reached on the same. The prominent BJP leader and present Home Minister of India has made it rather… read more... George Castle: A Royal Structure amidst a Dense Forest : Location: Madhav National Park,Shivpuri, Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh Also known as the Shimla of Madhya Pradesh, Shivpuri is an ancient town in Gwalior, whose dense forests were used as the hunting grounds for the Mughal Emperors. The royalty of this small place lies in the exquisite hunting lodges and palaces that were built by the Scindia Rulers. Madhav National Park, the hunting preserve of the rulers of Gwalior, houses the most beautiful creation by them-The George… read more... Teli Ka Mandir in the Gwalior Fort: Stunning Blend of North and South Indian Architecture : Location: Gwalior Fort, Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh Situated within the compound of the magnificent Gwalior Fort, Teli ka Mandir is an impressive temple dedicated to Lord Vishnu. It is also the tallest building inside the fort, and is around 100 feet in height. There are various tales associated with the temple, each establishing a distinct connection with its history and origin. Some say that the temple got its name by Telanga Brahmins who were appointed to… read more... Historical Treasures of Gujari Mahal Archaeological Museum : Location: Gwalior Fort, Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh Situated within the premises of the gigantic Gwalior Fort, the Gujari Mahal Archaeological Museum preserves historical treasures and exquisite sculptural masterpieces. It is said that Gujari Mahal was built by Raja Mansingh Tomar for his Gujar Queen Mrignayani. As the queen belonged to a lower caste, this palace was built away from the main fort. The aerial view of the museum (see image) speaks of the impressive architecture of… read more... Exploring the Magnificent Chaturbhuj Temple of Orchha : Location: Jatarika Village, Khajuraho, Madhya Pradesh Chaturbhuj Temple is located to the south of Khajuraho, and is commonly known as Jatarika Temple after the name of the village where it is situated. It is dedicated to Lord Vishnu, who is also known as Chaturbhuj or "one with four arms". It is believed to be built by the king of Orchha, Raja Madhukar Shah, between 1558 and 1573. Exploring this magnificent edifice is a journey in… read more... Last Updated on : November 1, 2014 Travel to Madhya Pradesh Travel to Bhopal Travel to Gwalior Travel to Indore Travel to Jabalpur Travel to Khajuraho Travel to Mandu Travel to Orchha