 FAQ | Access Agriculture Skip to main content Access Agriculture Login | Register Home About us What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Sponsors Core sponsors Associates Contribute and make a difference Using this site How to use this website Submitting videos Translating videos Radio stations DVD packs information Useful technical information FAQ Contact us Forum Quotes Job Vacancies Awards User facts World map Video use Impact studies User login E-mail * Password * Create new account Request new password Languages English Français Custom FAQ Search All languages Adioukrou Adja Arabic Ateso Attié Bambara Bangla Baoulé Bariba Bassa Berba Bomu Buli Burmese Chichewa Dagaari Dagbani Dendi Dioula Ditammari Ebrié English Ewe Fon Frafra French Gonja Gourmantche Hausa Hindi Idaatcha Ife Indonesian Kabye Kannada Khmer Kikuyu Kiswahili Kpelle Krio Kusaal Lao Lobiri Luganda Lugbara Luo Malagash Mende Moba Mooré Nago Nepali Persian Peulh Fulfuldé Portuguese Runyakitara Sena Sisaala Spanish Temne Thai Twi Vietnamese Wolof Yao Yoruba Zarma Secondary menu How to use this website Submitting videos Translating videos Radio stations DVD packs information Useful technical information FAQ Home › Using this site FAQ Why do the videos take a long time to start? There are two ways of seeing the videos on Access Agriculture, either live on the website through a method called streaming or by downloading the video. If you have a slow internet connection, through dial-up or non-3G you should be able to see streaming video, but the quality will not be very good. The service tries to give you the best quality video streaming based on the speed of your connection and the capacity of your computer. This can vary because of the time of the day and the number of other users trying to use the network. If the quality is not good enough, our suggestion would be that you try to download the video you are interested in for viewing later at good quality. Can I be part of your project? Access Agriculture is not a project, but if you are involved in agricultural training and have a keen interest in video, please do sign up to our forum. You will be able to interact with the community of practitioners and have regular interactions with experts in the field. We would like to hear of your suggestions and requests for different language versions of existing or new videos. We will keep your contacts in our database and if opportunities arise to collaborate, we will get in touch. You can always get in touch with us at: info@accessagriculture.org Can I upload my own videos? Videos cannot be uploaded directly to Access Agriculture, but can be uploaded on Agtube. See the guidelines to see if your video is suitable for Access Agriculture, if not it may be suitable for the Agtube website. Once uploaded on Agtube, your video will not become immediately accessible on the website until approved. For full details, consult our Guidelines for submitting a video . Can Access Agriculture help me buy video equipment? No, we can’t. Various technical forums exist on the internet and we have some tips in Useful technical information . Does Access Agriculture give technical advice on video production? Access Agriculture can help arrange for specific technical assistance and video training courses to be provided by our partner organisations. Can Access Agriculture share information on market prices? Our focus is on agricultural training videos. Providing commodity market prices and text-based messages is not part of our portfolio. Does Access Agriculture provide extension support in other formats than video and audio? We have extension support in video and audio, but the scripts to our programmes are available by contacting us. For some videos there may be additional information available to download. What should I do if I would like to get a programme translated into another language? Please send us a request to info@accessagriculture.org . If you already have funding we can help you with advice to do a good job of translation and voice recording. Otherwise we will try to work with you to obtain funding. Consult our Guidelines for translating videos I do not have access a fast internet connection, how can I see the programmes? You can either download the programmes from the website or order a DVD from info@accessagriculture.org How can I find which programmes are in a specific language? If you enter the language name in the search box you will be able to see which programmes are available in that language. What subjects are in the video programmes? As you can see on the front page we have divided the programmes into 15 key subject areas. Each of these is subdivided, so you can find which subjects are available very quickly. How can I get training to improve the videos I produce? If you contact us we can put you in touch with our partner organisations who can carry out training to help you improve the content and quality of your programmes. Can I get copies of the video scripts? Copies of the video scripts con be obtained by contacting us at: info@accessagriculture.org Why do you have the audio tracks available for download? The audio tracks are available for download for use by radio stations. They can then play the soundtrack in their local language in full or choose to play clips as part of programmes on a particular subject. The radio stations can then have a discussion afterwards and even request farmers to call in with questions. What happens if my internet connection gets interrupted when I am downloading? The way we have designed the website means that even if you lose your connection the download will continue from where it was interrupted. This saves a lot of time and effort. Why do I need to register if I want to download a video, audio file or request a script? As we are distributing videos which have been made with public money we would like to be able to know where the videos are being used. This will help us also to keep in touch with you and to update you on developments with Access Agriculture. It will also help us to provide feedback to the organisations that have uploaded their videos to help them with their monitoring and evaluation. What languages will you develop in future? We are already planning to have programmes available in Arabic, Portuguese and Spanish as well as numerous local languages. In future Chinese and other Asian languages will be added. If you have a request for a specific language, please contact us at: info@accessagriculture.org Will you do programmes on health issues? Access Agriculture concentrates on agricultural programmes, but it is possible that certain nutrition issues may be covered by some programmes. Do you have any tips for improving business skills? Many of the programmes feature techniques which will help to improve profitability of rural businesses. There are programmes on group dynamics, marketing skills, adding value and storage techniques and more will be added on this important subject area. Do you have any programmes for women farmers? We have not got a separate section for women farmers, because many of the programmes feature successful women farmers who can inspire others. Many of the techniques shown will help to improve family incomes. Using this site How to use this website Submitting videos Translating videos Radio stations DVD packs information Useful technical information FAQ Sponsored by