Foreign Trade Statistics | Welcome to Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics Ministry of Commerce and industry, Govt. of India Home FAQ Contact Us Home Organization Profile History Foreign Trade Statistics Ancillary Statistics Indian Trade Journal Commercial Intelligence Commercial Library Press Notes Data Summary Trade Data Priced Detail Data Price Information System Notice Publications Registration Trade Directory Feedback Contact Us RTI FAQ Sitemap Data Dissemination Policy Data Privacy Policy Dynamic Data Revision Policy Quick Estimate Commercial Library Services Recruitment Rules Events / Announcements Media Gallery Highlights Latest 24-months Export final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website Latest 24-months Import final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website DGCIS has introduced 168 new commodity groups for publication of principal commodity level foreign trade data Are you interested in doing business with the Government of India Organizations? Click Here Visit the Related sites RFD CITIZEN'S CHARTER Grievance Redressal This site has been visited 995559 times on Saturday, May, 30, 2015 PUBLIC GRIEVANCES Home Profile Foreign Trade Statistics Foreign Trade Statistics Foreign trade data are captured on the basis of flows/+movements of goods across the custom frontiers of India. Data cover only the merchandise trade transactions. The value of import data conforms to C.I.F and that of export to F.O.B. Data on imports of crude oil and petroleum products are collected separately from Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Government of India. Country wise break up of imported crude oil and Petrolium Products are not available. Monthly Press Note on Foreign Trade: The DGCI&S regularly issues monthly press note containing the aggregate figures of India’s exports and imports towards the end of the following month. Monthly Brochure: After release of the Press Note a monthly brochure entitled ‘Foreign Trade Statistics of India’ (Principal Commodities and Countries) is brought out within 6 to 7 weeks. The brochure contains foreign trade data grouped by principal commodities, countries and major Indian ports for the current month and the corresponding month of previous year. Detailed Statistics on Foreign Trade : The detailed statistics on India’s foreign trade in merchandise is presented in the publication ‘Monthly Statistics of the Foreign Trade of India’ in Commodity/ Country order whereas the same is presented in Country/Commodity order in the publication 'Statistics of the Foreign Trade of India by Countries’ . The commodities referred to in these publications stand for the ones specified in the ITC(HS) against 8-digit codes which have been developed by the DGCI&S by sub-dividing the 6-digit codes of Harmonised System of commodity classification evolved by the World Customs Organisation, Brussels. New ITC(HS) codes known as custom Tariff Nomenclature which was promulgated by an ordinance on 1st February, 2003 are now being followed w.e.f. April'03 issue and onwards. Certain types of foreign trade such as foreign trade in treasure, currency notes & coins (in circulation), specific articles warehoused under bond, foreign trade of neighbouring countries passing in transit through India (e.g., Indo-Bhutan transit trade) etc. are not covered in the publications on merchandise trade. The categories of trade namely, (a) Direct Transit Trade, (b) transshipment Trade, (c) passenger's baggages, (d) ship's stores, (e) defence stores, (f) diplomatic goods, (g) "Proscribed substances "under atomic energy act, 1962 are also excluded. Top Related Sites :: Contact Us :: Feedback :: Sitemap Source : Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Last Updated on 19-05-2015 Home Downloads & Plug-ins Help Accessibility Statement Accessibility Options Privacy Policy Hyperlinking Policy Copyright Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Contents of this website is published and managed by DGCI&S , Government of India. For any queries regarding this website please contact Web Master. © Copyright reserved by Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 565, Anandapur, Ward No. 108,Sector - 1 , Plot No. 22, ECADP, Kolkata - 700107