Tamil Nadu Forest Department About Us | Contact Us | FAQ | Links | Sitemap | Home  Welcome to Tamil Nadu Forest    Department   Wild Biodiversity Wildlife Sanctuaries National Parks Tiger Reserve Bird Sanctuaries Conservation Reserve Biosphere Reserve Zoological Park Crocodile Farm Back to Home   About Wild Biodiversity of Tamilnadu   One sixth of landmass of Tamil Nadu is covered with forests. According to State of forest report 2013 by the Forest Survey of India, the total forest cover of the State is 23,844 km² constituting 18.33% of geographic area. This includes 2,948 km² of very dense forest, 10,199 km² of moderately dense forest and 10,697 km² of open forest. Tamil Nadu ranks 11th among the Indian States and Union Territories with reference to total forest cover. The recorded forest area of the state is 22,877 km² constituting 17.59% of the geographic area. Tamil Nadu ranks 13th among the Indian States and Union Territories with reference to total recorded forest area. Protected Areas The protected area of the Country is 1,61,221 km² constituting 4.90% of the geographic area and 20.89% of the recorded forest area. The protected areas of Tamil Nadu extend to 6,708 km² constituting 5.16% of the geographic area and 29% of the recorded forest area. Tamil Nadu ranks 14th among all the States and Union Territories of India in terms of protected area. There are 14 wildlife sanctuaries over 5,70,713.61 ha. and 14 bird sanctuaries over 17,334.37 ha., 5 National Parks over 82763 ha., 4 Tiger Reserves, 4 Elephant Reserves and 3 Biosphere Reserves for in situ conservation of wild fauna and flora. There is one Conservation Reserve in Tamil Nadu. National Wildlife Action Plan 2002-16 (Page-10) states that “we should aim to bring 10% of India’s landmass under the PA network, of which at least half should be inviolate habitats”. Tamil Nadu Forest Department is striving to achieve this major objective.     Floral diversity The Angiosperm diversity of India includes 17,672 species. With 5640 species, Tamil Nadu ranks 1st among all the States in the Country. This includes 533 endemic species, 230 red-listed species, 1559 species of medicinal plants and 260 species of wild relatives of cultivated plant. The Gymnosperm diversity of the country is 64 species of which Tamil Nadu has 4 species of indigenous Gymnosperms and about 60 introduced species. The Pteridophytes diversity of India includes 1022 species of which Tamil Nadu has about 184 species. Tamil Nadu wild plant diversity also includes vast number of Bryophytes, Likens, Fungi, Algae and Bacteria. Faunal diversity The faunal diversity of Tamil Nadu includes 165 species of fresh water Pisces, 76 species of Amphibians, 177 species of reptiles, 454 species of birds and 187 species of mammals. According to the CAMP reports the red-listed species include 126 species of Pisces, 56 species of Amphibians, 77 species of reptiles, 32 species of birds and 40 species of mammals. The endemic fauna includes 36 species of Amphibians, 63 species of reptiles, 17 species of birds and 24 species of mammals. Schedule I animals include 22 species of mammals, 42 species of birds and 9 species of reptiles. Schedule II animals include 13 species of mammals. Schedule III animals include 5 species of mammals. Schedule IV animals include 5 species of mammals, 367 species of birds, 109 species of reptiles and 23 species of Amphibians. Schedule V animals include 13 species of mammals and 1 species of birds. OBJECTIVES OF CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT Wildlife and wildlife habitats which are products of millions of years of evolution should be conserved and sustainably managed to meet the social, economic, ecological, cultural, recreational and spiritual needs of the present and future generations. Water, wilderness and wildlife are intimately and irrevocably linked. Wilderness areas and particularly forests which are the repository of wildlife and biodiversity have either shrunk or disappeared due to severe agricultural, natural and domestic pressures. Natural processes, forests and other wildlife habitat recharge aquifiers maintain water regime and moderate impacts of floods, droughts and cyclones and thereby they ensure food security and regulate climate change. They are also source of food, fodder, fuel and other products supplementing the sustenance of local communities. Conservation of biodiversity is directly linked with conservation of eco-systems and thus ensure water and food security. The ecological security of the State as a whole and economic well being of the people nearby through water and food security can only be achieved by conserving our biodiversity in perpetuity without any reservation. Forests and the wilderness areas in Tamil Nadu are the treasure-house for multitude of biodiversity beyond our imagination. They are also the repository and virtual pharmaceutical factories of an array of medicinal plants. These areas forms the best underground water tank holding volumes of precious pure water which are released gradually into the streams, rivers and wells down below. They form the carbon sink, sucking and storing the lethal carbon-di-oxide for the benefit of all living things. They are the most natural lungs providing the vital oxygen for all the living things to breathe and survive. STRATEGIES ADOPTED Provide absolute protection of the area from all factors causing degradation, depletion and destruction of wildlife and wildlife habitats by strict enforcement of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and Tamil Nadu Forest Act, 1882. Eco-development works in and around protected areas to provide the essential benefits to the occupants of enclosures and villages respectively to ensure their support and willing participation in wildlife conservation. Encourage appropriate monitoring and research works to develop programmes and plans, and thereby tackle the identified problems. Facilitate education and awareness creation, facilities for the benefit of all sections of population and especially students. Create awareness on the need to conserve our natural bio-resources through various mass media and other means. Take fire prevention and control measures in and around Sanctuaries through specific programmes. Take habitat restoration and improvement measures wherever necessary. Relocation of human settlements from Protected Areas. Prevention of outbreak of contagious diseases among wild animals by taking prophylactic measures among domestic animals entering Sanctuaries and National Parks. Develop ex situ conservation centres like Zoological Parks and gene gardens, etc. Creation of Education and Interpretation Centres. Construction of crop protection structures like fences, trenches and walls, etc. Identification of restoration of corridors to facilitate free movement of animals between and around Protected Areas. Settle adequate compensation to the persons for death or damage caused by wild animals. Restriction and regulation for pollution causing industries and activities in a radius of 25 kms. around the protected areas as per the Environment Protection Act. Integrate the wildlife Protected Areas on a waterhed or landscape basis with other sectors like Rural Development, Animal Husbandry, etc. for the sustained conservation and development of the area. Ensure that each and every Protected Area has a Management Plan in place. Conserve the medicinal plants in the protected area by creation and management of Medicinal Plants Conservation Area (MPCAs). Tourism demands are subservient to conservation and to the interest of the protected area and therefore wildlife tourism exists for the Parks and not Parks for tourism. Ex-situ Conservation Centres The Vandalur Arignar Anna Zoological Park is doing yeomen service for the cause of wildlife recreation, education, conservation and research. Even though strictly it does not come within the purview of Protected areas, it has been consciously included under this guideline for the benefit of those interested in wildlife conservation. Conclusion The Protected Areas of Tamil Nadu have the immense potential to arouse the senses, humans are endowed with - be it visual, auditory, smell, taste or touch. The sensory experience one enjoys are unique in more than one way that it lingers on in the mind of persons through out his life in perpetuity. Even though traditionally we have respected and revered and conserved our natural wealth and biodiversity, they have come under severe threat recently due to various anthropogenic causes. Degradation of forests, the habitats of wildlife, fragmentation, overgrazing by domestic cattle, forest fires, poaching and killing of animals due to man-animal conflict are the main threats our wildlife population in Tamil Nadu facing today. People’s involvement and support is absolutely essential to make the wildlife conservation a success in our State. Let us understand the need to conserve our natural heritage and make all people conscious to conserve and sustainably manage them for the benefit of present and future well being of the mankind. Man-animal conflict due to clash of interest is taking a serious and mammoth proportion in and around our protected areas and needs special attention and care of all concerned.   TOP   TamilNadu Forest Department © Copyright 2007 l Disclaimer Email: tnfdgis@vsnl.net Site Maintained by National Information Centre    