Farmer - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Farmer From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search For other uses, see Farmer (disambiguation) and Grower (disambiguation) . "Farmers" redirects here. For other uses, see Farmers (disambiguation) . Farmer A farmer in Nicaragua Occupation Occupation type Employment Activity sectors Agriculture Description Related jobs Rancher (U.S.), grazier (Australia) or stockman A farmer [ 1 ] (also called an agriculturer ) is a person engaged in agriculture , raising living organisms for food or raw materials. The term usually applies to people who do some combination of raising field crops , orchards , vineyards , poultry , or other livestock . A farmer might own the farmed land or might work as a labourer on land owned by others, but in advanced economies, a farmer is usually a farm owner, while employees of the farm are known as farm workers, or farmhands. However, in the not so distant past a farmer was a person who promotes or improves the growth of (a plant, crop, etc.) by labor and attention, land or crops or raises animals (as livestock or fish). Contents 1 History 1.1 Advancements in technology 2 Types 2.1 Techniques 3 Farming organizations 4 Income 5 See also 6 References 7 External links History Farming has been dated back as far as the Neolithic era. By the Bronze Age , the Sumerians had an agriculture specialized labour force by 5000–4000 BCE, and heavily depended on irrigation to grow crops. They relied on three-person teams when harvesting in the spring. [ 2 ] The Ancient Egypt farmers farmed and relied and irrigated their water from the Nile . [ 3 ] Animal husbandry , the practice of rearing animals specifically for farming purposes, has existed for thousands of years. Dogs were domesticated in East Asia about 15,000 years ago. Goats and sheep were domesticated around 8000 BCE in Asia . Swine or pigs were domesticated by 7000 BCE in the Middle East and China . The earliest evidence of horse domestication dates to around 4000 BCE. [ 4 ] Advancements in technology A combine harvester on an English farm In the U.S. of the 1930s, one farmer fed only himself and three other consumers. The same farmer now feeds well over a hundred people. However, some authors consider this estimate as flawed as it does not take into account that farming requires energy and many other resources which have to be provided by additional workers, so that the ratio of people fed to farmers is actually smaller than 100 to 1. [ 5 ] Types An American dairy farmer More distinct terms are commonly used to denote farmers who raise specific domesticated animals. For example, those who raise grazing livestock, such as cattle , sheep , goats , and horses , are known as ranchers (U.S.), graziers (Australia & U.K.), or simply stockmen . Sheep, goat, and cattle farmers might also be referred to respectively as shepherds , goatherds , and cowherds . The term dairy farmer is applied to those engaged primarily in milk production, whether from cattle, goats, sheep, or other milk producing animals. A poultry farmer is one who concentrates on raising chickens , turkeys , ducks , or geese , for either meat , egg , or feather production, or commonly, all three. A person who raises a variety of vegetables for market may be called a truck farmer or market gardener . Dirt farmer is an American colloquial term for a practical farmer, or one who farms his own land. [ 6 ] In developed nations, a farmer (as a profession) is usually defined as someone with an ownership interest in crops or livestock, and who provides land or management in their production. Those who provide only labor are most often called farmhands . Alternatively, growers who manage farmland for an absentee landowner, sharing the harvest (or its profits) are known as sharecroppers or sharefarmers . In the context of agribusiness , a farmer is defined broadly, and thus many individuals not necessarily engaged in full-time farming can nonetheless legally qualify under agricultural policy for various subsidies , incentives, and tax deductions . Techniques A Nepali farmer In the context of developing nations or other pre-industrial cultures, most farmers practice a meager subsistence agriculture —a simple organic farming system employing crop rotation , seed saving , slash and burn , or other techniques to maximize efficiency while meeting the needs of the household or community. Historically, one subsisting in this way may have been known as a peasant . In developed nations , however, a person using such techniques on small patches of land might be called a gardener and be considered a hobbyist . Alternatively, one might be driven into such practices by poverty or, ironically—against the background of large-scale agribusiness—might become an organic farmer growing for discerning consumers in the local food market. Farming organizations Farmers are often members of local, regional, or national farmers' unions or agricultural producers' organizations and can exert significant political influence. The Grange movement in the United States was effective in advancing farmers' agendas, especially against railroad and agribusiness interests early in the 20th century. The FNSEA is very politically active in France, especially pertaining to genetically modified food . Agricultural producers, both small and large, are represented globally by the International Federation of Agricultural Producers (IFAP), representing over 600 million farmers through 120 national farmers' unions in 79 countries. [ 7 ] Income Farmed products might be sold either to a market , in a farmers' market , or directly from a farm. In a subsistence economy, farm products might to some extent be either consumed by the farmer's family or pooled by the community. See also Agriculture and Agronomy portal Agrarian society Agrarianism Agriculture Agribusiness Agroecology Bonde Corporate farming Family farm Farmers' market Farmworker Gardening Landed gentry Organic farming Pastoralism Peasant Sustainable agriculture References Notes ^ Dyer 2007 , p. 1: "The word 'farmer' was originally used to describe a tenant paying a leasehold rent (a farm), often for holding a lord's manorial demesne . The use of the word was eventually extended to mean any tenant or owner of a large holding, though when Gregory King estimated that there were 150,000 farmers in the late seventeenth century he evidently defined them by their tenures, as freeholders were counted separately." ^ By the sweat of thy brow: Work in the Western world, Melvin Kranzberg, Joseph Gies, Putnam, 1975 ^ Nicholson (2000) p. 514 ^ "Breeds of Livestock - Oklahoma State University" . Ansi.okstate.edu . Retrieved 2011-12-10 .   ^ Kirschenmann 2000 . ^ Oxford English Dictionary ^ About the International Federation of Agricultural Producers Bibliography Dyer, Christopher (2007). "A suffolk farmer in the fifteenth century". Agricultural History Review 55 (1): 1–22. JSTOR   40276126 .   Kirschenmann, Frederick (2000). "How many farmers will we need?" (PDF) . Leopold Letter 12 (4): 3–4.   External links Media related to Farmers at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of farmer at Wiktionary Authority control GND : 4034399-6 Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Farmer&oldid=662687844 " Categories : Agricultural occupations Farmers Hidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected pages Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans العربية ܐܪܡܝܐ বাংলা Boarisch བོད་ཡིག Brezhoneg Català Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Esperanto فارسی Français Gaeilge 한국어 हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano Basa Jawa Latviešu Lingála Lumbaart Magyar മലയാളം मराठी Bahasa Melayu Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ Nederlands Nedersaksies नेपाली 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Polski Română Runa Simi Русский Sicilianu Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Українська اردو Vèneto Tiếng Việt 吴语 ייִדיש 粵語 中文 Edit links This page was last modified on 17 May 2015, at 01:17. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view