Mosques & Shrines in Andhra Pradesh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andhra Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Mosques & Shrines in Andhra Pradesh Parks in Andhra Pradesh Caves in Andhra Pradesh Churches in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Temples in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Museums in Andhra Pradesh Cities to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Travel to Srisailam Travel to Tirupati Travel to Visakhapatnam Travel to Vijayawada Travel to Hyderabad Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Srikakulam Hotels in Kurnool Hotels in Tirupati Hotels in Vijayawada Hotels in Nellore About Andhra Pradesh History Climate Home » Andhra Pradesh » Tourism &raquo Mosques & Shrines Mosques & Shrines in Andhra Pradesh Andhra Pradesh is a popular pilgrimage destination, be it for the temples and shrines or mosques. There are a number of mosques and shrines in Andhra Pradesh. A major number of Hindu, Muslim, and Christian live in the state and for this reason, there are many shrines, mosques, and churches in Andhra Pradesh. Shrines and temples in Andhra Pradesh The temples of Andhra Pradesh bear the mark of rich cultural heritage. All these temples and shrines are crafted wonderfully and you can witness the reflection of their true culture and tradition of the state. These temples were built during of reign of Vijayanagar dynasty. In their rule, Hinduism was its pinnacle in the state. Some famous temples of Andhra Pradesh are: Leash Temple Tirupati temple Birla Mandir Thousand pillars Temples Srisailam Temple Mukhalingam Temple A number of festivals are organized within the temples promises. Millions of tourists visit these temples and witness these festivals for a better understanding of the culture. Mosques in Andhra Pradesh Islam is the second most popular religion in the state. For this reason, there are a number of mosques in Andhra Pradesh. All these mosques and worship places of Muslim population of the state were built during the various reigns of different Muslim rulers. Some of the popular mosques in the state are: Jamma Masjid - Hyderabad is the city of historical monuments and royal palaces. It is is the home to some of the old and celebrated religious places in India. The Jama Masjid - Hyderabad is one such great site, which is visited by millions every year. Located near the famous Charminar of the city, the Jama Masjid was built by Muhammad Quli Qutub Shah in 1597. The mosque was built after the completion of the construction works of the Charminar. The Jama Masjid in Hyderabad is the oldest mosque of the city and the pride of the whole state of Andhra Pradesh. The ruins of an old Turkish bathing place adds an archaeological value to the Masjid. Previously a monastery and a school were also the part of the Masjid premises. Everyday during the prayer time and especially during the festive seasons, the Jama Masjid is crowded by numerous Muslims who come here and offer their prayers. The Jama Masjid is situated at a very convenient location of the city and it is surrounded by many other tourist attractions like the Charminar, Golkonda and the Mecca Masjid. The magnificent white towers make a wonderful sight even from a distance. Whether you are a tourist, a history lover or a religious person, you will surely love the place. Jumma Masjid - Jumma Masjid is one of the very old religious buildings in the District of Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh. It is situated at a place called Adoni in the Kurnool District. The Jumma Masjid-Kurnool was constructed by Madu Qadiri, a governor of the Kingdom of Adil Shahi. It was back in the year 1680. The Jumma Masjid of Adoni is a magnificent example of the marvelous Muslim architectural works. At the entrance of the mosque, there is an elevated terrace. This porch itself is a lovely piece of architecture. Adoni, the place where the beautiful mosque of Jumma is positioned, is situated on west of Andhra Pradesh. It is at a distance of one hundred and three kilometers from Kurnool District. Adoni is the second largest town in Kurnool and it is a very old municipality, established in about AD 1865. Adoni was known as "Adavani" and "Yadavagiri" earlier. It was at one point of time the monopoly of the Vijayanagar Kings. After them, the Jumma Masjid was looked after by the Muslims. Reaching Jumma Masjid is hassle free as the neighboring railhead is in Kurnool itself. Regular bus services are also obtainable from the district of Kurnool. Thus if you are traveling around Kurnool and have still have not been to the Jumma Masjid; you are actually missing a very beautiful work of art. Mecca Masjid - One of the ancient masjids in the city of Hyderabad is the Mecca Masjid. It is also the one of the largest among the religious buildings in Hyderabad. Construction of this Masjid was started by Muhammed Quli Qutub Shah in around1617. Rangiah Choudhary and Mir Faizullah Baig were in charge of the supervision of the construction of the Mecca Masjid-Hyderabad. The structure of the Mecca Masjid was finally completed by Aurangzeb, the Mughal emperor. That was in the year 1694. The Masjid took as long as seventy-seven years to b with awe-inspiring become the outstanding construction that it is. Hyderabad has many old buildings made of granite. The mosque is no exception to that. It is a magnificent structure made of granite. The inside of the building is marvelous and is awe-inspiring. Mecca Masjid is a colossal structure, in which the main hall is about seventy-five feet high, one hundred and eighty feet long and two hundred and twenty feet wide. About ten thousand people can fit in the mosque at the same time. There are fifteen arches in the mosque. These are equally distributed, five arches on each of the three sides. A lofty wall covers the west of the Mecca Masjid. It has been named after the Grand Mosque that is situated at Mecca. The mosque in Hyderabad is patterned on the world famous mosque in Mecca. There are two octagonal pillars on each side of the Masjid. These are made out of sole pieces of granite. Mecca masjid is situated only a hundred yards of the notable building of Charminar. It lies in the southwest direction of the famous Charminar. It is one of the sacred places of worship for the Muslims. Last Updated on 29 March 2013 Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Adoni Hotels Eluru Hotels Hyderabad Hotels Kakinada Hotels Kurnool Hotels Nellore Hotels Ongole Hotels Puttaparthy Hotels Puttaparti Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Srikakulam Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Vizianagaram Hotels Andhra Pradesh Tourism Beaches Buddhist Centres Caves Churches Hill Stations Hotels Monuments Mosques Museums Parks Shopping Temples Andhra Pradesh Handicrafts Wildlife Sanctuaries Travel Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Handicrafts Map Tourist Places in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Tirupati Vijayawada Vishakhapatnam Warangal Puttaparthi Rajahmundry How to Reach Andhra Pradesh Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table People, Culture and Festivals of Andhra Pradesh Art and Craft Fairs Festivals Performing Arts About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule