 Our best healthy fish recipes | Cooking | Best Eats | Best Health Search this site: Ad Tag leaderboard Advertisement Primary links Home Best Looks Beauty Hair Nails Skin Style Best You Ask your pharmacist Cold and Flu Diabetes Fitness Health Heart Health Home Remedies Mental Health Oral Health Prevention Relationships Sleep Wellness Workout Routines Best Eats Cooking Diet Digestion Healthy Eating Nutrition Recipes Smoothies Swap & Drop Contests Blog Subscribe Give a Gift Product Testers Home > Best Eats > Cooking > Our best healthy fish recipes Our best healthy fish recipes Find out which fish are the best to eat and get healthy fish recipes to cook Just about any fish will do wonders for your health, but there are five in particular that are great-tasting and high in omega-3s: salmon, sablefish (or black cod), rainbow trout, mackerel and halibut. Try these healthy fish recipes to boost your family's quota. (Looking for a side dish? One of our healthy couscous recipes might be just what you need for a well-rounded meal.) Healthy salmon recipes French Roasted Salmon This quick but sophisticated roasted salmon entrée is great for dinner with friends or for a family occasion. Salmon with Spiced Citrus Kefir Sauce Classic broiled salmon is livened up with citrus, spices, honey and kefir. Salmon Chowder This heart-healthy salmon chowder recipe calls for low-fat milk—replace with higher-fat milk or cream if you prefer a richer chowder. Smoked Salmon on Mixed Salad Greens Smoked salmon has slightly lower amounts of omega-3 fatty acids than fresh salmon but, like other oily fish, it provides a rich source of these essential nutrients. Walnut Stuffed Salmon This recipe packs a heart-healthy punch as both salmon and walnuts contain omega-3 fatty acids. The addition of brown rice and spinach rounds out the nutritional balance and boasts delectable flavour. Poached Salmon Steaks with Horseradish and Chive Sauce (pictured) These poached salmon steaks with horseradish and chive sauce make a light and tasty dish rich in omega-3 fatty acids. Healthy sablefish recipes Spicy Tomato Fish Chowder This spicy tomato fish chowder recipe makes a speedy main dish that is hearty and healthy. Healthy trout recipes Baked Trout with Cucumber Sauce Orange and lemon slices add great flavour to this simple recipe for baked trout, and a cucumber sauce with yogurt provides a refreshing contrast. New potatoes are roasted in the oven with the fish. Smoked Trout and Pasta Salad Tempt your family with this delicious heart-healthy smoked trout and pasta salad. It makes an ideal midweek meal served with crusty whole-wheat bread. If you wait until the last minute to add the arugula, it won’t spoil if anyone’s late home. Healthy mackerel recipes Tomato Roasted Mackerel Tired of salmon? Mackerel is also a good source of omega-3 fatty acids. More healthy fish recipes Savoury Pan-Roasted Fish Serve this flavourful pan-roasted fish with boiled new potatoes and a glass of chardonnay. Grilled Fish with Heirloom Tomato, Asparagus and Almond Salad Colourful heirloom tomatoes and asparagus make a perfect accompaniment to a firm, hearty grilled fish. Make sure to use freshly squeezed lime juice; it makes a huge difference in the flavour. Thai Green Fish Curry This Thai green curry is wonderfully fragrant and is prepared with a homemade curry paste. Serve the fish curry with rice and a side dish of Chinese cabbage or broccoli florets stir-fried with garlic and a little reduced-salt soy sauce. Steamed Fish with Ginger and Sesame Steaming is unbeatable when it comes to heart-healthy cooking: there’s no need for added fat, and flavour and nutrients are locked in. Serve this ginger-sesame steamed fish with grilled pepper and a pilaf of wild and brown rice for a satisfying meal. Seafood and Mushroom Pie A simple fish pie can be transformed into a feast by the addition of shrimp and mushrooms. Serve this seafood and mushroom pie with a colourful medley of steamed vegetables, such as snow or sugar snap peas, carrots and baby corn. Fish with Spicy Green Lentils Dark green Puy lentils, grown in the south of France, have a unique, peppery flavour that is enhanced by spicy chili. The green lentils do not disintegrate during cooking and their texture is a perfect complement to the flakiness of fresh fish. Indian-Style Fish Parcels Fish fillets are flavoured with chili, ginger, mint and coconut milk, then wrapped in Indian-style parcels and baked in the oven. Zucchinis tossed with mustard and sesame seeds and minted new potatoes are served alongside. Crumbed Fish with Parsley and Lemon Gremolata is an Italian mixture of parsley, lemon rind and garlic. This recipe uses the gremolata with breadcrumbs to make a tasty topping for fish. The crumbed fish is baked with tomatoes and zucchini and served with saffron mashed potatoes. Don't miss out! Sign up for our free weekly newsletters and get nutritious recipes, healthy weight-loss tips, easy ways to stay in shape and all the health news you need, delivered straight to your inbox. Related Features Five disease-fighting foods 5 healthy canned tuna recipes The facts about omega-3s Web exclusive: December 2008 Select rating Give it 1/5 Give it 2/5 Give it 3/5 Give it 4/5 Give it 5/5 No votes yet [View] Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. Ad Tag bigbox Advertisement Don't miss a day of Best Health Sign up for our FREE newsletters! With Our Partners Johnson Inc. is proud to present the Best Health Nurse Excellence Awards. Click here to submit your nomination! Canadian dairy farmers work hard to produce milk of the highest quality. Click here to learn more about 100% Canadian milk! Contests So Good Contest Guess the mystery ingredients for your chance to win one of twelve weekly prizes and the grand prize trip courtesy of Club Med! Answer and you could win! Enter to win one of three (3) Prize Packs! WIN THE BEST! Enter for your chance to be 1 of 4 lucky readers to WIN an amazing prize! Best Health on Facebook Best Health on Twitter Tweets by @besthealthmag Healthy Recipe Search Select by type 20-Minute Main Dishes Beans/Rice/Grains Bread & Muffins Desserts & Drinks Eggs & Cheese Fish & Seafood Meats Pasta Poultry Sandwiches Snacks and Appetizers Soups & Salads Vegetables Vegetarian Browse all recipes nbsp; Advertise : Contact us Best Health Magazine © 2015 Reader's Digest Magazines (Canada) Ltd. Script StackAdapt footermenu About Us Customer Care Privacy Subscribe Français Reader's Digest Canada Recipes RSS Show Full Site