INSPECTION CHECKLIST FOR NEW / ROUTINE APPLICANT (Storage) Date of Inspection: Date of Previous Inspection: Name of Food Safety Officer: Name of Establishment: Address of Premises: Tel No: Fax No: E-mail Address: Category of Food License/ Registration Number: Note: To be used in duplicate. One copy to be given to the applicant after the completion of inspection Inspection Checklist for New/ Routine Applicant (Storage) In order not in order not applicable Date of Previous Inspection: Date of inspection: a) Where applicable, are process controls (such as temperature) regarding this equipment (e.g. cold stores) controlled and monitored in the interest of preventing product contamination? Adequate facility for RH control is available or not. b) Is the cold store not located in an area that poses a threat to food safety? c) Are all waste disposal containers and areas specifically identified, cleaned and maintained? d) Are the grounds in the immediate vicinity of the cold store free of litter, waste and improperly stored garbage, and is grass on the premises kept short? e) Does the cold store have documented hygiene instructions? f) Are workers trained in basic hygiene? g) Are adequate, suitable and conveniently located sanitary facilities available and maintained? h) Is the intake and dispatch area protected from the environmental factors (rain, dust etc.) and bird droppings? i) Before loading, are procedures in place to, check the condition of: Sea containers /refrigerated transport / insulated or covered transport? j) Proper pest-proof measures taken to prevent infestation of pests. k) Adequate facilities for toilets, hand wash and footbath, with provision for detergent/bactericidal soap etc. l) Has all recording and monitoring equipment been calibrated m) Are all surfaces free of flaking paint, corrosion, rust and other materials (e.g. tape, wood etc?) n) Are all lights in the packing/processing facilities covered with protective covers and is all other glass protected to prevent contamination in case of breakage? o) Do cold rooms seal perfectly with no gaps and no visible damage? Suggestions for Improvement(if any) X NA Time limit prescribed for compliance of suggestions Recommendation Place: Date: (Signature of the Food Safety officer with Seal) (FBO/ Authorised Name& Signatory)