Travel to Shimla - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Shimla Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Travel Agents Shimla Hotels Places to Visit in Shimla State Museum Christ Church Tara Devi Temple Jakhoo Temple Sankat Mochan Temple Hatkoti Temple The Ridge The Mall Wildlife Parks Chail Tattapani Route Maps Dehradun to Shimla Amritsar to Shimla Delhi to Shimla About Shimla Weather History Economy Shimla Map Road Map District Map Railway Map Airport Map City Map How to reach Himachal Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Home » Shimla » Travel to Shimla Travel to Shimla Tourist Map of Shimla Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now * The Map showing the Important Tourist Places in Shimla. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Shimla Tourism Shimla travel is one of the most happening things of the country. It is a favourite destination of tourists all over the country. A holiday in Shimla, in the highly pleasurable climate, will give you memories to cherish all your life. This hill station is encircled by enormous pine and deodar trees from all around. It is also termed as the 'Queen of hills'. How to Reach Shimla Being a popular tourist destination, Shimla is very well connected to the rest of the country. Here is how you can reach Shimla: By Train The nearest railway station to Shimla is at Kalka, after which one can take the Kalka-Shimla train, which operates on a narrow gauge and offers breathtaking views of the mountains. Here are a few trains to Kalka: Jhelum Express: From Pune Himalayan Queen: From Delhi Paschim Express: From Mumbai By Road The Himachal Pradesh Road Transport Corporation offers regular bus services to Shimla from various cities like Delhi, Chandigarh and Kalka. By Air The Shimla airport is about 22 km away from the city centre and is served by regular flights from Delhi. One can hire a taxi from the airport to reach Shimla. Getting around Shimla The best way to get around Shimla would be by buses which ply regularly. Since it is a small town, another good way is to explore. Shopping in Shimla Shimla is famous for its handicrafts and other handmade artifacts. The best place to go shopping in Shimla is the Mall Road from where you can buy many interesting souvenirs and gift items. Another popular buy there are the colourful Himachali caps. When in Shimla, don't forget to check out their beautiful shawls which come in intricate designs, threadwork and mirror work. Lower Bazaar, also known as Sabzi Mandi, is another popular place to go for shopping in Shimla. One can buy carved wooden walking sticks here. Shimla Cuisine The Himachali cuisine is very similar to that of the rest of the Northern India. The staple items of Himachali food are roti, rice, daal and sabzi (curried vegetables). The gravies prepared are thick and aromatic. Though primarily vegetarian, red meat also forms an important part of the Himachali food. Read More... Shimla Travel Tips Shimla travel tips are very important before you plan for a visit to this hill resort. Travelling in Shimla becomes more enjoyable, if you go by the below mentioned travel tips. Some travel tips of Shimla are: Cotton clothes are recommended during summer season, though you may need to wear some light winter garments in summer too. In the winter season, the climate is very chilling, so heavy woollen garments are a must. Shops are open from Monday to Saturday. For dining, restaurants are open till eleven at night. Though credit cards are accepted, it is advisable to carry cash in pocket. Some Do's of Shimla travel tips Drink boiled or mineral water Carry lotions Carry medicines If you want to drive to Shimla, then carry additional fuel with you. Ask for fare chart if the taxis or auto-rickshaws do not have a meter. Negotiate with porters while trekking on animal's back. Dispose off waste materials carefully. Some Don'ts of Shimla travel tips Try to avoid strangers. Don't buy antiques and products made out of endangered animals. Don't leave non-biodegradable items here and there. Best time to visit The ideal time for visiting Shimla is in the months of April to May or December to January. Shimla is well connected by air with Delhi and Kullu. The Chandigarh airport being nearby, one can also avail a flight from any major city in India to reach Shimla via Chandigarh. Even there are bus services available. Last Updated on : 13/08/2014 Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Dalhausi Rohtang Pass Chamba Places to visit in Dharamsala Travel to Dalhousie Places to visit in Kullu Manali Hamirpur Naggar Travel to Dharamshala Travel to Shimla Places to visit in Shimla Chail Kangra Travel to Kullu Travel to Manali Shimla Tourism Jakhoo Temple State Museum Tara Devi Temple Arki Shimla Wildlife Sukh Sagar Resort Trekking Hatkoti Temple The Mall Summer Hill Sankat Mochan Temple Tatapani Shimla Wildlife Parks Wildflower Hall Star Resort Shimla Christ's Church The Ridge of Shimla Chail Shimla Tour Packages Shimla Skiing About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule