"Balaji"lemon cultivation. AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Tree Farming - Sivakumar "Balaji"lemon cultivation. Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: "Balaji"lemon cultivation. LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… December 30th, 2014 #1 shanmuga06 Join Date Aug 2007 Posts 1,606 "Balaji"lemon cultivation. Now a days the lemon cultivation is very familiar and the farmers also get awareness about lemon cultivation.In olden days we can see the lemon trees in the kitchen garden and also some few trees in farmers land.An account of less cultivation of lemon the were faced much difficulties for getting the lemons for domestic uses.The lemon tree will requires full sun light and little bit aried conditions.The consumption of water also less while comparing with the other crops. The lemon plants will grows well in red soil and back soil with minimum waters.The calcium content will very less soil also good for lemon cultivation.If the calcium will more the lemon plant will not survive if it's survive there is no yield bearing. In South India two places for familiar for lemon cultivation and marketing centre.In Bijapur ,Katnatka is polluted with lemon culion because of water scarcity ,climate and soil condition.I hope that nearly 40 k hectares of lemon cultivation availiable.And also in Puliyangudi,Tirunelveli Dist ,Tamilnadu the lemon cultivation Availiable near about 25 k hectares were availiable.One lemon market also availiable in Puliyangudi exclusively for lemon and also Amala.Due water shortage ,eradicate monsoon setup and well fertile red soil the Puliyangudi area was polluted by lemon cultivation.The Puliyangudi farmers are very much interested for planting the "BALAJI" lemon saplings/seedlings in their land for its salient features like big size fruits,rich aroma no black dots,more juice content and high yield. For more details Plz.contact us; A Sivakumar, PRIYA Nursery Garden, KARAIKUDI -630001,TN 9843080275, priyagar06@yahoo.co.in Attached Thumbnails   Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 07:01 PM .