REGIONAL STATION FOR FORAGE PRODUCTION AND DEMONSTRATION Search: Home About Us Location Staff Seed RFD Feed Back Tender Photo Gallery RTI Contact Us AZOLLA CROP BULLETIN SERVICES SEED PRODUCTION DEMONSTRATION CENTRAL MINIKIT TESTING PROGRAMME TRAINING FIELD/FARMERS DAY Seed Production This station is now the most reliable source for supply of fodder seeds of improved varieties. However, the area under the control of this Station being limited, limited quantities of seeds are produced and are being supplied to State Agencies i.e. Animal Husbandry, Forest, Agriculture, Co-operative milk federation and other private agencies for further multiplication. The seeds produced are also being utilized under the demonstration programme which is a centrally financed project and also in minikit demonstration. This Station proved instrumental in producing three species of Stylosanthes seed for grassland development. In view of the emphasis laid on the recognition of wastelands in the country, large scale multiplication to the species of the stylo varieties Stylosanthes hamata, Stylosanthes scabra and Stylosanthes guyanensis have been taken to provide basic seed materials. Seed production of improved varieties like, Sorghum (Co.FS.29) and Cowpea (E.C.-4216, UPC- 5286, UPC-9202), Calopogonium have been taken on large scale to meet the demand of the farmers/ Government agencies in this region. Demonstration: In order to popularize newly developed high yielding varieties, this Station is conducting large scale regular Result Demonstrations through the State Departments of Animal Husbandry, Co-operative milk federation, Department of Forest and NGOs in the Region. The necessary inputs are also supplied by this Station along with improved packages of practices. This Station had conducted number of regular Result Demonstrations in the Region. Central Minikit Testing Programme: The fodder minikit distribution programme of different fodder crops suited to this region are being carried out by way of supplying seeds in kits on free of cost to the farmers to enable them to grow new and improved varieties and assess their performances at their field. Since 1985-86 onwards this Regional Station has supplied tons together of fodder seeds to various States in the Country. Training Programme: One of the objectives of this Station is to organize short duration training programme in fodder conservation, utilization, grassland management and fodder seed production for the Officials/Officers of the State Departments engaged in fodder development schemes. Field/Farmers’ Day: This Station has adopted integrated approach in extension-work by organizing Field Days in the farmer’s field or at this Farm. Through which large number of farmers have been benefited by acquiring the latest agro-technology in fodder production. WELCOME TO REGIONAL STATION FOR FORAGE PRODUCTION & DEMONSTRATION This station is one among the seven Regional Station established during 1973 by the Government of India, Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Animal Husbandry Dairying and Fisheries to cater the needs of the farmers in the States/Union Territories of Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry and Andaman & Nicobar Islands in respect of fodder development work. The main idea behind the establishment of such Regional Stations in different agro-climatic regions of India is to have close link with Research Institutions/Universities and to improve quality of extension work being carried out in the States based on the findings of the Universities/Institutions. Thus, the Station is an important media to bring out the latest research findings on fodder production at the door of the actual beneficiaries. Moreover, local problems being encountered are passed to Research Institutions/Universities for further investigation. NEWS BULLETIN Purchase of Agricultural Implements for RSFPD, Chennai Installation of CCTV Camera at RSFPD, Chennai Sealed tenders are invited from the Registered Man power Agencies for the deployment of One Data Entry Operator and Two Multi Tasking Staff (MTS) on contract basis. USEFUL LINKS www.dahd.nic.in www.icar.gov.in www.nianp.res.in www.igfri.res.in www.agricoop.nic.in www.seednet.gov.in www.sfci.nic.in www.indiaseeds.com www.cfspf.org.in www.rsfpdhyd.nic.in www.rsfpdkalyani.com www.rsfphsr.com www.rsfpsgr.com Visitor Count:6179 Training Read more Demonstration Read more Crops Read more Visit of Dignitary Read more Home | About Us | Location | Staff | Seed | RFD | Feed back | Tender | Photo Gallery | RTI | Contact Us Copyright © 2013-2014 Regional Station for Forage And Production Go Top