guar gum seed ( cluster bean ) Cyamopsis Tetragonoloba cultivation seed supply AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Consultancy Services guar gum seed ( cluster bean ) Cyamopsis Tetragonoloba cultivation seed supply Results 1 to 2 of 2 Thread: guar gum seed ( cluster bean ) Cyamopsis Tetragonoloba cultivation seed supply LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 2 Weeks Ago #1 guargum Join Date Mar 2013 Posts 418 Blog Entries 12 guar gum seed ( cluster bean ) Cyamopsis Tetragonoloba cultivation seed supply Guar is emerging as major industrial crop. Guar crop need a lot of research work. The requirement of the crop is increasing day - by day in international market. We can provide the good quality seeds for the cultivation purpose. We produce the seeds under the close supervision of our agriculturists. Our seeds give very good production and crop. Guar is crop of the dry area where it requires very less water. The production depends on the quality of the seed. We will supply you the seeds with the good genetic character. We can supply different variety high yield seed, RGC-936, HG-365, RGC-986, HG-625, X-20 Since the inception of our organization, we are dealing in offering Cyamopsis Tetragonoloba Guar Seed to our clients. This Cyamopsis Tetragonoloba Guar Seed grows quite rapidly and is in huge demand among our client base. Our offered range of this Cyamopsis Tetragonoloba Guar Seed is available in bulk with us is delivered to our clients within allotted time frame. This is rich in nutrients. Features: Quick germination Packaged neatly Better yield We can also supply the seeds for the processing purpose. We can source more than 3-4 Million of the guar bags per year. Please contact us for the supply of the guar seeds. The material is in ready stock We are leading Agro Technology and Agribusiness consultancy provider. We strongly believe in business ethics. We have highly professional team of subject matter specialist of agriculture and allied disciplines. We believe in truly consultancy with independent and profitable solutions. For us agriculture is the base of development, height of development, strength of development, depth of development. For a long term sustainable social & economical development agriculture must be the axel. Agriculture development must environment friendly, sustainable, efficient use of available resources and non hazardous. We provide Agro technology and Agribusiness consultancy through better utilization of your resources, value of your money, independent consultancy, cost effective, profitable solutions and complete satisfaction without any deviation. Reply With Quote 1 Week Ago #2 Pacific herb Premium Member Join Date Sep 2008 Posts 733 Your location please. Site Survey, Consultancy, Feasibility Report , "Guargum", "Coleus", Planting Material of all herbs and Citrus Saplings , " Contract Farming" & JV FOR Aromatic Oil, Medicinal & Aromatic Plants & Bio-Diesel (Jat) Project. .................................................. .......... Pacific Herbs Agro Farms Pvt. Ltd. Nagpur, Maharashtra, INDIA Call - 094228 81280, 097301 07163, Hyderabad - - 093734 74251, Write- agrigum@gmail.com, herbal_globe@rediffmail.com, Visit - www.aromediherbs.com Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 12:22 PM .