Unorganised Sector — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Social Welfare / Unorganised Sector Share Views View Edit Suggest Contributors State: Open for Edit Info Unorganised Sector The section covers schemes and other aspects related to unorganised sector. Contents The Indian economy is characterised by the existence of a vast majority of informal or unorganised labour employment. As per a survey carried out by the National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO) in 2009–10, the total employment in the country was of 46.5 crore comprising around 2.8 crore in the organised and the remaining 43.7 crore workers in the unorganised sector. Out of these workers in the unorganised sector, there are 24.6 crore workers employed in agricultural sector, about 4.4 crore in construction work and remaining in manufacturing and service. Categories of unorganised labour force The Ministry of Labour, Government of India, has categorised the unorganised labour force under four groups depending on occupation, nature of employment, specially distressed categories and service categories. Under Terms of Occupation: Small and marginal farmers, landless agricultural labourers, share croppers, fishermen, those engaged in animal husbandry, beedi rolling, labelling and packing, building and construction workers, leather workers, weavers, artisans, salt workers, workers in brick kilns and stone quarries, workers in saw mills, oil mills, etc. come under this category. Under Terms of Nature of Employment : Attached agricultural labourers, bonded labourers, migrant workers, contract and casual labourers come under this category. Under Terms of Specially Distressed Category : Toddy tappers, scavengers, carriers of head loads, drivers of animal driven vehicles, loaders and unloaders come under this category. Under Terms of Service Category : Midwives, domestic workers, fishermen and women, barbers, vegetable and fruit vendors, newspaper vendors, etc., belong to this category. Welfare measures for the unorganised sector The Ministry of Labour and Employment in order to ensure the welfare of workers in the unorganised sector which, inter-alia, includes weavers, handloom workers, fishermen and fisherwomen, toddy tappers, leather workers, plantation labourers, beedi workers, has enacted the Unorganized Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008. The Act provides for a constitution of the National Social Security Board which shall recommend the formulation of social security schemes, viz. life and disability cover, health and maternity benefits, old age protection and any other benefits as may be determined by the Government for the unorganised workers. Accordingly, the Ministry has constituted a National Social Security Board. Source : Ministry of labour and Employment Policies and Acts The Unorganised Workers' Social Security Act 2008 The Unorganised Workers' Social Security Rules 2008 Schemes Aam Admi Bima Yojna Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojna Page Rating (17 votes) 3.52941176471 Post Your Suggestion (If you have any comments / suggestions on the above content, please post them here) Name Your Message   Type the word given below Navigation Women and Child Development Scheduled Caste Welfare Scheduled Tribes Welfare Backward Classes Welfare Unorganised Sector Welfare Differently- abled Welfare Community power Financial Inclusion Unorganised Sector Minority Welfare Senior citizens Welfare Rural Poverty Alleviation Urban Poverty Alleviation NGO-Voluntary Sector Disaster Management Fight against social evils Skill development Social Security Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme Discussion Forum - Social Welfare Related Items Unorganised labour force in India Policies for Unorganised sector Ministry of Labour and Employment National Pension System more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector See More.... Energy Energy Basics Energy conservation Energy efficiency Energy production Best Practices Women and Energy Policy Support Rural Innovations See More.... e-Governance