IMF Podcasts What's New Site Map Site Index Contact Us Glossary Search Search IMF Entire Site IMF Survey Magazine Home About the IMF Research Country Info News Videos Data and Statistics Publications عربي Français IMF Survey Magazine: Podcasts RSS Podcasts   Share This Listen to IMF economists and other experts discuss key economic and financial issues of the day. Click on the play button. Alternatively, download the audio MP3 file—a popular digital music format for sound files. Broadcasters : this facility is also being made available to enable these podcasts to be broadcast on radio outlets free of charge. Also available in SoundCloud Category “Finance & Development Mag” Africa Aid Asia & Pacific Commodity Prices Data Debt domestic integration Ebola Economic Crisis Emerging Markets Employment Equality/Inequality Europe Food and Fuel Foreign Aid Fragile States globalization Governance Growth Inclusive Growth Low Income Countries Middle East Money laundering Poverty Public-private Regional Economic Outlook Social safety nets Technical Assistance United States WEO Western Hemisphere Women Clear All Infrastructure Investment: The Case of the U.K. May 14, 2015 Engineer works on train tracks in UK. Investment in transport links can propel the growth of smaller urban centers, says Spence (photo: Richard Baker/In Pictures/Corbis) Over the next decade and a half , the United Kingdom will pour hundreds of billions of dollars into transport, and other infrastructure projects. One of the country’s top experts in the field says good planning, and strong political are critical to success. Geoffrey Spence , Chief Executive of Infrastructure UK rewind 0 pause fastforward stop mute unmute max volume repeat repeat off Update Required To play the media you will need to either update your browser to a recent version or update your Flash plugin . $1.1 Billion in Debt Relief for Chad May 08, 2015 Refugee camp in eastern Chad.Chad is host to thousands fleeing conflict in neighboring countries, adding pressure on the government’s limited resources. (Photo: LUC GNAGO/Reuters/Corbis) Mauricio Villafuerte, IMF Mission Chief for Chad says the country has made some remarkable economic reforms since 2010, paving the way for US$1.1 billion in debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative. Mauricio Villafuerte , Mission Chief for Chad in the IMF’s African Department rewind 1 pause fastforward stop mute unmute max volume repeat repeat off Update Required To play the media you will need to either update your browser to a recent version or update your Flash plugin . Sub-Saharan Africa’s Latest Economic Outlook April 28, 2015 Workers build bridge in Kenya: IMF says sub-Saharan Africa’s growing workforce could prove to be a boon for region in coming years. (photo: Michael Wirtz/Newscom) IMF’s Céline Allard says sub-Saharan Africa is set for another year of solid performance despite declining commodities, with a projected growth rate of 4.5 percent for 2015. Céline Allard , Head of Regional Study Division in IMF African department rewind 2 pause fastforward stop mute unmute max volume repeat repeat off Update Required To play the media you will need to either update your browser to a recent version or update your Flash plugin . Jakkie Cilliers on Fragile States April 24, 2015 Women rush into a feeding centre while soldiers try to contain the crowd in Badbaado, a camp established for internally displaced people in the country's capital Mogadishu (photo: Stuart Price/UN/Handout/Corbis) More Than 1 billion people live in countries affected by fragility. Fragile states are often confronted with political instability or conflict, inadequate public services, and lack of economic opportunities. Jakkie Cilliers , Executive Director of the Institute for Security Studies in Pretoria, South Africa Claver Gatete , Minister of Finance of Rwanda Kaifala Marah , Minister of Finance and Economic Development in Sierra Leone rewind 3 pause fastforward stop mute unmute max volume repeat repeat off Update Required To play the media you will need to either update your browser to a recent version or update your Flash plugin . Uneven Global Economic Growth for 2015 April 14, 2015 Blanchard delivered the IMF’s economic forecast for 2015 in Washington DC, at the start of the IMF-World Bank Spring Meetings (photo: IMF) The International Monetary Fund expects the world’s economy to expand by 3.5 percent this year, but the economic picture differs across the world. The impact of the global financial crisis are still being felt. Olivier Blanchard , IMF Chief Economist rewind 4 pause fastforward stop mute unmute max volume repeat repeat off