Agriquest | seed suppliers Home Seeds Agri Inputs Agriculture Horticulture Sericulture Animal Husbandary Organic Farming Info Agri Jobs Blog Contact Agriquest Language Agri Inputs Fertilizers Fertilizers Suppliers Crop deficiency symptoms and Management Pesticides Pesticides Suppliers Pests -Symptoms and Management Diseases - Symptoms and Management Bio Control of Pests and Diseases Seeds Seed Suppliers Sponsored Link Seed Companies   Ajeet seeds Limited : http://www.ajeetseed.com / Ajeet seeds Limited Producer and processor of hybrid cotton seeds, cereals, pulses, oil seeds and vegetables like brinjal, chilli, cluster bean, bhendi, sponge gourd and bottle gourd. Century Seeds: http://www.centuryseeds.com / Century Seeds Pvt. Ltd. was incorporated in 1982 with an objective of providing high quality vegetable seeds to vegetable growers. In the beginning the price list included only open pollinated varieties, most of which was released by public sector institutions. Eagle Seeds & Biotech Ltd: http://www.eagleseeds.com / Eagle Seeds & Biotech Ltd Producers of hybrid vegetable seeds of soybeans, maize, gram, wheat, cotton and vegetables seeds. Indo-American Hybrid Seeds (India) Pvt. Ltd: http://www.indamseeds.com / Indo-American Hybrid Seeds (IAHS) is a pioneer and an innovative Indian seed company.Indo-American Hybrid Seeds(India)Pvt.Ltd Producer and exporter of hybrid vegetable seeds, flower seeds, oil seeds, ornamental plants and biotechnology products. JK Agri Genetics Ltd: http://www.jkseeds.net/ JK Agri Genetics Ltd (JKAL), an erstwhile division of JK Industries Ltd,was established in 1989 with its headquarters at Hyderabad,Andhra Pradesh(India).JK Agri Genetics Ltd Engaged in production, processing and marketing of hybrid seeds of sorghum, pearl millet, maize, cotton, rice, sunflower, tomato, okra and hot pepper. Stanagro Seeds: http://www.seedscompany.com / Incorporated in 1997, Stanagro Seeds is one of the widely acclaimed manufacturer and bulk supplier of all kinds of superior quality Indian vegetable seeds. Based in Chennai (India), the company has become a force to reckon with in the hybrid vegetable seeds industry. The company poses the rare distinction of being managed by highly experienced agricultural professionals, which is seldom seen in the seeds sector. Sungro Seeds: http://www.sungroseeds.com / The company started its business in vegetable crops in 1973 with having 10 products in its portfolio and virtue of its continuous R&D efforts it has developed 38 hybrids and 26 superior open pollinated varieties in all major high value vegetable crops like Okra, Bottle gourd, Bitter gourd, Cabbage, Cauliflower, Egg Plant, Ridge gourd, Sponge gourd, Tomato, Hot pepper etc. Vijrah Exim: http://www.vijrah.com / Vijrah Group of Companies an established company dealing in export and import of agro based products. The company sources high grade agricultural commodities like whole cooking spices, ground cooking spices, sesame seed, nuts, etc directly from the Origin.Fair business practices and ethical approach towards work has enabled us to win trust of our esteemed customers. Gold field Biogenetics Pvt Ltd- GOFI SEEDS: http://www.gofiseeds.com / GOFI is a Seed company found by scholars of agriculture to improve the farms of India for sutainable development of agriculture and to meet Indian and global food demand. Syngenta Seeds: http://www.syngenta.com / The need to address food security has never been greater and is moving up national agendas around the world. Everyday nearly 1 billion people go to bed hungry-even more are malnourished. And this figure could potentially rise with the global population expected to reach 9 billion by 2050. Mahyco Seeds: http://www.mahyco.com / Mahyco produces seeds for a wide range of crops including hybrid cotton, hybrid field crops and hybrid vegetables. At Mahyco, we offer the farmers a wide range of products and train them in building their confidence and expertise Namdhari Seeds: http://www.namdhariseeds.com / Namdhari Seeds Pvt. Ltd., is a Breeder, Producer, Distributor for quality vegetable seeds. We are committed to development of high quality vegetable varieties with better yield, disease resistance and adaptability to various agro climatic conditions. Takii Seeds: http://www.takii.com/ American Takii’s Vice President and General Manager, Rick Falconer, and Flower Sales Manager, Bonnie Marquardt-Dillard proudly accepted Greenhouse Grower’s Medal of Excellence  for Industry Achievement award and Editor’s Choice award for Canna Tropical Bronze Scarlet .  The Medal of Excellence for Industry Achievement came during Takii & Company, Limited’s 175th anniversary year.  Takii’s breeding program has achieved many “firsts” over the years including the world’s first hybrid tomatoes, celery, cabbage, broccoli, turnip, daikon and eggplant. Geo Seeds: http://geoseeds.org / GEO biotechnologies India Pvt Ltd is an agri biotech company with the focus on plant breeding and plant biotechnology solutions to help increase farm yields. A key player in providing latest technologies to farmers by developing novel and research based seed products ensuring higher productivity. We are in major field crops like Hybrid Maize, Hybrid Rice, Hybrid Sunflower, Bt cotton and select vegetable crops. Germin Seeds: http://www.germinseeds.com/ We apply innovation and technology to help farmers over the globe to produce more to feed growing population. We help farmers grow yield sustainably so that they can be successful, produce healthier foods, better animal feeds while also reducing agriculture's impact on our environment. We have great pleasure in placing before you our new illustrated catalogue of vegetables and field crop seeds. This catalogue contains comprehensive information about all our hybrids. We are sure this catalogue will help you in choosing the hybrids most suitable for your local conditions. We wish our customer a profitable growing season with our hybrids and welcome all enquiries, comments and also any assistance for additional information pertaining to our vegetables field crop hybrids. American Seeds llc: http://americanseedsllc.com/ American Seeds, LLC is a holding company established to support regional seed businesses with capital, genetics and technology investments. These investments will allow the operating companies of American Seeds to more directly connect their customers to significant innovations in genomics-based breeding and other new technologies while continuing to operate autonomously and locally, providing great services to their customers and building the value of their brands. Silverhill Seeds: http://www.silverhillseeds.co.za/ Silverhill Seeds is home to a vast repository of seeds across the spectrum of African flora East African Seeds: http://www.easeed.com/ EASEED was started in 1972 by Mr. L. V. Shah and has steadily grown to become the leading Seed Company within the East and Central African region.Our headquarters is based in Nairobi, Kenya. Since 1995 EASEED has spread its wings in the region with branches in Arusha, Tanzania and Kampala, Uganda. Viba Seeds: http://www.vibhaseeds.com / Vibha Seeds is a crop genetics research and hybrid seeds company, that over the last decade has grown to be one of the largest companies in its segment in India. This has been largely possible due to the company’s deep rooted Research and Development culture. Backed up by an enthusiastic and path breaking scientific manpower resource, Vibha seeds continues on its path to create new technologies for food sufficiency across the globe. Nuziveedu Seeds: http://www.nuziveeduseeds.com / Vibha Seeds established with the vision of 1. To be the most preferred Seed Brand in India.2. Proactive adoption of biotech applications to strengthen our core competence. Nunhems Seeds: http://www.nunhems.com / As one of the world's leading suppliers of vegetable seeds, Nunhems offers 2,500 seed varieties in 28 crops. While we are dedicated to producing market-oriented varieties and seed products, the company offers more than just that. We are oriented towards people, and towards sharing value-added genetics, services and expertise with our customers to help them succeed. Est-West Seeds: http://www.eastwestseed.com / East West began in 1982 with the goal of blending European style seedsmanship with Asian tropical vegetables.  We were convinced that by introducing intensive breeding programs to developing vegetable seed markets we could improve the lives of farmers while building a successful business.  Our first commercial success, a hybrid bitter gourd, came after several years of research investment.  But our hard work has paid off by significantly raising industry standards for all vegetable seeds. Advanta Seeds: http://www.advantaindia.com / The First Indian Multinational Seed Company with global footprint. We are a company with a strong presence in the domestic & International market who has been steadily investing in research, development and technology. We have unique, superior & proprietary germplasm and intellectual properties which give us a robust platform for the growth Advanta has leadership position in crops like Sunflower, Rice, Corn, Mustard, Cotton, Vegetables etc Nirmal Seeds: http://www.nirmalseedsindia.com / The company started with the mission on need based Research and Development, so as to uplift the rural farmers who are mainly dependent on agriculture. In view of this, supply of quality seeds and bio products such as bio-fertilizers, bio-pesticides bio-soil enrichers and bio-organic plant vitalizers well in time at affordable prices is imperative. Yaaganti Seeds: http://www.yaagantiseeds.com / Yaaganti Seeds Private Limited was established in 1996 in Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India, by Mr. Yaganti Venkateswarlu, a graduate in Agricultural Science and his wife Mrs Y. Aparna. Prior to launching this company the Promoters ran Hybrid seed business under the brand name of "Laxmi seeds" which the Promoters retained due to sentimental and devotional attachment. Due to the single-minded focus on developing Corn Hybrid seeds the company became the sixth largest Corn Hybrid Seed Marketer in India by 2003. The company's brand name " Laxmi Seeds " is registered with the Trade Marks Registry, Mumbai, with effect from 2001. Mansanto Seeds: http://www.monsanto.com/ Monsanto is a relatively new company. While we share the name and history of a company that was founded in 1901, the Monsanto of today is focused on agriculture and supporting farmers around the world in their mission to produce more while conserving more. We’re an agricultural company. Below is an interactive presentation with photos, videos and Monsanto stories. We invite you to explore the Monsanto history today . Emergegenetic Seeds: http://www.emergegenetics.com/ Dow Agro Sciences continues to increase the company’s soybean presence. The company’s recent announcement of a licensing, research and development agreement with Schillinger Seed for the commercialization of transgenic commodity seeds broadens its soybean portfolio and product offering potential. Sakata Seeds: http://www.sakata.com/ To quickly and efficiently meet growers' expectations for strong yields and consumers' needs for beautiful flowers and fresh, delicious fruit and vegetables, Sakata established a research, production and sales network worldwide. Headquartered in Morgan Hill, CA, Sakata Seed America, Inc. was established in 1977.   Updating is in Progress........................................................................   Sponsored Link Powered by Sri Avaneesh Software .