TNAU Agritech Portal :: About Us   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact TNAU Agritech Portal :: About Us Glimpses of TNAU RECENT UPDATES TNAU - A Brief Presentation TNAU Receives FICCI Overall Excellence Award 2014 About our Vice-Chancellor 7th International Agriculture Leadership Summit 2014 Vice-Chancellor's Independence Day Talk (Video) University Telephone Directory Sky is the Limit - Career Opportunities in Agriculture - Special Interview with Dr.K.Ramasamy, Vice-Chancellor, TNAU KVKs | Research Stations Southern Regional Agriculture Fair and Farmers' Day 2015 Photo Gallery The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) came into being on June 1, 1971.However, it had its genesis from establishment of an Agricultural School at Saidapet, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, as early as 1868 and it was later relocated at Coimbatore. In 1920 it was affiliated to Madras University. TNAU assumed full responsibilities of Agricultural Education and Research and supported the State Agricultural Department by delivering research products. Till 1946, the Agricultural College and Research Institute, Coimbatore, was the only Institute for Agricultural Education for the whole of South India. In 1958, it was recognized as a Post-graduate Centre leading to Masters and Doctoral degrees. The Agricultural College & Research Institute, Madurai was established in 1965. These two colleges formed the nucleus of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University while it was established in 1971. In 1972, separate degree programmes of B.Sc. (Horticulture) and B.E.(Agriculture) were started. In 1979, a separate Faculty of Horticulture was established. In 1980, B.Sc.(Home Science) programme was started at Madurai campus. The third Agricultural College was started at Killikulam in 1984 and the fourth at Kumulur (Trichy) in 1989 and later shifted to Navalur Kuttappattu (Trichy) in 1992 which is named as Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute. During 1985, B.Sc.(Forestry) programme was started at Coimbatore. Presently the B.Sc.(Horticulture) degree programme is being offered at Horticultural College and Research Institute, Periyakulam and B.Sc.(Forestry) degree programme at Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam. In line with technological changes the B.E.(Agriculture) hither to offered is offered as B.Tech.(Agricultural Engineering) from the Academic year 2002-2003 at Agricultural Engineering College & Research Institute, Kumulur, Trichy. B.Sc.(Home Science) degree program is being offered at Home Science College & Research Institute, Agricultural College Campus, Madurai. The Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru College of Agriculture & Research Institute, Karaikal, governed by Government of Pondichery, is an affiliated institute of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University where B.Sc.(Agriculture) course is being offered. Apart from these academic institutes, the University now has research programs at more than 32 stations, spread over in Tamil Nadu with more than 1000 scientists and teachers. The global technological developments has lead to introduction of new courses. Introduction of B.Tech.(Food Process Engineering) from the academic year 1998-99, B.Tech.(Agricultural Biotechnology) and B.Tech.(Horticulture) from the academic year 2002-2003 as self supporting program has created avenues for bugetary independence. A new degree program B.Tech.(Energy and Environmental Engineering) was started during 2004 and B.Tech.(Bioinformatics) during 2006. The milestones of growth and development of TNAU in transforming lives of Farmers. 1868 Agricultural School was started at Saidapet, Chennai (Madras) 1906 The Saidapet Agricultural School was shifted to Coimbatore and foundation stone laid for Madras Agricultural College. 1908 Students were admitted to education program leading to Licentiate in Agriculture (L. Ag.) 1909 Opening of Agricultural College and Research Institute (AC & RI) by Sir Arthur Lawley. 1920 The AC & RI was affiliated to Madras University. A new course of study leading to a three year degree in Agriculture -B.Sc. (Ag.) was started. 1945 Second Agricultural College was started at Bapatla (Now in Andhra Pradesh). 1958 Regional Post Graduate Center was established to offer programs leading to Masters degree in Agriculture & Horticulture. 1960 Integrated system with four year B.Sc. (Ag) degree program after Pre-University education was introduced and subsequently doctoral program in Agriculture was started. 1965 Third Agricultural College was started at Madurai, Tamil Nadu and the Masters program at Madurai was introduced during 1969. 1971 The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University came into existence with Coimbatore as its Head Quarters. 1972 A separate Faculty of Horticulture was established and a degree program in Horticulture - B.Sc. (Hort.) was introduced. The College of Agricultural Engineering was established at Coimbatore and a Bachelor's degree program in Agricultural Engineering - B.E.(Ag) was introduced. 1973 Doctoral program was introduced in Horticultural College and Research Institute, Coimbatore. 1975 Faculty of Post Graduate Education was established in TNAU, Coimbatore and Masters and Doctoral (1978) programs were started in Environmental Sciences and Biotechnology. 1976 The Madras Veterinary College became constituent unit of TNAU and B.V.Sc. degree program was suitably restructured*. 1977 Bachelor's degree (B.F.Sc.) program in Fisheries Science at Thoothukudi was started*.   Masters and Doctoral program in Agricultural Engineering was introduced. 1980 Bachelor's degree (B.Sc. (H.Sc.)) in Home Science was launched in Madurai Campus. 1981 Masters program was introduced in Home Science College & Research Institute, Madurai and Doctoral program in 1988. 1989 Doctoral program in Agriculture was introduced in Agricultural college & Research Institute, Madurai; Masters program introduced in Forest College & Research Institute, Mettupalayam and Horticultural College & Research Institute, Periyakulam. 1990 Masters program in Agriculture was introduced in Agricultural College & Research Institute, Killikulam, Thoothukudi district, Tamil Nadu and Doctoral program in Forest College & Research Institute, Mettupalayam. 1998 B.Tech.(Food Process Engineering) introduced as self supporting program. 2002 B.Tech.(Horticulture) and B.Tech(Agricultue Biotechnology) introduced as self supporting programs. 2004 B.Tech.(Energy and Environmental Engineering) introduced as a self supporting program. 2005 Centenary celebrations of AC&RI, Coimbatore 2006 B.Tech.(Bioinformatics) introduced as a self supporting program. 2008 Dual Degree Masters Program with Cornell University, Ithaca, USA introduced. Dual degree option with Dalhousie University, Canada established for undergraduate program in B.Tech.(Environmental Landscape Horticulture) 2011 B.Sc.(Sericulture) introduced. M.Tech. (Ag.) in Nanotechnology introduced and M.Tech. in Environmental Engineering introduced. 2012 Masters program introduced in Plant Genetic Resource and Remote Sensing. Courses offered at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University: The University is offering TWELVE undergraduate degree programs in 10 colleges distributed in seven campuses all over Tamil Nadu. The duration of these courses is four years (8 semesters). A. Science Programs 1. B.Sc.(Agriculture) 2. B.Sc.(Horticulture) 3. B.Sc.(Forestry) 4. B.Sc.(Home Science) 5. B.Tech.(Agricultural Engineering) 6. B.Sc.(Sericulture) B. Technology Programs 1. B.Tech.(Biotechnology) 2. B.Tech.(Horticulture) 3. B.Tech.(Food Process Engineering) 4. B.Tech.(Energy and Environmental Engineering) 5. B.Tech.(Bioinformatics) 6. B.S.(Agribusiness Management) 7. B.Tech.(Agricultural Information Technology) At present the University is offering the following Undergraduate Degree Programs of four years (8 semesters) duration in its constituent and affiliated colleges: Sl.No. Courses offered Campus 1. B.Sc. (Agriculture) Agricultural College and Research Institute, Coimbatore - 641 003 Agricultural College and Research Institute, Madurai - 625 104. Agrl. College and Res. Inst., Killikulam, Tuticorin District - 628 252 Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute, Navalur Kuttappattu, Trichy - 620 009. 2. B.Sc. (Horticulture) Horticultural College and Research Institute, Periyakulam - 625 604 Horticultural College and Research Institute for Women, Navalur Kuttappattu, Trichy - 620 009 3. B.Sc. (Forestry) Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam - 641 301 4. B.Tech. (Agricultural Engineering) Agricultural Engineering College and Research Institute, Kumulur, Pallapuram (P.O.), Poovalur (Via),Trichy - 621 712 5. B.Sc. (Home Science) Home Science College and Research Institute, Agricultural College Campus, Madurai – 625 104 6. B.Tech. (FPE) Agricultural Engineering College and Research Institute, Coimbatore - 641 003 7. B.Tech. (EEE) Agricultural Engineering College and Research Institute, Coimbatore - 641 003 8. B.Tech. (Hort) Horticultural College and Research Inst., Coimbatore - 641 003 9. B.Tech. (Biotechnology) Agricultural College and Research Institute, Coimbatore - 641 003 10. B.Tech. (Bioinformatics) Agricultural College and Research Institute, Coimbatore - 641 003 11. B.S. (Agribusiness Management) Agricultural College and Research Institute, Coimbatore - 641 003 12. B.Tech. (Agricultural Information Technology) Agricultural College and Research Institute, Coimbatore - 641 003 13. B.Sc. (Sericulture) Agricultural College and Research Institute, Coimbatore - 641 003 For further updates visit: http://www.tnau.ac.in/ugadmi/index.html Post Graduate Programs: The School of Post Gradute Studies offers the following courses at PG level ; Faculty of Agriculture Agricultural Economics Agricultural Entomology Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology Agricultural Microbiology Agricultural Nanotechnology Agronomy Agricultural Meteorology and Climatology Biotechnology Biochemical Technology Bioinformatics Crop Physiology Environmental Sciences Geoinformatics Master of Business Administration (MBA) Microbial Technology Molecular Plant Breeding Plant Breeding and Genetics Plant Genetic Resource Plant Nematology Plant Pathology Seed Science and Technology Sericulture Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry Faculty of Horticulture Floriculture and Landscape Gardening Fruit Science Spices, Plantation, Medicinal and Aromatic Crops Vegetable Science Faculty of Forestry Forest Business Management Forest Ecology and Environment Silviculture and Agroforestry Tree Breeding and Biotechnology Wildlife Management Faculty of Agricultural Engineering Agricultural Processing anf Food Engineering Bio Energy Environmental Engineering Farm Power and Machinery Food Science and Technology Soil and Water Conservation Faculty of Home Science Family Resource Management and Ergonomics Food Science and Nutrition Home Science Extension and Communication Management Human Development and Family Dynamics Textiles and Apparel Merchandising Unique Dual Degree Programme Master of Professional Studies(MPS) in Biotechnology Master of Professional  Studies(MPS) in Food Sciences MPS in food science from Cornell University, USA+ MTech/ MSc from TNAU Contact : Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Coimbatore – 641003 , India Telephone: 0422-2431222 Website: www.tnau.ac.in Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Disclaimer | Contact Us z