NAIP - A Value Chain on Industrial Agroforestry in Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Agricultural University NAIP á –alue Chain on Industrial Agroforestry in Tamil Nadu Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam - 641 301 Home Project Profile Sub Project Profile Rationale Project Objectives Detailed Programme Project Location and Jurisdiction List of Innovations Role of Consortium Partners Monitoring Indicators Project Impact Work Plan Consortium Advisory Committee Consortium Implementation Committee Consortium Monitoring Unit Base Line Study Project Team FC & RI Lead Institute IFGTB TNPL SPB Vasan Match Works Technologies NAIP Technologies Crop Technology Casuarina Eucalyptus Ailanthus Melia Dubia Anthocephalus Cadamba Leucaena Leucocephala Value Addition Technology Briquetting Technology Agar Technology Value Chain Farmers and Area Demonstration Plot Horizontal Expansion Captive Plantations Other Plantations MIS Market Supply & Demand Pattern Market Price Current Prices Historical Prices Forecasted Prices Contract Farming Value Addtion Products Markets Supply & Demand Price Traders Eucalyptus Casuarina Subabul Fire Wood Pole Others Media Gallery Launch Meet Farmers Training Cluster Demonstration Plot Research Trials Value Addition Mechanization CIC & CAC Review Team Baseline Study Audio Video News and Events News Events Institute Departments and Faculties Education Research Schemes/Projects Extension Contact Us Contact Address Location Map   Education « prev 1 2 3 next » Realizing the pivotal role of the forests in the economic prosperity and ecological stability of a country, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University started a full-fledged Department of Forestry as a forerunner to the College of Forestry as early as in 1973.  Though mandated then to carry out research in Agroforestry and plantation forestry, the department also assumed the responsibility of offering a course on Agroforestry to final year students of B.Sc. (Agriculture) and B.Sc. (Horticulture) degree programmes and a course on Forest Ecology to students of the M.Sc. (Environmental Science) programme.  With March of time and concomitant multiplication of problems encountered by both tree-growing farmers and tree-based industries, the need for enlarging the research base was keenly felt.  To serve this need, a Forest Research Station was started in February 1976 as an adjunct to the Department in the sylvan surroundings of Odanthurai and Jacanari reserved forests at Mettupalayam, about 40 km away from the main campus.  The station has since been elevated to the status of a Forest College and Research Institute in 1990.  The College is situated over a sprawling area of 200 ha. of reserved forests.  The college is located at the foothills of the Nilgiris on the Kothagiri Road with an altitude of 300 m above MSL at 11°19 N longitude and 77°56 E longitude and enjoys an annual rainfall of 830 mm.  The mean maximum and minimum temperature are 32.2°C and 23.2°C respectively.  1973   -    Establishment of a Department of Forestry at the Coimbatore campus 1976   -    Inception of a Forestry Research Station at Mettupalayam 1985   -    Introduction of four year B.Sc. (Forestry degree programme 1989   -    Starting College of Forestry at TNAU, Coimbatore 1989   -    Starting of two year M.Sc. degree programme in Forestry 1990   -    Elevation of Forestry Research Station to the status of Forest college and Research Institute 1991   -    Introduction of Ph.D. programme in Forestry 1998   -    Creation of five departments viz., Department of Tree Breeding Department of Silviculture Department of Agroforestry Department of Forest Soils Department of Forest Biology The mandate of this Institute is three fold i.e. Forestry Education, Research and Extension. a) Forestry Education To impart state-of-the-art education in forestry to students and produce able forest administrators, Forestry Scientists and self-sustaining entrepreneurs. b) Forestry Research To undertake research on basic and applied aspects of forestry and to evolve technologies for enhanced forest productivity. c) Forestry Extension Imparting training and offering consultancy to the farmers, transfer of technology to the end users like wood based industries and departmental functionaries. Academic Programmes Programmes offered with duration Details Programmes Duration UG B.Sc. (Forestry) 4 years PG M.Sc. (Forestry) 2 years Ph.D. (Forestry) 3 years Administrative structure of college :  Please give a flow-chart of the organizational structure of the college / institute Forest College and Research Institute Location Description The Forest College and Research Institute (FC&RI) is located at Mettupalayam in the sylvan surroundings of Jakanarai Reserved Forest, about 40 km north of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) main campus, Coimbatore. It is situated over a sprawling expanses of 200 ha of reserved forest. Located at the foothills of Nilgris on the Kotagiri road, the college is perched at an altitude of 200m with a longitude of 11 o 19'N , latitude of 77 o 56' E and enjoys an annual rainfall of 830 mm. The mean maximum and minimum temperature are 32.2 o C and 23.2 o C respectively.   « prev 1 2 3 next » Project Profile Project Team Technologies Value Chain Farmers and Area MIS Media News and Events Institute Contact Us Website Developed by Samantha Technologies No.of Visits