Content Management System, India | CMS Website Design and Development   Home     Contact Us     Sitemap +91-22-4122 6029    info@compusofttechnology.com home why us? services clients careers reach us Blog Website Design Website Designing Content Management System Ecommerce Web Marketing Search Engine Optimization Social Media Optimization graphic Design Brochure Designing Press Ad Designing Logo Designing Business Card Design Letterhead Designing Corporate Identity Envelope Designing Poster Designing CD Cover Designing Mailer Designing Multimedia Flash Presentation Flash Banner Stall Design Hosting Domain Name Registration Website Design » Content Management System   Content Management System   A Content Management System is a Web based application that enables a user to mangage content of a website with an easy to use interface. It enables users to quickly and efficiently modify contents of web sites without even knowing the basics of website designing or development. Content Management Systems reduces the cost of website maintenance and extends users the flexibility to manage their content at there will. It is specifically meant for the clients who prefer to update and maintain their website themselves.CMS eliminates the dependency of the clients on the website maintenace providers. It might be little costly than a normal static website, but if u think, that the website needs to be updated at frequent intervals, then CMS is the answer. There are different types of Content Management Systems available with the open source code, Compusoft helps you to customize the CMS as per your need or design a completely new CMS system as per your requiremnt. We help clients understand their exact requirement and then accordingly suggest them a CMS solution most effective to their business process. The best part of our custom designed CMS is that, the administrator panel provided by us is very user friendly and easy to operate. In todays time were content needs to remain updated, CMS is the answer. CMS System also offers you the facility of having Discussion Forums & Blogs linked to you website. Images & Videos can be uploaded on the fly just by selecting them instead of learning the technicalities of HTML and different coding techniques.                         Services       Need Help?                       - Website Designing - Content Management System - Ecommerce - Flash Presentation - Flash Banner - Stall Design - Ad Design - Logo Design - Corporate Identity - Business Card Design - Brochure Design - Letterhead Design - Envelope Design - Poster Design - CD Cover Design - Mailer Design - SEO - SMO - Hosting - Domain Name Registration - Why Us - Clients - Careers - Privacy Policy - Legal Disclaimer - FAQ's - Resources - Testimonials - Articles - Sitemap - RSS Feed - XML Sitemap Follow Us on     "TRADEMARK & LOGOS APPEARING ON THIS SITE ARE THE PROPERTY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OWNERS" Site Best Viewed in 1024 x 768 Resolution, and Internet Explorer 5.0 & ABOVE Copyright @ 2012 Compusoft Technologies