Bio Fertilizer Business Opportunities - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Bio Fertilizer Business Opportunities Home Bio Fertilizer Business Opportunities Post graduate students explore the possibility of starting a bio fertilizer/pesticide production unit Members who participated in this discussion : • akshayaapte • bansodeab • gunda • rahul_richhariya23 • spirulina2010 • greenworldpath • jayanta999 • shiva_d  • aaria • vedamnaidu • naaghcu • Abdul Kadhar • Radhey Shyam Tenguria To connect  with them visit  www.agricultureinformation.com Member Anant Bansode, young agri graduate planned to venture into production of bio fertilizers and bio pesticides. He wanted to know about capital investment for medium scale production facility, market trends, risks involved, land requirement and available market. Capital Investment The project cost will depend upon the capacity of the unit and technology adopted. Bio fertilizer has different qualities. It can either be naturally composed or machine processed. “If a person makes organic fertilizer and starts from natural fertilizer, then he can work with Rs 15,000 to 20,000” says Mr. Radhey Shyam Tenguria, MD Dropdi Herbals. “The minimum capital investment based on the portfolio on what is required for starting the business if our first step is to start only with the fertilizer which we call as nutrients. This may not be a large investment, minimum of 3 to 5 lakhs is more than enough to make the cultures of our own. Provided we should have a good location of farm land and if we want to go for fungus and other multipurpose things then definitely we need some more labs and cultures so it depends on the peoples willing to choose the area concerned.” explains Mr. Abdul Kadhar, COO of SAFS Organic Enterprises. The area and size of a bio-fertilizer unit can be expressed in terms of the capacity of production for various types/strains of bio-fertilizers per annum. As per other experts in bio-fertilizer field to set up a laboratory, office space and other facilities like installing tube well/dug well and etc. a minimum of ½ acre of land is required for setting up a 150 TPA unit. Marketing Challenges Anant Bansode also raised the concern after his research in the subject, “the market demand is there for organic product, but many companies are failing to make profits as they are not maintaining assured supply and the product quality. Also, the market demand is there for this product, but many companies are failing to make profits as they are not maintaining assured supply and the product quality”. Mr. Tenguria responds to the concern saying procurement of raw materials is one the reason for lower profits in this business. He also shares “The other marketing challenge faced is that we have to make sure that our product reaches the customer in the correct condition. There should be a good dealer and distributor network.” Production Challenges According to Mr. Tenguria there are problems regarding labor and procurement of raw material. We have to ensure that we identify and purchase the right raw material for the quality of product. Sometimes, power cuts cause problems in packaging. Returns on Investment Everyone at the forum agrees that return on investment in Bio Fertilizer business depends on market mainly. Further, once the plant is set up the returns and profits are based on the amount invested, marketing tactics and market condition to get returns. However, if still figures have to be quoted then it would be minimum 2-3 years with 100% of the effort. Marketing Assistance “Some companies work in three chains, some work in four chains. Everybody has to make their three-layered, four-layered network or five-layered network. That’s how you reach the customers. So we want to make new distributors and dealers.” says Mr. Tenguria. Rahul Richhariya expresses his interest to bio-fertilizer manufacturers to provide assistance to them in marketing their products. He says, “ we are group of farmers who can provide market for bio-fertilizers and bio-pesticides, provided the products are effective and economically feasible”. Why Bio fertilizers “Chemical fertilizers cause damage to the fertility of the soil. Most of the farmers have the habit of using chemical fertilizers. It has become necessary to educate farmer the harmful side effects of chemicals. Natural minerals and salts present in soil are sucked out by DAP to the extent that until the farmers put DAP the soil does not get activated. The recycling value gets destroyed. Organic fertilizer does not affect the recycle value as the bacteria get absorbed in environment.” expresses Mr. Tenguria. Member Greenworldpath shares that they have been producing organic and all natural products for years. He says with his experience, to improve soil quality one has to reintroduce all microorganisms back to soil. Without a balanced healthy soil the need for fertilizers always increases. He also shares that they are educating people on how to create a healthy Rhizosphere with less fertilizers and increase yield and healthy crop. Environmental Aspects and Pollution control. No hazardous effluents are generated from a bio-fertilizer unit. Government Subsidies NABARD provides refinance assistance. A subsidy of 25% of the project cost will be given as subsidy by Ministry of Agriculture. ——————————————————————————————————————————- Dropdi Herbal Marketing Jaipur, Rajasthan based manufacturer and supplier of organic fertilizers Dropdi Herbotech was established in 2004 while Dropdi Herbals Marketing was established in 2011 in Jaipur in Rajasthan state. Mr. Radhey Shyam Tenguria is the Managing Director of the company. The company deals in organic fertilizers in agro-care. It also deals a product called Dr. Green, which is a substitute for Urea. The company’s annual turnover is Rs. 20-25 lakhs. The company markets its products in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi, Punjab and Haryana. The product is also available in 4-5 states in North India. The company also exports its products to China, Korea and Brazil. Dropdi Herbotech won an award from Assam Tea Board in Assam. Apart from Jaipur the company is also based in Noida, Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Radhey Shyam Tenguria is a diploma holder in medicinal plants. He is also in the field since 12 years. Mr. Radhey Shyam says “the response for our products is good. Farmers are getting three benefits from our products. First, his soil’s pH value i.e., the temperature is getting regulated. Second, the fertility of the soil improves and thirdly, farmer is getting organic production, which is better for humans and animals both in terms of natural taste and aroma.’’ “Since our main customers are farmers our team creates awareness on the internet and also participates in agri exhibitions. Dropdi Herbals Marketing brings unique products which will give surety of natural care, financial freedom, self dependence, and healthy working environment,’’ adds Radhey Shyam. For more details, contact : Dropdi Herbals Marketing C/o Dropdi Herbotech, B-292, Anandpuri, M.D. Road, Jaipur – 302 004. Rajasthan state. Mobile – 09785333337, 09785080000, 09269307693 Email – dropdiherbotech@gmail.com Website – http://www.dhmindia.com/Product.aspx ——————————————————————————————————————————- Agrifin Solutions – Anant Bansode Anant Bansode Plans to establish bio fertilizer manufacturing unit. Presently working as agribusiness consultant. Located at Nasik, Maharashtra Agrifin Solutions provides agribusiness consultancy services. It also offers assistance for farm development, landscaping, research, training and financial advisory services to agri businesses. It was established in 2012 in Nasik, Maharashtra. Mr. Anant Bansode is Managing Partner of Agrifin Solutions. He is M.Sc. (Agri) Horticulture. Problems Faced Most of the people who are into traditional farming are unwilling to hire a consultant and market is flooded with many consultants focused to grab hard earned money of farmers due to which there is a negative impression about consultants in our area shares Mr. Bansode. To solve these issues he had to create awareness among people by meeting them and had to find new avenues for increasing reach to the potential client by using personal contacts in various sectors of agribusinesses. “I conversed with people and showed them my actual work. Further, I took initiatives to impart genuine and practical solutions to prospective clients”, avers Mr. Bansode. Bio Fertilizer Manufacturing Unit Mr. Bansode has been inclined towards establishing bio-fertilizer manufacturing unit. He shares, “I have done marketing for one of the manufacturer and the response was good. The product quality and pricing was also best in the market but the manufacturing unit was being operated by a NGO in tribal area. There were logistics issues for product to be sent to various markets, hence I discontinued my association with them”. He further adds, “I feel, the production of these products is feasible where the raw material availability is abundant. Otherwise it increases cost of production. If I get a working partner and a land piece in area where raw material is easily available, I will be happy to start manufacturing of bio fertilizers. I am looking for a partner who can mobilize local resources for raw material and production where as I can take care of marketing and sales”. He states most of bio fertilizers are currently being sold based on pricing rather than the quality. He opines, “as the competition is from local players, the manufacturer who is planning to cover various markets, has to have robust structure of advertising and distribution that too with minimum operational cost. Innovative ways of marketing must be followed”. For more details, contact :  Anant Bansode, 6, Sri Saiswami Apartments, Near Sneh Nagar Garden, Sneh Nagar, Dindori Road, Mhasrul, Nasik – 422004 (M.S.) Mobile: +91 75077 00055 Email: anant.bansode@agrifin.co.in Website: http://www.agrifin.co.in/index.html ——————————————————————————————————————————- To participate in the discussion, visit http://bit.ly/WDlj6z Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Bio Fertilizer Business Opportunities Related – articles, consultants, downloads Golden Agricare Traders – organic farm fertilisers Biomaxnaturals INCOTEC India bags NICCT-Netherlands India Business Award Aryan Crop Care You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence