Transchem Agritech - soil testing kits &water testing kits - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Transchem Agritech – soil testing kits &water testing kits Home Transchem Agritech – soil testing kits &water testing kits Manufacturers of soil testing kits and water testing kits at Vadodara, Gujarat Prachi Gala Transchem Agritech Ltd. was established in 2004, in Vadodara, Gujarat. The company was     founded by Mr. Atul Shroff, chairman. The company clocks an annual turnover of Rs. 8 – 10 crores. Transchem offers soil and water management products and services. Two of its fastest selling products are soil testing kits and water testing kits. Soil Testing Kit Soil provides the physical, chemical, and biological processes required to sustain most terrestrial plant and animal life. The kit helps in providing an index of nutrient availability or supply in the soil and the basis of fertilizer recommendation for a given crop thereof. Speaking about the specialty of the soil testing kit, Ms. Prachi Gala, manager- technical/purchase, Transchem Agritech, says, “The kit was designed as a tool for the farmer. Hence, right from the beginning, the focus was on making the kit simple enough so that the farmer could use it easily. Our kit is very user friendly, easy to carry in field and gives results instantly. It has been evaluated by various government agencies. We are the pioneers in this field.” Adding, he says,“The instructions on the kit are very easy to follow. Our kits have instructions in Hindi too. We have also translated the instructions in Assamese, Bengali, Marathi, Gujarati, Afghan, and Swahili.” Water Testing Kits The water test kit is used for testing the quality of water. It is used for various purposes: drinking water, fisheries and aquaculture, and irrigation. “Its benefits include instant result, easy to use, and easy to carry in field. Water test kits have also been evaluated by NABL laboratories,” says Ms. Prachi. Benefits Ms. Prachi lists the benefits of the products: • For Soil: The fertility status of the soil can be known, and hence the fertilizers can be applied accordingly. For example, if the kit results show high organic carbon content in the soil, then urea need not be applied. Hence soil can be conserved. Pre and post-harvest testing will be useful to the farmer to plan his fertilizer application and cropping. • For Water: Water quality can determined using this kit. Remedial measures can be taken. For example, if fluoride is more in a region, de-fluoridation plant can be set up. For fisheries, many parameters are very critical for fish culture. The kit will help in controlling the same. Irrigation kit will give the status of the water that can be used for agriculture. Market for Products The company markets its products through NGOs. “We have field staff who hold farmer meetings regularly. Agri product dealers also give soil testing services to farmers using the kit. We have supplied a huge number of kits through government sector also, directly to farmers,” says Ms. Prachi. She adds, “We have worked in such far flung remote areas, that others would not dare to go – from the remotest corner of Nagaland to Arunachal Pradesh.” The company has also started exporting its products. Comparing farming practices in India with that of other countries, she says, “In many pockets of India, progressive farming is practiced like Punjab, and Haryana. However, in many areas, farmers are still very backward and depend largely on rain fed agriculture. In other countries, at least the reach of progressive farming is much more. There is also more awareness and knowledge in these countries regarding water quality.” R&D The company has its own R&D wing. Giving further insight into the ongoing research and development at Tranchem, Ms. Prachi avers, “We are right now in the process of developing a soil test kit for testing micro nutrients in soil. We are also continuously striving to bring modifications/improvements in the kits based on customer feedback.” She maintains, “To maintain quality standards we have regular evaluation, renewal of certifications, and quality checks at our end. Every kit is physically checked before final packing.” Milestones Speaking about Transchem’s achievements, Ms. Prachi says, “We have reached out to so many farmers and that is our big achievement. We have supplied water test kits during floods in Vadodara as there were disease outbreaks. We have supplied our products in the government sectors of almost all states, and exported to Afghanistan, Kenya, Tanzania, Zambia, Angola, Nigeria, and Botswana among others. Many universities have taken our kits.” Regarding future plans, she adds, “In the next 5 years, we are aiming to expand our exports, be able to make the micro nutrient kit, market the compost test kit, and get our products evaluated by international agencies.” Ms. Prachi is M.Sc (gold medalist) in Environmental Science. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Ms Prachi Gala,  Manager,  Transchem Agritech Limited,  Regd Office: 3rd Floor, Marble Arch, Race Course, Vadodara-390007 Contact:   + 91 265 6639642 | +91 265 6542247 | Fax: +91 265 2335758 Email: prachi@transpek.com | info@transchem.in Web: www.transchem.in Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Transchem Agritech – soil testing kits &water testing kits Related – articles, consultants, downloads TRANSCHEM Agritech – soil and water testing kits EFRAC – Food Testing Lab Shripad Consultancy – Geological Investigation of Water T.S.Badrinarayanan – Ground water exploration You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water