Seed Treatment Market Research Report To 2020: Grand View Research, Inc. AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Press Releases Seed Treatment Market Research Report To 2020: Grand View Research, Inc. Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Seed Treatment Market Research Report To 2020: Grand View Research, Inc. LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… January 7th, 2015 #1 grandview Join Date Dec 2014 Posts 5 Blog Entries 1 Seed Treatment Market Research Report To 2020: Grand View Research, Inc. The global market for seed treatment is expected to reach USD 5.61 billion by 2020, according to a new study by Grand View Research, Inc. Seed treatment demand is expected to increase due to growing need for protection of high cost seeds in the market. Additionally, effective control over seed or soil borne diseases and infections due to seed treatments will also boost the overall market. Technological development with regards to seed treatment across the crop life cycle is expected to augment the growth of the market. Insecticide treatment was the largest segment accounting for USD 1.57 billion of revenue in 2013. Cost effectiveness and ease of use are key factors for increasing popularity of insecticide treatment in the seed treatment market. Non chemical seed treatment is expected to grow at a CAGR of 10.3% from 2014 to 2020, due to consumer awareness regarding non chemical products benefits to environment and human health. View summary of this report @ http://bit.ly/1KliUIM Further key findings from the study suggest: Global seed treatment market revenue was USD 2.98 billion in 2013 and is expected to reach USD 5.61 billion by 2020, growing at a CAGR of 9.6% from 2014 to 2020. Corn/Maize is the largest crop type subjected to seed treatment generating revenue of USD 1.03 billion in 2013 due to high vulnerability of crop to insects/ pests. North America was the largest regional market for seed treatment with revenue exceeding USD 1.26 billion in 2013. Growing demand for crops such as corn and soybean for production of biofuels coupled with technological advancement in seed treatment is expected to give the region an edge in the market over the forecast period. Non chemical treatment is expected to witness fastest growth at an estimated CAGR of 10.3% from 2014 to 2020. The increasing awareness regarding hazards of other seed treatment forms to human health and surrounding environment is expected to drive demand for the segment. The global seed treatment market is highly consolidated with the top four companies accounting for over 80% of the market in 2013. Key Companies in the market include Syngenta, Monsanto, BASF, Bayer CropScience, Chemtura, Nufarm and DuPont. About Grand View Research Grand View Research, Inc. is a U.S. based market research and consulting company, registered in the State of California and headquartered in San Francisco. The company provides syndicated research reports, customized research reports, and consulting services. To help clients make informed business decisions, the company offers market intelligence studies ensuring relevant and fact-based research across a range of industries including technology, chemicals, materials, healthcare and energy. Contact: Sherry James Corporate Sales Specialist, U.S.A. Grand View Research, Inc. United States Phone: 1-415-349-0058 Toll Free: 1-888-202-9519 Email: sales@grandviewresearch.com Website: http://www.grandviewresearch.com/ Blog Site: http://marketshare.blog.com/ Last edited by grandview; January 7th, 2015 at 04:48 PM . Reply With Quote Tags for this Thread seed treatment market View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 09:58 PM .