Welcome — Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] General settings registry Search OKSTATE.EDU... Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Division Home Division Home Extension Ag Experiment Station College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Academic Departments Division Administration Programs & Services Ag International Programs Ag Sponsored Programs Ag Communications Services Human Resources Sustainable Ag Research & Education DASNR IT Resources Extension Fact Sheets Extension County Office Directory DASNR Web Links Online Directory Media Division News Photo Database SUNUP TV Oklahoma Gardening TV DASNR Videos Extension Program Areas 4-H & Youth Development Ag Business Community & Rural Development Crops Family & Consumer Sciences Gardening Livestock Natural Resources, Environment & Ecology Weather Extension Departments 4-H & Youth Development Ag Economics Animal Science Biosystems & Ag Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Family & Consumer Sciences Food & Ag Products Center Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resource Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences Resources Extension Fact Sheets Extension County Office Directory DASNR Web Links Online Directory Careers in Extension Media Division News Photo Database SUNUP TV Oklahoma Gardening TV DASNR Videos Research Field Research Units Field Research & Service Units Controlled Environment Lab Electronics Shop Facilities & Project Management The Botanic Garden at Oklahoma State OSU Research Range Wes Watkins Station Research Centers Biobased Products and Energy Cente Food & Ag Products Center Food & Ag Biosecurity Institute Stored Products Center Water Resources Center Wheat Improvement Team Departments Academic Departments Ag Communications Services Environmental Sciences International Programs in Ag College of Human & Environmental Sciences Center for Veterinary Health Sciences Resources OAES Personnel History Related Links Ag Sponsored Programs Employment Opportunities Policies & Procedures Crop Variety Trials Ag Communications Services Teaching Academics Majors Minors Orientation Student Academic Mentors Transfer Students Students Prospective Students Graduate Programs Scholarships & Awards Career Services Student Involvement Student Success Center Alumni Membership OSU Alumni Association Support Our Mission Cowboy Journal Events Ag Alumni Board Career Achievement Winners Resources Contact Us Employer Information Career Fair Academic Departments Academic Departments Ag Economics Ag Education, Communications & Leadership Animal Science Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Biosystems & Ag Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resource Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAMS Environmental Sciences Master of International Agriculture Degree Program OSU Home Academics Colleges Catalog Class Schedule Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Admissions Visit Campus Enrollment Registrar Student Disability Services The Honors College Cost of Attendance Student Life Graduate College Residential Life Webmail Login Parking & Transit Campus Safety Health Services Student Affairs Career Services Fraternity & Sorority Affairs Wellness Center Faculty & Staff Human Resources & Jobs Payroll Services Web for Employees Benefits Information Information Technology Webmail Login Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council About OSU President OSU Newsroom Academic Calendar Athletics Alumni Association OSU Foundation Campus Map Community of Stillwater Apply Now Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Navigation Home Division News Extension Research College/Future Students Centers & Institutes Ag Sponsored Programs Oklahoma Gardening TV Institute for Ag Biosciences Division Web Links Campaign Priorities Ag Biotechnology Sustainable Ag Research & Education Ag International Programs Ag Communications Services DASNR Information Technology SUNUP TV Division Administration Employment Opportunities Online Directory Vision, Priorities & Goals Search DASNR website The Division Triangle Oklahoma State University's Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Logos Contact Us: DASNR 102 Agriculture Hall Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Phone: 405-744-2474 Fax: 405-744-2480 Webmaster   Login You are here: Home Info Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Welcome Front page Slideshow DASNR: The Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources. The DASNR Triangle: Teaching, Research and Extension. DASNR: The Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources. The DASNR Triangle: Teaching, Research and Extension. 5 This is an example of a HTML caption 3 with a link . A Division Uniting Serving Oklahoma Agriculture and Natural Resources Oklahoma State University's Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources is dedicated to making available science-based information relevant to improving the quality of life for the people of Oklahoma. The Division is comprised of the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources and two state agencies: the Oklahoma Agricultural Experiment Station and the Oklahoma Cooperative Extension Service . The Division Triangle The Division Triangle Now Online This year, meet DASNR’s new leader and the professor who likes to dress up to help students to tune in; learn about OSU’s cutting-edge, drought-fighting research and outreach; and get the scoop on 4-H’s innovative Fender Blender Bike … and that’s just for starters. Check your mailbox for your copy today or click here to view the annual publication online. DASNR Facebook DASNR Facebook DASNR Tweets DASNR Twitter DASNR News DASNR News ( View more ) Tips for summer grilling safety STILLWATER, Okla. – Shorts, flip flops and glowing coals in the grill are just a few of the signs of summer. Drought-tolerant garden to open at the Oklahoma City Zoo STILLWATER, Okla. - Imagine a drought-tolerant garden—cacti, rocks and a predominant brown hue come to mind. On June 1, ThinkWater at Oklahoma State University, in partnership with the Oklahoma City Zoo, will unveil a drought-tolerant garden designed to be just the opposite of brown and rocky. Important tips for homeowners to help avoid water damage STILLWATER, Okla. – A person’s home is likely the largest purchase he or she will make in a lifetime. However, there is more to being a homeowner than simply paying the mortgage and mowing the lawn. OSU professor named ASHS Fellow STILLWATER, Okla. – A long-time professor at Oklahoma State University joined a highly esteemed list of colleagues from around the country with the announcement of a coveted honor. Assessing structural damage after a disaster STILLWATER, Okla. – One of the major milestones on the road to recovering after a storm is assessing the structural damage to your home and other buildings. No need for sprinklers this spring STILLWATER, Okla. – A green lawn and a rainbow of flowers are the envy of many homeowners and gardeners across Oklahoma. The springtime rain brings colorful plants to life and according to the Oklahoma Climatological Survey, Oklahoma received a 254 percent increase in normal rainfall levels in the last 30 days. Cleaning household textiles and clothing after a flood STILLWATER, Okla. – Among the top priorities in the aftermath of a flood is salvaging as many of your household textiles and clothing items as possible. Similar to drying out your home, quick action is necessary to save your sheets, towels and wardrobe. Next 7 items » 1 2 3 4 … 54 Document Actions RSS feed Featured Video Bed Bug Basics: Tips for traveling