Delhi Road Map Home » Maps » Delhi » Delhi Road Map   Delhi History of Delhi Geography of Delhi Weather in Delhi दिल्ली का नक्शा Delhi Map Location Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District in Delhi                  (Hindi) Delhi Road Map Delhi Railway Map Tehsils of Delhi Localities Map Sex Ratio Map Delhi Zone Map Delhi-NCR Map Delhi Forest Map Delhi Tourism Tourist Places in Delhi Delhi Shopping Centre India Gate Red Fort Jama Masjid National Museum Adventure island Parliament Museum How to Reach Delhi IGI Airport Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Delhi Metro Utilities Delhi Distance Chart Delhi Pin code Delhi STD code Delhi Government Delhi Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Education in Delhi Schools in Delhi Colleges in Delhi Universities in Delhi Information on Delhi Delhi Jal Board MCD Circle Rates Hospitals in Delhi Markets in Delhi Hotels in Delhi New Delhi Hotels Industries in Delhi       Delhi Road Map Delhi Road Map Click here for Customized Maps View Larger Map Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the entire road network of Delhi. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The transportation system in Delhi is dependent largely upon the Delhi roads. The maintenance of the roads in Delhi is ensured by different bodies like the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB), New Delhi Municipal Committee (NDMC), Public Works Department (PWD) and Delhi Development Authority (DDA). Delhi enjoys one of India's highest densities of road network with a length of 1749 kilometer of road per 100 km2. The well developed and planned Delhi road network plays an important role by connecting the city with different parts of India. Some of the major Delhi roadways consist of the Ring Road and the Outer Ring Road, Connaught Place, Lodhi Road, Vasant Kunj, Greater Kailash, Janakpuri, Karol Bag, Vasant Vihar, Janpath etc. The major well kept national highways in Delhi that connects the city to other cities in India are NH 1, NH 8, NH 2 and NH10. The total road length in Delhi is more than 28,508 km which also include above 388 kilometer of National Highways. Let us check out some of the major Delhi roads : Ring Road Delhi consists of two ring roads- the Outer and the Inner ring roads. The total length of the two ring roads combined together is 87 kms. The Inner Ring Road covers almost 40 kms and apart from few crossings, this road is signal-free. The road is characterized by lanes in different directions. Several flyovers link the two Ring Roads. The Ring Road in New Delhi has a huge traffic density of vehicles. Lodhi Road Lodhi Road is among the major streets in New Delhi since it is home to well known international organizations such as UNICEF, and WWF. Connaught Place The popular Connaught Place happens to be Delhi's nerve center. It is the economy and business hub of the city. The circles in the middle of the place with several radial roads spread in different directions. 8 separate roads from the Parliament Street come out. The radial roads connect different areas of the Connaught Place. popularly known as the Janpath, it is actually the prolongation of radial road 1. Karol Bagh The Pusa Road and the Ajmal Khan Roads are around Karol Bagh which is in West Central Delhi. Vasant Vihar Vasant Vihar is among the expensive places in the city of Delhi. The two important streets that find place in Vasant Vihar are Paschimi Marg and Poorvi Marg. The roads are well-maintained and clean. Last Updated on : 1 March 2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule