Contribution | LEISA INDIA Magazines English Hindi Kannada Marathi Oriya Punjabi Tamil Telugu Home About Us Services Impact Subscription Archives Online Library CD Version Videos/Photos Videos Photos Contact Us Contribution Leisa India Low External Input Sustainable Agriculture LEISA INDIA > Contribution Contribution Request for Voluntary contributions LEISA India completes twelve years of dedicated service in promoting ecological agriculture. Thanks to your enthusiastic support, the magazine has been rated highly for its utility. All along, we have been able to share this magazine with all of you, free of cost. Thanks to the generous support of ILEIA, Netherlands with funding support from DGIS and SIDA for all these years. Presently we are able to reach only some of our readers through the print edition. Some of our readers  contributed voluntarily to support the donor funding. We are grateful to them.Thanks to the support of MISEREOR, we are able to share a print copy with a few more readers who cannot afford to pay. For all those who wish to read but cannot afford to pay, they can opt for an electronic edition. In either case you need to specify your option and give your latest address and correct email id. (See over leaf). We would like to inform you that at current costs of printing and distribution, we incur an annual expenditure of around Rs.250/- towards the costs of production and distribution of four issues of LEISA Magazine. This does not include the human resources and institutional costs for editing and publishing the magazine. Please contribute generously. All donations are exempt from u/s 80G of the IT ACT 1961 vide Director of Tax (Exemptions), Bangalore. If you are able to pay more than what it costs for 4 issues of the magazine, please do so.  You will be helping those who cannot afford to pay. Your generous contribution will ensure the continuation of LEISA India. We look forward to more substantial contributions from institutions. Please be a part of this Eco-friendly (LEISA) movement and help in protecting the lives, livelihoods and the planet!!! Best regards KVS Prasad Chief Editor – LEISA India Click here to download the form to contribute Copyright© Leisa | All Rights Reserved. Designed by Dhyeya