Lala Lajpat Rai India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » History » Lala Lajpat Rai   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Lala Lajpat Rai Lala Lajpat Rai, popularly known as Punjab Kesari, was a famous freedom fighter of India. Born on January 28, 1865, he was the eldest son of Munshi Radha Kishan Azad and Gulab Devi. He was one of the three extremists members of the Indian National Congress who gave their life for the independence of India along with other two members Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Bipin Chandra Pal. They were collectively known as Lal-Bal-Pal. These extremist members of the Indian National Congress wanted self government for India and they were the first Indian leaders to demand the complete political independence for India One of the important members of the Hindu Maha Sabha, Lala Lajpat Rai was the president of the All India trade Union Congress in 1920. He was the leader of the Punjab in protests against the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. He also led the non-cooperation movement in Punjab. Lala Lajpat Rai was highly influenced by socialist reformer Swami Dayananda Saraswati and was the strong supporter of the Arya Samaj movement in Punjab. He was at the forefront of the protest against the Simon Commission. Leading the demonstration against the Simon Commission he fell prey to the lathis of the British police and got seriously injured. But undeterred by his injury he spoke vigorously: "every blow aimed at me is a nail in the coffin of British imperialism" at the meeting held same evening. Though his injuries were healed but he could not recover completely and succumbed to his injuries on November 17, 1928. Apart from being a freedom fighter Lala Lajpat Rai was a prolific writer also. Some of his books such as the United States of America: A Hindu's Impression And A Study, History of the Arya Samaj, Swaraj and Social Change and England's Debut to India: A Historical Narrative of Britain's Fiscal Policy in India find special mention. This leader also founded the Punjab National Bank and the Lakshmi Insurance Company.   Related Links   Indian freedom movement Sukhdev Chittaranjan Das Shivaram Rajguru Dadabhai Naoroji Surendranath Bannerjee Jatindra Mohan Sengupta Laxmi Sehgal Jawaharlal Nehru Abdul Gafar Khan Khudiram Bose Rash Behari Bose Lala Lajpat Rai Rani Lakshmi Bai Madan Mohan Malviya Ram Singh Kuka Mahatma Gandhi Lala Hardayal Mangal Pandey Begum Hazrat Mahal Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Bipin Chandra Pal Motilal Nehru Sri Alluri Seetarama Raju Nellie Sengupta Veer Savarkar Pandit Balakrishna Sharma Subhash Chandra Bose Puspa Lata Das Bhim Sen Sachar Ram Manohar Lohia Acharya Kripalani Ram Prasad Bismil Aruna Asaf Ali Sagarmal Gopa Ashfaqulla Khan Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Bal Gangadhar Tilak Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chandra Shekhar Azad Last Updated on : August 8, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule