CASNR News — College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Search OKSTATE.EDU... Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Academic Depts Ag Economics Ag Education, Communications & Leadership Animal Science Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resources Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences Multidisciplinary Programs Environmental Sciences Master of International Agriculture Program Future Students Student Services Visitors CASNR Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Now Be an OSU Cowboy! Undergraduate Admissions Graduate College College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Navigation Home Academic Departments Future Students Student Services CASNR Scholarships Applications Study Abroad Farm to Fork News Events Alumni Employers Faculty Resources Personnel Request for Information Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Welcome to the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources CASNR Opening Paragraph CASNR News Search Advanced Search…   Login You are here: Home / CASNR News Info College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources CASNR News CASNR News   ( View MORE... ) Farm machinery focus of LA artist’s paintings at OSU Museum of Art May 27, 2015 Los Angeles artist Karen Carson unveils her large-scale paintings depicting the gargantuan machines that are familiar sights in rural America and revered icons of agricultural in the exhibit “Movers and Shapers: Combines, Tractors, and Swathers,” at the OSU Museum of Art from June 1 to August 29. An opening reception with the artist and curator, including a question and answer session, is set for June 1, from 5 – 7 p.m. Recent Biosystems Engineering graduate named one of nation’s Most Promising Engineers of Tomorrow May 27, 2015 Oklahoma State University’s Jonathan Overton, recent biosystems engineering alumnus from Yukon, Oklahoma, was recently honored by DiscoverE as one of 12 of the nation’s most promising engineering professionals of tomorrow in its fourth annual New Faces of Engineering College Edition. CASNR names outstanding senior, outstanding freshman and seniors of distinction May 26, 2015 Duncan, Oklahoma, natives, Jessica Neal and Allison Christian, have been named Oklahoma State University’s College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Outstanding Senior and Outstanding Freshman for 2015. Next 3 items » 1 2 3 4 … 25 Document Actions RSS feed If you think a career in an agriculture- or natural resources-related field may be in your future, we'd love to hear from you! Email us today! Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Accessibilty Safety Legal and Trademarks Webmaster © 2015 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved