Gujarat Government and Politics Home » Gujarat » Gujarat Government and Politics   Gujarat History Geography Weather गुजरात का नक्शा Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Region Map District Map Road Map Railway Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Port Map Ahmedabad Metro Map Cities Ahmedabad Anand Surat Vadodara Dwarka                        more.. Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Gujarat Places to visit in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Beaches Wildlife Sanctuaries Hotels in Gujarat Ahmedabad Hotels Saputara Hotels Surat Hotels Vadodara Hotels Rajkot Hotels Jamnagar Hotels              more... How to reach Airports Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Schools Universities in Gujarat India Map in Gujarati World Map in Gujarati Gujarat Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Gujarat       Government and Politics of Gujarat To begin with the Gujarat government and politics, it can be said that the Governor, appointed by the President of India, is the head of the Gujarat government and politics. The Governor is elected as the chief speaker of the Legislative Assembly and he is supposed to address the House after every general election. He is generally an elected candidate of the majority party, or is a candidate appointed by the Chief Minister, an important member of the Gujarat government and politics. Chief Ministers of Gujarat The Chief Minister of Gujarat is the head of the state government and politics. Although the he is answerable to the Gujarat Governor, yet the office of the Gujarat Chief Minister is vested with the maximum power. Gujarat Chief Minister is elected through a general election, and the party that gets the majority, nominates its head as the subsequent post of the Chief Minister. It is noteworthy that Narendra Modi has been the longest serving Chief Minister of Gujarat. In 2002, he took his oath as the Chief Minister and had been the undisputed master of Gujarat government and politics until 2014. Modi resigned from his post as the CM of Gujarat; as he took the oath for the position as the Prime Minister of India on 26 May 2014, post his massive win in the 2014 General Elections. Ministries and Departments of Gujarat In order to facilitate the smooth functioning of the state, the Gujarat government has commissioned a number of ministries and departments. The purpose of these ministries and departments is to undertake many functions and execute them under the periphery of the Gujarat government and politics. Gujarat government is known for its consistency throughout its history. It is a constituent whole of different departments that is maintained for the sake of the efficient working of the government. Some of the important departments of the Gujarat Government are: Governor Chief Minister Council of Ministers MLAs Collectorate Secretariat District Development Officer Circuit House Boards and Corporations, etc. These government departments work unanimously so that stability is maintained in the working pattern of the government. The Gujarat Governor is the executive and legislative head of the state and he or she is appointed by the President of India for a term of 5 years. WBST180914 Last Updated on : September 19, 2014 Gujarat Government Assembly Elections Results Elections Schedule Gujarat Elections 2007 Gujarat Economy Infrastructure Power Plants in Gujarat BPCL Ghars in Gujarat Parliamentary Constituencies in Gujarat Ahmedabad Amreli Anand Banaskantha Baroda Bhavnagar Broach Bulsar (ST) Chhota Udaipur (ST) Dhandhuka (SC) Dohad (ST) Gandhinagar Godhra Jamnagar Junagadh Kapadvanj Kutch Mandvi (ST) Mehsana Patan (SC) Porbandar Rajkot Sabarkantha Surat Surendranagar About Gujarat Geography History Weather Area Facts Districts Factsheet Flora and Fauna Topography Textiles People Dresses Food Art and craft Fairs and Festivals             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule