Wildlife Sanctuaries in Chhattisgarh, National Parks of Chhattisgarh Home » Maps » Wildlife » Sanctuaries and National Parks of Chhattisgarh   Chhattisgarh छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Chhattisgarh Map Cities in Chhattisgarh Naya Raipur Surajpur Kondagaon Baloda Bazar Ambikapur Pendra Kirandul Baikunthpur                      more... Districts of Chhattisgarh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Chhattisgarh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Chitrakoot Waterfall Haat Bazaars Indravati National Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Chhattisgarh Forests Parliamentary Constituencies Economy History Government Politics How to Reach Geography People Culture Festivals Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Area Chhattisgarh at a Glance Capital City Chief Minister Governor Pincode Population Telephone Code Chhattisgarh Factsheet District Map in Hindi Universities in Chhattisgarh       Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks of Chhattisgarh Sanctuaries and National Parks of Chhattisgarh Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the location of Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks of Chhattisgarh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries has made it an important destination on the tourism map of India. Chhattisgarh has 3 National Parks and 11 Wildlife Sanctuaries gifted with their unparalleled natural beauty and diverse and rich flora and fauna. Indravati National Park is the most famous wildlife sanctuary of the state of Chhattisgarh. It has several wildlife sanctuaries in secure areas such as Barnawapara Wildlife Sanctuary, Tamor Pingla, Kanger Ghati National Park, Pamed, Sanjay National Park, Semarsot, Sitanadi Wildlife Sanctuary, Udanti Wildlife Sanctuary, Achanakmar Wildlife Sanctuary, Badalkhol, Bhairamgarh, Gomarda wildlife sanctuaries etc. Chhattisgarh located in central India is among the states which has the maximum land under forest area, encompassing an area of nearly 1,35,133 Sq. km. 44% of the total area of Chhattisgarh comes under forests, which contributes to the 12% of the of India's total forests. The state has immense possibility for wildlife and eco-tourism because of its rich bio-diversity. Chhattisgarh is blessed with some of the most endangered and rare wildlife species are found here. For wildlife enthusiasts and nature lovers Chhattisgarh is a perfect destination. Wildlife Sanctuaries in Chhattisgarh are inhabited by the the endangered Wild Buffalos and Hill Myna, the State Animal and State Bird of Chhattisgarh respectively. The other animals and birds which you can see in these sanctuaries are the Wild Boar, Indian Gazelle, Chital or Spotted Deer, Nilgai, Sloth Bear, Sambars, Gaurs, Barking Deer, Bison, Chausingha or Four-horned Antelope, Chinkara, Muntjac, Dhole or Wild Dog, Jackal, Striped Hyena, and Porcupine etc. The birds which you can spot in this region are Parrots,Green Pigeons, Storks, Darters, Wood Peckers, Jungle Fowls, Quails, Peacocks, Gray-partridges, etc. Among the various wildlife sanctuaries in Chhattisgarh, some of the important ones need special mention, click on the following links to know about them in detail: Barnawapara Sanctuary Chhattisgarh wildlife sanctuaries attract many tourists to this Indian state. Barnawapara Sanctuary is a popular wildlife sanctuary situated in the Mahasamund district of Chhattisgarh. The sanctuary has a total area of 245 sq km. Though this wildlife sanctuary of Chhattisgarh does not occupy a huge area like the other Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries yet it is an important tourist spot in Chhattisgarh. After the passing of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972, Barnawapara Sanctuary was established in 1976. The altitude of this region ranges from 265 to 400 m. The wildlife species in the Barnawapara Sanctuary is varied. The animal lovers can see Tigers, Leopards, Hyenas, Antelopes, Porcupine, Bison, Python and many other species. There are a variety of bird species in this wildlife sanctuary. One can see the Herons, Bulbul, Parrots, Egrets and several rare species. The forest of Barnawapara Sanctuary consists of the trees like Sal, Teak, Bamboo and other Tropical Dry Deciduous trees. There are several other varieties of trees growing in this forest. They include Mahua, Tendu, Ber and Seemal trees. The Chhattisgarh tourism encourages tours to the wildlife sanctuaries in the state. The most suitable time to go on a safari in the Barnawapara Sanctuary is from November to June. The tourists visiting Chhattisgarh, can avail airway, railway and roadway to reach Barnawapara Sanctuary. The airport of Raipur is the nearest one from this sanctuary. The tourists can access the railway service from Mahasamund railway station. The developed roadways link the sanctuary with the state capital of Raipur. Sita Nadi Sanctuary Sita Nadi Sanctuary is situated in the district of Dhamtari in Chhattisgarh. After the passing of Wildlife Protection Act of 1972, Sita Nadi Sanctuary was established in 1974. The average altitude of this place is 327 m to 736 m. The sanctuary has a total area of about 556 sq km. River Sitanadi flows across the sanctuary and thus this sanctuary of Dhamtari has derived its name. The river Sitanadi flows to meet river Mahanadi in Deokhut. The tourists on a tour to the Chhattisgarh wildlife sanctuaries, should not miss a visit to Sita Nadi Sanctuary. November to June are the ideal time to visit Sita Nadi Sanctuary in Chhattisgarh. The sanctuary is known for its rich vegetation. The forest consists of trees like Mahua, Tendu, Harra and the moist peninsular trees like Sal, Bamboo and Teak. Besides supporting a rich variety of flora, the sanctuary is also a haven for the different species of animals and birds. The nature lovers in Sita Nadi Sanctuary can not afford to miss to see the animals like Leopards, Antelopes, Black Buck, Monkey, Nilgai and many other rare species of animals. A tourist will also be able to see Egrets, Parrots, Bulbul, Tree Pie birds in the sanctuary. A project has been undertaken to develop Sita Nadi Sanctuary into a sanctuary for preservation of Tigers. Sita Nadi Sanctuary is one of the most popular tourist attraction of Chhattisgarh tourism. The tourists from outside Chhattisgarh can access the Raipur airport to reach Sita Nadi Sanctuary. They can also access train service from Dhamtari railway station. Udanti Sanctuary Udanti Sanctuary was established in 1983 after the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972 was passed. The sanctuary is a major tourist attraction of Raipur in Chhattisgarh. The total area covered by the wildlife sanctuary is about 232 sq km. The name Udanti has derived from the river Udanti that flows through this region. The topography of the region is mainly hilly and some parts are plain land. The Udanti Wildlife Sanctuary is known for its efforts to preserve the endangered species of wild buffalo. Chhattisgarh tourism is never complete without taking a day out to the Chhattisgarh wildlife sanctuaries. The tourists can see the wild buffaloes which are the most important species of animal in Udanti Sanctuary. The other animals that are conserved in this sanctuary of Chhattisgarh are Tigers, Antelopes, Black Buck, Jackals, fox, Bison, Barking Deer, Wild Dog, Hyena, and Cobras. The birds that are found in this wildlife sanctuary are Magpie Robin, Heron, Parrots, Egrets, Pea fowl etc. Udanti Sanctuary is a favorite haunt of the nature lovers. They love to spend their time in the natural surroundings among the wild animal and birds. The trees that grow in the Udanti Sanctuary are primarily of Tropical Dry Peninsular type of which Sal is the most common variety and Tropical Dry Deciduous Mixed type. The mostly found trees in this region are Teak, Mahua, Salai, Mahul, Herra, Tendu and other varieties. The hilly terrain and the plain land of the sanctuary adds to the scenic beauty of the sanctuary. This sanctuary is visited by tourists from all over India and abroad. From the state capital of Chhattisgarh, Raipur, Udanti Sanctuary is at a distance of 160 km. The tourists from outside Chhattisgarh can avail the facility of the Raipur airport. The sanctuary can be reached through the weather roads in the district. Rail and bus service can also be availed from Rajim. Indravati National Park Indravati National Park has been named after the Indravati river that drains in the northern part of the national park. The national park is situated in the district of Dantewada in the Chhattisgarh state of India. Indravati National Park is one of the most popular national park in India. It extends for an area of about 2799.08 sq km. In 1981, the wildlife reserve was recognized as a National Park. From 1983 it came to be known as a Tiger Reserve. The authorities have undertaken measure to conserve this species of animal. Indravati National Park can be reached by the tourists from outside Chhattisgarh by availing the airplanes from other metropolis of India. They can reach Raipur, which is the nearby airport from the national park. From the district of Bastar, the park can be reached at ease. The park can be reached from Kutrue which serves as the entry point to the Indravati National Park. The park is linked with other parts of the district by link roads. The tourists on a Chhattisgarh tourism can visit the national park and the Chhattisgarh wildlife sanctuaries during the months of December to June. The major attraction of Indravati National Park is the different species of animals, birds and varieties of vegetation. There are vast stretches of lush green grasslands in the national parks. The tourists can see the wild herbivores coming to graze in this grasslands. One can spot the Wild Buffaloes, Barking Deer and herds of Nilgais in this grasslands. The other animals that are conserved in the national park of Dantewada district are Barasinghas, Gaurs, Sambars, Wild Dogs, Sloth Bear, Hyenas and many other species. The Indravati National Park is mainly known for the reptiles. One can see the crocodiles basking in the sun or Indian Chameleons, Cobra, Indian Rock Pythons in the park. The national park is also a shelter to a number of birds. Kanger Valley National Park Kanger Valley National Park adds to the scenic beauty of the Kanger valley in Chhattisgarh. The Kanger valley stretches for a distance of about 34 km. This national park of India is one of the popular tourist destination. The name Kanger has derived from the river of the same name that flows along the stretch of the park. Kanger Valley National Park is set along the bank of river Kholaba. The average area occupied by the national park is about 200 sq km. The terrain of the region is mainly hilly. The suitable time to go on a tour to Chhattisgarh wildlife sanctuaries and national parks is from November to June. From the Bastar district in Chhattisgarh, the national park can be easily accessed. The airport that can be accessed is located in Raipur, the state capital. The railhead and nearby bus stand from the Kanger Valley National Park is located at Jagdalpur, the Bastar's district headquarter. This park of Kanger valley was recognized as a national park of Kanger in 1982. The bio-diversity of this park is diverse. Besides seeing the wild animals and birds in the national park, there are a number of tourist spots that are located in the park. The tourists can also arrange picnics at the two parks of Bhaimsa Dhara and Kanger Dhara. Bhaimsa Dhara is a Crocodile Park that attracts tourists to this national park. Many tribal communities reside in the reserve areas of Kanger Valley National Park. Sanjay National Park Sanjay National Park is one of the most visited Chhattisgarh wildlife sanctuaries. This national park is also known by the name of Ghasi Das National Park. The national park is situated in the Chhattisgarh district in central part of India. The area through which the national park extends is about 2303 sq km. There is ample supply of water in the national park as many rivers drain this region. One will get to see many rare species in the Sanjay National Park, Chhattisgarh. Sanjay National Park was set up in 1982. The Chhatisgarh tourism includes a tour to the district of Bastar. The most important tourist destination in Bastar is the Sanjay National Park. The tourists can reach this park by airway from any major cities of India. The entry point to the national park is located at Sidhi, a district in Madhya Pradesh. The park can also be availed by rail. The months of November to June are the best period to visit Sanjay National Park in Chhattisgarh. In the Sanjay National Park, the tourists can see the different species of animals. The forests are frequented by Tigers, Chitals, Jackals, Four horned Antelopes, Bison, Monkeys, Porcupines, Barking Deer, Wild Pigs and other animals. There are a number of reptile species like lizards, Cobras and Pythons. There are a number of bird species in the national park as well. The bird watchers can spend their time among the Parrots, Munias, Blue Kingfishers, Wagtails and many other species. The national park has a rich vegetation. The forest mainly consist of trees of mixed varieties. The most common tree of this region is Sal. Other trees are Bamboo, Palas and Gurajan. Last Updated on : 05 April 2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule