Bio Care Technology - agricultural exports - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Bio Care Technology – agricultural exports Home Bio Care Technology – agricultural exports Markets various species of plants and medicinal seeds. Based in Dindigul, Tamil Nadu Suriya Praganantham Bio Care Technology, a company in the agri-commodity industry, dealing  in agricultural exports and supplies was established in November of 2010 in the Dindigul district of Tamil Nadu. With the advice of NABARD and wasteland development schemes, Bio Care Technology markets various species of plants and medicinal seeds. The company now operates under the watchful eye of its managing director, Mr. Suriya Praganantham, a Management of Science BBA graduate with six years of experience as an agricultural marketing field Adviser. Products and Acquisitions Dealing in the export of fresh vegetables and fruits while also supplying horticultural plants, medicinal plants and seeds, the company has now expanded to taking care of contract farming of horticultural, medicinal and forestry plants. Among the many items exported by the company is the banana g9 while one of the horticultural items manufactured by the company is an organic mixer that entails the use of bio concepts. All of the company’s products are sold under the name Queen Brand. In the growing of their various plant species, the company purchases seeds from accredited and praised seed companies as well as the best seed collection agents in all of India. From time to time, the company also sources their seeds from the government sector. When asked about their annual turnover, Mr. Suriya shared, “Our annual turnover is Rs. Ten lacs only.” Quality Control As a company that supplies and exports to various locations, quality control is one of the most important parts of the company’s daily routines. For example, with bananas being one of the main export goods of Bio Care Technology, a lot of care goes into ensuring that customers only receive the best of their products. “We need to take care of the size and weight of fruits, packing materials, and [the way the products are packed”, Mr. Suriya shared. Even ripening periods, frozen shipment containers and housekeeping have to be well managed on a daily basis to make sure that the fruits meet the standards for export. Because export standards are so high, it is difficult for the company accept outside suppliers. For example, if a spice powder maker wishes to supply to Bio Care Technology, the company will send an initial inquiry. The company will also require samples and quality certificates. Only after a detailed search of the supplier’s information and a visit to the supplier’s area of operation will a decision be made. Target Market and Competition Bio Care Technology looks to big importers as their main market and though they have not yet received finalized orders internationally, countries such as Iran and South Africa have already shown interest in the company’s products. To properly meet the demands of the domestic and international market, the company goes through e-mail inquiries and also surveys the prices of products and percentages. Identifying companies such as Mahalakshmi Exports and Stone Color Exports as some of their main competitors, Mr. Suriya still maintains that their products have an edge over the competing brands. He said, “Our products are number one in the industry because we maintain the quality of our products [and] our growers are qualified [people].” Challenges As it continues to engage in the agricultural exports industry, Bio Care Technology has faced its fair share of challenges. With regard to the toughest problem faced by the company so far, Mr. Suriya identified payments as its main challenge. “Most of the payment problems come from customers. We think that [honest] customers are [hard to find] and we are searching [for them continuously],” said Mr. Suriya. Another issue is the lack of proper warehouse facilities in India. This issue is prevalent nation wide and has even been addressed in the news. Mr. Suriya acknowledged this problem saying, “Warehouses must be available for all agro products and agri products. Growing produce is God’s gift and we should save the product and [be able to properly supply these products] when demanded or when natural calamities occur.” Advice and Future Plans With the company operating smoothly, Mr. Suriya described the future plans of Bio Care Technology rather succinctly as he said, “Our company should hold the number one position for supply of products.”  Seeing as the company has already done very well thus far, becoming widely acknowledged as a trusted distributor of agricultural products, it would seem that the company has a very bright future ahead of them. The company, however, has shown a willingness to help other companies thrive in the industry and Mr. Suriya willingly shared a few pieces of advice. “Customers are the most important part of the business,” Mr. Suriya shared, “Technical people should be trained to get more ideas from other leading countries.” Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr. Suriya Praganantham S, Managing Director, BIO CARE TECHNOLOGY 45/1, Spencer Compound Thiruvalluvar Salai, Dindigul, Tamil Nadu, India 624003 Phone: 451-2428550 Mobile: 094896 57554 Email: biocaretec@gmail.com / biocaretec@yahoo.com Web: http://www.thebiocaretec.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Bio Care Technology – agricultural exports Related – articles, consultants, downloads Ramakoti Nivasam – training in various agricultural fields Sanjivini Herbals Hi Tech Agro – irrigation system design and installations A K Biotech – Spices and Spirulina You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water