Project Report on Cold storage for fruits and vegetables AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Project Reports Project Report on Cold storage for fruits and vegetables Results 1 to 2 of 2 Thread: Project Report on Cold storage for fruits and vegetables LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… October 16th, 2014 #1 scsindia Join Date Apr 2010 Posts 849 Project Report on Cold storage for fruits and vegetables Cold storage for fruits and vegetables Cold storage is a temperature-controlled supply chain network, with Cold storage and distribution activities carried out in a manner such that the temperature of a product is maintained in a specified range, needed to keep it fresh and edible for a much longer period than in normal ambient conditions. All fruits and vegetables require specialized post harvest treatment, appropriate temperature and relative humidity for their storage. Establishment of cold storage provides refrigerated storage and preservation facilities for several fruits, vegetables. Because of technology advancements and logistic strategies, the cold storage of perishable items has become an important stage in the distribution between manufacturers/processors and retail locations. This system facilitates long distance transport of various products as well as makes seasonal products available over the entire year. Fruits, vegetables and many other commodities can be preserved by storage at low temperature, which retards the activities of micro organisms. Micro organisms are the spoilage agents and consist of bacteria, yeasts and molds. Low temperature does not destroy those spoilage agents as does high temperature, but greatly reduces their activities, providing a practical way of preserving perishable foods in their natural state which otherwise is not possible through heating. Living foods such as fruits and vegetables have some natural protection against the activities of micro organism. The best method of preserving these items is to keep the product alive and at the same time retard the natural enzyme activity which will retard the rate of ripening or maturity. Application Cold storage is used to preserve fruits and vegetables. Once they are kept in the cold storage, they do not get spoiled even after many months. Sometimes, in production season of certain vegetable or fruit crops, the demand for those thing decreases, which in turn decreases the consumption in surplus amount of that particular item and it is kept in a cold storage. So this item, when needed, can be taken from the cold storage & can be made available to consumers very easily. Cold storages are essential for extending the shelf life of the products, reducing transport bottlenecks during the peak period of production and maintenance of the quality of produce. The development of cold storage industry has therefore an important role to play in reducing the wastages of the perishable commodities and thus providing remunerative prices to the farmers. Market Currently, India has an estimated share of around 80-85 per cent of the total cold storage capacity. DETAILED PROJECT REPORT CONTAINS Introduction Properties BIS (Bureau of Indian Standard) Specifications & Requirements Uses & Applications Present Indian Market Position Demand of Cold storage for fruits & vegetables Process and Technology for Storing fruits & vegetables in Cold storage Names and Addresses of Existing Units (Present Manufactures) List of Plant & Machineries Miscellaneous Items and Accessories Instruments Laboratory Equipments and Accessories Electrification Electric Load and Water Maintenance Suppliers/Manufacturers of Plant and Machineries Process of Manufacture Flow Sheet Diagram List of Raw Materials Availability of Raw Materials Cost/Rates of Raw Materials Requirement of Staff & Labour Personnel Management Skilled & Unskilled Labour Requirement of Land Area Rates of the Land Built up Area, Cost of Raw Materials Cost of Land & Building Cost of Plant & Machineries Fixed Capital Investment Working Capital Project Cost Capital Formation Cost of Production Profitability Analysis Break Even Point, Cash Flow Statement for 5 Years Depreciation Chart Projected Balance Sheet Project Reports cover all the aspects of business, from analysing the market, confirming availability of various necessities such as plant & machinery, raw materials to forecasting the financial requirements. The scope of the report includes assessing market potential, negotiating with collaborators, investment decision making, corporate diversification planning etc. in a very planned manner by formulating detailed manufacturing techniques and forecasting financial aspects by estimating the cost of raw material, formulating the cash flow statement, projecting the balance sheet etc. For More Visit Industrial Information Project Reports Interested may ask for charges. Mail us Project Name, Contact Person Name, Phone no, Email address Address at spacecsindia@gmail.com or SMS us Project Name, Contact Person Name, Phone no, Email on +919407566665 Last edited by scsindia; 4 Days Ago at 04:45 PM . Reason: NA Reply With Quote 4 Days Ago #2 scsindia Join Date Apr 2010 Posts 849 plz mail us for DPR in our mail id spacecsindia@gmail.com Regards SCS Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 08:16 PM .