:: About Department :: About Department                         T he need to grow more food was felt during the 19th Century because of the increasing pressure of population. According to the recommendation of Famine Commission(1881), Agriculture Department was established in 1883. Work started with the aim of helping the rural community to achieve higher productivity in agriculture. Agriculture and Land Records Departments were functioning together till 1907. After getting encouraging results in an effort made during 1915-16 to stop soil loss, Mr Kitting, the then Agriculture Director started soil conservation work from 1922. Agriculture Department took up various land development activities with the enactment in 1942 and subsequent enforcement of Land Development Act in 1943. For the first time in 1943, the then Government prepared a comprehensive Agriculture Policy considering the problems in agriculture and allied sectors. According to this policy, emphasis was given on use of water as irrigation for agricultural crops. The post independence period from 1950 to 1965 is recognized as pre Green Revolution period. During this period several schemes were launched to boost growth of agriculture sector. Production of quality seeds through Taluka Seed Farms started during 1957. Emphasis was given on increase in irrigated area along with cultivated area during this period. A special campaign was launched in 1961-62 to encourage use of chemical fertilizers. Development of hybrid varieties of different crops since 1965-66 laid down the foundation of Green Revolution. Five year plans following this period specially emphasized development of agriculture. Nala bunding work was taken up along with land development work by the department since 1974 which led to increase in well and ground water level. Introduction of intensive agriculture, comprising of large scale use of improved seed, fertilizers, pesticides and available water helped increase in agriculture production. Lateron, considering the need for providing guidance to the farmers for proper and judicious use of these inputs, Training and Visit Scheme was launched in 1981-82. Valuable contribution of this scheme through effective implementation of programs like Crop Demonstrations, Field Visits, Corner meetings, Workshops, Fairs, Exhibitions etc. aimed at transfer of technology from Agriculture Universities to farmers fields was evident from the increased agricultural production. Though we have become self sufficient in food grain production inspite of the tremendous increase in population, self sufficiency in agriculture is not the only aim of the state but assurance of more and more net income to the farmers through the efficient and sustainable use of available resources is more important. To achieve this, commercial agriculture should be practiced. Different schemes are implemented to increase agricultural production, export promotion and to encourage the agro processing industry with a view to take advantage of liberalized economy and Global trade. Thus, agriculture department is firmly stepping towards economic progress along with self sufficiency through agriculture and to achieve important position in the global agriculture produce market. The innovative horticulture plantation scheme under employment gurantee scheme implemented by the state is a part of this policy. Agriculture department considers farmer as the focal point and the whole department is organized in such a fashion that a single mechanism is working to facilitate the farmer for adoption of advanced technology and sustainable use of available resources. Every agriculture assistant working at village level has a jurisdiction of three to four villages with number of farmers limited to 800 to 900 which facilitates more interaction for easier transfer of technology. Agriculture Assistant at village level undertakes soil conservation work, horticulture plantation and various extension schemes. He is supervised by Circle Agriculture Officer at circle level. Administrative control, laison with other departments, monitoring and training programs etc. are facilitated by Taluka Agriculture Officer at taluka level, Sub Divisional Agriculture Officer at sub division level, District Superintending Agriculture Officer at district level and Divisional Joint Director at division level. In addition, Agriculture Officer at Panchayat Samiti level, working under Agriculture Development Officer, Zilla Parishad at district level also implement various agro-inputs related schemes. All the schemes implemented in the field are supervised technically and administratively by respective directorates of Soil Conservation, Horticulture, Extension and Training, Inputs and Quality Control, Statistics, Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning and Budget at state level in the Commissionerate of Agriculture. Also separate sections are there for the Establishment and Accounts related matters.         Print this Page   Home | Site Map | Disclaimer | Contacts | Feedback This portal is designed by National Informatics Centre (NIC) Best viewed with 1024 by 768 Screen Resolution