Fashion Trade Show,Apparel Trade Fair,Apparel & Clothing Tradeshows,Events India JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Apparel & Fashion Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Apparel & FashionTrade Shows Date : 10 Sep - 12 Sep 2015 Imprinted Sportswear Show (Orlando) -  United States The Imprinted Sportswear Show in Orlando is the premier trade show in the Southeast. Formally in Tampa, this show attracts embroiderers and screen printers from Florida, Georgia, North and South Carolina and beyond that not only cater to the.... Venue : Orange County Convention Center ,Orlando United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 Nov - 08 Nov 2015 BLACK SEA LETEX 2015 -  Moldova, Republic of Black Sea Letex is conceived as the one-stop shop for labels & brands in the Arena. This will provide an exciting merchandising platform for over 200 designers & branded labels alike, to connect with serious International Buyers &.... Venue : International Exhibition Centre Moldova, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Aug - 05 Aug 2015 Fashion Exposed-Melbourne -  Australia Fashion Exposed-Melbourne 2015 is a twice-yearly event where the fashion industry meet, source and buy collections from over 1500 diverse australian and international brands, all at one destination. fashion exposed is the most comprehensive.... Venue : Melbourne Exhibition Centre ,Victoria Australia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 12 Jun 2015 The 14th China International Consumer Goods Fair -  China The 14th China International Consumer Goods Fair (CICGF) is the largest and most professional international consumer goods fair in China, which ranks only second to Canton Fair among all the exhibitions sponsored by Ministry of Commerce. Venue : Ningbo International Conference & Exhibition Center ,Zhejiang China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Jun - 27 Jun 2015 Pitti Immagine Bimbo -  Italy Pitti Imagine Bimbo is the international reference for children's fashions.It is a dynamic fair that picks up the market's trends and is fully representative of every aspect of the children's fashion industry. Its success is borne out by the.... Venue : Fortezza da Basso ,Rome Italy Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Aug - 22 Aug 2015 SEMAINE DE MODE DE MONTRÉAL -  Canada More than eighty designers from Quebec, Canada and abroad will show their collections on various stages at the heart of downtown Montreal. Free activities open to all. Venue : Place des Festivals ,QC Canada Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Jul - 10 Jul 2015 Baby & Kids Expo-Japan -  Japan Baby & Kids Expo is the unique and attractive Japanese trade fair, that provides a wide range of shopping opportunities for kids and their parents. The show is dynamic, and keeps into consideration the ever-increasing demand levels for.... Venue : Tokyo Big Sight ,Tokyo Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Aug - 11 Aug 2015 Kidz at Stylemax -  United States Kidz at STYLEMAX is THE show for the children's wear buyer who wants to stay one step ahead of the competition. Kidz at STYLEMAX provides the lines, the resources and the brands in one friendly and convenient marketplace: one concentrated.... Venue : Merchandise Mart ,IL United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Aug - 08 Aug 2015 Private Label Products Show -  India Private Label Products Show (PLPS) is India’s only international exhibition for private label products, own brand FMCG retail and contract manufacturing. New products and national & international suppliers will soon catch up on India’s.... Venue : Pragati Maidan ,New Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Aug - 06 Aug 2015 Summer 2015 Las Vegas Market -  United States Las Vegas Market is the most comprehensive furniture, home décor and gift market in the United States, presenting a unique cross-section of 2,000+ resources in an unrivaled market destination. With two markets each year, retailers and designers can.... Venue : World Market Center Las Vegas ,NV United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 May - 12 May 2015 9th Wenzhou Int'l Optics Fair, China (WOF) -  China Wenzhou International Optics Fair( WOF) is the leading international fair in the eyewear sector, an exceptional event where a preview of new products is presented to visitors. It is an event with a wealth of initiatives, personalities,.... Venue : Wenzhou Int`l Convention & Exhibition Center ,zhejiang China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 May - 09 May 2015 Intermasz -  Poland Intermasz is an International Trade Fair of Textile, Clothes and Shoemaking Machines. Venue : Poznan Congress Center ,Poznan Poland Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Apr - 03 Apr 2015 FASHION WORLD TOKYO -  Japan FASHION WORLD TOKYO is Japan's LARGEST trade show for fashion industry, gathering all kinds of fashion wear, bags, shoes and fashion accessories. It is held twice a year in April & October and the best.... Venue : Tokyo Big Sight ,Koto-ku Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Apr - 02 Apr 2015 Mega Style Souk -  India The Mega Style Souk is an exclusive exhibition cum sale of 14 designers from all over India, at Taj Coromandel venue- organized by Vimonisha gallery with more than 50 successful shows behind them. The event will be taking place between 01-02.... Venue : Hyatt Regency Chennai ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 30 Mar - 01 Apr 2015 Fashion Access -  Hong Kong Fashion Access will be covering almost every aspect of the fashion industry. The show will be attracting importers, wholesalers, representatives of fashion brands buying offices, retailers and boutique buyers from all over the world. The APLF.... Venue : Hong Kong Convention & Exhibition Centre ,Wanchai Hong Kong Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Mar - 30 Mar 2015 GTS Florida Expo-Kissimmee -  United States GTS Florida Expo is a must attend show for the jewelers, designers and people who are fond of designer range of jewels. The show is recognized jewelry show which aims to satisfy the requirements of the global customers and also focuses to fulfill.... Venue : Osceola Heritage Park Exhibition ,FL United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Mar - 28 Mar 2015 Seoul Int\'l Sourcing Fair -  Korea, Republic of Seoul International Sourcing Fair first opened in 1991 as “SIPREMIUM”. In the last 22 years, it has become Korea‟s top exhibition on gifts and sales promotion items. The Seoul International Sourcing Fair‟s strength is that it was among the.... Venue : Coex ,Gyeonggi Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Mar - 22 Mar 2015 Golden Triangle Show-Greensboro -  United States Golden Triangle Show-Greensboro show is one of the famous promoting and sell their products to volume buyers from around the world which is the international trade events of fashion jewellery and accessories industry. Venue : Golden Triangle Show Greensboro ,NC United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Mar - 20 Mar 2015 Baby Fashion 2015 -  Ukraine Baby Fashion is major trade fair for the children's fashion. The show will be focusing on the fashion and accessories for babies, toddlers and children. Venue : ACCO International Exhibition Center ,Kiev Ukraine Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Mar - 20 Mar 2015 Baby Expo -  Ukraine Baby Expo is a major trade show for the goods and services of babies and children. The expo will be sub divided into separate sections dealing with the baby toys, baby fashion and mother health. Venue : International Exhibition Center ,Kiev Ukraine Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Mar - 16 Mar 2015 Manila FAME International -  Philippines Manila FAME International 2015 is refreshing look to a whole new world of innovation and craftsmanship in home and fashion lifestyle daring you to explore and find elegance, sophistication and perfection in the show's.... Venue : SMX Convention Center ,Philippines Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Mar - 15 Mar 2015 Imprinted Sportswear Show (Atlantic City) -  United States the Imprinted Sportswear Shows (ISS) have been the leaders of the decorated apparel industry. Experienced buyers know that ISS is the place to see the latest equipment, supplies, industry trends, and techniques available. Venue : Atlantic City Convention Center United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Mar - 07 Mar 2015 Tex-Styles India -  India Tex-Styles India 2015 Fair has emerged as an ideal forum for presenting the multi-faceted splendour of the Indian textile industry and established itself as the leading fair of its kind in South East Asia. The most comprehensive coverage of the.... Venue : Pragati Maidan, Hall Nos. 8,9,10 & 11 ,Central Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Mar - 07 Mar 2015 The Perfect Wedding Show -  United Arab Emirates The Perfect Wedding Show is the ideal wedding event that throws open to wedding costumes and attire, wedding accessories, wedding planning services, wedding hotel services and all products and services that are involved with this grand event. It.... Venue : Expo Centre Sharjah ,Sharjah United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Feb - 19 Feb 2015 Wwdmagic -  United States The MAGIC Marketplace is the preeminent trade event in the international fashion industry, hosting global buyers and sellers of men’s, women’s and children’s apparel, footwear, accessories and sourcing resources Venue : Las Vegas Convention Center ,NV United States