Sonal Mansingh India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Art and Culture » Sonal Mansingh   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Sonal Mansingh One of the leading exponents of Odissi, Sonal Mansingh is a well known social activist, thinker researcher, orator, choreographer and teacher. Besides Odissi, she is also the master of Bharatnatyam. Born into an open minded family, Sonal took to dance professionally from 1962 onwards. She took training in Bharatnatyam under Prof. U.S. Krishna Rao and Chandrabhaga Devi. She learnt Odissi from various renowned gurus. This world known dancer is also a trained Hindustani Classical vocalist. She learnt it under prof. K.G. Ginge. This versatile dancer has also undergone a special training in Abhinaya from late Mylapore and is also a trained Kuchipudi dancer. An expert in Chhau and Indian music, she has made many choreographies based on Indian mythology. She is also concerned about the social issues like saving the environment, emancipation of woman and her dance portrays all these issues. This alumni of Elphinston College, Bombay ( Mumbai )founded the Delhi based Center for Indian Classical Dances (CICD) in 1977. Here she imparts training to students in Indian classical dance. Sonal is a member of the Executive Board and General Council of Sangeet Natak Akademi, National Cultural Fund, Ministry of Culture. She is also the trustee of the largest institution in India, the Indira Gandhi National Center For Arts Sonal Mansigh has been honored with many awards. She is the youngest recipient to get Padma Bhushan awarded by the President of India in 1992. Other awards received by Sonal Mansingh include: Singer Mani, Haridas Sangeet Sammelan Nritya Choodamani, Sri Krishna Gana Sabha, Madras State Award, Sahiya Kala Parishad, New Delhi Natya Kala Ratna, National Cultural Oraganisation, Delhi Nrityakal Kaumudi, Kala Priya, Nellore, Andhra Pradesh National Award, Sangeet Natak Akademi, New Delhi Rajeev Gandhi Excellence award, New Delhi Padma Bhushan,1992 Indira Priyadarshini award, New Delhi Medal of Friendship from the Council of State of Cuba Sanatam Nritya Samman Padma Vibhushan, 2003 A documentary titled 'Sonal' has been made on her life by Prakash Jha, which was released on May 1, 2002 at India Habitat Center on her 59th birthday.   Related Links   Odissi Sanjukta Panigrahi Protima Bedi Kumkum Mohanty Sonal Mansingh Kelucharan Mohapatra   Bharatnatyam Chitra Vishweswaran Padma Suvramanyum Mallika Sarabhai   Kathakali Anita Ratnam   Kathak PT. Birju Maharaj   Kuchipudi Vempati Chinna Satyam Raja and Radha Reddy Siddhendra Yogi Mrinalini Sadananda Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule