Mumbai Pune Expressway, Map of Mumbai Pune Expressway, Yashwantrao Chavan Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway » Mumbai Pune Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Mumbai Pune Expressway Map of Mumbai Pune Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Mumbai Pune Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Mumbai Pune Expressway , India's first six-lane tolled expressway, became fully operational in 2002.The expressway officially called the Yashwantrao Chavan Mumbai Pune Expressway connects the financial capital of the country, Mumbai, which is also the capital of Maharashtra, with Pune, an important educational and industrial city in the state. Before the expressway was built, national highway 4 was the preferred road between the two cities. But, as the traffic density became high on this stretch, the road became congested and the travelling time also increased. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) developed the new Expressway between the cities. The 93 kilometer long concrete expressway starts at Panvel and ends at Dehu Road near Pune. It has a dual carriageway with three lanes each. No two or three wheelers are permitted on the expressway and nor are agricultural tractors as the speed limit is 80 to 120 kmph. This was first high speed expressway in the country and because of its features reduced the travelling time between Pune and Mumbai to two hours. As the scenic hill towns of Khandala and Lonavla fall on the route, the travelling time to these very popular weekend getaways from Mumbai and Pune has also been reduced. The expressway has frequently been cited as one of the best in the country for high speed driving as it has long straight stretches, and insulation from stray cattle with a barbed metal wire barrier on either side of it. It also goes through a scenic route on the Sahyadris on the Western Ghats, cutting through five illuminated tunnels. The tunnels are at Bhatan, Madap, Adoshi (only while coming from Pune), Khandala and Kamshet. The interchanges are at Shedung, Khalapur, Talegaon , and Kusgaon. The toll plazas are at Khalapur while going to Pune and at Talegaon while going to Mumbai. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule