Agriculture Department, Jammu Agriculture Department, Jammu Government of Jammu and Kashmir Home Page Salient Features Perspective in Agriculture Sector Over 65% of the population of more than one crore depend on agriculture and allied sectors. Agriculture and Allied Sectors Contribute 27% of State Income. State faces massive deficit in food (40%), Oilseeds(70%) and vegetables (30%) Net Sown Area (NSA) at 7.52 lac ha (2004-05) is 35% of the reported area as against National Average of 46%. Only 42% area is under irrigation. Around 90% of available ground water is unutilized. Over 70% of NSA is under food crops. A little over 13% is under fruits. Productivity level of all agricultural crops is lower than national averages. The main Kharif crops of the State are rice, maize, pulses, vegetables and fodder covering 78% of the NSA. Over 65% of the population of more than one crore depend on agriculture and allied sectors. Thrust Area in Agriculture Vegetable Production including protected cultivation through Low Cost Green House Technology and emphasis on off-season vegetable production. Commercial floriculture, aromatic and medicinal plant cultivation. Development of Apiculture and Mushroom. On Farm Irrigation Management. Above all, diversification of agriculture into commercially more remunerative crops. Advantage J and K Varied Agro-Climatic Zones expressing in a wide variety of agricultural & horticultural produce, some of which area unique to the State Jammu home to high quality Basmati, Rajmash Kashmir home to high quality Saffron, Zeera, fresh and dry temperate fruits and commercial floriculture Ladakh home to high quality apricots and sea-buck thorn berry Potential for Bio-Diversification due to agro-climatic and soil conditions Disadvantages Hilly terrain, limiting mechanical farming and transportation of products especially horticulture produce. Hilly terrain also limits irrigability of cultivated land Fragile soil in hilly areas susceptible to soil erosion Single Cropping season in temperate / high altitude areas Distant markets for export outside the State Opportunities and Potential Off-season vegetable development Conducive agro-climatic conditions for development of commercial floriculture, aromatic & medicinal plants, olive, kiwi fruit and pecan-nuts Vast scope for Jetropha cultivation on waste land and rainfed areas of jammu region Conducive flora and environment for sericulture and taser culture Conducive soil & environmental conditions for the production of virus free quality seeds for flowers and vegetables Disclaimer: The information put on this web site is obtained from our field agencies and other sources. The Department is not responsible for any error or invalid data crept into  inadvertently or otherwise. It is our sincere request that any error or discrepancy if noticed may kindly be brought to the attention of the department for its immediate rectification on our e-mail id :agrijammu@rediffmail.com