Public Sector Insurance Companies : Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance, Government of India Skip to Main Content | Skip to Navigation Text Size A A A A A A A Hindi Home Functions New Initiatives Financial Inclusion Documents & Publications RTI Who's Who Contact Us Dept. of Financial Services Ministry of Finance, Government of India Finance Minister Minister for State Allocation of Business Citizen's Charter Acts & Rules Work Allocation Banking Insurance Pension Reforms Notifications Circulars Appointments Press Releases Data & Statistics Vacancy Circulars Tenders/Auctions The National Portal of India National E-Governance Plan Public Grievances Invest India Tenders You are here : Home Insurance Division Public Sector Insurance Companies Public Sector Insurance Companies Nationalised Insurance Companies Life Insurance Corporation of India General Insurance Corporation of India National Insurance Co. Ltd. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. New India Assurance Co. Ltd. United India Insurance Co. Ltd. Life Insurance Corporation of India The Parliament of India enacted the Life Insurance Corporation Act on the 19th of June 1956, and the Life Insurance Corporation of Indian was established on 1st September, 1956, with the objective of spreading life insurance much more widely and in particular to the rural areas with a view to reach all insurable persons in the country, providing them adequate financial cover at a reasonable cost. The main objective of the organization of the life insurance business was to spread the message of life insurance in the country and mobilize people’s savings for nation building activities. The Life Insurance Corporation with its Central Office in Mumbai and eight Zonal Offices at Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kanpur, Bhopal and Patna operates through 109 Divisional Offices including one Salary Savings Scheme (SSS) Division at Mumbai, 2048 Branch Offices and 1004 Satellite Offices as at 31.3.2010. The Corporation also transacts business abroad and has branch offices in Fiji, Mauritius and United Kingdom. LIC also operates in overseas Insurance Market through Joint Venture Companies namely Life Insurance Corporation (International) B S C (C), registered in Manama (Bahrain), Kenindia Assurance Company Ltd., registered in Nairobi, Life Insurance Corporation (Nepal) Ltd. registered in Kathmandu, Life Insurance Corporation (Lanka) Ltd. registered in Colombo and Saudi Indian Company for Co-operative Insurance registered in Riyadh. An offshore company, Life Insurance Corporation (Mauritius) Offshore Ltd. registered in Port Louis, Mauritius is a Joint Venture Company between LIC of India and GIC of India. It has been decided that this company defers its life business activities and contemplates to pursue non-life reinsurance business with active participation of GIC. A Representative Office has been established recently in Singapore to study the Regulatory Issues and to assess the market potential in order to find an appropriate mode of entry into Singapore insurance market. Among the above, Kenindia Assurance Co. Ltd., Nairobi, Kenya & Saudi Insurance Company for Co-operative Insurance, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia are composite companies transacting life and non-life business. Page: 1 | 2 | 3 | Next Home Sitemap Accessibility Options Terms of Use Policies Disclaimer Accessibilty Statement EBook Feedback Site is designed and hosted by National Informatics Centre Contents on this website is published and managed by The Department of Financial Services, Govt. of India.