Churachandpur District Map Home » Maps » Manipur » Districts » Churachandpur District Map   District of Manipur East Imphal West Imphal Churachandpur Ukhrul Tamenglong              more.. मणिपुर का नक्शा Manipur Manipur Map Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Capital Imphal City Map Bishnupur City Map > Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Travel to Manipur Places to visit in Manipur Wildlife Sanctuaries Govindajee Temple War Cemetery Agricultural Map Geography Economy Media Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies- Inner Parliamentary Constituencies- Outer Government Education Universities In Manipur History Mineral Map Society and Culture Sex Ratio Pincode STD code       Churachandpur District Map District Map of Churachandpur Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Churachandpur District Map highlights the National Highways, Major Roads, District Headquarter, etc in Churachandpur . Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Churachandpur, the headquarters of a majorly Christian dominated Churachandpur district is also locally known as Lamka. The city of less than 4 lakhs people has commercial roots and is located 60 km south of the capital Imphal. It has a modern outlook and cosmopolitan culture is visible everywhere. The city came under Japanese aerial attack during the World War II, but remained peaceful post Indian independence. On of the reason it attracted huge investments and businesspeople earned handsome returns on their investments. Best season to visit Churachandpur is a famous district in the state of Manipur in India, where the social values are a little different than the rest of the country. The best time to travel Churachandpur is from October to March when the climate is at its best. It is mostly because Manipur and the rest of the Assamese region attract huge rainfall from April to September. Winters are extremely cold, so you should be prepared to face the chilly weather, if you are planning to visit the place in December and January. Churachandpur is a major town of south Manipur, which is inhabited by the local tribe Kuki. Local handicrafts are sure to entice you and they are found everywhere in the markets. So, it is developing at a rapid rate, the town is still a symbol of peace and tranquility. But the surprisingly cosmopolitan town is home to many tribes such as Zomi, Kuki, Naga, Mizo, and Chin ethnic groups, apart from a dozen other communities from the rest of the country. Recently, it became infamous because of some wrong reasons such as HIV epidemic and ethnic and tribal conflicts. The government is working hard to resolve the key issues and bringing life back on track and the town is fast regaining its lost glory. How to Reach Churachandpur The town is easily accessible from the capital city of Imphal which is connected via airport, railways and road with the rest of the country. Air services are available from Imphal to Guwahati (Assam), Delhi and the nearest metro Kolkata. Daily Indian Airlines flights are available to the Indian capital Delhi. Nearest railway station is Dimapur, which is around 200 km from Imphal. Imphal is also connected to Dimapur by NH39. Tourist attractions in Churachandpur Churachandpur has evolved as an excellent tourist destination and that's the reason there is no dearth of hotels and other accommodation facilities here. It is an ideal location for sightseeing and vacationing. Among the tourist attractions Tonglon cave is a must see place, which is 30 km off the city. Khuga Dam in down south, was inaugurated by Congress chairman Mrs Sonia Gandhi in 2010. The artificial lake inside the dam is extremely beautiful. Ngaloi waterfall in Ngaloi village and tribal museum are worth visiting in Churachandpur. Boat riding in Tipaimukh is an enjoyable experience; it is a scenic place where two rivers Barak and Tuivai meet. Last Updated on : 15 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule