Education in Amritsar Home » Amritsar » Education in Amritsar   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Education in Amritsar Amritsar, the bustling city famed for the Mecca of the Sikhs, the Golden Temple and a mute spectator to the horrific carnage of the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre, is a renowned center of academic excellence. In fact, education in Amritsar is a trend setter for the other Indian states and cities. According to the indices recorded by the Census 2001 Report, Amritsar boasts of a commendable literacy rate of 67.85%. The male lead with a73.58% literacy rate while the female mark a figure of 61.41%. The urban and rural literacy rates are equally exemplary at 78.37% and 60.65% against the total 69.95% literacy rate of Punjab. Amritsar is the proud owner of some excellent academic institutes that foster higher education. The state is the endowed with some excellent schools, colleges, universities as well as premier engineering, medical and management institutes. The city is reputed to possess some excellent medical as well as dental and colleges. Ayurveda, the natural remedy to all diseases and ailments is all taught in these institutes. Besides engineering, polytechnic as well as other professional courses are also taught in the institutes. For the more conservative lot, Amritsar has exclusive colleges for its women that offer excellent pedagogical instructions. Besides, there are innumerable general colleges that delve in to the depths of the arts and sciences or explore the world of commerce, much to the delight of the erudite pupils. The schools of Amritsar are also equally good and help in building the character as well as the career prospects of the vulnerable tiny tots, entrusted in their care. Be it the DAV Public School, the Central Schools or the Spring Dale School, they are all equally committed to provide excellent education with equal emphasis on extra-curricular activities. Amritsar Education BBK DAV College for Women Government Polytechnic Amritsar college of engineering    & technology Government Medical College Spring Dale School DAV International School Baba Kuma Singh Ji    engineering college Kndriya Vidyalaya No. 1 Shiv Shankar Institute of    engineering & technology Delhi Public School Guru Nanak Dev University Schools Colleges and Institutes Central Institute of Plastics    Engineering Technology Khalsa College Government Institute of Garment    Technology The Institute of Company    Secrataries of India DAV College About Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule