Assam Society Home » Assam » Assam Society   Assam Society Shopping Food Language Bihu Festivals & Events Culture                          more... Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Districts of Assam Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Assam Economy Travel to Assam Places to Visit in Assam Wildlife Sanctuaries National Parks in Assam Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Education in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info       Assam Society One of the most beautiful states of India, Assam is the gateway to the enchanting and unexploited northeastern part of the country. With the majestic Brahmaputra river, magnificent hills and its rich flora and fauna, the state is a tourist paradise. The vibrant life style, the all-smile people, presence of diverse tribes and cultures, are the main points of the wonderful Assam Society. The history of Assam dates back to the time of the Aryans and has got its mention in the epics, the Tantric, Vedic and Buddhist Literature. The land has been ruled my great rulers of many dynasties. The people of the state are friendly and they belong to different tribes and communities. Several religions are practiced in the state, proving its secular outlook. Some of the religions that are followed in the state are: Hinduism Buddhism Christianity Islam Vaishnavasim Apart from the Assamese, the Bengali speaking population and the Nepalis also form a major portion of the state. The diverse culture of the state has brought a rich treasure of art, craft and music with it. Assam is famous for its wood, cane and bamboo crafts, pottery, handlooms, jewelry and colorful masks. The feet tapping Bihu and Jhumur dances of the state are no more bounded by its borders but they are quite popular in all parts of the country. Shopping Visitors from outside the state like to collect some mementos while they return back to home. While shopping in Assam, the tourists mainly prefer to buy the arts and crafts products and the Assam tea, which is known world wide for its exotic flavor. The articles that are mostly bought by the tourists visiting Assam are the hand made items of craft. The Assamese artisans are known for their skills in art and craft for a long time. The craftsmen make articles from cane and bamboo and the artisans are known for their terracotta works. Food Food of Assam, as of any other place, is largely influenced by its climate, soil and vegetation. This north-eastern state of India is mainly of agrarian nature. Rice is the staple diet and the common people of Assam eat it everyday. Along with rice, fish curry is very common. Other dishes include those made of lentils, vegetables, meat and some sweet dishes. The people of Assam prefer to eat non - spicy foods. Spices like cumin, coriander, mustard, ginger, garlic, fenugreek, panch foran, cardamom and some ingredients that are found in Assam only are generally used. Tribe The population of Assam largely comprised of numerous Assam Tribes with their varied customs and beliefs. Starting from the plains to the hilly areas, the land of Assam is inhabited by different tribes. Some of the prominent tribes of Assam are: Bodo Singpho Santhal Dimasa people Karbi Khamti Khamyang Mishing Nishi Phake Rabha People Keeping in sync with the picturesque landscapes and colorful customs, the Assam People are a perfect example of unity in diversity. Consisting mostly of numerous tribes, the people of Assam practice different religions and customs. There are people from all parts of the country residing in the state with a prominence of Bengali speaking community and the Nepalis. The Bodos are the most prominent mongoloid tribe of the state. Some sections of the Bodos have also demanded a separate state for themselves – the Bodoland, which has resulted in insurgency in the state. The Santhals are one of the oldest tribes of east India. They are good soldiers and proud of their race. The Phake or the Phakial tribes are said to be having their origins in Thailand. Music Assam Music is derived from the ancient folklores of the tribal communities that inhabit various corners of the state from a long time. Bihugeet is one of the oldest forms of Assamese music which is sung by people during the famous festival of Bihu. Bharigaan, Bargeet, Ojapali and Jhumur are some other music variations of Assam. Some of the popular forms of Assam Music that are all-pervasive in the state are: Folk Music Regional Folk Music Ethnic Bihugeet Allied Styles Bhakti Music Dance There are various styles of Assam Dance. The most famous among these dance forms of Assam is the Bihu dance. It is a folk genre and is performed during the spring festival of Bihu. Apart from the Bihu there are many other folk and devotional dance forms in the state. Most of the folk dances of Assam are performed by both men and women. They are accompanied by lively music. The various forms of Assam Dance: Bihu Satriya Nritya Jumur Dance Barpeta's bhortal Nritya Folk Art & Culture The Culture of Assam is often referred to as hybrid culture. It has developed by the gradual assimilation of cultures and traditions of various ethno-cultural groups. Assamese culture is closely associated with some of the major elements like festivals, dance, music, paintings and traditional crafts. Assam is a treasure trove of cultural potpourri. Assam art is renowned all across the country for its skilled craftsmanship and variety and techniques. Be it the exquisite traditional Muga and Vaishavite silks or the bamboo and cane artifacts, Assam is the master of it all. Craft Representing the rich cultural heritage and traditional legacy of Assam, the craft of Assam portrays the artistic mastery of the local craftsmen. The beautiful artifacts of the state, has captured the imagination of the world. Assam is known all over the world for its exclusive craft work that draws the attention of every individual. The traditional knowledge of creating beautiful pieces of art and craft work has triggered down to the modern era. The exclusive pieces of art and craft work of Assam are equipped with excellent infrastructural facilities and support from the state government. Last Updated on 01/29/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule