Andhra Pradesh Panchayats Home » Andhra Pradesh » Goverment » Andhra Pradesh Panchayats   Economy Andhra Pradesh Agriculture Hydel Power Plants Thermal Power Plants आंध्र प्रदेश का नक्शा Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Ministries Secretariat Departments Panchayats                    more.. About Andhra Pradesh History Geography Climate Cities Hyderabad Tirupati Vishakhapatnam Vijayawada Warangal                    more.. Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map River Map Road Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel to Andhra Pradesh Places to visit in Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels         more... How to reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Andhra Pradesh       Andhra Pradesh Panchayats About Panchayat Raj System in India This is a kind of local administrative system, which originated from the southern part of Asia. This structure of government is headed by a person, who is accepted as well as elected by the local inhabitants of the respective rural area. Though, traditionally, the gram or village panchayats were set up to settle the disputes between the villages and the individual residents. However, in the present times, these local administrative bodies are established so as to carry on different responsibilities for the overall growth and improvement of the allocated areas. Andhra Pradesh Panchayats Like the several other modern day panchayat systems in the different rural areas in India, the rural panchayats in Andhra Pradesh are divided into various departments such as Agriculture, Finance, Education, General Administration, Public Works, Health, Social Welfare etc. Headed by the Panchayat Raj Commissioner of the Department of Panchayat Raj Institutions or P. R. I.s of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, each of these public governing bodies is recognized by the Union Government of India and has a legal status. This P. R. I. department of the state of Andhra Pradesh comprises of the following 3 tiers: Zilla Parishad: The highest district level tier Mandal Parishad: The middle level tier Gram Panchayat: The lowest village level tier These Panchayats or local bodies are represented by an elected member of the area. Such elections are conducted by the State Election Commission of Andhra Pradesh. The elected local representatives of the respective areas look after the varied requirements of the citizens. Some of the major functions and responsibilities of these PRIs are as follows: Community development Generating rural employment Healthcare development Encouraging and improving the education system Enrollment of births and deaths Levying different kinds of taxes like property tax, license fee and many more Maintenance as well as construction of new roads in the rural regions Rural sanitation Water supply Revenue Resources in Andhra Pradesh Panchayats The varied local bodies of the Panchayat Raj system in this state of south India earn their revenue from different sources. Following are some of the most important sources of revenue for the Panchayats of Andhra Pradesh: Direct taxes such as house tax and license fee, which are levied by the village panchayats. Different government grants like legal per capita grants, specific development grants such as S. G. S. Y. or the Swarna Jayanti Gram Swarozgor Yojana, J. G. S. Y or the Jawahar Gram Samrudh Yojana, water supply, minor irrigation, rural sanitation, road maintenance as well as grants of the 10th and the 11th Finance Commission and many others. Transferred revenues like land cess, entertainment tax, add-ons on stamp duties etc. that are initially collected by the government. Panchayats in Andhra Pradesh Listed below are the approximate district wise numbers of panchayats, which operates from the respective districts of this south Indian state: Adilabad District: 8, 66 Anantapur District: 1, 001 Chittoor District: 1, 381 East Godavari District: 1, 012 Guntur District: 1, 016 Kadapa District: 8, 00 Karimnagar District: 1, 194 Khammam District: 7, 71 Krishna District: 9, 72 Kurnool District: 8, 99 Mahbubnagar District: 1, 348 Medak or Sangareddi District: 1, 109 Nalgonda District: 1, 178 Nellore District: 9, 61 Nizamabad District: 7, 18 Prakasam District: 1, 036 Rangareddi District: 7, 05 Srikakulam District: 1, 101 Vishakhapatnam District: 9, 24 Vizianagaram District: 9, 29 Warangal District: 1, 014 West Godavari District: 8, 88 Last Updated on 20 June 2013 Economy of Andhra Pradesh Agriculture Thermal Power Plants Hydel Power Plants Government of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Commissions Governor Ministries Panchayats Political Parties Secretariat Departments Elections Election Results Andhra Pradesh Parliamentary Constituencies Adilabad Amalapuram Anakapalli Anantapur Bapatla Bhadrachalam Bobbili Chittoor Cuddapah Eluru Guntur Hanamkonda Hindupur Hyderabad Kakinada Karimnagar Khammam Kurnool Machilipatnam Mahbubnagar Medak Miryalguda Nagarkurnool Nalgonda Nandyal Narasapur Narasaraopet Nellore Nizamabad Ongole Parvathipuram Peddapalli Rajahmundry Rajampet Secunderabad Siddipet Srikakulam Tenali Tirupathi Vijayawada Visakhapatnam Warangal             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule