Recent Activities Skip to main content |      |         Home About NIDM Training & Workshops DMC's Projects Publications Links Safety Tips Disasters Basics Nepal Disaster Risk Reduction Portal Quick Links Genesis & Functions   Vision, Mission & Strategic Plan   Management Structure & Organizational Overview   Faculty   Training Calendar   Online Training   Self Study Program   DMC's   Sitemap   Photo Gallery   Videos   Tenders   Recruitment   Disclaimer   RTI   Contact Us   National Consultation and Advocacy Workshop on Post Disaster Needs Assessment (PDNA) for India (under the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project), 18-22, May 2015 A National Consultation and Advocacy Workshop on Post Disaster Needs Assessment (PDNA) for India under the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project was organized at India International Centre, New Delhi, from 18-22, May, 2015, to present the draft PDNA Handbook for India as the key output of the study and seek feedback and approval. The ADPC team facilitated the consultation and advocacy workshop in close consultation with the PIU. The Workshop was attended by 43 participants, from various states, representing various sectors. The final day of the workshop was chaired by Shri R.K.Jain, Member Secretary, NDMA and co-chaired by Shri Anil Sinha, Hon'ble Member, Bihar State Disaster Management Authority, and guided by Shri D.N. Pandey, Relief Commissioner and Principal Secretary, Government of Gujarat. The Project Director and Executive Director, NIDM Prof. Santosh Kumar and Project Coordinator Dr.K.J Anandha kumar alongwith NCRMP Team actively participated in the workshop which was a grand success. Brainstorming Meeting on Revision of Manual for Drought Management on 25th March, 2015 A brainstorming meeting was organized at NIDM under the Chairmanship of Shri. Narendra Bhooshan, IAS, Joint Secretary, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture (MoA); to discuss the strategy & action plan to be adopted for the Revision of Manual for Drought Management and development of a National Drought Disaster Management plan for the Ministry of Agriculture as per The DM Act, 2005. While commencing the meeting, the 'Manual for Drought Management' prepared by NIDM for Ministry of Agriculture in 2009, was appreciated & the need for this manual to trickle down to state levels in the nation was also discussed. All the participants were of the opinion to update the manual with issues such as Periodic vulnerability assessment, advanced technologies & approaches for the accurate assessment & management, Climate Change adaptability, inclusion of concepts like DRR & CSR, water resource management, micro-irrigation & drought resistant crop varieties to increase the productivity of crops, simplified crop insurance system, capacity building & strengthening of institutional capacity, National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) & State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), RKY Scheme, preparation of State Drought Manual to mention a few. There was overall consensus to update the manual and prepare a National DM plan separately. It was also decided to constitute a 'Reviewing Committee' for the Drought Manual and a Core Group, both under the Chairmanship of Joint Secretary, MoA with Executive Director, NIDM as the Member Secretary to carry out these tasks systematically within the specified time frame. The meeting was attended by the representatives from Ministry of Agriculture, NRSC, CAZRI, IARI, NRAA, National Institute of Hydrology, NIDM & other organizations, participating actively in the brainstorming discussion & also gave various recommendations for the revision of the drought manual. Workshop on Disaster Management Policy on Training and Accreditation of Courses for Disaster Management, under NCRMP - 3rd March, 2015 The consultation on National Training and Capacity Building Policy, Accreditation Policy, and Centre of Excellence was held along with Annual Training Conference. Dr. K.J. Anandha Kumar, Project Coordinator - National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project (NCRMP), delivered a presentation on National Training Capacity Building Policy and Accreditation Policy on Disaster Management. The Training and Capacity Building Policy covered Strategic framework for implementation of training, Systematic approach to training, Capacity development vision, Capacity development Goals, Training Goals and Objectives, Perspective Plan etc. The presentation on Accreditation policy covered status of Disaster management Research and Education, Accreditation method and standards, Process for Quality Management etc. This has also covered comments received from National Disaster management Authority (NDMA), Government of Jharkhand, Government of Kerala and Tata Institute of Social Sciences. There was overall consensus on the implementation of National Training and Capacity Building policy and Accreditation policy for Disaster Management. The mode of its framework and implementation will have to be worked out in more such consultation involving all the policymakers and academicians. The representatives of eighteen states including Shri Anil Sinha, Vice Chairman, BSDMA, Ms. Anju Sharma, CEO, GSDMA, Ms. Leena Johri, Relief Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh actively participated in the discussion and have given recommendations on various sections of policies and also suggested for the implementation strategy. Previous >> Sitemap  |  Photo Gallery  |  Videos  |  Tenders  |  Recruitment  |  Disclaimer  |  RTI  |  Contact Us Site developed & maintained by IT Section-NIDM. This page was last modified on: 27-05-2015 12:31:55 About Us Genesis & Functions Vision, Mission & Strategic Plan Management Structure & Organizational Overview Faculty Staff Annual Training Calendar Training Designs & Modules Online Training Self Study Programme Training Archives Workshops Trainee Database NIDM Publications NIDM Journal NIDM Newsletter NIDM Monthly Updates Policies, Legislations & Notifications Guidelines of NDMA Manuals Presentations Awareness Material Do's and Don'ts for Common Disasters Designing Safe House in an Earthquake Prone Area Safe Life Line Public Buildings School Safety Floods, Cyclones & Tsunamis Understanding Disasters Disaster Management Terminology Disaster Trends Geological Disasters Hydro-Meteorological Disasters Do's and Don'ts for Common Disasters