turmeric Archives - AgricultureInformation.com Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your Message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store My Orders Need Help? Turmeric vmgadmin , May 20, 2015 , QUESTIONS , turmeric , 0 Turmeric pratibha variety heard it gives 15 lakhs per acre per annum. How true is it ? Plus how... Read more Turmeric price vmgadmin , May 20, 2015 , FOR SALE , turmeric , 0 I am having a farming produce company and would like to have updates on developments. for now I wants... Read more Contract farming info vmgadmin , May 11, 2015 , QUESTIONS , contract farming , turmeric , 0 Plz I want to knw contract farming of turmeric..how n where to take .. Thank you Read more turmeric with high content of cur cumin and less oil vmgadmin , April 30, 2015 , FOR SALE , turmeric , 0 I am in salem district, tamilnadu. we have lots of turmeric with high content of cur cumin and less... Read more turmeric enquiry vmgadmin , April 25, 2015 , WANTED , turmeric , 0 Dear Sir We are looking for TURMERIC with high content of curcumin and less oil regards Dinesh sharma Read more turmeric enquiry vmgadmin , April 18, 2015 , FOR SALE , turmeric , 0 can anybody inform me the current buying price of turmeric…I can arrange raw turmeric in quintals… Expecting quick &... Read more termeric vmgadmin , April 15, 2015 , WANTED , turmeric , 0 i want to know about turmeric products and raw turmeric business.we want to start a business of turmeric so... Read more Turmeric powder for sale. vmgadmin , April 14, 2015 , FOR SALE , turmeric , 0 Sir we are ready to supply of turmeric powder . 130000/mt +delivery charge so need your address for communication. Read more supply of all agri products and turmeric and mother turmeric vmgadmin , April 13, 2015 , FOR SALE , agri products , turmeric , 0 sir we are ready to supply of all agri products and turmeric and mother turmeric send reply Read more Requirement of turmeric in Uttarakhand vmgadmin , April 13, 2015 , WANTED , turmeric , 0 which variety of turmeric you grow, and how much is your production of turmeric in total..Our requirement is 1000... Read more 1 2 … 5 » You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) Search – messages Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Tags agriculture land agriculture land for sale aloevera capsicum coconut consultancy consultant cows cultivation dairy farm dairy farming distributors farming farm land ginger goat goat farm goat farming green house Job land for sale lease loan mango medicinal plant Melia Dubia moringa mushroom mushroom farming organic organic farming PAKAYOKO NATURAL SEED partner poly house poultry farming project report rice spirulina subsidy training turmeric vegetable vermicompost wanted farm land want land PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Log in Sign in Remember me Lost your password? Forgot your details? Reset Password I remember my details