Information Technology at Oklahoma State University Online Directory IT Announcements Helpdesk Software Okey HPCC IT Home About IT Organization Policies   Service Catalog Student Resources Faculty/Staff Resources   IT Announcements IT Ransomware Advisory UTSF Committee   SSN Computer Scan Turn Off Spam Digest How To...   O-Key Account Access Cowboy Mail Orange Mail Outlook Web Access   OSU has its own directory where you can search for contact information for anyone associated with OSU. Go to directory.okstate.edu to search for a person's campus phone number, campus address and OSU e-mail address. IT Spotlight: October - Cyber Security Awareness Month A special agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigations Cybercrime Program will speak on the "FBI Cybercrime Investigations" on Thursday, Oct. 9, at 2 p.m. in the Student Union Theater. Find out what is being done to investigate cybercrime - acts by persons who use the anonymity of the online environment to try to deceive you into giving them your credit card, banking, or identity information. From financial theft to making a global statement, these 21st century criminals often rely on fake identities to use an expansive internet that reaches further than criminals of just 20 years ago could have possibly imagined.   Attend the free presentation "FBI Cybercrime Investigations" sponsored by OSU's MSIS Dept. and OSU's Information Technology. Refreshments will be provided by OSU's MSIS Department's Information Security and Assurance Club (iSAC) with financial help from Phillips 66 and ConocoPhillips.   Available Software for OSU Students, Faculty, and Staff Go to the IT Software Distribution site ( app.it.okstate.edu/sdc ), login with your O-Key e-mail address and password, and choose from a list of Microsoft and other educational titles. For more information, please contact the IT Helpdesk at helpdesk@okstate.edu or (405) 744-HELP (4357).   E-Mail for Life As an OSU student, you will receive an @okstate.edu e-mail account when you activate your O-Key account. You can choose to have your mail delivered to Cowboy Mail ( cowboymail.okstate.edu ) or Orange Mail ( orangemail.okstate.edu ). Both systems allow you to maintain your e-mail account after graduation. Your e-mail services also include mailbox storage, online file storage, spam filtering, and mail forwarding. For more information, please visit the 4-HELP Knowledge Resource website at 4help.okstate.edu . If you have any questions, contact the IT Helpdesk at helpdesk@okstate.edu or (405) 744-HELP (4357).   Wireless Network The secured wireless networks available on the OSU Stillwater campus are OSUSTAFF and OSUSTUDENT. Users will log into the network with their O-Key username and password. When using either of these networks, users won't have to authenticate again until their password expires or is updated. For more information, please visit the 4-HELP Knowledge Resource website at 4help.okstate.edu and look under the Network Services, Connectivity, Wireless sections. If you have any questions, contact the IT Helpdesk at helpdesk@okstate.edu or (405) 744-HELP (4357).   Secure Remote Access Information Technology has implemented a secure remote access service. This Web-based service will allow an employee or student to access resources on the OSU/A&M campuses in a secure manner. The software for this service can be downloaded at osuvpn.okstate.edu . For more information, please visit the 4-HELP Knowledge Resource website at 4help.okstate.edu and look under the Network Services, Connectivity, Remote Access, OSU Virtual Private Network section. If you have any questions, contact the IT Helpdesk at helpdesk@okstate.edu or (405) 744-HELP (4357).   Antivirus Solutions Information Technology would like to remind users of the university's antivirus solutions: Forefront and Microsoft Security Essentials (MSE). Because OSU is no longer licensed for McAfee, any OSU-issued copies of McAfee should be replaced with these solutions. (Note: The Mac version of McAfee is still available on the Software Distribution Center.) The IT department recommends using Microsoft Essentials that is available for download from the Microsoft website http://www.microsoft.com/security_essentials/ . If you have any questions, please contact the IT Helpdesk at helpdesk@okstate.edu or (405) 744-HELP (4357). [Exp. 7/1/2012]     About IT: IT Mission The Information Technology Department provides innovative, reliable, and integrated technology solutions, quality services, and information resources.   Vision The Information Technology Department will strive to be a recognized and effective force in using technology to support the ongoing mission and goals of Oklahoma State University   more..   Oklahoma State University - Stillwater | Stillwater, OK 74078 | 405.744.5000 Contact Webmaster | En Español | Copyright Â© 2006 Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved OSU-System | OSU-Stillwater | OSU-OKC | OSU-Tulsa | OSU Institute of Technology | OSU-CHS | Accessibility Oklahoma State University - Stillwater | Stillwater, OK 74078 | 405.744.5000 Copyright Â© 2006 Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved