Tajganj Agra Home » Agra » Tajganj   Agra Weather Pin Code STD code   Agra Travel Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Jama Masjid Travel to Agra Places to Visit in Agra Hotels in Agra Restaurants in Agra Flights to Agra Trains to Agra Buses from Agra Airport Travel Agents Distance Chart   Agra Education Schools Agra Map City Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Taj Ganj Map Agra Localities Dayal Bagh Delhi Gate Sanjay Place Civil Lines Sikandra Pratap Pura Taj Nagari more... Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Cities in Uttar Pradesh Noida Lucknow Allahabad Kanpur Agra more.. Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                    (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map       Tajganj Agra Taj Ganj Agra Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Tajganj is the most toured area in Agra, Uttar pradesh . Tajganj encircles the area around one of the world's most wondrous monuments, the Taj Mahal . The region has developed all facilities for the visitors and remains crowded with tourists all round the year. Tajganj initially accommodated around 20,00 people who worked to build the Taj Mahal. The region now encompasses a large area and is host to people from all over the world. There are accommodation facilities for the visitors in the area. Tajganj has also commercially expanded its arena and is now equipped with shopping arcades and markets from where the tourists may gather memoirs of the most beautiful mausoleum in the world. Located to the east of the center of the city, Tajganj is only a few kilometers away from the heart of the city. The buses traverse through the Fatehabad Road and Taj Road to reach the center of the city. Tajganj is also connected by railroads. Agra Fort railway station is the nearest railway station which is located at a distance of 4 kms from Tajganj. Other tourists spots like the Agra Fort, Moti Masjid and Shah Jahan Park are all located within the periphery of Tajganj. There are many shopping malls located in Tajganj. The shopping arcades provide the most memorable souvenirs for the tourists to carry home. Black Patridge - Haryana Handicraft Emporium Taj Mahal Complex, Agra # 2360992. Gangotri U.P. Govt. Handicrafts Emporium, Taj Mahal Complex Agra # 2360172 M/s Jem Art 18-A/8-C/2, Fatehabad Road Agra # 2330304, 2330201 Agra is famed for its carpets and rugs. They can be gathered from: M/s Kanu Carpet Factory 18/160/I-A, Purani Mandi, Tajganj Agra # 2330167, 2331307. The Tajganj area in Agra is well developed in commerce and tourism. It caters to all the needs of the visitors. Last Updated on 01/06/2013 Agra Shopping Loha Mandi Rakabganj Civil Lines Handicrafts Agra Travel Taj Mahal Places of Interest Restaurants Hotels Flights Trains Buses Airport Travel Agents About Agra Weather Pin code STD code Entertainment Shopping Areas Real Estate Manufacturers and Exporters             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule