Jaw Crusher Manufacturer in Chennai Tamil Nadu India by Star Trace Private Limited | ID - 917596 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Star Trace Private Limited Member Since : 2003 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Gyratory Screen, Horizontal Vibratory Screen Home » Product » Jaw Crusher Jaw Crusher We are offering jaw crusher. Star trace is a professional jaw crusher manufacturer in india, which adopts advanced manufacturing equipment and technology to produce various crushing machines. Our jaw crushers are convenient to operate and are of reliable performance. These stone crushing machines are quite suitable for use in mining, metallurgical industry, road building, construction, chemical industry and other fields. In addition to jaw crushers, we also offer vibrating screens, vibrating feeders, magnetic separators and mobile crushing plants, etc. These mining machines are good in quality and reasonable in prices. Jaw crusher is a kind of heavy duty machine which can crush materials into even granularity. This crushing machine has the characteristics of high reduction ratio, high productivity, simple structure, and reliable performance, etc. It is convenient to maintain and practical to use. Working principle: jaw crusher consists of frame, eccentric shaft, belt wheel, flywheel, movable jaw, side guard plate, toggle plate, toggle backseat, gap adjusting screw, returning spring, fixed jaw plate and movable jaw plate. Toggle plate is also used to guarantee the security. Jaw crusher uses electric motor as the motive power. Eccentric shaft is driven by triangle belt and genea wheel, which makes movable jaw make reciprocating motion according to the desired trajectory. Then, materials in crushing chamber (consists of fixed jaw plate, movable jaw plate and edge plate) are crushed and the finished materials are discharged from discharging hole. Features: crushing chamber is deep and has no dead space, which helps improve the feeding capacity and productivity our jaw crusher has high reduction ratio and the crushed materials are of the even granularity adjustment device of gasket type discharging opening is reliable and convenient to use. The discharging opening has wide adjusting range. This can increase the flexibility of our equipment lubrication system is safe and reliable. Accessories are convenient to replace, and little maintenance is needed jaw crusher has simple structure, reliable performance and low operating cost jaw crusher is a kind of energy saving equipment. Single machine can save 15% ~ 30% energy and whole system saves more than doubled energy discharging opening has large adjusting range, so your different requirements can be satisfied low noise and little dust SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mr. P. R. Maheswaran Telephone : +91-44-26418456 Fax No : +91-44-26419439 Mobile Phone : +91-9380521576 » More detail Product Range » GOLD PROCESSING EQUIPMENTS › Trommel Drive › Vibrating Screen ( other Product for Gold) » Laboratory Equpiment › Laboratory Jaw Crusher » Magnetic Equpiment › Automatic Lifting Magnet › Magnetic Rod › Magnetic Stirrer » Other Equpiments › Ball Mill › Fertilizer Filler › Hammer Mills › Hydraulic Cone Crusher › Impact Crusher › Impact Pulverizer › Jaw Crusher › Roll Crusher › Shaking Table › Spring Cone Crusher » Vibrating Equpiment › Banana Vibratory Screen › Electromagnetic Hammer › Flip Flop Vibratory Screen › Geared Force Exciter › High Frequency Screen › Horizontal Vibratory Screen › Linear Vibrating Screen › Piston Impactors › Reciprocating Feeder › Testsieve Shakers › Ultrasonic Screen Separator › Vibrating Machine › Vibration Meter › Vibratory Finishing Machine › Vibratory Motors › Vibro Separator » Bullet Magnet » Flux Meter » Gauss Meter » Liquid Line Magnets » Magnetic Drum Separator » Magnetic Grate » Magnetic Hump » Magnetic Pulley » Magnetic Roll Separator » Magnetic Sheet Fanners » Magnetic Sweeper » Magnetizer » Permanent Magnetic Lifters » Permanent Magnetic Separator » Plant Magnet View more products Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com