Living in Amritsar Home » Amritsar » Living   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Living in Amritsar The busy Amritsar city is the epicenter of Sikh religion and culture. The city of the Golden Temple also records a long suffering saga of tragedy brought forth by the carnage of the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre. Currently, however the city is moving towards rapid industrialization and living in Amritsar is just like living in any other big, metropolitan city. The traces of Sikh culture are very much prominent in Amritsar. Although the citizens have adopted a modern lifestyle, they are a deeply religious set of people. Their core activities are centered mainly around the gurdwara. Apart from the routine activities and offering prayers, the devotees are also involved in doing 'seva'. The populace of Amritsar are an industrious lot. Occupationally,they are mostly businessmen while some of them are big industrialists and head the boards of well known companies. These rich and hardworking people also love to enjoy life. They live life to the fullest and love to eat, drink and make merry. In fact, socializing and entertainment in Punjab are centered primarily around food and drink. The traditional Punjabi cuisine is the mouthwatering tandoori fare which although has high fat content is truly irresistible and delectable. The Punjabi men are very jovial and love to wash their throats with some liquor that keeps them in soaring spirits. The Punjabis also love hearty and boisterous song and dance affairs. The quintessential Bhangra music and the Gidda dance personify the lively culture of the city. The city also has a busy nightlife where instead of hitting the nightclubs, the people throng the various late night food stalls that dish out scrumptious delights. Thus living in Amritsar is by no means a mundane affair with its bag full of cultural delights. Last Updated on : 08 June 2012 Amritsar Information People Population Location Restaurant & Bar Shopping Cuisine Municipal Corporation SGPC Transportation Nightlife Banks About Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Tourist Attractions Baba Atal Rai Tower Govind Garh Fort Amritsar Massacre Memorial Durgiana Temple Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Golden Temple Harmandir Sahib Ram Bagh Faridkot Fort Ram Tirath Temple Tarn Taran Mata Mandir Temple Bathinda Fort             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule