Andaman and Nicobar Islands Museums Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andaman and Nicobar Travel Shopping How to Reach Andaman and Nicobar Hotels Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar Long Island Cellular Jail Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park Anthropological Museum Islands Beaches in Andaman & Nicobar Andaman & Nicobar Monuments Museums in Andaman & Nicobar Picnic Sports Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Activities Honeymoon Places to See in Nicobar Port Blair Indira Point Car Nicobar Katchal Great Nicobar Island About Andaman Nicobar History Climate Home » Andaman & Nicobar Islands » State Tourism » Museums Andaman and Nicobar Islands Museums Andaman and Nicobar Islands museums display that part of the Indian history to the world which was left untouched and unexplored. The museums at Andaman and Nicobar Islands not only display facts on Indian freedom fighters but also brings into light the early local tribes whose off springs can still be traced deep into the jungles of the island groups. The island groups are host to many types of museums including those on marine life, local tribes, forests, vegetation, fauna, etc. The museums of Andaman and Nicobar Islands are significant from not only national perspective but also from international perspective. You cannot get the same presentation of facts on the Negroids and Mongloid tribes that existed here nor can you get the same memorial at the cellular jail that reflects the wrong doing of the British officials on the Indian freedom fighters. The museums around Andaman and Nicobar Islands have showcased every item of the past in a very pleasant way so that the viewer can understand everything clearly. The museums in Andaman and Nicobar Islands that you should not miss visiting are National Memorial or The Cellular Jail, Smritika Museum at Ross Island, Fisheries Museum and Anthropological Museum. They give you a brief insight of the past of the island groups. All the Andaman and Nicobar Islands museums are open through out the year except on some particular days in a week which might vary from museum to museum. Mostly children love to visit these museums, but the adults too enjoy the visit. National Memorial National Memorial in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is the Cellular Jail. The jail where the convicts were transported to serve the sentence of "Kaala Pani" or solitary confinement is now converted into a national memorial because till date it depicts the agonies of the Indian freedom fighters who were ill-treated by the Britishers. National Memorial at Andaman and Nicobar Islands is situated at the Viper Island in Port Blair and was built by th Britishers in the year 1906. The jail is named so because it comprises of single cells where the convicts were kept in darkness. They were not allowed to meet the other prisoners. Anthropological Museum Andaman and Nicobar Islands Anthropological Museum, which is located at the Phoenix Bay, displays facts about the local tribes of the region. The museum was established in the year 1975. It is one of its kind museum that displays facts about the four Negroid tribes of the Andaman Islands and two Mongloid tribes of the Nicobar Islands. The main articles that are displayed at the Anthropological Museum in Andaman and Nicobar Islands are the various handicrafts, tools, arts and crafts, implements, photographs, etc., that dates back to the era of reign of the above listed tribes. There are many other items kept for display that reflect the cultural beliefs and traditions of the tribes of Andaman and Nicobar islands. The four Negroid tribes of the Andaman on whom the Anthropological Museum of Andaman and Nicobar Islands displays the various facts are Onges, Sentinelese, Jarawas and Andamanese. The two Mongloid tribes of Nicobar Islands are the Shompens and Nicobarese. The Anthropological Museum at Andaman and Nicobar Islands houses various photographs which showcase the living style of the above listed tribal people. Apart from the photographs, the museum also houses models made up of clay that display the types of houses, utensils, ornaments, equipments, clothes, etc. used by these tribes. You can visit Anthropological Museum at any time of the year. The museum remains closed on Mondays and Tuesdays. Go and check out the lifestyles of the ancient tribes who can still be located deep inside the islands of Andaman and Nicobar Fisheries Museum The Andaman and Nicobar Islands Fisheries Museum is located close to the Andaman Water Sports Complex. This museum is an ideal place to visit for the tourists who are interested in marine life. The Fisheries Museum of Andaman and Nicobar Islands houses as many as 350 different species of marine life. The Fisheries Museum in Andaman and Nicobar Islands remains closed on national holidays and Mondays. A tourist can visit the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Fisheries Museum, a veritable treasure house of marine life at a very affordable rate: Rs. 2 per adult visitor and Re. 1 per child visitor. One can even capture the rare and fascinating marine life on reel. The rates for video recording at Fisheries Museum at Andaman and Nicobar Islands is Rs. 25. The different kinds of marine life that are on display at the Andaman and Nicoabar Fisheries Museum have been collected from the Andaman Islands islands itself and found in the Bay of Bengal and the Indo-Pacific Ocean. These varieties of marine life are exclusive to the Andaman Islands. The varied collection of the museum include sharks, live corals, starfish and polyps. To visit the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Fisheries Museum, one has to travel to the Andaman Islands in the Indian union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. It lies in the immediate vicinity of the Andaman Water Sports Complex. One can easily travel to the Andaman Islands both by sea and by road. However, one should not miss the wonderful experience of traveling on a ship to these islands. The tourists can avail the passenger ships from Kolkata, Vishakhapatnam and Chennai to Port Blair. Regular flights are also available from Kolkata and Chennai to Port Blair. Samudrika (Naval Marine Museum) The Samudrika is located on the opposite side of Andaman Teal House in Delanipur. The Samudrika at Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a treasure house of items that provide important information to the tourists about the geography and history of the Andaman islands. The items on display at the Samudrika in Andaman and Nicobar Islands can be classified into five divisions according to their significance. These five divisions are the geography of the Andaman islands, the history of these islands, their marine life, people and archeology. One of the attractions of the Samudrika of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a huge relief map of these islands. The Samudrika is particularly famous for an exquisite collection of shells, corals and other significant specimens of the marine life typical of these islands. Other than shells and corals, one can also find a good collection of fishes of different colors. The Samudrika is under the administration of the navy. The Samudrika is therefore also referred to as the Naval Marine Museum. The Samudrika at Andaman and Nicobar Islands was established with a view to develop a general interest in the oceanic environment of the place. It is expected that this awareness will lead to a greater conservation of marine life, in particular, the corals. One can visit the Samudrika from 8.30 am to 12 noon and again from 2 pm to 5 pm. The museum remains closed on all national holidays as well as Mondays. A tourist can experience this rare collection of marine life at a very moderate rate of Rs. ten only. Smritika Museum The Smritika Museum is located on the Ross Islands, which is famous as one of the important centres of British power and the past capital of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The Smritika Museum of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a small museum. It bears testimony of the lost glory of this place. The Smritika Museum at Andaman and Nicobar Islands was established by the navy department of the Indian government. It currently falls under the administration of the Indian navy. The significance of Smritika Museum in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is that it depicts the eventful history of the Ross Island. Smritika Museum used to be the administrative headquarters of the British empire. The museum reminds one of the British rule of India with its exquisite collection of antique pieces and photographs. These specimens have very close association with the rule of the East India Company in India. In order to visit Smritika Museum of immense historical importance, the tourists have to travel to the Ross Island. To go to this island, a tourist has to first reach Port Blair, the capital city of the union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. One can reach Port Blair from important destinations in mainland India both by ship and by flight. Some flights are available from some of the major Indian capital cities like Kolkata and Chennai, which carry passengers to the airport at Port Blair on a regular basis. Ships are also available connecting Chennai, Vishakhapatnam and Port Blair. Kolkata is also connected to Port Blair by sea. From Port Blair, one can avail the easily accessible local transport to travel to the Phoenix Bay Jetty. Regular boat services are available from the Phoenix Bay Jetty, which can carry one to the Ross Island. Forest Museum The Andaman and Nicobar Islands Forest Museum is located close to the famous zoo at Haddo. The Forest Museum of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is an ideal place to visit for the tourists interested in the forests of the Andaman Islands. The Forest Museum at Andaman and Nicobar Islands has a variety of scale models on display. This museum remains closed only on Sundays and all the national holidays. The Forest Museum in Andaman and Nicobar Islands was established by the department of forestry. This museum bears testimony to a wide range of activities related to the forestry department. The collection of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Forest Museum also includes different decorative pieces made up of reputed varieties of timber which are found in the Andaman Islands. Some of these varieties are Marble, Pedauk, Peauma, Satinwood and Gurjan. To visit the the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Forest Museum, one has to go to the Andaman Islands. The tourists do not have to face much of a problem to travel to these islands, as they are linked to some major locations of mainland India both by seaways and by airways. By air, one can reach Port Blair with the help of the flights operated regularly between the major destinations of Kolkata, Port Blair and Chennai. It is advisable not to miss the opportunity to experience a short-time voyage to the union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The visitors can travel to this place by the passenger ships available from the important cities of Vishakhapatnam and Kolkata to Port Blair. Ships are also available from Chennai to Port Blair. Zoological Survey of India Museum The Andaman and Nicobar Islands Zoological Survey of India Museum is located in the district of Andaman Islands. The Zoological Survey of India Museum of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a part of the national association of Zoological Survey of India. This renowned museum has a prime location close to the well-known Andaman Teal House. The Andaman and Nicobar Islands Zoological Survey of India Museum remains open on all the week days except Sundays and all the national holidays. The Zoological Survey of India Museum in Andaman and Nicobar Islands boasts of a wide range of collection from the world of zoology. The valuable specimens on display at the museum include many different species of centipedes and sponges. The Andaman and Nicobar Islands Zoological Survey of India Museum has a varied collection of butterflies. There are butterflies of different colors and patterns in this museum. The unique collection of corals with a variety of shapes, sizes and designs fascinates any nature lover who visits the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Zoological Survey of India Museum. The Zoological Survey of India Museum at Andaman and Nicobar Islands has associated library, which is meant for research work related to the department of zoology. The research work that has been done and is still being done in the associated research library has made and is still making a great deal of contribution not only to the Zoological Survey of India, but also to the department of zoology in the entire world. To visit the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Zoological Survey of India Museum, a treasure house of zoological department of India, one has to travel to the district of Andaman Islands in the union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The closest airport as well as seaport are located at Port Blair. Anthropological Museum Brought up in 1975, the Anthropological Museum at Phoenix Bay demonstrates the lifestyle of the Paleolithic Islanders. This museum displays the tribal culture with all their artifacts which includes cloths, boats or weapons. It is also equipped with a well furnished library. Chatham Saw Mill It is yet another important monuments of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Set up in 1836, it is the largest saw mill of Asia. Since 1970, a bulk of wood is supplied to the mill from Thailand, Myanmar and Malaysia. This is so because logging of woods had been banned in the island. Mount Harriet Port Blair has a picturesque natural beauty and wonder of its own. It is the capital of the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar islands and thus holds a high reputation. The city of Port Blair boasts of a number of tourist destinations which are visited by the tourists worldwide. Among the many popular tourist places of Port Blair, Mount Harriet is the most magnificent one. The Mount Harriet of Port Blair is located on the other side of the Ross Island and is 1200 feet high. This is the highest hill of the whole South Andaman region. During the British reign, the Mount Harriet used to be the headquarters of the chief commissioner. Last Updated on 7/1/2013 Hotels in Andaman and Nicobar Portblair Hotels Havelock Hotels About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule