Wagah Border - History, Location, Timing, How to Reach Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Amritsar Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Amritsar Places to Visit in Amritsar Golden Temple Wagah Border Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Durgiana Temple Ram Bagh Ram Tirath Mata Temple Tarn Taran Sahib Faridkot Fort Govind Garh Fort Pul Kanjari Jama Masjid Khairuddin Khoo Kalyanwala Historical Banyan Tree Massacre Memorial Baba Atal Rai Tower Bathinda Fort Cities to Visit Near Amritsar Ludhiana Travel Chandigarh Travel Dalhousie Travel Dharamshala Travel Delhi to Amritsar Route Map About Amritsar History Climate Punjab Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Punjab Places to Visit in Punjab Home » Amritsar » Wagah border Wagah border Wagah is the border that lies on the Grand Trunk Road between the cities of Amritsar in Punjab, India and Lahore in Punjab, Pakistan. It is the only road border which crosses between India and Pakistan. The border is at a distance of 20 kms from Amritsar and 22 kms from Lahore. People attend this ceremony with full zeal and enjoys the parade by the military soldiers of both the nations. The audience love this colourful celebration which is attended by them in large number. Children, men and women gather at both the sides of the countries to experience the colourful and beautiful 'Beating Retreat' ceremony. They cheer the soldiers and wave the flags of their respective nations. Every evening, the Wagah border ceremony takes place before the sunset. It is a popular performance that is observed on a daily basis and attracts both local and foreign tourists alike. During the 'Beating Retreat' ceremony, a blustering parade by the soldiers from both the countries takes place. The ceremony ends with a well coordinated lowering of the flags of both the countries. The Wagah border closing ceremony involving the 'lowering of the flags' is an everyday practice conducted by the military or the security forces of India (by the Border Security Force) and Pakistan (by the Pakistan Rangers). People from across the nation visit Wagah border to witness the 'lowering of the flags' ceremony. A warm display of nationalism can be seen as people chant national slogans in praise of their nation. On the side of India on the Wagah border, there is a huge gate which is about 100 meters away from the border. The gate has an encryption 'Swarn Jayanti Dwar'. This gate gives a panoramic view of the landscape of Wagah which can be enjoyed by the audience. Location of Wagah Borders Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the location of Wagah borders. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. About The Wagah border is a post between India and Pakistan. It has become famous for the beating the retreat ceremony which includes the closing of international gates and the lowering of the flags of both the countries. Around 5000 people visit the Wagah border, which has become very popular among tourists all over the world. The flag code of India mandates that the national flag shall be flown only from sunrise to sunset. It is an entertainment ceremony and a highly stylized patriotic display as well as an energetic performance. The guards who perform are chosen carefully among those who have great height, ability to perform and imposing stature. People from both the sides watch the ceremony. The crowd on weekends is heavy and people watch it from the stands. There are certain things that one should remember while visiting Wagah border. There are jammers here so no mobile phone service is available here. No covered bags are allowed, including ladies handbags or purses. There are stalls nearby,to buy food and bottled water. History The ceremony was started in 1959 and was agreed by the government of both the countries. Since then, the ceremony has been conducted with much pomp and splendor. The ceremony started decades ago as a gesture of good will among the two countries. However, the ceremony took an aggressive turn after a few years. The border place comprises of a huge arch and has gates of both the countries. Seating arrangements are enabled for spectators to watch the ceremony. Exclusive seats are reserved for women. General seating is allowed only for men. There is also a VIP seating close to the gate and requires a special pass. Location The watch is located in Attari in Amritsar in the state of Punjab, India. Located at a distance of around 28 km from Amritsar and around 475 km from Delhi, this is at an international border of Pakistan and India. It is located on NH - 1 in Punjab. The border is situated in Lahore in Pakistan around 25 km from the city. Timing The ceremony lasts for 45 minutes and is carried out before sunset. 4:15 pm is the time during winter and 4:45 during summer. The border gate is open from 10:00 am to 4:00 pm. However, the ceremony starts only after 4:00 pm. So if you want to watch the ceremony, you have to reach the place not later than 3:00 pm. Seats are packed on weekends and public holidays. No tickets are needed for the event. How to Reach There are various ways by which you can reach Wagah Border. It is accessible by road through buses and cars. Buses and other mode of transport are not allowed near the gate. It is also possible to reach the Wagah border by train. The railway station in Amritsar is a junction. Various trains from all parts of the country halt here. One can get down in Amritsar and get into a taxi or bus to reach the place. The airport is around 35 km from Wagah border and is located in Amritsar. The total travel time by road to reach Wagah border is 40 minutes. The fare can be anywhere around Rs. 700 to Rs. 800. Various flights from other parts of the city land in Amritsar. So it is easy to visit Wagah border even by air. Where to stay Tourist accommodation is not available at Wagah border. However, Amritsar has all types of stay accommodations and is only 30 km from Wagah border. Wagha Border - Entry Fee, Timing, Address, Official Website Address Wagah Border, National Highway 1 PB, Amritsar, Punjab - 143001 Entry Fee : No entry fee Timings : Visiting Hours - 2:00 AM - 6:00 PM Phone No (Official) +91-172-2625950 Official Website www.amritsarcorp.com Photography allowed or not Not Allowed Nearest railway station Atari Railway Station Last Updated on : May 16, 2015 Places to Visit in Amritsar Golden Temple Wagah Border Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Durgiana Temple Ram Bagh Ram Tirath Mata Temple Tarn Taran Sahib Faridkot Fort Govind Garh Fort Massacre Memorial Baba Atal Rai Tower Bathinda Fort About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule