 About Care India Jump to navigation NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India HOME CONTACT US Search Search form Search ABOUT US Overview History Vision/Mission Board Members Management Team OUR WORK Our Approach Where We Work Our Programmes Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness & Response GET INVOLVED Careers Internship Campaigns Volunteer Partnerships Power to Empower NEWS National International CARE India in Media Media Contact DONATE NOW You are here Home » ABOUT US » Overview Find out all that is being said about us in media, and how people are joining us in bringing about the change. Know about the latest updates in CARE International and access CARE's press releases. Keep in touch with the recent developments on project sites, events and success stories. Donate Now Overview Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness CARE has been working in India for over 60 years, focusing on ending poverty and social injustice. We do this through well planned and comprehensive programmes in health, education, livelihoods and disaster preparedness and response. Our overall goal is the empowerment of women and girls from poor and marginalised communities leading to improvement in their lives and livelihoods. We are part of the CARE International Confederation working in 87 countries for a world where all people live with dignity and security. Why Women and Girls? In India, CARE focuses on the empowerment of women and girls because they are disproportionately affected by poverty and discriminations; and suffer abuse and violations in the realization of their rights, entitlements and access and control over resources. Also, experience shows that, when equipped with the proper resources, women have the power to help whole families and entire communities overcome poverty, marginalisation and social injustice. CARE Initiatives CARE works with more than 200 districts, in a total of 13 states and union terriotories across India Engage educate empower Assurance of a secure life Livelihood Initiative Tsunami Power to Empower Cyclone Hudhud Horlicks Ahaar Abhiyan GiveAssure Help Shanti JK Flood crisis Join my village VIEW ALL Latest Publications Pages from booklet 1 pages from booklet hindi-7-2.pdf READ MORE Case Studies Education Health Livelihood Emergency Blog Resources © 2014 CARE India. All Rights Reserved