Tripura Society and Culture Home » Tripura » Tripura Society and Culture   Tripura त्रिपुरा का नक्शा Tripura Map Districts of Tripura South Tripura Dhalai West Tripura North Tripura Agartala City Map Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Tripura Location Lat Long Map Travel to Tripura Places to visit in Tripura Wildlife Sanctuaries Bhuvaneswari Temple Tripura Sundari Temple Agriculture Map Tripura Forests Parliamentary Constituencies- East Tripura Parliamentary Constituencies- West Tripura Economy Government Geography Society and Culture Hotels in Tripura Attractions History STD Code PIN Code Assemblypolls Sex Ratio Universities In Tripura       Tripura Society and Culture Tripura Society and Culture represents a fine blend of traditional and contemporary aspects. The society of Tripura primarily comprises of a number of tribal groups. Manipuri and Bengali communities are the other human groups that are inhabiting the land of Tripura from a very long time. Tripura was one of the exclusive independent units of India even in the days of British rule. Previously, Tripura was under the dominion of the famous Manikya Empire. In fact the rulers of Manikya Dynasty governed Tripura fro a considerable period of time. It was only in the year 1972 that Tripura had been recognized as one of the Indian states. The social structure of Tripura shows a harmonious co-existence of various tribal communities and other general human groups. There are various marriage customs and property inheritance system that showcases the inherent traits of the society of Tripura. Bengali speaking people are known to constitute a major portion of the total population of Tripura. There are Manipuri communities too that are living in the land of Tripura from ancient ages. The cultural domain of Tripura is rich with a wide gamut of various multi-dimensional features. Festivals, folk dance and music are the prime elements of the Tripura culture. Being one of the oldest places of India, surrounded by hilly terrains, Tripura boasts of a number of folk dances. Each and every tribe of Tripura has its own line of dance and music tradition. The festivals like Kharchi Puja, Garja Puja, Durga Puja and Ker Puja are celebrated in the state of Tripura with much fanfare. All the tribal communities, along with the Bengalis and Tripuris, join in the festivals of Tripura that take place at different time of the year. Tripura Society and Culture is a manifestation of the ancient and enriching customs and beliefs of the state. Tripura Bengalis Tripura Bengalis are populating the state from many past decades. The influence of the Bengali culture in the society of Tripura proves the dominance of this particular community in the state. Bengali speaking people are found in almost all the corners of Tripura. From the festivals to the beliefs Bengalis have a major contribution towards the formation of today's Tripura state. Rabindranath Tagore was known to be acknowledged for his poetry in the Royal Court of Tripura for the first time. Ever after this event the local people of Tripura became ardent followers of the art style Rabindranath. Till date, the artists of Tripura are known to be immensely inspired by the artistic mastery of the Bengali Nobel Laurette - Rabindranath Tagore. In fact the bengalis of Tripura feel proud to associate themselves with this great art personality. Tripura Tribes Tripura Tribes represent a range of human communities that are living in the state from quite a long time. The Tripuri Tribe of the state constitutes a large percentage of the total tribal population of Tripura. The Lebang Boomani and Garia are the two prominent folk dance forms of Tripuri tribe. Reang tribe of Tripura, although has a large population, yet it lacks sufficient educational and economic independence. It is believed that this community is inhabiting the land of Tripura from as early as 15th century. Chakma tribal group of Tripura belongs to the Buddhist faith. There are various sections in which the Chakma tribe is divided in Tripura. The Mog tribes of Tripura have come to inhabit the land in 957 AD. People of Mog community follow the ritual customs of Buddhism. Languages in Tripura Languages in Tripura comprises Bengali and the different dialects of Tripuri. The influence of Bengali in the languages of Tripura is remarkable. The Chakma language, spoken in Belonia and Sabrum sub-divisions, stands as an exemplar of the influence of Bengali on the languages of Tripura. The official language of Tripura is Bengali. Bengali, also known as Bangla, Banga-Bhasa, etc., is one of the most predominant languages in Tripura. It is estimated that about 80% of the people in Tripura speak Bengali. In fact, a large number of the population in Tripura consider Bengali as their mother tongue. It is noteworthy that Tripuri is also written using the Bengali script. Another major language of Tripura is Tripuri. Tripuri is the language of the community and is mostly found in Khowai, Kailashahar, Sadar, Amarpur sub-divisions. Tripuri is also spoken in the adjoining areas of Chittagong Hill Tracts. The mother tongue of the people is Halam and their dialect is known as Rankhal. Rankhal is said to be an offshoot of Halam. Tripura Festivals The Tripura Festivals comprise of both religious and cultural festivals. The cosmopolitan culture of Tripura has resulted in the celebration of numerous festivals in the state. Since the major part of the population of Tripura is Hindus, the festivals that are celebrated here are the common festivals celebrated all over India. Apart from this there are many festivals that are unique to the state of Tripura. All throughout the year there are a number of festivals celebrated in Tripura with great pomp and gaeity. Some of the popular religious festivals that are rejoiced by the people of Tripura are Ashokastami Festival Unakoti in the month of April, Kharchi Festival in July, Manasa Mangal in August, Diwali Festival in November, Pous Sankranti Mela in January, Rasha Festival in November, Durga Puja in October and many more. While among the cultural festivals Rabindra and Nazrul Jayanti in May, Orange and Tourism Festival at Jampui Hill Range in November, Book Fair at Agartala in January are few of the names. These festivals attract large number of pilgrims and tourists from all over India. Dances of Tripura The dances of Tripura are elegant and rhythmic. Music and dance forms an inseparable part of the culture of the state. The state of Tripura has a rich cultural heritage. The cosmopolitan culture has been continuously enriching it. It is inhabited by 19 tribal communities, Manipuris, Bengalis and people belonging to many other communities. All the communities have their own distinct dance forms. Most of the folk dances of Tripura are performed during festivals or on festive occasions. The dances of Tripura are performed by both men and women. They generally wear traditional dresses while performing the dance. The dances of Tripura are accompanied by a number of the musical Instruments like bamboo cymbal, Khamb, Flute made of bamboo, Khenggarang, Dhukuk etc. The traditional essence of these dances are maintained even today. Art and Crafts Tripura Arts and Crafts have a rich and historical tradition. The handicrafts in Tripura are famous all over India. Rich variety of handicraft items are made by the local people all over the state of Tripura. The items are mostly made up of bamboo and cane. Like any other state in India, Tripura also nurtures some special types of art and craft items that are inseparable parts of the state's tradition. Arts and Crafts in Tripura is well known in the country, especially the traditional bamboo craft and cane craft items. Arts and Crafts in Tripura are integral parts of the lifestyle of the people of Tripura. This rich tradition of the Tripura handicraft not only enriches the culture of the state and also contributes to the economy of the state. Tripura Arts and Crafts also adds to the tourist interest of the state. The artifacts and handicrafts of the area depicts an honest picture of the Tripura Society and Culture. Last Updated on 03/13/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule