Bengaluru (Bangalore) Home » Bengaluru   Bangalore Bangalore Map Bangalore District Map Bangalore Tourist Map Bangalore Metro Map Bangalore Metro Stations Road Map Railway Map Bangalore Weekend Getaways Metro Fare Calculator Bangalore to Munnar Route   Map Bengaluru to Tirupati Route   Map Bengaluru to Kodaikanal   Route Map Bengaluru to Ooty Route Map Bangalore Airport Bangalore Pin Code Bangalore STD Code Bangalore Bus Schedule Bangalore Bus Routes Flights to Bangalore Flights from Bangalore City Zone Map Large City Map North Parliamentary   Constituency South Parliamentary   Constituency Banglore to Hyderabad Bangalore to Thrissur Bangalore to Coimbatore Bangalore to Madurai Banglore to Ooty Bangalore to Puttaparti Bangalore to Shirdi Trains to BANGALORE CY JN Bangalore Weather Restaurants in Bangalore Passport Offices in Bangalore Colleges in Bangalore   University Bangalore MBA Colleges Medical Colleges Bangalore Law Colleges Bangalore Engineering Colleges Bangalore University Schools in Bangalore International Schools in    Bangalore Software Companies in Bangalore Electronic City Real Estate Bangalore Apartments Road Distance Guide Hotels Resorts in Bangalore Museums in Bangalore Shopping Areas Service Providers Tourist Places Near Bangalore Parks & Gardens in Bangalore Innovative Film City Bangalore Development Authority Bangaluru Location Bangalore Zone Map Bangalore Large City Map Tipu Sultan's Fort , Bangalore Fort Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka       Bengaluru (Bangalore) Bangalore, also called Bengaluru, is the capital of Karnataka. The city is also known as the "Garden City" and the "Silicon Valley of India". The city of Bangalore is situated in the southeastern part of the state in the center of the Mysore Plateau at an average elevation of 2953 ft. The city of Bangalore is the 3rd most populated city in India and has a population of 8,425,970. The city of Bangalore is well known for its Information Technology sector. It has many tourists' places, facilities and plenty of sightseeing locations. As a growing metropolitan city, Bangalore is rapidly becoming a major financial and cultural hub. Bangalore is ranked as the best city to live among all the five metro cities of India. The quality of life and climate in Bangalore, both are much better than the rest of the Indian metropolitan cities. Bangalore City Map Bangalore District Map Bangalore Metro Map Bangalore Railway Map Bangalore Road Map Tourist Map of Bangalore Bangalore Weekend Getaways Facts Country - India State - Karnataka Location - 12°58'N 77°34'E Elevation - 2953 ft Area - 741.0 sq km Population - 8,425,970 STD Code - 080 Pin Code - 560 xxx Time Zone - GMT/UTC + 05:30 hour Languages Spoken - Kannada, Konkani, Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu, Hindi History According to the tales, King Veeraballa of Vijayanagara (the nearby kingdom) named it as 'Benda Kalu Ooru' (place of baked beans), as baked beans used to be a favorite local dish here. However, after emerging as the IT hub and being termed as the silicon valley of India, it has become more famous for 'JavaBeans' (a software program for web development) rather than boiled beans. In 1809, the British Cantonment was established and in 1831 the British moved their regional administrative to Bengaluru, renaming the city to Bangalore. The city's reputation as a science and technology centre was recognized in the early 20th century. In 1905, Bangalore was the first city in the country to get electric street lights. Today the city is famous hub for software and electronics development, and business process outsourcing. The city's prosperity is changing in more ways than just its name. Climate Bangalore has a pleasant weather through out the year. It experiences a tropical savannah type of climate thus contributing to distinct wet and dry climates. The hottest month in Bangalore is April with average temperature rising up to 33 degrees Celsius and the coolest month is January with average temperatures dropping down to 15 degrees Celsius. The best time to visit Bangalore is from October to February. Transportation Air :  Bangalore is connected to the rest of the country by air, rail and road transport. The Bengaluru International Airport is located 35 km north of Bangalore's city centre, which is downtown MG Road. It is the 4th busiest airport in India in terms of passenger traffic and air traffic movements. The easiest way to commute up and down from the airport is by taxi like Meru cabs and Easy cabs. Rail :  The Bangalore City Railway Station is the main station connects Bangalore with major Indian cities. The railway station is located near the city centre. There are number of daily Shatabdi, super fast and express trains which connect Bangalore to other cities of India. From the railway station one can easily hire a taxi or local transportation to travel around. Road :  Bangalore has a well developed road network which connects the city with other major cities around the state. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation has a large bus terminus and operates around 6918 buses on 6352 schedules. The main KSRTC bus depot is the Kempegowda Bus Station, also known as Majestic bus stand. Some KSRTC buses to Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh operate from Shantinagar Bus Station too. The KSRTC also operates regular bus services for sightseeing in Bangalore. Metro :  The Bangalore Metro, also named Namma Metro (Our Metro) is a new rapid transit project of the city. Its first phase was inaugurated on 20th October 2011. The metro service runs daily between 6 am to 10 pm. It is expected to reduce traffic pressure on congested parts of the city. The rest of the phases are under construction are expected to be finished by 2014 end. Traveling within Bangalore is also easy. Prepaid taxis and auto-rickshaws are the most convenient way to travel within the city. Local Bus services within Bangalore are also fine. The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) runs air-conditioned luxury buses on major routes and operates shuttle services to the Bengaluru International Airport from various parts of the city. Taxis are typically metered and a bit more expensive than auto-rickshaws. IT companies in Bangalore Bangalore with a population of over eight million is growing fast as an employment hub. It is home to the most reputed Indian software companies such as Infosys, Wipro, Polaris, and HCL along with the development facilities of fortune 500 companies such as Apple, Microsoft, IBM, Oracle, SAP etc. Having a branch office in Bangalore has become a symbol of reputation for various MNCs. IT Park alone houses many Indian and foreign IT companies. It is truly an IT and BPO hub at present. Educational institutions and government establishments Bangalore is also an excellent educational hub. It has some of the leading educational institutions of India. Bangalore has quality educational schools and many students seek admission in various Bangalore schools. The schools in Bangalore follow English as the medium of teaching and communication. The schools in Bangalore are affiliated with I.C.S.E and C.B.S.E boards. The schools inculcate proper moral, values and responsibility towards the society in the students. The Bangalore University was founded in 1964 and is prominent for offering degree in several fields like Engineering, Science, Education, Medical, Law, Arts, Commerce, etc. The affiliated colleges are just about 70 government colleges, 52 aided colleges and 11 unaided colleges under the Bangalore University. Currently, the Bangalore University offers 50 Post Graduate and Employment Oriented Diploma & Certificate Courses. Some of most reputed institutions such as the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Bangalore, the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), and the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) are located in Bangalore. It is also home to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL), Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) and India's version of NASA, the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) are in Bangalore. Hotels and Resorts Bangalore is dotted with a wide variety of hotels and resorts. They are at par with their western counterparts in terms of amenities, services and quality. Some of the best resorts are located within 15 minutes from the Bangalore Airport, such as the Solitaire Hotel, Chairman's Club and Resort, Clarks Exotica, President Hotel, Angsana Hotels and Resorts, Royal Orchid Doddis Resort, Royale Senate Hotel, Ramanashree California Resort, the Basil Hotel Bangalore, Nandini Group of Hotels Bangalore, Shreyas Residency and Hotel Presidency. Top 5 hotels in Bangalore Escape Hotel & Spa Moevenpick Hotel & Spa Bangalore St Mark's Hotel The Oberoi, Bangalore Sheraton Bangalore Hotel at Brigade Gateway Real Estate For more than a decade many Information Technology enabled Services (I.T.E.S) and Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) companies have established their offices in Bangalore. This has formed an active demand for commercial and residential properties in Bangalore. In the commercial segment, office spaces are in demand and the retail segment is also strong. The Residential segment, developers are building unique properties to attract consumer. The Real Estate in Bangalore is also witnessing new trends and is expanding to new centers. Thus, offering lots of opportunities in the real estate sector. Places to Visit People prefer to work and live here because of its climate, gardens, lakes, palaces and primeval architecture. Some of the famous tourist destinations in Bangalore are: Bangalore Palace, Bangalore Race Course, Chunchi Falls, Cubbon Park, HAL Aerospace Museum, Innovative Film City, Lal Bagh, Lumbini Gardens, Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium, Seshadari Iyer Memorial, Tipu Sultan's Palace, Ulsoor Lake, Venkatappa Art Gallery and Government Museum, Vidhan Soudha, Vikasa Soudha, Visvesvaraya Industrial and Technological Museum, etc. Some of the places of worship in Bangalore are Gavi Gangadhareshwara Temple, Bull temple, Shri Nimishamba Devi Temple, Jamia Masjid, The Jumma Masjid, St. Mary's Basilica, Life Church, Infant Jesus Church, St Patrick's Church, Holy Trinity Church, Sri Mahavira Digambara Jain temple, Shri Adinath Digambar Jain temple, Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha, The Maha Bodhi Society, Choe Khor Sum Ling Centre, Thubten Lekshey Ling, etc Excursions Around the city of Bangalore, there are many tourist attractions that are perfect for excursion trips and picnics. These places of interest lie with in a range of 200 km from Bangalore and are among the popular tourist spots. Some of these excursions around Bangalore are: Bannerghatta National Park (22 km) Janapada Lok and Channapatna Cutural Centers (60 km) Devarayandurga - Hill station (65 km) Dodda Alada Mara - Big Banyan Tree (28 km) Mekedaatu (90 km) Muthyalamaduvu - Pearl Valley (40 km) Mysore - Historic city (139 km) Nandi Hill Resort (60 km) Nrityagram Village (Bangalore outskirts) Ramanagaram (45 km) Shopping Shopping can be a fascinating experience in the city and the city has something for each and every individual. Here one can find almost everything you want. The city is famous for its shopping malls, plazas and markets which have some of the finest and biggest showrooms in India. Some of the most well known places for shopping in Bangalore are: Commercial Street, MG Road, Brigade Road, Majestic area, Hong Kong Market, Burma Bazaar, Richard Square in Russell Market, Srinivaschari Street, BVK Iyengar Road and Avenue Road. Some Popular Shopping Malls in Bangalore are: UB City Shopping Mall - Vittal Mallya Road Shoppers Stop - Bannerghatta Road LifeStyle Mall - Campbell Road, Austin Town Forum Mall - Hosur Road, Adugodi Mantri Square Mall - Sampige Road, Malleswarm Gopalan Innovation Mall - Bannerghatta Road Sigma Mall - Cunningham Road, Vasanth Nagar EVA Mall - Brigade Road Orion Mall - Malleswaram Restaurants The restaurants in Bangalore offer a variety of delicious and appetizing foods. People like different cuisines like Chinese, Indian, Continental, etc. There are several options where one can choose according to one's taste in which Bangalore restaurants to eat in. Some of the popular restaurants in Bangalore are: The Queen's Restaurant, located on Church Street, is popular for their outstanding Indian food. The Ulla's is popular among the locals for its great North India, South India and Indian Chinese food. Konark, at Residency Road, are known for their special south Indian meal at lunch time and their egg less cakes and pastries. The legendary Mavalli Tiffin Room is renowned for its Masala Dosas. The Koshy's Bar and Restaurant, located on St. Mark's Road, is always buzzing with customers, who come for their renowned Indian, Chinese, Cajun, Fish & Chips and Beer. Pubs Bangalore being the pub city has many entertaining options for everyone to go and just relax at a pub. The Pub World, located on Residency Road, offers a unique experience of a Wild West Beer Cocktail bar type of mixed feeling. The New Night Watchman, located on Church Street, is a cool and dimly lit bar and is a nice place to come and grab a mid day beer. Cosmo Village, located on Agatha Road, is a fun place to hang out at. F- Bar, in the Le Meridien Hotel, is a sophisticatedly place which plays good hip-hop music and the USP is that every night is ladies night! Nineteen Twelve, located on St. Mark's Road, is an elegant place with high ceilings and a stylish crowd. They have live music and a DJ to liven things up. Bangalore Tourist Office Numbers Government of India Tourist Office 48 Church Street, Bangalore, Phone: +91 080 25585417 Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation Badami House, Katsurba Road, Bangalore, Phone: +91 080 22275883 Karnataka Tourism 2nd Floor, 49 Khanija Bhavan, Racecourse Road, Bangalore, Phone: +91 080 22352828 Bangalore Government Museum April 9th, 2013 moiblog Located in Bangalore, the Government museum is one of the oldest museums one of the oldest museums in India. Established by L.B Bowring, the then Chief Commissioner of the Mysore state in 1856, the Government Museum is now an archaeological museum and contains a rare collection of artefacts such as old coins, jewellery, sculptures and inscriptions. The Halmidi Inscription, the earliest ever Kannada inscription ever discovered can be found in this museum too... Read More Bull Temple April 8th, 2013 moiblog The Bull Temple, also known as Dodda Ganeshana Gudi is located in South Bangalore and is a Hindu Temple dedicated to a holy Hindu Demi God known as Nandi. This Bull Temple is the largest temple dedicated to Nandi in the world. Nandi is believed to be a devotee and a close attendant of Lord Shiva, apart from being his vehicle (vahana)... Read More Cubbon Park April 6th, 2013 moiblog One of the largest parks and an important landmark in the city of Bangalore is the Cubbon Park. The Cubbon Park was planned by Richard Sankey, the chief engineer of Mysore in 1864, it was established in 1870 by Sir John Meade, the then acting Commissioner of Mysore. Earlier, the park was called Meade Park after Sir John Meade, but was later renamed to Cubbon Park after Sir Mark Cubbon, the longest serving commissioner of Mysore at that time. In 1927 the park was again renamed to Sri Chamarajendra Park, after the 19th century ruler of the state. Though, the park is still popular as Cubbon Park.... Read More Tipu Sultan's Palace April 5th, 2013 moiblog Located in Bangalore on the Albert Victor Road, Tipu Sultan's summer palace was the summer residence of Tipu Sultan until his death in 1799. The construction of this palace was started by Hyder Ali, Tipu Sultan's father and completed by Sultan during his reign in the year 1791. It was in this fort that Hyder Ali imprisoned David Baird and a number of other British Army officers and hence the palace is a testament of the struggle of the Mysore Empire against the British.... Read More Vidhana Souda April 4th, 2013 moiblog Located in Bangalore, the Vidhana Souda is the seat of the state legislature of Karnataka. The Vidhana Souda has been constructed in the Neo-Dravadian style of architecture, also incorporating Indo-Saracenic and Dravadian styles of architecture as well. Designed and constructed by Kengal Hanumanthaiah, the foundation stone for the Vidhana Souda was laid by the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in 1951. Read More Bangalore Palace April 3rd, 2013 moiblog Once you lay eyes on the majestic Bangalore Palace you are bound to believe that you have stepped into a fairy land. Reason being, the beautiful Tudor and Scottish-Gothic architecture which have lent this palace its charm. Located in the city of Bangalore, the Bangalore Palace was constructed by Reverend J Garrett, the first principal of Bangalore's Central High School, now known as Central College. Read More Lal Bagh Botanical Gardens April 2nd, 2013 moiblog One of Bangalore's most popular tourist attractions is by far the Lal Bagh Botanical Gardens. Literally meaning the Red Gardens, the Lal Bagh Gardens were originally commissioned by the ruler of Mysore, Hyder Ali and was later completed by his son Tipu Sultan. The garden is popular for its glass house, which has been modelled on the Crystal Palace of London and is used to host a biannual flower show. The garden has an impressive collection of tropical plants and apart from that, has an aquarium and a lake... Read More Bangalore: The Garden City and Much More April 1st, 2013 moiblog Bangalore, also known as Bengaluru, is popular as India's IT hub, earning it the moniker of the "Silicon Valley of India". The capital of Karnataka,Bangalore is India's third most populous city and is an important economic and cultural hub of Karnataka. Ruled by many historical dynasties, including the Vijayanagara and the British Empires,Bangalore is rich in history and culture and there is much to see and do around the city. Read More International Flights Bangalore to Bangkok Bangalore to Frankfurt Bangalore to Kuala Lumpur Bangalore to Male Bangalore to Muscat Bangalore to London Bangalore to Mauritius Bangalore to Paris Bangalore to Singapore Bangalore to Sharjah Bangalore to Bahrain Bangalore to Dubai Bangalore to Hong Kong Last Updated on : 26 March, 2013 Travel to Karnataka Travel to Bangalore Travel to Belagavi Travel to Belur Travel to Coorg Travel to Halebid Travel to Hampi Travel to Mangalore Travel to Mysore Travel to Sringeri Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Belur Places to visit in Coorg Places to visit in Halebid Places to visit in Hampi Places to visit in Mangalore Places to visit in Mysore Places to Visit in Bangalore Ulsoor Lake Cubbon Park Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan palace Shiva Temple Bangalore Palace Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium Historical Monuments in Bangalore Lakes in Bangalore Amusement Parks in Bangalore Bangalore Wildlife Religious Places in Bangalore Parks and Gardens in Bangalore Weekend Getaways Innovative Film City             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule