Mizoram River Map, Mizoram Rivers Home » Maps » Mizoram » River Map of Mizoram   Mizoram River Map Lawngtiai Champai Kolasib Lungel Chhimtuipui Aizwal                   more.. मिजोरम का नक्शा Mizoram Mizoram Map Aizawl City Map Agriculture Map Districts of Mizoram Roads Railways Tehsils Mizoram Location Travel to Mizoram Places to Visit in Mizoram Wildlife Sanctuaries Museums in Mizoram Caves in Mizoram Physical Map Forest Map Information of Mizoram Culture of Mizoram Lat Long Geography and History About Mizoram Government Language Assembly Poll Sex Ratio Pin Code       River Map of Mizoram Mizoram River Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Mizoram Rivers Network Map showing the River Flowing in and out of Mizoram. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Mizoram Rivers comprises a major division of the geography of Mizoram . It is assisted mainly by heavy rainfalls during monsoon seasons and intermittent rainfall during the year; nearly all of the Rivers in Mizoram are perpetual in nature. The largest river in Mizoram is Chhimtuipui, (138.46 km in length). It originates in Myanmar Burma and passes through Lawngtlai and Saiha districts in the Southern Mizoram and lastly enters the Bay of Bengal at Myanmar. The river is in patches and has four tributaries. The western part of the river is drained by Khawthlangtuipui River (128 km in length) and its tributaries. While many more rivers and streams flow through the hilly ranges of Mizoram, the most important and constructive rivers are the Tlawng (185.15 in length), Tuirial (11.53 in length) and Tuivawl (72.45 in length) which course through the northern territory and ultimately join the Barak River in Assam. Rivers like Mat (90.16 in length), Tuichang (120.75 in length) and Tuipui (86.94 in length) fall in the southern part of Mizoram. The rivers of Mizoram are the chief source of water for the people of the state. The perpetual rivers of the state nourish the lush green vegetation of Mizoram. Some of the other main rivers flowing through Mizoram are Tiak (159.39 km in length), Tuichawng (107.87 km in length), Teirei (70.84 km in length), Tuirini (59.57 km in length) and Serlui (56.33 km in length). Last Updated on : 6 March 2013   River Maps of Mizoram   Aizwal Champhai Chhimtuipui Kolasib Lawngtiai Lunglei Mamit Serchhip             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule