Belghoria Expressway, Map of Belghoria Expressway, Kolkata Home » Roads » Expressway » Belghoria Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Belghoria Expressway Map of Belghoria Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Belghoria Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Belghoria expressway, built by the National Highway Authority of India has been operational since 2008. It is a major arterial road in the north of Kolkata, the capital of west Bengal and links the northern suburbs of Kolkata to the city. The 8 kilometer long, four- lane tolled expressway connects Dankuni to Jessore Road which is also part of the National Highway 34. Dankuni is in the north of Kolkata and an industrial township. Many companies such as Mother Dairy, the Food Corporation of India and Coca Cola have established factories here. The town stands at the important junction of two main highways connecting the state- NH 2 and NH 6. Both these are important and busy highways as NH2 connects West Bengal to Delhi running through the states of UP, Bihar and Jharkhand. NH 6 connects Gujarat to West Bengal. Belghoria, another northern suburb is also now a major business and residential hub. Dakshineshwar an important town of the North 24 Paraganas district of West Bengal is also connected across the across the river Hoogly through the Nivedita Setu. All these northern suburbs are very thickly populated industrial areas with many jute, cotton and chemical factories. The Belghoria expressway starts at the junction of NH2 and NH6 at Dankuni and ends at NH34. NH 34 connects Dum Dum in North Kolkata to Dalkhola and is an important connection for 24 Paraganas, towns in West Bengal, the north east such as Siliguiri and Guwahati, and Patna in Bihar. Dum Dum is about 10 kilometers from central Kolkata. The Netaji Subhash Chandra International Airport, earlier called Dum Dum Airport is on this route. The Belghoria expressway has now has reduced the travelling time to the airport and to the important link road, the NH 34, to less than half an hour from the northern suburbs, especially from Dakshineshwar, which is across the river Hoogly. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule