General K. Sundarji India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Defence » General K. Sundarji   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       General K. Sundarji General Krishnaswamy Sundarji was one of the most famous and competent generals of the Indian Army. Born on 28 April 1930 at Chengelpet in Tamil Nadu , he joined the Madras Christian College, but left it before receiving a degree to join the army. He graduated from the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC), Wellington, before moving on to the General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, USA and the National Defence College, New Delhi . He received a Masters in International Studies from Allahabad University followed by another Masters in Defence Studies from Madras University. Commissioned initially into the Mahar regiment, he served in various places all over the country . In 1963, he served as a part of the Indian contingent in the UN mission in Congo. He served as a Brigadier General in the Rangpur sector of Bangladesh during the 1971 Indo-Pak war. He was promoted to the rank of Major General in 1974. He hit the headlines when in 1984, he led Operation Bluestar, designed to flush out Khalistani terrorists from the Golden Temple in Amritsar. In 1986, he took over as the Chief of Army Staff. Widely known as the "thinking General", General Sundarji was the Army Chief from January 31, 1986, to April 30, 1988. During his tenure, the Indian government sent in troops sent the IPKF (Indian Peace Keeping Force) to Sri Lanka, which had to pull back from Sri Lanka later. He was a part of the core team credited with shaping India's nuclear doctrine. Apart from being one of the finest soldiers the country has produced, he was a prolific writer. His book Blind men of Hindoostan won rave reviews. He passed away in 1998.   Related Links   Army Famous soldiers Major Somnath Sharma General K. Sundarji Sam Manekshaw K.M. Cariappa Vikram Batra Navy Admiral Sureesh Mehta Air Force Famous Officers Marshal Arjan Singh Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule