Chhattisgarh Population Home » Chhattisgarh » Population   Chhattisgarh छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Chhattisgarh Map Cities in Chhattisgarh Naya Raipur Surajpur Kondagaon Baloda Bazar Ambikapur Pendra Kirandul Baikunthpur                      more... Districts of Chhattisgarh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Chhattisgarh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Chitrakoot Waterfall Haat Bazaars Indravati National Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Chhattisgarh Forests Parliamentary Constituencies Economy History Government Politics How to Reach Geography People Culture Festivals Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Area Chhattisgarh at a Glance Capital City Chief Minister Governor Pincode Population Telephone Code Chhattisgarh Factsheet District Map in Hindi Universities in Chhattisgarh       Chhattisgarh Population The Chhattisgarh population constitutes of 2.0795 crore as per the census of 2001. The newly formed state of Chhattisgarh is densely populated with one hundred and fifty four persons per square kilometer. The four important districts of Raipur, Durg, Surguja and Bilaspur support maximum population of the state. The rural areas of Chhattisgarh are more populated than the urban areas. However in the recent years, most of the population of rural Chhattisgarh migrated to the urban areas in search of better jobs and higher standards of living. Most of the districts of Chhattisgarh depend on agriculture because of low level of industrialization. The districts of Bilaspur and Rajnandgaon have the lowest urban population of only six percent. Comprising mostly of backward castes, the state has a huge population of more than 57 lakhs of Schedule Tribes (as per the 1991 census) who inhabit the rural areas of the districts and depend on traditional form of occupations to earn their living. According to the census data of 2001, Chhattisgarh has a sex ratio of nine hundred and ninety. The term sex ratio means number of females per males of a particular area or region. Chhattisgarh boasts of a higher sex ratio as compared to the other states of India. Chhattisgarh is the natural home to most of the primitive tribes of India. The state has a higher concentration of Gond tribes. The indigenous tribe of Gond inhabits the hilly region of Chhattisgarh. The equal distribution of Chhattisgarh population is necessary for the proper and sustained development of the state. Last Updated on: 29 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule