Where to stay | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > India at a Glance > Where to stay Where to stay This section links Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents Where to stay   List of approved heritage hotels Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   A list of approved heritage hotels in India is provided by the Ministry of Tourism. Users can get details about hotels, their addresses, phone numbers and email ids. Information on number of rooms available in the heritage hotels is also given. Information on hotels in Andaman & Nicobar Islands Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about accommodation facilities available in Andaman & Nicobar Island. Users can get details related to government accommodation, three star hotels, guest houses, youth hostels, home stay and bed and breakfast establishments. Information about accommodation type, size, tariff, contact details, etc. is provided. Information about hotels in Meghalaya Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about private and government hotels in Meghalaya. Details about the hotel, location, address and contact details are provided. Users can get information about hotels in Shillong, Sohra, Ri Bhoi, Jowai, Tura, Williamnagar and Baghmara. Information on hotels in Ajmer and Pushkar of Rajasthan Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about hotels in Ajmer and Pushkar by Tourism Department of Rajasthan. Users can get list of heritage, equivalent to heritage hotel, mid range and top end hotels with their addresses and phone numbers. Information about Ajmer Pushkar, its climate, sightseeing, access, transportation, paying guest accommodation, etc. can also be accessed. Information on Manali and Keylong Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about Manali and Keylong provided by Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC). Users can get details regarding access, climate, tourist places, hotels, club houses, sightseeing tours, etc. in Manali as well as Keylong. Details of hotel tariff, address, location and link to online booking are also available. Online hotel booking by Andhra Pradesh Tourism Department Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Book hotels and resorts managed by the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Department. New users have to register themselves to avail this booking service. Information about the hotel, room type, price, facilities, map, etc. is available. Helpline number, contact details and images of each hotel is also provided.