TNAU Agritech Portal :: Success Stories Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact TNAU Agritech Portal :: SAMETI State Agricultural Management and Extension Training Institutes Introduction Mandate of the SAMETIs Role of SAMETIs Man-power in each SAMETI MOU between SAMETIs & SAUs Governing Council/Board Executive Council Autonomy Samiti's Address Introduction Under the World Bank aided National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) the Innovation in Technology Dissemination (ITD) component envisages major institutional and operation reforms to generate demand for services, providing a cost sharing mechanism for agricultural operation in agricultural technology, assessment, assignment and dissemination technological knowledge to farmers. For operationalization of project, institutions like Agricultural Technology Management Agencies (ATMAs) have been established in 28 districts, (4 in each State) covering AP, Maharashtra, Bihar, Punjab, HP, Jharkhand and Orissa. In order to develop a competent structure for providing demand driven consultancy services and capacity building of the stake holders in the agricultural extension management, one SAMETI in each of the seven States has been established. SAMETIs are to provide HRD/Training support to organize programmes for capacity building in agricultural management and extension training for the stake holders of NATP. What for SAMETIs ? SAMETIs are declared autonomous with greater flexibilities in structure and functioning and responsible for organizing need-based training programmes for project functionaries from different line departments as well as the farming community. Mandate of the SAMETIs To function as agricultural management and training institute at State level. To provide consultancy in areas like project planning, appraisal and in agricultural management and extension training. To develop and promote the application of management tools for effective agricultural extension services. To organize need-based training programmes for middle level and grass-root level agricultural extension functionaries. To conduct problem oriented studies in agricultural management, communication, participatory methodologies, post harvest technology and marketing. To take up HRD/training activities including preparation of SREP for ATMAs. Role of SAMETIs To provide need-based consultancy services to ATMA To develop and promote appropriate and specific management tools for improving the effectiveness of agricultural extension services provided by line departments to farmers and make use of available material and human resources. To have close linkages with other institions like KVK, ZRS, SAUs, Mgt. Institutions, MANAGE to use appropriate faculty resources. To conduct studies on problems related to agricultural extension management, communication and information technology, agricultural produce marketing, HRD participatory methods. Man-power in each SAMETI Director Faculty Member (Participatory Extension Management) Faculty Member (Information Technology) Faculty Member (HRD) Supporting Staff Computer Operator     MOU between SAMETIs & SAUs: SAMETIs created in seven NATP States are provided a limited HRD capacity in management and IT areas. As such, a Memorandum of Understanding between SAMETIs and SAUs has been made. Governing Council/Board : Each SAMETI has its Governing Council/Board under the chairmanship of Agricultural Production Commissioner/Chief Secretary of the concerned States. Executive Council : Each SAMETI has Executive Council. Autonomy Each of the SAMETI has been registered under the Society's Registration Act and work as autonomous institute. Source : The Director Extension Training , Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture, Directorate of Extension, Krishi Vistar Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi - 110 012, Tel./Fax No.: 011-25843409 Updated on : 19.04.2013 Top Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © 2014 TNAU. All Rights Reserved