 कृषि एवं सहकारिता विभाग, कृषि मंत्रालय, भारत सरकार मुख्‍य सामग्री पर जाएं | स्क्रीन रीडर | | | | | English | ट्विटर पर हमसे जुड़ें मुख्‍य पृष्‍ठ अधिनियम नागरिक चार्टर आरएफडी योजनाएं योजनाएं की जानकारी दिशानिर्देश हमें लिखें सी पी जी आर ए एम एस सुझाव व प्रतिवेदन विविध संसदीय प्रश्न भर्तियाँ निविदाएं हम तक पहुँचे हमसे संपर्क करें दूरभाष निर्देशिका आप यहाँ हैं : मुख पृष्ठ > हमारे बारे में हमारे बारे में प्रभाग विभागीय संगठन प्रस्‍तुतीकरण रिपोर्ट व प्रकाशन कार्यक्रम व योजनाएं कृषि आकस्‍मिक योजना परिपत्र व अधिसूचनाएं सी ए सी पी बहुधा पूछे जाने वाले प्रश्‍न सूचना का अधिकार ई-अभिशासन परियोजनाएं संबंधित संपर्क कृषि एवं सहकारिता विभाग के बारे में विभाग- एक नजर में कृषि और सहकारिता विभाग के बारे में कृषि इस देश की आबादी के 58% से अधिक जनसंख्या के लिए आजीविका का मुख्य स्रोत है। कृषि गैर कृषि क्षेत्रों के लिए अधिकांश मजदूरी आधारित वस्तुओं और उद्योग क्षेत्र के लिए थोक में कच्चे माल की आपूर्ति करता है। केंद्र सरकार, राज्य सरकारों और कृषक समुदाय के संयुक्त प्रयासों से 2010-11 के दौरान खाद्यान्न में 244.78 मिलियन टन के रिकार्ड उत्पादन प्राप्त करने में सफल प्राप्त हुई। यह रिकॉर्ड उत्पादन कृषि और सहकारिता विभाग द्वारा कार्यान्वित की जा रही विभिन्न प्रकार की फसल विकास योजनाओं के तहत किसानों को नवीनतम फसल उत्पादन प्रौद्योगिकियों के प्रभावी हस्तांतरण के साथ साथ विभिन्न फसलों के लिए निर्धारित लाभकारी न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य के माध्यम से हासिल किया गया है। 12 वीं पंचवर्षीय योजना के दौरान खाद्य सुरक्षा सुनिश्चित करने के लिए कृषि मंत्रालय द्वारा खाद्यान्न उत्पादन में हासिल गति को लम्बी अवधि तक स्थिर बनाए रखने पर ध्यान दिया जाएगा। उत्पादन के उच्च स्तर को बनाए रखने के लिए, खाद्यान्न उत्पादन के नए क्षेत्रों को लक्षित करने के साथ साथ उच्च उत्पादन क्षेत्रों में संरक्षण कृषि को बढ़ावा देना आवश्यक है ताकि उत्पादकता के मौजूदा स्तर को बनाए रखा जा सके। उत्पादन में आने वाली बाधाओं के निवारण, आदानों के और प्रभावी उपयोग एवं अधिक टिकाऊ और उच्च मूल्य वाली फसल पद्धतियों के क्षेत्र में विविधता लाने के लिए नई तकनिकियों की अत्यंत आवश्यकता है। कृषि में निवेश: सरकार द्वारा उठाए गए प्रयासों के फलस्वरूप हाल के वर्षों में, कृषि और संबद्ध क्षेत्रों में सकल पूंजी निर्माण में कुल निवेश के अंश में वृद्धि हुई है। कृषि और संबद्ध क्षेत्रों में सकल घरेलू उत्पाद के सापेक्ष सकल पूंजी निर्माण (GCF) यानी इस क्षेत्र में निवेश में 2004-05 में 13.5 प्रतिशत से 2010 -11 में 20.1 प्रतिशत तक लगातार वृद्धि हुई है। अधिक जानकारी के लिए यहाँ क्लिक करें इतिहास Pre In dependence Period The Department of Revenue and Agriculture and Commerce was set up in the Government of India in June 1871 to deal with all matters affecting the practical improvement and development of the agricultural resources in the country. Prior to 1871, the work pertaining to Agriculture was the responsibility of the Home Department, In 1881, the Famine Commission recommended creation of a separate Department of Agriculture and accordingly, theDepartment of Revenue and Agriculture was reconstituted as a separate Department,1881. In 1923,in the interest of economy and efficiency, the portfolios ofEducation, Health, Revenue and Agriculture were combined to form the Department of Education, Health and Lands. In 1945, the said Department of Education, Health and Lands was trifurcated into three separate Departments of Agriculture, Education and Health. The Department of Agriculture wasre-designated as Ministry of Agriculture August 1947. Post independence Period In January 1951, the Ministry of Agriculture was combined with Ministry of Food to form the Ministry of Food and Agriculture. In October, 1956, the Ministry of Food & Agriculture was split into two Ministries hut they were again combined in April, 1957 as the Departments of Agriculture and Food under the Ministry of Agriculture. The functions then assigned to the Department of Agriculture were Agricultural Production Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Animal Husbandry, fisheries and Forestry Fruit and Vegetable Products Industry Agricultural Economies and Statistics Agricultural Development Liaison with the Food & Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and other International Organizations and Technical & Economic Aid in the Agricultural sector. Procurement and Distribution of Fertilizers Agricultural Marketing Land Reclamation Cooperation Tube Well & Minor Irrigation Soil Conservation The functions then assigned to the Department of Agriculture were Agricultural Production Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Animal Husbandry, fisheries and Forestry Fruit and Vegetable Products Industry Agricultural Economies and Statistics Agricultural Development Liaison with the Food & Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and other International Organizations and Technical & Economic Aid in the Agricultural sector. Procurement and Distribution of Fertilizers Agricultural Marketing Land Reclamation Cooperation Tube Well & Minor Irrigation Soil Conservation     In December 1958, the subject of Cooperation was transferred from the Department of Agriculture to form a Department of Cooperation under the Ministry of Community Development. Work relating to Central and State Warehousing Cooperation wastransferred to the Department of Food. In 1962, certain subjects concerning Fisheries and Fruits and Vegetables were transferred from the Department of Agriculture to Department of Food. Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council. Processing of fruits and refrigeration. Fishing and fishery, inland & marine and processing offish for industrial purposes. Fishing and fishery beyond territorial waters (including deep-sea fishing station, Bombay). Fundamental research including coordination and higher education in fishery. Refrigeration and cold storage facilities for fish and fruits. Central Marine Fisheries Research Station Mandapam & Central Inland Fisheries Research Station, Barackpore; Deep-sea Fishing Station, Bombay; Central Fisheries Tech. Research Station, Cochin; Central Off-shore Fishing Stations at Cochin, Tuticorin and Vishakhapatnam. Fisheries Extension Units at Calcutta, Guwahati, Allahabad, Bhopal, Hyderabad, Mandapam, Kamal, Bangalore, Patna and Raipur. The following items of work relating to 'sugar' were further transferred to Department of Food from Department of Agriculture in 1963 Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow. Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore Indian Central Sugarcane Committee, New Delhi. In January, 1966, the Ministry of Community Development and Cooperation wasmerged with the Ministry of Food and Agriculture to form the Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Community Development and Cooperation. The following functions were' added to the Ministry Department of Community Development Rural Community Development Programme including Programmes for Rural Works and local Development work other than piped water supply. Panchayati Raj. Training and orientation of personnel, both officials and non-officials, connected with the Community Development Programme and the Panchayati Raj Movement. Study and Research on Community Development Programme and Panchayati Raj. Department of Cooperation Agricultural indebtedness and credit. Cooperation in agricultural sector. Matters relating to National Cooperative Organizations. National Cooperative Development Corporation. Incorporation, regulation and winding up of cooperative societies with objects not confined to one State. Training of personnel of cooperative departments and cooperative institutions (including education of members, office bearers and non-officials). In 1966, the following functions from the Department of Food were transferred back to Department of Agriculture:- Fishing and Fishery, Inland and Marine and Processing of fish for industrial purposes. Fishing and Fisheries beyond territorial waters (including Deep Sea fishing station, Bombay). Fundamental research including coordination and higher education in Fishery. Refrigeration and Cold Storage facilities for fish. Prevention of Cruelty to animals. Wild Life preservation. Ground Water Exploration. Bio-aesthetic Planning. Administration of Fertilizer (Movement) Control Order, 1960. Intensive Agriculture District Programme. Intensive Agricultural Areas, In 1968, Sugarcane Research arid Sugarcane Development Scheme were transferred from Departrnent of Food to Department of Agriculture. In addition, the following were transferred to the Department of Agriculture from the Department of Cooperation: ‑ Agricultural Credit and indebtedness but not including agricultural credit and indebtedness in the Cooperative sector. Coordination work relating to agricultural credit and indebtedness. In 1969, the following sub j ects were added to the Ministry of Agriculture. Matters relating to damage to crops and loss of livestock due to natural calamities to Department of Agriculture. Coordination of relief measures necessitated by draught, scarcity and famine - to Department of Food. Matters relating to loss of human life due to drought, Scarcity and famine - to Department of Food. The following subjects were also added to the Department of Agriculture:- Administration of Insecticides Act. 19138. Refrigeration end cold storage facilities for fish, potatoes and other similar commodities. 1971 to 1990 In 1971, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture Commodity, Development and Cooperation was re­ named as Ministry of Agriculture with the following four Departments - Department of Agriculture. Department of Food. Department of Community Development. Department of Cooperation. In 1973, the following subjects were added to the Ministry:- Consumer Cooperatives- to Department of Cooperation. Tribal Areas Development Programme and Drought Prone Areas Programme - to Department of Community Development. A new Department was createdin December, 1973 called Department of Agricultural Research and Education. The following functions were transferred to the new Department:- Fundamental Research including coordination and higher education in fisheries. Coordination and Determination of standards in institutions for higher education and research and scientific and technical institutions relating to food and agriculture including animal husbandry and dairying. Agricultural and livestock census. All India Services - Indian Agriculture Services. Cesses for financing the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and the Commodity Committees other than those relating to Tea, Coffee and Rubber. Matters Regarding Agricultural research and Education. All India Soil and Land Use Survey. I.C.A.R and other Institutes. In June, 1974. two subjects were added to the Department of Agriculture by transfer from Department of Food, namely (i) coordination of relief measures necessitated by draught, scarcity of famine, and (ii) matters relating to loss of human life due to drought, scarcity or famine. The following subjects were hived off from the Department of Agriculture and transferred to the Department of Cooperation:- Agricultural Credit and Indebtedness but not including agricultural credit and indebtedness in the. Cooperative Sector. Coordination or work relating to agricultural credit and indebtedness. Agriculture Markets and Marketing and merchandise marks under the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act. Refrigeration and Cold Storage facilities for fish, potatoes, fruits and other similar commodities. Matters relating to Directorate of Marketing and Inspection. In October, 1974, the Ministry was again re-structured and named asMinistry of Agriculture and Irrigation with five Departments. The Department of Community Development was renamed as Department of Rural Development. The five Departments were- Department of Agriculture. Department of Food. Department of Rural Development. Department of Agricultural Research & Education. Department of Irrigation. The following functions of the Department of Irrigation were added to the. Ministry:- General Policy, technical assistance, research and all matters relating to irrigation, flood control, anti-water-logging, drainage and anti-sea erosion. Regulation and development of Inter-state Rivers and river valleys. Administration of the River Boards Act, 1956. Administration of the Inter-State Water Disputes Act. 1956. Central Water Commission. Central Board of Irrigation. Central Flood Control Board. Farraka Barrage Project. Indus Water Treaty, 1960. International Commissions and Conferences relating to irrigation and flood control. Irrigation and Flood Control Schemes in Union Territories. Insurance(Crop & Cattle) was transferred from the Department of Agriculture to Department of Rural Development and Cooperation Division which was earlier a part of the Ministry of Agriculture, was transferred to Ministry of Industries and Civil Suppliesalong with its functions. Work relating to Indian Peoples' Famine Trust was added to Department of Agriculture in August, 1975. The work relating to 'Public Cooperation' was added to the Department of Rural Development. In 1976, the following new items were also added to the Department of Agriculture:- Production of Oilseeds. Processing and Refrigeration of Infants Milk, Food, Malted Milk Food, Condensed Milk. Meat and Meat Products. Processing of Fish (including Canning and freezing). The following functions were hived off: - Price Control of Vegetable/ Oils! Oilseeds, Fats & Cakes were transferred to the Ministry of Civil Supplies & Cooperation; and Processing and refrigeration of fruits was transferred to the Department of Food. The following items were added to the Department of Agriculture: - Establishment and servicing of Development Council for fish processing Industry. Technical assistance and advice to fish process industry. Matters relating to Operational Flood I and IL In August 1979, the Allocation of Business Rules were amended again. The Department of Cooperation, which was transferred out in 1974, was again transferred back to the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation and merged with the Department of Agriculture which wasre‑ named as Department of Agriculture and Cooperation. The Department of Rural Development which was under the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, become an independent Ministry called Ministry of Rural Reconstruction. The Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation had the following Departments: - Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Department of Food. Department of Agricultural Research and Education. Department of Irrigation. The following items on Co-operation were added to the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation. Cooperation in agricultural sector, agricultural credit and indebtedness. General Policy relating to the marketing of agricultural produce including pricing, exports, etc. Insurance (Crop and Cattle Insurance). General Policy in the field of Cooperation and coordination of Cooperation activities in all sectors. Matters relating to National Cooperative Organizations. National Cooperative Development Corporation. Incorporation, regulation and winding up of cooperative societies with objects not confined to one State. Training of personnel of cooperative departments and cooperative institutions (including education of members, office bearers and non-officials). The following functions were transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture and irrigation to Ministry of Rural Reconstruction:- All matters relating to Panchayati Raj. Land reforms, Land tenures, land records, consolidation of holdings and other related matters. All matters relating to the revised minimum needs programmes in the rural areas as given below :- Direct responsibility for rural water supply and rural roads. Nodal responsibility for elementary education, adult education, rural health, rural electrification, housing for landless rural laborers and the nutrition programme. Programmes for tackling rural unemployment including 'Food for Work' programme, training programmes and rural works programmes. Integrated rural development, including Small Farmers Development Agency, marginal farmers and agricultural laborers, drought prone area programmes etc. Hill areas development programme, desert development programme and tribal areas development programme. Village and cottage industries Public cooperation, including all matters relating to voluntary agencies for rural reconstruction. Warehousing in rural areas, including rural godowns. Town and country planning, so far as it relates to rural areas. Setting up of agricultural markets in rural areas and the Agricultural Produce ( Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937. Again, in May 1980, the following items were hived off from the Ministry of Agriculture & Irrigation and transferred to the Ministry of Rural Reconstruction:- Administration of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, and other matters relating to acquisition of land for purposes of the Union. Recovery of claims in a State in respect of taxes and other public demands, including arrears of land revenue and sums recoverable as such arrears, arising outside that State. Land, that is to say, collection of rents, transfer and alienation of land & improvement and agricultural loans excluding acquisition of non-agriculture land or buildings. town planning improvements. Land revenue, including the assessment and collection of revenue, survey for revenue purposes, and alienation of revenue. Duties in respect of succession to agricultural land. During 1980-81 the work relating to Minor irrigation, Central Ground Water Board and the Command Area Development was transferred from this Ministry to new Ministry of Irrigation. The renamed three Departments:- Department of Agriculture and Cooperation Department of Food Department of Agricultural Research and Education In 1983, the Department of Food was taken out of Ministry of Agriculture and made a pan of theMinistry of Food and Civil Supplies. The following subjects were transferred to the Ministry of Food and Civil Supplies:- Purchase of the foodstuffs for civil and military requirements and their disposal. Participation in international conferences, associations and other bodies concerning food, e.g. international Wheat Council, International Sugar Council, World Food Council and International Food Peaky Research institute. Entering into treaties and agreements with foreign countries and implementing of treaties, agreements, and conventions with foreign countries relating to trade and commerce in food grains and other foodstuffs. Hiring and acquisition of godowns for storage of food grains including sugar; taking on lease or acquiring land for construction of food grains godowns. Inter-State trade and commerce in respect of food grains and other food-stuffs including sugar. Industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in public interest, as far as these relate to:- Fruit and vegetable processing industry (including freezing and dehydration) Sugar Industry (including development of gur and khandsari); and Food grain milling industry Central Warehousing Corporation and State Warehousing Corporations. Trade and commerce in and supply and distribution of food grains. Trade and commerce in and the production, supply and distribution of sugar and foodstuffs other than food grains. Price control of food grains, foodstuffs and sugar. Matters relating to Directorate of Sugar, National Sugar Institute, Development Council for Sugar Industry and other sub-ordinate offices under Dcptt. of Food In January 1985 the Allocation of Business Rules was again amended. The Ministry of Rural Re-construction was merged with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry wasre‑named as Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Re-construction with the following three Departments:- Department of Agriculture and Cooperation Department of Agricultural Research arid Education and Department of Rural Development At the same time, the Forestry wing of the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation was transferred to the newly formed Ministry of Environment and Forests. The following functions were hived off from the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation to the newly created Ministry of Environment and Forests:- National Forest Policy and Forestry Development in the country including Social Forestry. Forest Policy and all matters relating to forests and forest administration in so far as the Andaman & Nicobar Islands are concerned. Indian Forest Service. Wild Life preservation and protection of Wild birds and animals. Fundamental research including coordination thereof and higher education in Forestry. Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park. The 'National Land Use and Conservation Board' was added to the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation. The following items were added to the Department of Rural Development:- All matters pertaining to rural employment or unemployment such as working out of strategies and programmes for rural employment including special works, wages or income generation and training related thereto. Implementation of the specific programmes of rural employment such as National Rural Employment Programme and other programmes evolved from time to time. Micro level planning related to rural employment or unemployment and administrative infrastructure therefore. In September 1985, Ministry was again renamed as Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. A new Department of Fertilizers was created by amalgamating some sections from Fertilizers Division of the Department of Agriculture & Co-operation and some from the then Dept. of Chemicals and Petrochemicals. The Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development now had the following four Departments: Department of Agriculture & Co-operation Deptt. of Agricultural Research & Education Deptt. of Rural Development Deptt, of Fertilizers. The following subjectswere allocated to Department of Fertilizers:- Production of Fertilizer. Pyrites. Phosphates and Chemicals Ltd. Public Sector Projects concerned with subjects included under that Department except projects as were specifically allotted to any Ministry or Department In January 1986, the following subjects, which were dealt with by the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, were transferred to the Department of Fertilizers:- Admin. ofFertilizers (Movement) Order, 1960. Planning for fertilizer production including import of fertilizers through a designated canalizing agency. Arrangements for movement and distribution of fertilizers. The administration of Dangerous Machines (Regulation) Act 1983 was added to the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation. In the same year, the work of Agricultural Aviation inPlant Protection Division, including the Directorate of Agricultural Aviation was transferred to the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Again, in 1986, a new Ministry of Food Processing Industries was created and the following items were transferred from Department of Agriculture & Cooperation to that new Ministry:- Processing and refrigeration of certain agricultural products (milk powder, infant milk food, malted milk food, condensed milk, ghee and other dairy products), meat and meat products. Processing of Fish (including Canning & Freezing) Establishment and servicing of Development Council for Fish Processing Industry. Technical assistance and advice to fish processing industry. Fishing and Fisheries beyond territorial waters (including Deep Sea Fishing Station, Bombay). In 1990 the subject of 'Prevention of Crueltv to Animals' was transferred to Ministry of Environment and Forests. 1991 to Present In 1991, the Ministry was reorganized yet again into Two Divisions, viz. Animal Husbandry Division and the Dairy Development Division under the Ministry of Agriculture together became anindependent Department called Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying with the Ministry of Agriculture. All the subjects dealt with by the two Divisions were transferred to the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying. The Ministry of Agriculture then comprised the following five Departments:- Department of Agriculture and Cooperation. Department of Rural Development. Department of Fertilizers. Department of Agricultural Research and Education. Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying The subjects hived off to the Deptt.of Animal Husbandry & Dairying included the following:- Livestock census including matters relating to loss of livestock due to natural calamities. Profession of Veterinary practice. Prevention of the extension from one State to another of infectious or contagious diseases or pests affecting animals. Dairy Development - financial assistance to States under Dairy Development Schemes; Operation Flood Programme and all matters relating thereto. Technology Mission on Dairy Development. Preservation, protection and improvement of animal stocks and prevention of animal diseases. Cattle Insurance. Matters relating to animal Husbandry including pounds and cattle trespass, cattle utilization and slaughter In July 1991, the Department of Fertilizers was also transferred to become a part of the new Ministry of Chemical & Fertilizers. The following subjects allocated to that Department were hived off from the Ministry of Agriculture:- Planning for fertilizer production including import of fertilizers through a designated canalizing agency. Arrangements for movement and distribution of fertilizers in terms of allocations made by the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation. Management of subsidy for indigenous and imported fertilizers including determination of retention price and costing of imported fertilizers. Administration of the Fertilizers Movement (Control) Order, 1969. Administrative responsibility for public enterprises under the control of the Department. Public Sector projects concerned with subjects included under that Department except such projects as were specifically allotted to any other Ministry or Department. At the same time, the Department of Rural Development was also separated from Ministry of Agriculture to form an independent Ministry of Rural Development and this Ministry was named as the Ministry of Agriculture with only three Departments, viz. DAC, DARE and DAH&D. In October 1997, the subject of Fisheries was transferred from Deptt. of Agri. & Co-op. to DAH&D involving transfer of the work of Inland and Marine fishing and fisheries. In Dec. 1998, the work of rural marketing was transferred from the Deptt. of Rural Development to the Deptt. of Agri. & Co-orp.involving transfer of the following items or work:- Setting up of agricultural markets in rural areas Warehousing in rural areas including rural godowns. The Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937. Administrative control of (i) Directorate of Marketing and Inspection and (ii) National Institute of Agricultural Marketing. In October 1999, the erst-while Ministry of Food Processing Industries was brought under the Ministry of Agriculture as a separate Department. In Sept.2000, the work of Essential Commodities Act allocation and scheme of concessions on decontrolled fertilizers was transferred from the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation to the Department of Fertilizers. In Sept 2001, Department of Food ProcessingIndustries was separated from Ministry of Agriculture to form an independent Ministry of Food Processing Industries. In Feb'2002 the subjects "Coordination of relief measures in the event of natural calamities (other than drought or epidemics) and man-made disasters (excluding specific items of business allocated to other Ministries/Departments)" and '`Matters relating to loss of human life and property due to all natural and man-made calamities, other than drought or epidemics" were hived off from the Department and transferred to Ministry of home Affairs w.e.f. 01.06.2002. In Feb'2004 a National Commission on Farmers (NCF) has been set up to recommend policies, programmes and measures for accelerated, diversified agricultural development that would alleviate rural poverty and raise standards of living of the farming community in the new millennium. Present set up The Ministry of Agriculture now consists of the following three Departments:- Department of Agriculture & Co-operation (DAC) Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying (DAH&D) The Department of Agriculture & Co-operation is now organized into 24 Divisions, and a Technology Mission on Oilseeds and Pulses. in addition, it has 4 attached offices and 20 sub­ordinate offices. There are two Public Sector Undertakings, seven autonomous bodies and eleven national level co-operative organizations with the Department. The details of subjects now allocated to the Department under the Allocation of Business Rules are indicated atAnnexure-I. An Organizational Chart of the Department (Headquarters) is given at Annexure-II. The inventory of field formations of the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation is given at Annexure-III. ANNEXURE-I OF SUBJECTS ALLOTTED TO THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND COOPERATION LIST UNDER THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA (ALLOCATION OF BUSINESS) RULES. 1961 AS AMENDED UPTO JANUARY 6 TH 2004. PART - I The following subjects which fall within List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. 1. Liaison with international Agri-Organizations like Food and Agriculture organization of the United Nations, handling of CARE goods concerning agriculture, etc. 2. Participation in international conferences, associations and other bodies concerning agriculture and implementation of decisions made thereat. 3. Convention on Locust Control. 4. Plant Quarantine. 5. Industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in Public interest; as far as these relate to:- Development of agricultural industries including machinery, fertilizer and seeds but excluding cotton, ginning and pressing with the limitation that in regard to the development of agricultural industries, including machinery and fertilizer, the functions of the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation do not go further than the formulation of demands and the fixation of targets. Shellac Industry. 6. Agricultural Census. 7. Matters relating to damage to crops due to natural calamities. 8. Co-ordination of relief measures necessitated by drought. 9. Matters relating to loss of human life due to drought. 10. Indian People's Natural Calamity Trust. 11, Technology Mission on Oilseeds and Pulses. PART - II The following subjects which fall within List Ill of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India (as regards legislation only): 12. Adulteration of agricultural products other than foodstuffs. 13. Economic Planning (Agricultural Economics and Statistics). 14. Professions (excluding Veterinary Practice). 15. Prevention of the extension from one State to another of infectious or contagious diseases or pests affecting plants including locusts. 16 Price control of agricultural commodities except foodgrains. sugar, vanaspati, oil seeds, vegetable oils, cakes and fats, jute, cotton and tea. 17. Administration of the Dangerous Machine (Regulation) Act, 1983 (35 of 1983) PART - Ill For the Union Territories the subjects mentioned in Parts I and it above, so far as they exist in regard to these territories and, in addition, to the following subjects which fall within List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India: 18. Agriculture (Other than agricultural education and research) protection against pests and prevention of plant diseases. 19. Co-operation in agricultural sector, agricultural credit and indebtedness. 20. General Policy relating to the marketing of agricultural produce including pricing, exports etc. 21. Setting up of agricultural markets in rural areas. 22. The Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937). 23. Insurance (Crop). 24. General Policy in the field of Co-operation and Co-ordination of co-operation activities in all sectors. Note:- The Ministries concerned are responsible for Co-operatives in the respective fields. 25. Matters relating to National Co-operative Organization. 26, National Co-operative Development Cooperation_ 27. Incorporation, regulation and winding up of Co-operative societies with objects not confined to one State. 28. Training of personnel of co-operative departments and co-operative institutions (including education of members, office bearers and non-officials). PART - IV General and Consequential; 29. All Matters relating to international cooperation and assistance in agriculture and allied subjects other than the items of work allocated to Department of Agricultural Research and Education. 30. Agriculture and horticulture. 31. Rio-aesthetic Planning, 32. Agricultural Production-Grow more food. 33. Land Reclamation. 34. Infrastructure for post harvest management of agriculture and horticulture. 35. National Land Use and Conservation Board. 36. Development of Colon, Jute and Sugarcane. 37. Soil Survey in connection with development programmes. 38. Financial assistance to State Soil Conservation Schemes. 39. Projection of demand of fertilizers and manures at all-India, zone or region level; fixation of targets, nutrient-wise, for zones or regions. 40. Administration of the Fertilizer (Control) Order, 1957. 41. Monitoring of Pesticides Residues al National Level 42. Administration of the Insecticides Act, 1968 (46 of 1968). 43. Agricultural Implements and Machinery. 44. Organization and Development of extension education and training in the country. 45. Crop campaigns, crop competitions and farmers organizations. 46. Production of oil seeds. 47. Schemes received from States and Union Territories for the settlement of landless agricultural laborers. 48. Mechanized Farms. 49. Organic Farming (all matters including development and promotion but excluding matters relating to certification of organic foods products for export purpose). 50. On Farm Water Management. 51, Warehousing in rural areas including rural godowns. 52. All attached and Subordinate Offices or other organizations concerned with any of the subjects specified in this list except the Directorate of Agricultural Aviation. 53. Quality control of fertilizers. ANNEXURE-II ANNEXURE - III INVENTORY OF FIELD FORMATIONS I. ATTACHED OFFICES Directorate of Economics & Statistics, Shastri Bhavan, ' B' Wing, New Delhi. Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, Shastri Bhavan, 'F' Wing, Second Floor. New Delhi. Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage, N.H.1V, Faridabad (Haiyana) Directorate of Marketing & Inspection, N.11.1 V, Faridabad (Haryana). II. SUB-ORDINATE OFFICES Central Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, I3udni (Madhya Pradesh). Northern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, Hissar (Haryana). Southern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, Garladinnc, Distt. Anantapur (A.P). North Eastern Regional Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, Biswnath Chariali, Diva. Sonitpur (Assam). Directorate of Cotton Development, 14, Ramjibliai Karnani Marg, Ballard Estate, P.13. No. 1002, M umbai-400030(Maharashtra). Directorate of Jute Development, 234/4, Acharya Jagdish Bose Road, Nizam Palace Campus, Calcuta- 700020(West Bengal). Directorate of Millets Development, Mini Secretariat Building, Room No. 710. 6 th Floor. Bani Park, Jaipur (Rajasthan). Directorate of Tobacco Development, 26 Haddows Road, 3rd Floor, Shastri Bhavan Annexe, Chennai-600006(Tamil Nadu). Directorate of Sugarcane Development, 13-1/C-896/6, Rahim Nagar Chauralia. Mahanagar, Lueknow (U .P). Directorate of Rice Development, 191. Pailiputra Colony, Patna-800013 (Bihar). Directorate of Wheat Development, CGO Building, Hapur Road Chauraha, Kantla Nehru Nagar, Ghaziabad (U.P). Directorate of Extension, Krishi Vistar Bhavan, Dr. K.S. Krishna Marg, IAR1 Campus. Pusa, New Delhi-1 10012. Directorate of Oilseeds Development, Telhan Bhavan, Himayat Nagar, Hyderabad- 500029 (A,'). Directorate of Pulses Development, 8 th Floor, Vindhyachal Bhavan, Bhopal - ­462004(M.I'). Central Fertilizer Quality Control Sz. Training Institure, NAN, Faridabad (Haryana). National Centre of Organic Farming, C.G.O. Complex, Kamla Nehru Nagar, liapur Road Chungi, Ghaziabad (UP). Directorate of Cashewnut and Cocoa Development, MG. Road, Kochi-682011 (KereIa). Directorate of Arecanut and Spices Development, Cannanore Road. Kozhikode-673005 (Kerala). Office of the Minister (Agriculture), Embassy of India, ROME (ITALY). All India Soil and Land Use Survey. IARI Campus, Pusa, New Delhi- 110012. III. PUBLIC SECTOR UNDERTAKINGS National Seeds Corporation, Beej Bhavan, Pusa Complex, New Delhi- 110012. State Farms Corporation of India, Farm Bhavan, 14-15, Nehru Place, New Delhi 110019. IV. AUTONOMOUS BODIES Coconut Development Board, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Cochin- 682011 (Kerala). National Horticulture Board, 85, Sector -18, Institutional Area, Gurgaon - 122015 (Haryana). National Cooperative Development Corporation, 4,Siri Fort Institutional Area, Hauz Khas, New Delhi- 110016. National Cooperative Development Corporation, 4,Siri Fort Institutional Area, Hauz Khas, New Delhi- 110016. National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development Board, 86, Seetor-18, Institutional Area, Gurgaon- 122015 (11aryana). Small Farmers' Agri' Business Consortium (SFAC), 4 6 ' Floor, PHD House, Siri Fort Institutional Area, Ilauz )(has, New Delhi-110016. National Institute for Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE), Rajendranagar, Hyderabad-500030(A.P). National Institute of Agricultural Marketing, Kota Road, Bambala, Near Sanganer, Jaipur - 303906 (Rajasthan). V. NATIONAL LEVEL COOPERATIVE. ORGANISATIONS National Cooperative Union of India, 3, Siri Institutional Area, Khelgaon Marg, New Delhi-110016. National Agricultura l Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited, NAFED House, Sidhartha Enclave, Ashararn Chowk, New Delhi National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd., Ansal Plaza ) Block C, 2 nd Floor, Khelgaon, Marg, New Delhi-110049. National Heavy Engineering Cooperative Ltd., 16, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Pune-400001 (Maharashtra). National Federation of Urban Cooperative Banks and Credit Societies lid., B-14, 3'6 1 : 10-0r, Naraina Shopping Complex, Naraina Vihar, New Delhi-110028. The All India Federation of Cooperative Spinning Mills Ltd. Canada Building, 7 nd Floor, 226-D.N. Road, Mumbai- 4013001(Maharashtra). National Cooperative Agriculture and Rural Development Banks Federation Ltd., "Takshile 2" Floor, C.'LM. Pasta Road, Dadar (East), Murnbai- 400014 (Maharashtra). National Federation of State Cooperative Banks Ltd., LK. Chambers, 5 111 Floor, Plot No. 76, Sector-17, Vashi, Navi Mumbai-400703 National Federation of Fishermen's Cooperative Ltd., 7-A, Sarita Vihar Institutional Area, New Delhi-110044. National Federation of Labour Cooperatives Ltd., Plot No.11, Sarita Vihar Institutional Area, Near Telephone Exchange, New Delhi - l10044, National Cooperative Tobacco Growers' Federation Ltd., Anand (Gujrat). संगठनात्मक संरचना    