KISSAN - Kerala   Sitemap | Contact Us | Feedback         Search | About KISSAN | Kerala @ Glance | What's New | Events | FAQs | The Team | Institutions | Home About KISSAN Krishideepam : A television based Agricultural Information Dissemination System Today the influence of visual media has crossed all the barriers of rural-urban biases and is becoming the most powerful tool in decision making in all the sectors including farming. Moreover the programmes and schemes implemented by the government and other related agencies for the empowerment of farmers are hardly carried to the masses through these media with adequate emphasis. For the first time in the country, KISSAN-Kerala is building the capability for aggregating at regular intervals such validated information from all over the state using state-of-the-art IT. In this project, we are complementing this capability with a media strategy to provide the farmer with balanced and validated information that empowers him to make the best out of his resources and efforts. A core team of subject experts possessing media and IT skills handles the selection, validation and production of the krishideepam program. The program has a proper blend of balanced, updated and timely farm information, appealing presentation, reliability and feedback, which are essential to sustain a system of this kind. The Mission and Objectives of krishideepam Program 1 To translate the rich academic and practical agricultural information aggregated through the KISSAN-Kerala Network into viewer friendly video/multimedia content to be disseminated through the television network to the doorsteps of the farmers. 2 To provide the farmers with right information of regional relevance regarding best farming practices, soil and water management, forecast and precautions on pest and disease incidences, weather and market information etc., which are of practical utility, in time. 3 To empower the farmer with news and information regarding government schemes, assistance from other related agencies, research findings of practical relevance etc., to enable them to take advantage of the various development programmes initiated by various agencies in the farming sector in an integrated manner, in time, without being exploited by any of the intermediaries. 4 To develop and sustain a platform for interaction between farmers and experts in a more appealing and acceptable form. 5 To initiate a system for healthy feed back from the beneficiaries of various developmental activities initiated by the government. 6 To influence a positive change in the agriculture scenario by empowering the farmers with latest information; hence enhance the total agricultural productivity. FEATURES OF KISSAN KRISHIDEEPAM The first program was launched on 1st November 2003 (The first episode was aired through Asianet Channel at 10.30 AM) Krishideepam is the only agricultural program in the Malayalam channels where the programs are produced directly by the highly qualified, agricultural professionals and research/extension officers from the Department with the help of Media professionals and IT savvy engineers who have several years of field experience. Hence the program has established high level of authenticity, reliability and maintains the superior quality. Krishideepam is the only program, which provides interactive discussion and follow up action soon after the telecast. The farmers post their questions through the interactive portal (www.kissankerala.net) of kissan kerala and seeks the authentic advisories. KISSAN-KRISHIDEEPAM TV programme is the first of its kind in whole of the country. Care has been taken to see that the programme is given an interesting and catchy presentation, at the same time imparting authentic technical information primarily focusing towards the farming community across Kerala. Krishideepam is the unique program where each episode carries different segments. Krishideepam has identified more than 16 unique segments, which is an unique presentation style. Eg:- Parichayam, Thullikal, Crop advisory services, technical know-how, method demonstration, weather information, market analysis, question-answer sessions, talk shows, interviews by experts, kissan news, farm advisory etc. are few among them. There is also two repeat telecast of this program. The programme has completed 465 continuous weekly episodes during the last 9 years over the ASIANET channel, and has gathered widespread acclaim from Kerala and beyond. The program is produced 100% in digital format, which gives high quality outputs with clarity. More details about the program please contact : info@kissankerala.net   Kissan News Streaming Video Viewers Feedback Post Query for Expert Answers Crop Information GIS Based Agri Advisory Farming Practices Fertilizers & Pesticides Kerala Agri Directory Discussion Forum     Farmer Database | Applications Download | Research | Soil & Water | Related Links   KISSAN Kerala Operations Centre, IIITM-K, NILA, Techno park Campus, Thiruvananthapuram Private Policy | Disclaimer  