 Blog | NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India Jump to navigation NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India HOME CONTACT US Search Search form Search ABOUT US Overview History Vision/Mission Board Members Management Team OUR WORK Our Approach Where We Work Our Programmes Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness & Response GET INVOLVED Careers Internship Campaigns Volunteer Partnerships Power to Empower NEWS National International CARE India in Media Media Contact DONATE NOW You are here Home » blog Read the latest news, stories, reports, opinion and analysis from CARE India staff and partners around the world. Our blogs are stories about women and girls, who with the help of CARE, have become empowered, and have been able to build a life of dignity for themselves. These stories are also about CARE's team members who have worked dedicatedly to provide access to health, education, livelihood, and disaster relief to the marginalized sections of the society. Donate Now Blog The latest blogs from CARE India staff and partners around the world Read blogs related to: - Any - AIDS FUNDRAISING INTERNATIONAL CLEAN WATER CLIMATE CHANGE DISASTER EDUCATION HEALTH LIVELIHOOD MISCELLANEOUS WOMEN Giving birth to a new life after quake Posted by Chiranjibi Nepal at Nepal on Thursday 28-May-2015 in WOMEN Chiranjibi Nepal, who is leading CARE Nepal’s programs on sexual and reproductive health, writes about the challenges of providing health care to pregnant and lactating women after the earthquake I met Asmita (20) a few days after the earthquake had struck Nepal. She lives in a little village called Simjung in the district of Gorkha, about a nine-hours-drive from the capital of Kathmandu. Asmita’... Read More Impact of Factors Affecting the Performance of Public Health Workers Posted by CARE Team on Friday 22-May-2015 in HEALTH 22nd May, 2015. CARE India has a strong portfolio of health projectsacross the states of Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, primarily focussing on maternal and child health, adolescent health, malnutrition, tuberculosis and kala-azar. In early May 2015,CARE India organized a workshop for its staff members and representatives from partner... Read More Nepal Earthquake moved everything, including my life Posted by Lex Kassenberg on Tuesday 19-May-2015 in DISASTER 20th May, 2015. 3am on Saturday 25 April 2015, the phone rang in my hotel room just outside of Atlanta, Georgia, USA where I was staying for a meeting with CARE USA colleagues. A big earthquake had hit Nepal; the country where I am Country Director and my adopted home. My first thought was for the safety of my staff, but more importantly of my own family. My wife is Nepali and Nepal is my home;... Read More Behind every successful student there is a teacher! Posted by Devbalan on Monday 18-May-2015 in EDUCATION 18th May, 2015. Female literacy is a first step towards helping women in recognizing their potential, gain confidence, pursue opportunities, and escape poverty. Women with low literacy and functional skills are most likely to face marginalization. In India, millions of girls in rural areas are drop outs or are discontinued from school after primary education. This is primarily due to lack of... Read More Chhatisgarh State Government Staff Visit the Early Childhood Development Project Posted by Suman Sachdeva on Thursday 14-May-2015 in EDUCATION 14th May, 2015. The Early Childhood Development (ECD) project of CARE India’s Girls’ Education Program (GEP), in the districts of Korba and Janjgir in Chhattisgarh, is continuing to get the limelight in the State government. Enthused and overjoyed over the adoption of the three components of the ECD project by the Chhattisgarh Government for scale-up to the entire State, GEP continued its efforts... Read More   1 of 35 next › Case Studies Education Health Livelihood Emergency Blog Resources © 2014 CARE India. All Rights Reserved