|| Directorate of Extension || ORGANISATION PROJECTS TRAINING PUBLICATIONS PHOTO GALLERY EVENTS RELATED LINKS DISCLAIMER Model Training Courses (MTC) : (2009-2010) MTC Report Guidelines MTC Expenditure Guidelines The ‘Model Training Courses (MTCs)’ scheme has been implementing since 1996 and emphasizes demand driven capacity building of extension managers, marketing managers and extension functionaries of the State development departments. ICAR institutes and State Agri. Universities are engaged in the technology dissemination and these technologies need to be percolated to the farmers field.  MTCs are of national character and offer training courses in specialized areas through ICAR and SAUs in agriculture, horticulture, veterinary, sericulture and extension.  MTCs are very cost effective as the training infrastructure and specialists of the host institutes are used for imparting training. The Model Training Courses of 8 days duration offers interface between host institutes and extension field functionaries. The main objectives of ‘Model Training Courses (MTCs)’ is: To improve the professional competence and upgrade the knowledge and develop technical skills of subject matter specialists/extension workers. To provide an opportunity of experience sharing, problem solving and interaction between experts and subject matter specialists. Operational Modalities: Model Training Courses are exclusively for the field functionaries of state development departments. The 8 days duration courses are organized by State Agricultural Universities, ICAR institutes and other central institutes. Development of Annual Training calendar is prepared by involving the State Development Departments, State Agricultural Universities, ICAR Institutes and other central institutes. Annual Training calendar is circulated to all the concerned departments of State, ICAR institutes and / UTs. 80 % On Account Advance (OAA) i.e Rs.73, 500 of Rs.91600 is released to the host institute well in advance. The participants are given free boarding and lodging, to and fro travel cost.   Training Calendar     Model Training Courses Institute-wise Model Training Courses Extension Education Institute Format for Course Director's Report Guidelines    