Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Programmes/themes >> Tata-Dhan Academy Tata-Dhan Academy Tata-Dhan Academy, the Development Management school, is the result of partnership between DHAN Foundation and Sir Ratan Tata Trust (SRTT), Mumbai. The Academy was begun in December 2000 and aims at becoming a Centre of Excellence in Development Management. The core purposes of the Academy are inducting and grooming fresh graduates as Development Professionals through specially designed programmes, and building capacity of the development practitioners. The key activities taken up by the Academy are: A two-year post graduate programme in development management (PDM) for building development professionals with high quality techno-managerial competence supported by appropriate motivations, values and attitudes to work with people, particularly the disadvantaged. A number of short duration management development programmes such as Social Development Research Capacity Building (SDRC), Leadership Development (LEAD), Future Search for NGOs, Advanced Reflective Training on upscaling Microfinance (ART), Micro insurance and Development Management Appreciation Programme (DMAP) for the NGO staff, academicians, researchers and government agencies. Researches for generating case studies and teaching materials are coordinated by the Faculty members and supported by Research Associates. ‘Advanced Centre for Skill and Knowledge on Mutual Insurance (ASKMI)’ promoted in the Academy works for advancing the practice of micro insurance; and ‘Advanced Centre for Enabling Disaster Risk Reduction (ACEDRR)’ works on enhancing the knowledge and practice on disaster risk reduction. These centres take up researches, pilot projects, training and education, documentation and publication, networking and consultancy, and policy advocacy in the respective fields. Read more on Tata-Dhan Academy ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved