Agriquest | different crops Home Seeds Agri Inputs Agriculture Horticulture Sericulture Animal Husbandary Organic Farming Info Agri Jobs Blog Contact Agriquest Language Seeds Seed Evolution and Seed Devlopment Seed Dormancy and Seed Germination Quality seed and its importance in agriculture Seed Technology -Defination, Objective and its role Causes for varietal deterioration, Maintenance of genetic purity and principles of seed production Generation system of seed production Methods for hybrid seed produciton Maintanence of parental lines Seed Certification Seed Production of different crops Seed Act and Seed Rules Seed processing Seed Storage Seed testing Seed marketing Seed deterioration and enhancements Synthetic seeds Sponsored Link Forage Crops Seed production techniques in fodder crops Maize (ZEA MAYS L) Climate: Maize is a short day plant and is cultivated from 15 0 N to 45 0 S latitude and from sea level to 13000 feet altitude with a temperature range of 13 0 c to 32 0 c (55 to 90.8 0 F). Long day conditions with rainy moist weather increases the duration of vegetative phase. Thrives best in warm climates where the day temperatures are fairly high (21-27 0 C), and night temperatures are too low (13 0 C). High temperature and low humidity will kill the leaves and tassels and prevent pollination. Heavy rains and dry hot winds are both unfavourable. Cold spells retard the growth and reduce yields. Frost is also injurious. A uniform soil temperature of 16-18C is suitable for the germination and seedling emergence from the soil. The optimum soil temperature range for Maize growth is said to be 26-29 0 C. Rain Fall Maize grows in area of annual rainfall of 10” to 200” and the optimum rainfall is 24 to 40” except where the crop is irrigated. Heavy rainfall on one hand and hot weather on the other are unfavourable and frost damages the crop. Soil Deep, medium texture, well drained, high water holding capacity, capable of delivering all the essential elements with a pH of about 6.5, Cation Exchange Capacity (CEC) 20 milli equivalents per 100 gram of soil, Saturation percentage 20-30% with less than 10% sodium, water holding capacity 2%, bulk density is not more than 1.3. Maize Variety African Tall Seed Production Crop: A tall plant grows 9 to 11 feet height, number leaves ranges from 11 to 14, the length of leaves are upto 3 feet with a width of about 11 to 14 cms. High yielding open pollinated variety, responds very well with intensive cultivation with heavy fertilizer and copious irrigation. Under fertile soil and favourable climatic situation, the plant yields two or more cobs of normal size with a maximum seed and fodder yield equally excelling all native hybrids and varieties. Seeds and cobs are of white colour. Plant measures in 110-120 days duration. Sowing season: Maize Seed Production crop should be sown invariably between the end of May to end of July as per weather situation in Karnataka. Late sowing beyond this period exposes the crop to downy mildew disease attack. The disease incidence will be increasing proportionately to the delay in sowing towards cold season reducing the seed yield. Timely sowing on the advocated period definitely increases the vigour of the crop leading to more seed yield without any disease incidence. Land requirement: Land to be used for seed production shall be free from volunteer plant. Field inspection: A minimum of two inspections shall be made in such a way that one is conducted before flowering and the other during flowering. Field Standards: A. General requirement I. Isolation: The Seed Production fields shall be isolated from the contaminate with an isolation distance of about 400 meters from the field of other varieties and from the fields of same variety not confirming to varietal purity requirements for certification / labeling and from Teosinte. B. Specific requirements: A maximum of only one (1%) percent is permitted for any off-type plants that have shed or are shedding pollen at any one inspection during flowering when 5% or more of the plants in the Seed field have receptive silks. Seed Standards A. Seed ears inspected after harvest shall not contain in excess of 1% of off-type ears including the ears with off-coloured kernels.   Factor Standard Pure seed (minimum) 98% Inert matter (maximum) 2% Other crop seeds (maximum) 5/kg Other distinguishable varieties based on kernel colour and texture (maximum) 10/kg Weed seed (maximum) None Germination (minimum) 90% Moisture (maximum) 12% For vapour-proof containers (maximum) 8%   B. Shelling Shelling of seed ears is to be after thorough drying upto 12% and after getting permission from the appropriate authorities. Field Preparation Plough the field with the optimum moisture and make weed free field. Apply about 2000 kgs of well decomposed poultry manure or about 20 cartloads of well rotten farm yard manure and pulvaries mixing the manure well into the soil during the last ploughing. Seeds: Seed rate : 20kgs/ha. Seed treatment: Maize seeds should invariably be treated with Apron 35ws powder @7 grams/kg of seed by adding 10 ml of water together as a slurry, mix them well and dry it before sowing. Apron is a CIBA company product containing Metalaxyl active ingredient, which controls downy mildew, damping-off and seedling rots. Sowing: The treated seeds should be sown in lines at 60 cms between lines and 30cm between seed to seed at a depth of about 5-7 cm deep. The sowing lines can be made by cultivator tynes fitted behind the Tractor. Fertilizer also be applied in the same line one after another, where seeds are sown. Caution: While sowing, fertilizer and seeds should not be mixed together. Seeds and fertilizer be applied in the same lines one after the another for easy and uniform placement. Run wooden planker to cover the seeds and fertilizer immediately after their application, under the soil. Fertilizer: Maize being an exhaustive crop needs N:P:K @ 120 : 60 : 50 kgs and 25 kgs of Zinc sulphate per hectare. Basal dressing: At the time of sowing, apply the entire quantity of P, K, Zinc suplhate and 1/3 of N, i.e., 40:60:50 kgs of NPK and 25 kgs of Zn So4, after mixing them well uniformly in the furrow line continuously where the seeds are to be sown or already sown. Top Dressing: (a) Apply 40 kgs of N after 45 days of sowing when the crop attained an height of about 18” and (b) Second top dressing be done with the remaining 40 kgs of N during the tassel (male flower) emergence stage of the crop. Fertilizer material be applied at 2-3 cm away from the sides of each plant when the soil is moist enough to absorb the fertilizer material or earthing up be done immediately after fertilizer application followed by copious irrigation. Irrigation: Irrigation immediately after sowing. Seeds will germinate in a week time. Subsequent irrigation be given at 7 to 10 days interval based upon the soil and climatic conditions. Weed Control: If there is sufficient soil moisture after sowing, spray Atrazine or Simazine @ 1.5 kg a.i/ha mixed with 600 litres of water as pre-emergence application through sprayer uniformally on the surface which will control most of the broad leaved or dicot weeds. Or keep the field weed free by manual weeding and hoeing before the first top dressing of fertilizer. Plant Protection: Generally, Maize plant is infested with shoot borer causing dead hearts in the early stage followed by aphid incidence during active growth stage to tasselling stage and cob borer damage at cob development to maturity phase. (a) Granule of Solvirex 5% or Furadan 3% or Phorate or Thimmet 10% as per the individual manufacturing company’s recommendation be applied at the time of sowing in the furrows which will protect the plant from insect pests upto 40 days of sowing. (b) A combination of systemic + contact insecticide mixer be sprayed at active growth stage to cob formation phase at 20 days interval to ward off the infesting insects as per the recommendations of the Company. (c) Disease control measure was already given in the seed sowing stage. (d) Insecticide be applied only during the morning or evening hours when the sun shine or temperature is very less. Windy days are to be avoided for spraying any chemical. (e) Carefully avoid chemical application adopting cultural methods like early sowing and crop rotation in the farm evading cool seasons, which period is congenial for insect and disease incidence. Harvesting The entire Maize cob be dried thoroughly upto 12% moisture in the plant itself for proper harvest to maintain seed quality. Shelling: Seed cobs be shelled at 12% moisture status. Shelling with high cob moisture will damage the seeds, while shelling with machine or Tractor affecting seed germination drastically. Before shelling, remove unwanted cobs having different colours, other than pearl white, damaged and poorly filled cobs etc. for quality seeds. Drying: Seed must be thoroughly dried between 8-12% for safe and long storage. Properly dried seeds be processed through Seed Processing Machines and the cleaned Seeds are treated with Thiram 75% WDP or Captan 75% WDP @ 70 gms for 100 kgs of Seeds as slurry adding 1 / 2 ltr of water. Thus the treated seeds be packed and stored for future marketing / sowing. Yield: On an average 50-60 qtls of Seed will be obtained from an hectare under proper management. Sorghum Sorghum is known as the great millet as it is the largest as well as the most important amongst the millet group of cereals. It is one of the most important grain as well as fodder crops of low rain fall areas. Forage Sorghum is characterized by quick growth, high yield and dry matter content, leafiness, better palatability and intake as well as a material for an excellent silage. Sorghum Variety M.P. Chari Seed Production Crop: It is an old National variety grows tall upto 9-10 feet thin stemmed, highly versatile, adapting both to dry and irrigated situations. It gives two to three cutting in fertile soil with well management. Sowing Season: Crop meant to produce seed should be sown during June-July. Late sown crop will get caught in the later monsoon rains, besides crop will face cold season and high humidity which is highly detrimental for seed formation and seed development owing to the infections with sugar-ear disease and fungal infection with the Seeds (grain mould) besides grain kernel smut diseases. Panicle maturity should face dry climate for best quality seed production without any disease/ insect infestation. So, sowing period be selected as per the local adaptability in general. Land requirement: Field meant for seed production should not have been cultivated earlier neither with the same variety nor crop and shall be free from volunteer plant. Field inspection: A minimum of three inspection shall be made as follows: First inspection shall be made before flowering in order to verify isolation, volunteer plants and other relevant factors. The second inspection shall be made during flowering to check isolation, off-type and other relevant factors. The third inspection shall be made at maturity and prior to harvesting to verify the true nature of plants and other relevant factors. Field Standard: General requirements: Isolation: (a) Seed fields shall be isolated from the contaminants like field of other varieties of grain and dual purpose sorghum /field of the same variety not confirming to varietal purity requirements for certification by 200 mtrs. and the Johnson grass /other grassy sorghum by 400 mtrs. (b) Differential blooming dates for modifying isolation distances are not permitted. B. Specific requirements: Off-types at any one inspection and after flowering should not exceed 0.10% whereas the head infected by Kernel smut or grain smut (Sphacelotheca Sorghi) Clinton and Head smut (Sphacelotheca reiliana) at final inspection should not exceed 0.050%. Seed fields can, however, be certified if diseased earheads are removed and burnt and the fields show, on re-inspection, infection not more than maximum permissible levels. Only one such re-inspection is permitted. Note: Seed fields should be thoroughly rogued to remove plants infected by sugary disease (Sphacelia Sorghi/ergot (Claviceps. spp) so that the prescribed seed standards are met at seed stage. However, the seed fields shall not be rejected on account of presence of sugary / ergot infected heads. Seed Standard: Pure Seed (Minimum) 97.0% Inert matter (maximum) 3.0% Other crop seed (maximum) 5/kg Weed seed (maximum) 5/kg Other distinguishable varieties (maximum) 10/kgs Ergot Sclerotia, Seed entirely or partially modified as Sclerotia, broken sclerotia or ergotted seeds (maximum) 0.020% by number Germination (minimum) 75% Moisture maximum 12% For vapour proof containers (maximum) 8% Field Preparation: Plough thoroughly making weed free field. Apply about 10-15 tonnes of well decomposed Fym or compost and plough the field again about 15 days before taking up of sowing. Seeds and Sowing: Seed rate 10kgs / ha spacing 45x15cm plant population 1.50 lakhs to 1.60 lakhs /ha Seed rate 7.5 kgs/ha for transplanting 10 kgs/ha for irrigated direct sowing 15 kgs/ha for rainfed direct sowing spacing 45X45 cms. Plant Population 1.50 to 1.60 Lakhs /ha. Seed treatment: Seed should be invariably be treated with Carbofuran 50 S.T. @ 100 gm/kg of seed. Use castor oil as sticker. Method of sowing: Seed crop should invariably be sown in rows. The depth of seedling should be 3-4 cm. Fertilizers: The seed crop needs NPK @ 90:45:45 kgs/ha. 50% of N and the entire P & K be applied basally at the time of sowing. NPK fertilizer materials may be mixed together and the mixed fertilizer should be applied in rows, where the seeds are sown. At times, to save labour and time, Seeds and the basal NPK can be mixed together uniformly in case of sorghum M.P. Chari and applied in rows and then run a light wooden planker to cover the seeds and fertilizers under soil. Top Dressing: Apply the remaining quantity of 45 kgs of Nitrogen at 30-45 days after sowing, when the crop is at knee high stage. Irrigation: Irrigation immediately after sowing and on third day, subsequent irrigation be given depending upon the prevalent soil and climatic conditions or at least once in 10 days. Weed control and Interculture: Maintain the seed crop weed free. Apply Agro-weedone-48 @ 2.5 lit / ha or Atrazine a.i. 1.5 kgs/ha or propazine at 1 kg chemical 50% w.p in 1000 liters of water as pre-emergence application immediately after sowing, one should ensure sufficient soil moisture at the time of Herbicide application. Sow the seeds, irrigate and then apply Herbicide, if there is not proper soil moisture. Run kunte in between crop rows, which open up the soil crest removing some weeds, facilitating temperature and aeration for the crop root zone, besides earthing up operation. Plant Protection: Insect Control: Shoot fly : Treat seeds with Carbo-furan 50 ST @ 100 gm/kg of Seed. Apply Carbofuran 3% granules @ 3 gms per meter of row or phorate 10% granules at 1.5 grams /meter row, or Disulphoton (Solvirex) 5% granules at 3 gm / meter row in the Seed furrow at the time of sowing. Spray Monocrotophos (36 E.C) at 1 liter pr ha. Stem borer: i) Uproot stubbles and burn to reduce the borer population (2) Apply any one of the granules of Endosulphan 4% / Carbaryl 4% / Lindane 1% to the plant whorls, two or three times at 10 days interval starting 20 days after seedling emergence. In the absence of these granules the insecticides may be sprayed as per company recommendations. Midge: Spray ear heads before flowering (50% panicle emergence) with Endosulphan / Lindance at 6 days interval. Ear head bugs: