Vasco Da Gama City Map Home » Maps » Goa » City Maps of Goa » Vasco da Gama City Map   Cities in Goa Panaji Calangute Vasco da Gama Margao Mapusa गोवा का नक्शा About Goa Weather History Culture Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Vasco da Gama City Map Vasco da Gama City Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Vasco da Gama city map showing major roads, railways, hotels, hospitals, school, colleges, religious places and important landmarks of Vasco da Gama ,Goa. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Goa   Vasco da Gama City Map Panaji City Map Margao City Map Mapusa City Map   Calangute City Map Also popularly known as Vasco, Vasco da Gama is located on the narrow western tip of the Marmagoa (also known as Mormugao) peninsula, overlooking the mouth of the Zuari River. It is 29-km southwest of Panjim (by road). Acquired by the Portuguese in 1543 for its strategic location, it was among the busiest ports on India's west coast. It remains a key shipping centre, but holds nothing of interest for visitors. However, it is important to come to Vasco, if one is to catch a bus to Dabolim airport. The primary town of Vasco is ordered in a straight line by parallel roads which are interconnected by lanes. The city of Vasco-da-Gama is fundamentally a shipping centre, and plays an integral role in the economy of Goa . The port of Mormugao - one of India's natural harbors - lies 4 kms from the middle of the city of Vasco. The Mormugao port conducts and operates container vessels and iron ore barges carrying ores and minerals to the countries Japan and Korea. The prime attraction of Vasco da Gama is the Bogmolo Beach. The sandy beach at the end of the cove would be even more picturesque were it not for the monstrous multi-storey buildings perched above it. The Naval Aviation Museum is another highlight of Vasco. The first of its kind in Asia was inaugurated at Dabolim, Vasco in 1998 and opened for public from the 19th October 1998. The museum showcases the history of Indian Naval Aviation, various aircrafts, weapons, sensors, safety equipment, rare photographs depicting Goa's liberation and artifacts. Air-route: Dabolim, Goa's airport, lies 4-km southeast of Vasco da Gama. A large new civilian terminal was recently constructed at this naval aerodrome to accommodate Goa's rapidly increasing air traffic. Facilities in the terminal buildings include State Bank Of India, Foreign Exchange Desks, Post Office Counters, and counters for domestic airlines. There's also a handy Pre-Paid Taxi Counter outside the main exit. There are also Kadamba buses for Panjim and Margao or one can catch a regular bus from the intersection immediately outside the airport to Vasco da Gama. By Rail: Vasco is laid out in a grid, bordered by Marmagao bay to the north, and by the railway line on its southern side. One of the town's most prominent landmark is the railway station at the south end of the main Dr. Rajendra Prasad Avenue. By Road: Arriving by bus from Panjim or Margao, you'll be dropped off at the Interstate Kadamba Terminus, 3-km east of the town centre. Local minibuses ferry passengers from here to the more central market bus stand, where buses from Dabolim airport also pull in. Auto-rickshaws, and Ambassador and motorcycle taxis, hang around on the corner of Swatantra Path and Dr. Rajendra Prasad Avenue, near the station and the small cycle rental stall. From Dabolim airport one has to pay around RS 100 for taxi to RS 75 for auto-rickshaw. Places to Stay: Being a business city, Vasco da Gama boasts of better than average hotels. Most are plush mid-range places, although there are several no-frills lodges near the railway station. Best of the budget bunch is available on the Dattatreya Deshpande Road. One can also try the GTDC Tourist Hostel, off Swatantra Path near the station, or the hotels situated east of the main square on FL Gomes Road. The more upscale hotels are situated at Pe Jose Vaz Road, currently offers the best value for money among Vasco's many modern mid-range places. The plush variety - complete with full air-conditioning, bars, restaurants and a gym - are located on Swatantra Path. Some of their names are: Hotal Kamakshi Tourist Hotel Twiga Lodge Some General Information on Vasco-da-Gama: Money Exchange: The State Bank Of India at the north end of F L Gomes Road. GTDC's Tourist Information Counter is in the lobby of their tourist hostel. Eateries: Goodyland: Location, Nanking, a Fast food joint, noted for its pizzas costing just around RS 50, and ice-cream Nanking Chinese Restaurant: Near Hotel La Paz Garden. Do try Szechwan chicken here, priced just around RS 50. Last Updated on: 20 th March 2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule