Wildlife Sanctuaries of Madhya Pradesh, National Parks of Madhya Pradesh Home » Maps » Wildlife »Sanctuaries & National Parks in Madya Pradesh   Madhya Pradesh मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Indore Bhopal Jabalpur Gwalior Ujjain Sagar Neemuch Morena                    more... Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks of Madhya Pradesh Map of Madhya Pradesh with Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks in Madhya Pradesh Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks of Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh wildlife tours comprises of the excursions in the animal reserve forests and wildlife sanctuaries that are found in abundance in Madhya Pradesh. These tours are indeed a delight to the visitors, for it provides an array of the wildlife resources. Madhya Pradesh wildlife tours chiefly imply a short trip to the national forests in order to get the feel of seeing the animals in their natural habitat. These reserve forests, unlike the real forests, are to a far extent designed by man; yet it gives the tourists a flavour of being at a forest. Further, it can be said that Madhya Pradesh wildlife tours are chiefly organised at places like: National Parks: Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Madhav National Park Sanjay National Park Satpuda National Park Van Vihar National Park, etc. Sanctuaries: Karera Wildlife Sanctuary Ralamanda Wildlife Sanctuary Son Ghariya Wildlife Sanctuary Ratapani Wildlife Sanctuary Panchmari Wildlife Sanctuary Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary Kheoni Wildlife Sanctuary, etc. Besides the wildlife sanctuaries and national parks, Madhya Pradesh wildlife tours largely depend on the wildlife resorts. These resorts are instrumental in increasing the number of tourists who come every year to spend quality time amidst the natural beauty. Some of such resorts that deserve special mention are: Sher Bagh, Ranthambore Kabini River Lodge Wild Chalet Resort, Kanah Ken River Lodge, Panna Spice Village Hotel Hornbill's Nest, Corbett, etc. Some of the popular wildlife sanctuaries and national parks are discussed below. Wildlife Sanctuaries Karera Wildlife Sanctuary The Karera Wildlife Sanctuary of Madhya Pradesh is well scattered over an area that measures about 202 square kilometers with respect to the vast span of landscape it covers. It is situated at a distance of approximately 55 kilometers from the region named as Shivpuri. The Karera Wildlife Sanctuary is indeed a bird-viewer's paradise as the sanctuary houses an entire caboodle of avian creatures that includes the extremely rare Indian Bustard which is facing the grave danger of being completely wiped out from the face of our planet. The Karera Wildlife Sanctuary is reckoned as one of the ultimate asylums for this marvelous bird. This sanctuary houses an astounding three separate taxonomic categories of the scintillating creatures namely the Indian Bustard, the Bearded Bustard and the Colored Bustard. Other attractions at the Karera Wildlife Sanctuary are listed below:- It provides shelter to an absolutely amazing 245 different species of birds like Teals, Herons, Indian Robins, Pintails and Gadwalls. A large number of water birds like Egrets, Spoonbills and Black -Bellied River Terns are found here. Migratory birds also seek institution in the Karera Wildlife Sanctuary as they flock together near the Dihaila Jheel inside the sanctuary's proximity almost every single year. Except birds, as many as 2000 Black Bucks and a fairly large number of the Indian gazelle are also seen here. The apt time to observe the majestic birds in their natural habitat here is from the month of November to the month of March. Binoculars and photography equipments are a must for the visitants. Closest railway station is Jhansi which is situated at a distance of 44 kilometers. Ken Gharial Sanctuary The Ken Gharial Sanctuary is one of the very limited number of sanctuaries in India that is sincerely dedicated to breeding programs and proper housing of Gharials, a cousin of the mighty crocodiles. They are sometimes referred to as 'Indian Gharials' or 'Gavials'. They are characterised by their exceedingly elongated and unbelievably slender snouts that invariably demarcates them from their evolutionary contemporaries, the crocodiles. The Ken Gharial Sanctuary is positioned at the rendezvous point of the twin rivers, namely, Ken and Khudar. Being positioned inside the premises of the Chattarpur district approximately 24 kilometers away from Khajuraho, it is a popular destination that is frequently visited by animal enthusiasts. The Gharial, chief attraction of the Ken Gharial Sanctuary is a rare breed of reptiles. Although they share a common line of evolutionary descent with the crocodiles, they are deficient in the robust jaw power and sheer skull strength that is vested to the crocodiles. But on the other hand the Gharials are proficient in trapping down wee fishes and supple body movements that is rarely seen in crocodiles. The Gharials of this Madhya Pradesh sanctuary are recorded to have grown to an astounding length of 6 meters. Other species that can also be seen in the Ken Gharial Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh are mentioned below:- Chinkara Cheetal Wild Boar Blue Bull or Nilgai Peacock Panpatha Wildlife Sanctuary Panpatha Wildlife Sanctuary, Madhya Pradesh is located in the vicinity of the famous Bandhavgarh national park. It has one of the richest wealth of varied flora and fauna in the whole of Madhya Pradesh. It is inhabited by a wide variety of animals and plants. Tigers are the main attractions of Madhya Pradesh's Panpatha Wildlife Sanctuary. However jackals, wild dog, chital, sambhar, blue bull, porcupine and the amazing chausinghas are some of the other animals that inhabit in this forest. However, avid bird-lovers also have a lot to cheer about during their stay in Panpatha. A wide variety of birds live in the deep woods. The terrain of Panpatha Wildlife Sanctuary is low and flat unlike the hilly Bandhavgarh. However, it is the home for some of the most majestic trees. Huge and ancient sals share their space with great acacias. Mahua, saja, dhwanda, bel and khair are some of the other major trees of the area, not to speak of the bamboo and tendu groves who also add to the deep vegetation of the area. Sone Gharial Wildlife Sanctuary Sone Gharial Wildlife Sanctuary, Madhya Pradesh is a sanctuary that covers a wide area of 41.80 square kilometers. The wildlife sanctuary is situated alongside the sacred river of Sone and is inhabited by some of the rarest species of Indian wildlife. Sone Gharial Wildlife Sanctuary of Madhya Pradesh was declared as a protected wildlife sanctuary in 1981. It is primarily devoted to the protection and breeding of gharials, a member of the crocodile family that is exclusively found in the water bodies of India. The waters of Sone however is a home to many other animals besides the gharials, alligators and crocodiles of various species and are the greatest attractions. It is not often that one comes across some of these beautiful and exotic animals here. Sone Gharial Wildlife Sanctuary provides one with a rare opportunity to do so. Rare species of turtles can also be seen on the banks and the waters of the river. The great numbers of birds are a perpetual attraction of the Sone Gharial Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh. Many of these birds are migratory and come from faraway lands. Many wildlife enthusiasts come to Sone Gharial Wildlife Sanctuary to catch a glimpse of them. Sone Gharial Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh is also well known for the great number of birds that inhabit in the forest. Ghatigaon Wildlife Sanctuary Ghatigaon Wildlife Sanctuary is located in the Gwalior district of Madhya Pradesh. Ghatigaon Wildlife Sanctuary was established in 1981 with the primary aim to protect and help increasing the number of the great Indian bustard. The number of this majestic bird has been decreasing steadily over the years and now there seems only a few left. Ghatigaon Wildlife Sanctuary of Madhya Pradesh, along with Karera Wildlife Sanctuary, was one of the few places where these extremely rare birds could be seen. Now with few great Indian bustards left in Karera, the onus largely lies on Ghatigaon Wildlife Sanctuary to protect these grand species from extinction. The future does not look bright for these majestic birds because with a steady decrease in their suitable habitat and continuous poaching, their numbers have gone down remarkably in the past few years. However, the officials of Ghatigaon Wildlife Sanctuary work tirelessly to protect them. Because it now seems to be the only place where the bird can be possibly spotted in the wild,Ghatigaon Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh is often referred to as the Great Indian Bustard Sanctuary. A great number of migratory birds too come here in the period of November and stay here all through the winter. Bagdara Wildlife Sanctuary Bagdara Wildlife Sanctuary is located in the Sindh district of Madhya Pradesh. It was established in the year 1978 and is spread over an area of approximately 478 square kilometers. The Bagdara Wildlife Sanctuary has an extremely dense dry deciduous mixed forest and harbors a wide variety of flora and fauna. The Bagdara Wildlife Sanctuary is maintained by the government of Madhya Pradesh and considered as one of the unique protected area of the state. In the dry deciduous mixed forest of the Bagdara Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh various kind of trees like tall teak trees, orchids, mango groves and gigantic creepers are predominant. Today, the Bagdara Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh is the natural habitat of more than hundred species of plants and wild animals. The forest of the Bagdara Wildlife Sanctuary of Madhya Pradesh is the breeding ground of some of the rare wild animals such as: Tiger Panther Sambar deer Chinkara Cheetal Black buck Wild boar Hyenas The Bagdara Wildlife Sanctuary at Madhya Pradesh is open for public. The best season to visit here is from November to June. The principal flora that dominates the forest of the Bagdara Sanctuary are as follows: Tendu Dhawda Khjair Lendia and more. National Parks Madhav National Park The Madhav National Park is dispersed over a pulsating plot that measures an amazing 156 square kilometers. It was originally the shooting reserve of the Maharaja who belonged to Gwalior and came into existence in the year 1958 with the name, Shivpuri National Park. The Madhav National Park is situated at the base of the vast Vindhyan Range and also contains a placid lake that is situated inside its premises. As the forest comprises of a majestic blend of lush grasslands, deciduous trees and small stony hills, it presents an ample scope for the creatures of different varieties to flourish. The Madhav National Park is protected under the influence of the Wildlife Protection Act that came into effect in the year 1972. Special attractions here are listed below:- Chinkara Indian Gazelle Chital Nilgai Sambar Chausingha also regarded as the Four-horned Antelope Black Buck Sloth Bear Leopard Langur Striped Hyena Jackel Jungle Cat Crocodiles and others The Madhav National Park of Madhya Pradesh can also be a scintillating destination for the bird enthusiasts as it is full of mind-boggling varieties of birds which will enchant you. The avifauna that prevails here is truly spectacular. Some of the varieties frequently seen in this park include:- Red Wattled lapwing Large Pied Wagtail Pond Heron White-breasted Kingfisher Cormorant Painted stork White Ibis Laggar falcon Purple Sunbird Paradise Flycatcher Golden Oriole Panna National Park The Panna National Park is sited at length of approximately 57 kilometers from the evergreen venue of the Khajuraho and hence situated in the central realm of the state of Madhya Pradesh. It cherishes the reputation of being one of the most popular reserves in India that is engaged in the protection of the charismatic emperor of all the animals, the tiger. Other attractions at the Panna National Park include the pristine deer and the mysterious antelopes. It is sited at length of approximately 57 kilometers from the evergreen venue of the Khajuraho and hence situated in the central realm of the state of Madhya Pradesh. The Panna National Park cherishes the reputation of being one of the most popular reserves in India that is engaged in the protection of the charismatic emperor of all the animals, the tiger. Other attractions at the Park include the pristine deer and the mysterious antelopes. The distinctive flora of this place is characterised by the presence of Tectona grandis, Anogeissus pendula, Anogeissus latifolia, Bichnania latifolia, Diospyros melanoxylon, Bosswelia serrata and many other spectacular species. Other attractions of the Panna National Park of Madhya Pradesh are listed below:- Wild Dog Caracal Leopard Chital Chowsingha Deer Sloth Bear Wolf Hyena Chinkara Nilgai Pench National Park The Pench National Park belongs to the southern fringes of the state of Madhya Pradesh and is blessed by the presence of the placid river named Pench that makes its way through the heart of this National Park. It is needless to mention that the name of the Pench National Park was coined after the river's name. The Pench National Park stretches across a sprawling landscape that measures approximately 758 square kilometers. It is gorged with tropical deciduous woods and also comprises of a mesh work of wee streams and 'nallahs' that run through this National Park. The Pench reservoir also serves as the primary outlet of water for the creatures of the Pench National Park in Madhya Pradesh. Special attractions of the Pench National Park of Madhya Pradesh:- Leopards Indian Civets Languors Wild Dogs Rhesus Monkeys Palm Civets Cheetal Sambar Nilgai Pea Fowl Red Jungle Fowl Satpura National Park The state of Madhya Pradesh is distinctly spanned by the Satpura National Park that is virtually embedded in the craggy surface of the Mahadeo Hills positioned in the Satpura Range. It is inside the premises of the district of Hoshangabad well dispersed over an incredibly large plot that measures approximately 524.27 square kilometers. The Satpura National Park made its presence felt in the year 1981. The soul-stirring panoramic view of National Park that grips the visitors in an intense state trance is attributed to the exquisite blend of emerald blue rivers, deep valleys, high mountains, mesmerizing waterfalls and especially the extensive reservoirs belonging to Tawa. Attractions of the Satpura National Park are listed below:- Tiger Gaur Leopard Indian Giant Squirrel Samber Sloth Bear Chital Barking Deer Wild Boar Marsh Crocodile Langur Nilgai Hyena Wild Dogs Porcupine Pangolin Malabar Pied Horn bills Crested Serpent Eagles Honey Buzzards WBST260914 Last Updated on : September 26, 2014               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule