Lodi Dynasty Map, Lodi Empire Home » History » Lodi Dynasty Map   Indian Dynasties Chola Dynasty Chalukya Dynasty Pallava Dynasty Chera Dynasty Pandyan Dynasty                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Lodi Dynasty Map Map Lodi Dynasty Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing the empire of Lodi with major cities and current country boundaries. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. The Lodi Dynasty was the last to rule over the Delhi Sultanate and it was a Pashtun Dynasty. Pashtun people are ethnic Afghan people who belong to the Eastern Iranian ethnic group. They are also known as "Pathans". The founder of the Lodi Dynasty was Bahlul Khan Lodi, whose rule lasted from 1451 to 1526. The first Portuguese Armada landed the first time in the country, under Vasco da Gama during the rule of the Lodi Dynasty. Bahlul Khan Lodi was the son-in-law and nephew of the governor of Sirhind in Punjab , Islam Khan, also known as Malik Sultan Shah Lodi. Bahlul Khan succeeded his father in law and uncle during the reign of Sayyid Dynasty as the governor of Sirhind. The throne of the Delhi Sultanate was ascended by Bahlul Khan on 19 April, 1451 with great help from his minister Hamid Khan. He fought against the Sharqi Dynasty for most of his ruling time. He even expanded his empire by conquering Gwalior, Jaunpur (where he place on throne his elder son Barbak in 1486) and the upper parts of Uttar Pradesh. Bahlul had three people to succeed him: two of his own sons, Barbak Shah and Nizam Shah and his grandson Azam-i-Humayun. Finally his son Nizam Shah succeeded his throne on 17 July 1489 under the name of Sultan Sikander Shah. His major achievement is re-founding the city of Agra, construction of several mosques there, abolition of corn duties and patronizing trade. He was a high class, reputed poet. His work can be seen under the pen name Gulruk. A patron learner, he ordered the translation of Sanskrit work in medicine into Persian. A lot of efforts were observed by him to expand his empire and expanded from Punjab to Bihar . He also wanted to attain control over Bengal and so made a treaty with Alauddin Husain Shah of West Bengal . Sultan Sikander Shah died on 21 November 1517 and it was his son, Sultan Ibrahim Khan Lodi who took over the throne and succeeded his father. He was Sikander's youngest son. A fearful military leader, Ibrahim was successful in keeping away the outsiders from his empire from about the whole of a decade. For most of the time during his reign he was engaged in warfare with the Afghans and Mughals and was all the time protecting the Lodi Dynasty from collapsing. It was in 1526; in the Battle of Panipat that Ibrahim Lodi was first defeated which directly lead to the fall of the Lodi Dynasty. This very defeat of Ibrahim Lodi saw the end of Lodi Dynasty and beginning of the Mughal Empire in the country starting from Babur as the leading Mughal force. Last Updated on : 5/29/2012               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule