KISSAN - Kerala   Sitemap | Contact Us | Feedback         Search | About KISSAN | Kerala @ Glance | What's New | Events | FAQs | The Team | Institutions | Home   ALLIED ENTERPRISES AgroForestry Types of Agroforestry Trees in Agroforestry Agrisilvicultural systems Aquaculture BeeKeeping(Apiculture) Species of Honeybees Swarming Absconding Communication BeeSpace Indian Bee(Apis cerana indica) Management of colonies Migratory bee keeping Extraction of honey Processing of honey Italian Bee(Apis mellifera) Pests and diseases Thai sac brood virus Composting Vermicompost Mass Multiplication of Worms Preparation of vermiwash Recommendation of crops Coirpith composting Dairying Mushrooms Cultivation of paddy-straw mushroom (Volvariella volvacea) Sericulture Silkworm rearing AgroForestry Agroforestry refers to land management systems that integrate agricultural crops with forest crops. It is a collective term for all land use systems and practices in which woody perennials are deliberately grown on the same land management unit as crops or animals, either in some form of a spatial arrangement or in a time sequence and in which there is a significant interaction between the woody perennials and the crops or animals. Top... Types of Agroforestry The major classes of agroforestry include, agrisilviculture, silvopastoral, agrosilvopastoral and other (miscellaneous) systems. Agrisilviculture refers to systems in which agricultural crops are integrated with trees on the same land management unit either in time or space. Examples include taungya, alley cropping, multipurpose trees either as woodlots or as scattered trees on farmlands or on farm boundaries, crop combinations involving woody perennial plantation crops, growing commercial crops in association with planted shade trees or trees in natural forests, shelterbelts, energy plantations, enriched fallow and so on. Silvopastoralism represents land management systems in which forests including forest plantations are managed for the concurrent production of wood and livestock. They also refer to situations in which trees are scattered in pasture/grasslands, protein banks/cut and carry fodder production system involving woody perennials and the like. Sylvopastoral system is a type of land management in which forests are managed for the production of wood as well as for the rearing of domesticated animals. In this system animals are kept and permitted to graze within the forest. This system therefore distinguishes from other systems in which forage (either herbaceous or shrubby) is grown in mixture with forest trees, but is harvested for feeding elsewhere. For practising this, vast area of land is required. Agrosilvopastoral systems , the most intensive form of land management, are systems in which the land is managed concurrently for the production of agricultural and forest crops and for rearing of domesticated animals. In addition, there are many agricultural practices associated with forest that strictly do not fall under the above categories. These include, collection of non-timber forest products from forests, growing trees around wetlands and other water bodies in which fish culture is practised, apiculture with trees and multipurpose woodlots etc. Top.. . Trees in Agroforestry Many tree species (woody perennials) are encountered in agroforestry. These include common timber species such as ailanthus (matti), teak, wild jack and multipurpose tree species such as mango, jack, tamarind, erythrina, gliricidia etc. Species-specific recommendations for some important timber (softwood and hardwood) trees are given below Top.. . Agrisilvicultural systems Shade loving crops such as ginger perform better in the inter-spaces of tree species such as ailanthus (at four years of age, planted at a spacing of 2 x 2 m; with 60% of the light in the open). Multipurpose tree species like ailanthus, teak, vellapine, silver oak and green manure yielding trees can be successfully interplanted in the older coconut plantation (preferably above 30 years of age), often in association with other field crops including medicinal plants such as kacholam. Depending on the space available (between coconut palms), one or two rows of multi-purpose trees can be accommodated in the middle (spacing 1-2 m between plants). Tree management such as lopping / pollarding etc. is important to prevent any possible interspecific competition between the multipurpose tree component and the coconut palms. Top.. . AQUACULTURE Aquaculture, the husbandry of aquatic organisms. Aquaculture provided 20 percent of global fisheries production (and 29 percent of food fish) in 1996. Most aquaculture production (15.1 million tonnes) originated in freshwater. Of the remainder, 9.7 million tonnes were produced in marine environments and about 1.6 million tonnes in brackish water environments. These figures are excluding the production of aquatic plants, which amounted to 7.7 million tonnes in 1996 Global production of aquaculture continues to be dominated by China, which in 1996 accounted for more than 67.8 percent of world output. However, given the relatively low value of carp and seaweeds, which dominate Chinese culture, its contribution to the world value of aquaculture production was just 45.4 percent. Japan, on the other hand, accounted for 4 percent of total world aquaculture production by weight but for more than twice that share by value because of the high-value species cultured (e.g. amberjack, scallops and oysters). Need for Aquaculture Supplies from traditional ocean fisheries are decreasing: Due to over-fishing and pollution. Demand for quality seafood is increasing: Due to population increase and health considerations. Consumers everywhere want consistency in quality and availability at the right price: Seafood is the fastest growing food industry The only solution is aquaculture - The husbandry of aquatic organisms: Aquaculture supplies of 30 million tons are produced annually, constituting 23% of world fisheries requirements. Top.. . BEEKEEPING(APICULTURE) True honeybees belong to the family Apidae subfamily Apinae and genus Apis. They are social insects living in colonies. A colony consists of a queen, several thousand workers and a few hundred drones. There is division of labour and specialization in the performance of various functions. They build nests (combs) with wax, which is secreted from the wax glands of worker bees. The bees use their cells to rear thin brood and store food. Honey is stored in the upper part of the comb; beneath it are rows of pollen storage cells, worker brood cells and drone brood cells in that order. Some Apis species build single comb in open, while others build multiple combs on dark cavities. Top.. . Species of honeybees There are four species of honeybees in India. They are: Rock bee (Apis dorsata): They are giant bees found all over India in sub-mountainous regions up to an altitude of 2700 m. They build single comb nests with an area up to 1 m2 or more. They are good honey gathers with an average yield of 50-80 kg per colony. Little bee (Apis florea): They are the smallest of the true honeybees found in plains of India up to the altitude of 500 m. They build single vertical combs. They are poor honey yielders and yield about 200-900 g of honey per colony. Indian bee (Apis cerana indica): They are the domesticated species, which construct multiple parallel combs with an average honey yield of 6-8 kg per colony per year. European bee [Italian bee] (Apis mellifera): They are also similar in habits to Indian bees, which build parallel combs. They are bigger than all other honeybees except Apis dorsata. The average production per colony is 25-40 kg. Stingless bee (Trigona iridipennis): In addition to the above, another species is also present in Kerala known as stingless bees. They are not truly stingless, but sting is poorly developed. They make nests in the ground, hollows of trees, bamboo, rocks or cracks of walls. Honey and brood cells are separate in the nest. They are efficient pollinators. They yield 300-400 g of honey per year. Top.. . Swarming Swarming is the natural instinct of honeybees to reproduce its colonies. By swarming, strong colonies are divided naturally. It occurs mostly when the colony population is at its peak. Some of the several reasons for swarming are sudden honey flow, sudden failure of queen to lay eggs, congestion in the colony, want of breeding space, bad ventilation etc. Dividing the colonies or keeping young queen or preventing over crowding of bees or adding new combs can prevent swarming. Top.. . Absconding Absconding is the total desertion of colony from its nest due to incidence of disease / pest attack, too much interference by human beings or robbing of honey by bees from other colonies. Proper hive management can prevent it. Top.. . Communication The worker bees communicate with other bees about the exact location of nectar, pollen, water, next nesting site etc. by means of dances. Round dance is performed when the food is located within 100 m from hive and wagtail dance to communicate the location of food source when it is more than 100 m away from the hive. Top.. . Bee space It is the space large enough to permit the free passage for worker bees but too small to encourage bees building a comb and too large for bees depositing propolis in it. Top.. . Indian bee (Apis cerana indica) This is the domesticated hive bee in Kerala. A colony consists of a queen, 20,000 to 30,000 workers and a few drones. This species is with gentle temperament and responds to smoking. Lack of flora leads to absconding and also has a strong tendency for swarming. It yields 8-10 kg of honey per colony per year. Bee-box ISI Type-A box is recommended for the state of Kerala. A division board may be added to the bee box for adjusting the internal space depending on the strength of the colony. It can also be procured from beekeepers. Wild feral colonies can be hived. Beekeepers in different regions use local hives made of low cost wood. The wood should not have a strong smell. Kail (Pinus excelsa), teak (Tectona grandis), toon (Toona ciliata) anjili (Artocarpus hirsutus), punna (Calophyllum inophyllum) are some of the suitable woods. The hives should be preferably painted white on outside to protect the timber from weathering. Hiving wild colony It is done during evening hours. Smoke the colony slightly, cut out the combs one by one and tie to the brood frames with plantain fibre. Arrange them in the box. Location of beehives The apiary must be located in well-drained open area, preferably near orchards, with profuse source of nectar, pollen and water. Windbreaks may be provided by planting shrubs, flowering plants and also creepers like antigonon. Shade must also be provided. Ant wells are fixed around the hive stand. The colonies must be directed towards east, with slight changes in the directions of the bee box as a protection from rain and sun. Keep the colonies away from the reach of cattle, other animal, busy roads and streetlights. Top.. . Management of colonies Inspect the beehives at least once in a week during brood rearing / honey-flow seasons preferably during the morning hours. Bright, warm and calm days are suitable. If sunrays fall directly on the beehive spread cloth or a towel over the same. Look for freshly laid eggs to ensure that the colonies are healthy. Clean the hive in the following sequence, the roof, super/supers, brood chambers and floorboard. Observe the colonies regularly for the presence of healthy queen, brood development, storage of honey and pollen, presence of queen cells, bee strength and growth of drones. Look for the infestation by any of the following bee enemies. Wax moth (Galleria mellonella): Remove all the larvae and silken webbings from the combs, corners and crevices of bee box. Wax beetles (Platybolium sp.): Collect and destroy the adult beetles. Mites: Clean the frame and floorboard with cotton swabs moistened with freshly made potassium permanganate solution. Repeat until no mites are seen on the floorboard. Diseases: The dead larvae due to Thai sac brood virus (TSBV) in the comb cells may be removed and destroyed. Management during lean season Remove the supers and arrange the available healthy broods compactly in the brood chamber. Provide division board, if necessary. Destroy queen cells and drone cells, if noted. Provide sugar syrup (1:1) @ 200 g sugar per colony per week for Indian bees. Feed all the colonies in the apiary at the same time to avoid robbing. Management during honey flow season Keep the colony in sufficient strength before honey-flow season. Congestion in the hive must be avoided and surplus honeybees are drawn to supers. Provide maximum space between the first super and the brood chamber and not above the first super. Place queen excluder sheets in between brood and super chamber to confine the queen to brood chamber. Examine the colony once in a week and frames full of honey should be removed to the sides of the super and such frames can be raised from brood to super chamber. The frames, which are three-fourth filled with honey or pollen and one-fourth with sealed brood should be taken out of brood chamber and in its place empty combs or frames with foundation is added. The frame with comb foundation should be placed next to the brood nest. The combs, which are completely sealed, or two-third capped may be taken out for extraction of honey and returned to supers after honey extraction. This helps the colonies to activate the bees to collect and store more honey. Two or three such extractions are possible during a surplus flow. Extraction of uncapped honey will result in fermentation. Honey extraction, after the flow is over, should be avoided to save the bee colonies from robbing. Care should be taken to retain sufficient combs with honey in the brood chamber or reduce the lean period. Top.. . Migratory bee keeping The moving of bee colonies from one place to another to capture increased nectar flow of a particular flora is called migratory beekeeping. Copious flow of extra floral nectar available on rubber trees during January-April is exploited by shifting bee colonies to these plantations during this period. Similar practice is done in cashew plantations and in other orchards too. Maintaining bee colonies in orchards will increase the yield, since pollination is more efficient in such orchards. Shifting of colonies is done after sun set. Colonies should be prepared as follows. Extract available honey and fasten all the weak combs to frames with plantain fibres. Secure the frames to the chamber with packing. Close the bee entrance with cotton. Then secure the bee-box (floorboard, brood chamber, supers and roof) firmly with strong threads. Do not tilt or topple beehives while stacking them in the conveyance or during transit. Avoid strong jerks and shocks while transporting. Set up the beehives as described above at the new site. Inspect the condition of combs and tighten loose threads, if any. This inspection should be done only in dim light. Next morning remove the cotton plug at bee entrance. Later provide comb foundation sheets, if necessary and provide sufficient space for storage of honey. Top.. . Extraction of honey Honey is extracted only from super combs using honey extractor. The sealing of cells on combs is removed with sharp knife before placing in the extractor. Extractor should be worked slowly at the beginning and at bout 150 rpm at the end for about 1 to 2 minutes. Then the sides of the frames are reversed and the extractor is again worked. Extracted honey is filtered through muslin cloth. Providing a bee escape between the brood and super on the day prior to honey extraction keeps the bees away from the super. Remove the escape soon after honey extraction. Top.. . Processing of honey Heat the honey to 45ºC by keeping it in a water bath. Sieve it to remove wax particles, debris, dust and pollen. Again heat it to a temperature of 65ºC in water bath and maintain it for 10 minutes. Then cool and filter it in 80-mesh muslin and store in glass, porcelain, earthenware, enamelware or stainless steel containers. Bulk storing can be made in mild steel containers lined with bee wax. Top.. . Italian bee (Apis mellifera) It is a native of Europe introduced to Himachal Pradesh and Punjab during 1962-64 and introduced to Kerala on a trial basis from Haryana in November 1992. It maintains a prolific queen, swarms less, has gentle temperament and is a good honey-gatherer. It is known to be resistant to TSBV. A healthy colony may contain 60,000 to 80,000 worker bees. The following modifications are to be followed in beekeeping with Italian bees. Bee-box Langstroth beehive with ten frames each in brood and super chambers and a division brood chamber is recommended. The brood and super chambers are of the same size. Procuring bee colonies Colonies can be obtained either by dividing existing colonies or by buying from other agencies. Location of beehives Follow the practices as in Indian bees, but use a strong four-legged stand well protected from ants and other crawling insects by providing ant wells. Management of colonies Apart from the management practices followed for Indian bee, the practices as mentioned below may be followed. Sources of pure water should be available near the apiary. Stagnant water or water in a container is not appropriate because it can spread nosema disease. Flowing water near the apiary should serve as a good source. As an alternative, water trickling from a container set on a stand and falling on a slanting wooden plank can be provided. During the brood rearing season (growth period) from October to January, replacement of old queens by young healthy ones, uniting the weak colonies and giving supplementary feeding as and when required should be done. Colonies should be provided with enough space for brood rearing and food storage, by giving comb foundation sheets one at a time. In areas where queen mating is a problem, especially when only a few colonies are kept in isolated pockets, the colony with virgin queen is to be transferred to areas where more number of colonies are kept so as to ensure the availability of queen in sufficient numbers and afterwards returned to the former apiary. During honey flow season (January-April), provide raised combs in the super and the number of combs to be added depends on the strength of the colony. Only ripe honey is harvested when two-third of the comb cells are capped so that honey contains less than 20 per cent moisture. Care should be taken to see that the bee colonies are not stripped of all the honey stores. Enough stores of honey should be ensured in the hive at the end of honey flow for use during the following lean period. For migratory bee keeping, follow the practices as adopted for Indian bees. Extraction of honey The sealing of comb is removed with a sharp knife and the extraction done in an extractor designed for langstroth size frames. Extracted honey is filtered through a coarse cloth to remove the impurities. Processing of honey To be done as described under Indian bees. During the lean season (May-September), remove the super chambers, arrange the available healthy brood combs in the brood chamber and use division boards to restrict the space. Provide artificial feeding once in a week by way of 1:1 sugar syrup in water. Each colony may require syrup prepared from 500-750 g sugar a week depending on the size of the colony and availability of stored food. When there is dearth of natural source, pollen substitutes may be provided in the colony. Top.. . Pests and diseases Brood mite (Tropilaelaps clareae): Infests the brood and the infestation is severe during the major brood rearing season (October-January). These ectoparasites feed on the haemolymph of developing broods slowly killing them. Dusting sulphur on the topbars of the frames at the rate of 200 mg / frame at 7-14 days interval during brood rearing season is very effective in checking the infestation. Yellow-banded wasp (Vespa cincta): These predatory wasps catch the bees from both the hive entrance and inside the hives. Locating and destroying their nests by burning or insecticidal usage is an effective control measure. Wax moth (Galleria mellonella): Infests weak and unattended colonies. Proper cleaning of the hives periodically and keeping the hives without cracks and crevices can avoid infestation. Black ants: Various species of black ants intrude beehives and take away honey and pollen and kill the brood and bees, which may lead to absconding of colony. The apiary should be kept clean and the ant nests destroyed by insecticidal applications. Ant wells should be provided for the beehive stands. Red tree-ant (Oecophyla smaragdina) If not protected properly, the red tree-ants can cause considerable damage to the bees and the brood. The bees that come in contact with the ground are attacked and killed by the ants and dragged to their nests by a number of ants. In the apiary, if the branch of a tree with these ants happens to come in contact with the hive, the entire colony is attacked and destroyed. Providing ant wells will keep away the ants. Care should be taken not to keep the colonies near or under the trees having ant nests. Bee-eater bird (Merops orientalis) These predatory birds do much harm in certain localities. They pick the bees on wings and 30-43 honeybees have been found in the stomach of a bird. Attack by these birds is mostly seen during December-January. These birds are also very useful in keeping down the insect population in a locality and hence no large-scale measures against them can be recommended. Scaring them away from apiaries is suggested. Top.. . Thai sac brood virus Symptoms All the larval instars are susceptible to the disease, earlier instars being more susceptible. Affected larvae appear slightly plumby compared to healthy ones when examined on taking out of the comb cells. The infected larvae see stretched on their back in the cells with the head directed outwards and turned upwards like the prow of a boat. The dead larvae look like a sac filled with milky white fluid when lifted up and it ruptures even with the slight pressure releasing the milky fluid. The cadavers change their colour from white to pale yellow and sunk down to the floor of the cell and dry up in 10-15 days as brownish black boat shaped scales, which is easily removable from the cells. The sequence of visible symptoms found in the field is: 1. Presence of unsealed cells in brood area containing diseased larvae with their head directed outwards like the prow of a boat. 2. Dead larvae are seen lying stretched out on their back on the floor of brood cells and look like a sac filled with milky white fluid when lifted up. 3. Appearance of dead larvae strewn on the floorboards, hive entrance or on the floor near the hive. 4. Mottled appearance of brood combs with uncapped cells interspersed with capped cells or cells with perforated capping. 5. Appearance of more and more dead larvae left within the cells without being ejected by the worker bees. 6. Appearance of sac like remnants of dead larvae within the cells. 7. Lack of cleaning activity within the hive. 8. Decrease in egg laying rate and irregular placement of eggs. 9. Decrease in foraging activity and presence of idling workers inside the hive.