Mumbai, Maharashtra Home » Mumbai   About Mumbai Mumbai Map Mumbai Road Map Mumbai Metro Mumbai District Map Mumbai Railways Mumbai Localities Mumbai Airpot Map Climate of Mumbai Culture of Mumbai Mumbai Location Mumbai Metro Fare Education in Mumbai Maharashtra Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Maharashtra Places to Visit in Maharashtra Travel to Mumbai Tourism How to Reach Shopping in Mumbai Hotels in Mumbai Weekend Trips from Mumbai Places to Visit in Mumbai Mumbai Film City Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Mumbai Amusement Parks Essel World Water Kingdom Fantasy Land Beaches in Mumbais Chowpatty Beach Juhu Beach Marine Drive Gardens in Mumbai Hanging Garden Kamla Nehru Park Sanjay Gandhi National park Religious Places in Mumbai Siddhivinayak Temple Mumbadevi Temple Haji Ali Dargah Monuments in Mumbai Elephanta Caves Gateway of India   Tourist Destinations Near Mumbai Travel to Aurangabad Travel to Khandala Travel to Lonavala       Mumbai Click on the Map to View big clickable Mumbai Map. Click for Enlarge View Mumbai is the seat of Bollywood cinema, shopping mall, bhelpuri on the beach, red double-decker buses and huge traffic jams. Mumbai is the commercial capital of India. The best time to visit Mumbai is between the months of September and April. The weather is then relatively dry and cool. From June to September there is immense shower, very often with fearsome results. We all know that the floods of 2005 took about a thousand and made thousands more homeless. You should also try to avoid the months just before the monsoon sets in, for then the temperature can be as high as 140°F. Mumbai is a place where people from different parts of India come for various purposes like trade and commerce, education, business and so on. It is a dream city for many people. The cost of living is very high in Mumbai. Big industrialists find Mumbai to be their ideal place for business. This city being located in close vicinity of Pune, is also visited by a large number of college goers and students from Pune. Mumbai near Pune is the city of glamor, film stars and night clubs. Here you can witness the world's latest fashion. The streets are marked with crowds watching the film shootings especially in the Marine Drive.It goes without saying that, the greatest spectacle in the Mumbai calendar is Ganesh Chaturthi, a long Hindu festival that lightens up the city every August and September. This picturesque event reaches its height when huge images of the Ganesha are immersed in the sea, most conspicuously off Chowpatty Beach. GETTING AROUND Mumbai is one of the major metropolitan cities of the country. It is well connected to the outside world through airways, railways and road. The Chattrapati Shivaji International Airport serves the city and it is the busiest airport of India. The airport consists of two terminals - an international terminal and a domestic terminal at Santa Cruz Airport. These terminals are situated 4 kms apart and a shuttle bus is used to connect them. Air travel is most convenient as there are direct flights to Mumbai from all the major cities of the world. The Indian railways also connect Mumbai to all the major cities of the country. Mumbai has various modes of transportation available to tourists and general public. Local trains, buses, taxis and autos are the most commonly available modes of commuting. Some interesting things to see in Mumbai Sanjay Gandhi National Park Fashion Street Girgaum Chowpatty Film City Mumbai Dharavi Mahakali Caves Kanheri caves Colaba Causeway Marine Drive and Nariman Point Haji Ali Dargah Crawford Market Gateway of India Juhu Beach Chawls Elephanta Caves Sunsets at Mumbai Beach Mumbai Local Train Dhobi Ghat Bandra-Worli Sea Link   LOCAL TRAINS There are four lines of these local trains that cover the city extensively. Western Railway running between Churchgate and Virar, Central Railway running between Bombay V.T. and Karjat, Harbour Line running between Bombay V.T. and Mankhurd and another railway line running between Bombay V.T. and New Mumbai. These trains run from 4 am to 1 am in the night and are called, "locals" by the people of Mumbai city. They are the most widely used mode of commuting for the general public. BUSES Mumbai's transport authority, Bombay Electric Supply and Transport, popularly called B.E.S.T runs local buses in the city. It has a fleet of red single and double-decker buses. These buses cover almost all the parts of the city. They run from 5 am till midnight, at an interval of 5 to 30 minutes. The final destination is written in Marathi in front of the bus, and in English at the side. There are newly introduced air-conditioned buses as well. TAXIS Other common means of transportation are taxis. These taxis can be hailed on the streets. There are two types of taxis in Mumbai city, Cool Cabs and the standard black and yellow taxi. Cool Cabs are air-conditioned and gray in color and charge 40 percent more than other taxis. They have electronic meters, which display the fare. The standard yellow and black taxis use a mechanical meter. The starting fare is Rs.13. The night charges are 25 percent extra and are applicable from midnight till 5 a.m. AUTOS Only taxis are allowed within the city limits, but in the suburbs, the auto rickshaws are a popular means of transport. Three wheeled auto rickshaws, more commonly called autos, can take in upto three passengers. These are run by CNG and carry an electronic meter in front, which displays the fare at the end of the journey. Blogs about Mumbai Which are the Best Cities in India to Live? : The development of cities and increasing urbanisation in India has transformed the Indian society and culture. A change in terms of occupation, living standards, thinking, education, culinary preferences etc is apparent. Cities, which are the hub of trade and commerce, attract everyone as growth rate here is higher as compared to small towns and villages. The wish to live a better life results in internal migration. People migrate from town and villages to cities and… read more... Which is the worst city to live in India? : Defining just one city as the worst city to live in India would not be appropriate. Some score good on one index and low on the other. Take a look at the capital of India. Every year Delhi welcomes hundreds of thousands of people from all across India as it has an edge over other cities in terms of infrastructure and employment opportunities. On the other hand, it also tops the list when crime and… read more... This is Mumbai – Sanjay Gandhi National Park, the lungs of Mumbai! : Sanjay Gandhi National Park is aptly termed as the 'lungs of the city' as it provides most of the oxygen to the pollution-ridden city. This park initially was very small in area but in the early 1960s all the surrounding forests were included and made into one area, thus making it a 104 sq. km wide forest which we see today. The Park is rich in flora and fauna. What I heard from the locals… read more... This is Mumbai – Film City, the magical land of Mumbai : People in India are driven by many things. Things in Bollywood play a very important role in lives of 125 crore people. These films inspire many and give them hope to do things like their favourite film stars. Be it Sharukh Khan swaying his arms to woo the actress working against him, or Hrithik Roshan banging the hell out of bad guys, everything is produced here in the magical land called as Film City. "Goregaon… read more... This is Mumbai – A Paradise for Foodies! :   Haji Ali Juice Centre is one of the most renowned juice centres in Mumbai ( a bit expensive!).This place has variety of juices which you cannot find easily at any other destination. For example, I have never tried custard apple with cream but it was a sheer delight to experience this at Haji Ali Juice Centre.  You have to shed Rs 350 for a bowl but believe me that it is worth spending. Vada Pav.… read more... Last Updated on : December 16, 2013 Mumbai Maps Mumbai Map Mumbai City Map Mumbai Tourist Map Mumbai Road Map Mumbai Metro Map More .. Places of Interest Amusement Parks Beaches Famous Monuments Gardens Religious Places More .. Shopping Areas Andheri Bandra Colaba Dadar Navi Mumbai More .. Mumbai Getaways Amravati Igatpuri Khandala Panjim Mahabaleshwar More .. Manufacturers & Wholesalers Agriculture & food Automotive & Automobiles Building & Construction Plant & Machinery More .. Service providers BPO Packers & Movers Placement & HR     Consultants Taxi & Cabs More .. Shops and Retailers Apparel & Fashion Books, Music & Toys Shopping Malls Sportswear More .. Mumbai Business Air conditioning Auto parts Automobile Showrooms Banks More .. Education in Mumbai MBA Colleges Medical Colleges Colleges in Mumbai Mumbai University More .. Mumbai Real Estate Mumbai Real Estate Mumbai Builders Real Estate Agents Apartments in Mumbai More .. Mumbai Useful Information Mumbai Airport Airlines Offices in Mumbai Mumbai Police Mumbai Weekend Getaways Mumbai Stock Exchange Mumbai Weather Real Estate Agents Apartments in Mumbai Mumbai Metro Fare Hospitals in Mumbai Trains and Flights To/From Mumbai Train Schedule Flights Schedule International Flights Cheap Flights to Mumbai             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule