Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> People Institutions >>People Mutuals People Mutuals People Mutuals was estabilished as a seperate entity on second day of October 2003 and registered as a trust under Indian Trusts Act on December 11, 2003. It was promoted by people federations facilitated and organised by DHAN Foundation. The institution is a mutual insurance initiative promoted through colloboration between DHAN Foundation, Oxfam Novib, Rabobank Foundation and Eureko Re insurance company, The Netherlands, Micro Insurance Association Netherlands(MIAN) provides technical support.   Mission "Safeguarding poor from risks and vulnerabilities through mutual solutions and colloboration with insurance providers to reduce poverty"   Programme Components Capacity building/education on mutuality and social security Product promotion and development Mainstream colloboration to ensure risk cover to all people Research, studies and documentation Policy advocacy Institution building   Approach People Mutuals strives to provide access of insurance services to poor through two approaches. Linking mainstream insurance providers with poor when the products are meeting the needs of poor. Identifying the gaps in the insurance company products vis-a-vis the needs of people and facilitating community based mutual risk mangaement solutions at federations and ensuring viability and sustainability of them.   People Mutuals Annual Report 2012-2013 ( Download, Size: 256 KB ) People Mutuals Annual Report 2011-2012 ( Download, Size: 122 KB ) People Mutuals Annual Report 2010-2011 ( Download, Size: 700 KB ) People Mutuals Annual Report 2009-2010 ( Download, Size: 1943KB ) ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved