US Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry Outlook 2018 - Sugar Free Gums Lead the Way AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Press Releases US Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry Outlook 2018 - Sugar Free Gums Lead the Way Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: US Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry Outlook 2018 - Sugar Free Gums Lead the Way LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… January 6th, 2015 #1 rajbksh Join Date Jan 2014 Posts 36 Blog Entries 2 US Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry Outlook 2018 - Sugar Free Gums Lead the Way The US Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry Outlook to 2018 – Driven by Sugar Free Gums Segment” provides detailed overview on the chewing gum and chewy candy market in the US along with its segments. The report covers various aspects such as market size of the US Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy industry and segmentation on the basis flavors, type of gum sold (sugary and sugar-free), type of candies sold and type of flavor used in chewing Gums. The report also entails external trade of chewing gums in the US. The US chewing gum market has been going through a hard time in the recent years at a CAGR of -3.5% throughout 2009-2013. The lack of interest among teenagers and the rising sugar prices are two of the main reasons responsible for the slump in sales. Chewing gum has also faced the decreasing social acceptability leading to reduced consumption in the US. From new product launches to new flavors and innovative packaging, the chewing gum industry has pulled out all the stops for stabilizing the falling sales. The market lost by chewing gums was quickly picked up by mints as they were perceived by the US consumers as a healthy alternative to chewing gums. The future of chewing gums in the US however does not look as bleak as the industry is finally picking up the pieces and the sale is getting back on track. The overall CAGR for the next 5 years is still negative however it is still better than the CAGR for 2009-2013. The industry is now focusing on Sugar-free gums segment. The top selling 5 gum in the US is sugar free which exhibits the mood of the consumer as America shuns away sugar and is moving towards everything healthy and nutritious. The functional chewing gum is a new segment that is quickly picking up steam riding on the ever increasing consumer’s need for bundled benefits of chewing gum. Functional chewing gums are expected to perform multitude of functions from weight loss to treating cold and cough while also performing the traditional functions of chewing gums such as oral care and breathe freshening. Chewy candies are growing in the US owing to their recent popularity in the working class segment of the population as the concept of on-the-go snacking takes hold of the people. The availability of sugar-free chewy candies combined with a large number of flavors has made chewy candies extremely popular among adults. Majority of chewy candy consumption comes from adults and this trend led to the chewy candy manufacturers focusing their advertising towards adults along with children. However, the rising sugar prices have dampened the spirit of consumers as it has resulted in a subsequent increase in price of chewy candies. Chewy candies, owing to the increased adult consumption and a new found identity as working professionals snack item are expected to grow at a CAGR of 7.2 % through the next 5 years during 2013-2018. Key Topics Covered in the Report: • Market Size of Chewing Gum Industry in the US by Revenue and Unit sales • Market Segmentation of Chewing Gum Industry in the US on the basis of Type of gum (Sugary and Sugar Free) and Type of flavors • Market Size of Chewy Candy Industry in the US by Revenue • Market Segmentation of Chewy Candy Industry in the US on the basis of Type of Chewy Candy (Licorice Candy and Regular Chewy Candy) • Chewing Gum consumer’s Profile in the US • Chewy Candy consumer’s Profile in the US • Global Functional Chewing Gum Market • Global Nicotine Gum Market • Import and Export of Chewing Gums in the US by Value and Volume • Competitive Landscape of Major Players in Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry in the US. • Brand Analysis of Major Players in Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry in the US by Pricing in the US market • Trends and developments in Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry in the US • Growth Drivers of the Market • Issues and Challenges in Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry in the US • SWOT Analysis of Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry in the US • Mergers and Acquisitions in the Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry in the US • Future Outlook of the industry and projections of Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry and their segments in the US Source: US Chewing Gum and Chewy Candy Industry Report Contact: Ken Research Ankur Gupta, Head Marketing & Communications query@kenresearch.com +91-11-47017199 Reply With Quote Tags for this Thread chew candy market , confectionary market , global chewing gum , global confectionary , us chewing gum View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 03:37 PM .