Humayun India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » History » Humayun   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Humayun Nasiruddin Humayun was the son of Babar. He belonged to Mughal dynasty and was the ruler of Afghanistan, Pakistan and Northeastern part of India from 1530-1540 and again from 1555-1556. He succeeded his father, Babur, as a ruler of India in 1530, while his half brother Kamran Mirza got the territories of Kabul and Lahore. Upon his accession to the throne, Humayun had two main rivals namely Sultan Bahadur of East and Sher Shah Suri. Humayun launched the attack on Sultan Bahadur and captured the fort of Mandu and Champaner with in a short span of time, while Bahadur escaped and took up refuge with the Portuguese. Humayun got success in this venture while on the other hand Sher Shah saw the opportunity and attacked Agra , the Mughal Capial. Though Humayun was able to save Agra but he has to lose Gaur, in Bengal to Sher Shah Suri. Subsequently, with the help of various war tactics Sher Shah was able to gain the control of Agra also. Humayun's brother Kamran, who was the ruler of Kandhar did not help him and instead sided with Sher Shah. Humayun has to fled India and took refuge in Lahore. Then Sher Shah marched towards Lahore too, Humayun send him the message that "I have left you the whole of Hindustan. Leave Lahore alone and let Sirhind be the boundary between you and me". In reply to this Sher Shah sent him the message that "I have left you the Kabul, you should go there. Humayun has to leave Lahore also and took refuge in Persia. With the help of king of Persia he tried to regain his lost military strength. He captured Kandhar. On the other hand Humayun's brother Kamran sought to have him killed, but he repeatedly forgave all of his brothers for every fault of them. Sher Shah ruled India from 1540-1545, he died in 1545, and his son succeeded him to the throne, but he was a weak ruler, and he too died in 1554. With his death the empire began to disintegrate and Humayun, sensing the opportunity sent an army under the leadership of his able General Bairam Khan. Bairam Khan was successful in getting the control of Delhi along with other areas. Humayun set on the throne of Delhi once again on 23rd July 1555. But his period of happiness was short lived, just six months after the ceremonial accession to the throne of Delhi, Humayun met with an accident in his library and died three days later on 25th February 1556. He was succeeded by his son Akbar. Humayun's life is chronicled in a book known as Humayun-Nama, by his sister Gulbadan. His name is alive in India as well as world even today due to his famous tomb, built by his widow after his death.   Related Links   Medieval India Alivardi Khan Krishna Deva Raya Rana Sanga Kautilya Ibrahim Lodhi Jehangir Noor Jehan Iltutmish Mumtaz Mahal Harihar and Bukka Muhammad Bin Tughlaq Ghiasuddin Balban Jijabai Aurangzeb Chatrapati Shivaji Allauddin Khilji Bairam Khan Akbar Rana Pratap Babar Birbal Humayun Tanaji Prithviraj Chauhan Shah Jahan Sher Shah Suri Samudragupta Tansen Razia Sultana Qutubuddin Aibak Rajendra Chola Rajaraja Chola Raja Todar Mal Raja Man Singh Last Updated on : February 1, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule