Bal Gangadhar Tilak India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » History » Bal Gangadhar Tilak   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Bal Gangadhar Tilak One of the stalwarts of India's freedom movement, Bal Gangadhar Tilak also known as Lokmanya Tilak was born in Ratnagiri, Maharashtra on July 23, 1856. He is known for his famous quote " Self Rule is our birthright, and We shall have it! " He was reverently addressed as Lokmanya (or "Beloved of the people" or "Revered by the world"). After completing his graduation, Tilak began teaching in a private school in Pune and went on to become a journalist. He was very vocal in his criticism of the Western education system and set up the Deccan Education Society to educate India's youth. Tilak founded the Marathi daily Kesari (Lion), in the pages of which he actively propagated the cause of freedom. He joined the Indian National Congress. He was known for his hardcore Hindu views. In 1907, the Congress Party split into the two factions. The British authorities charged Tilak with sedition and he was imprisoned from 1908 to 1914 in Mandalay, Burma. He re-joined the Indian National Congress in 1916 and helped to found the All India Home Rule League in 1916-18 . Tilak was not in favour of Mahatma Gandhi strategy of non-violent protest. He wrote many books on Indian culture, history and Hinduism like The Orion or Researches into the antiquities of the Vedas (1893), Arctic Home in the Vedas, Geetarahasya and others. He passed away on August 1, 1920   Related Links   Indian freedom movement Sukhdev Chittaranjan Das Shivaram Rajguru Dadabhai Naoroji Surendranath Bannerjee Jatindra Mohan Sengupta Laxmi Sehgal Jawaharlal Nehru Abdul Gafar Khan Khudiram Bose Rash Behari Bose Lala Lajpat Rai Rani Lakshmi Bai Madan Mohan Malviya Ram Singh Kuka Mahatma Gandhi Lala Hardayal Mangal Pandey Begum Hazrat Mahal Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Bipin Chandra Pal Motilal Nehru Sri Alluri Seetarama Raju Nellie Sengupta Veer Savarkar Pandit Balakrishna Sharma Subhash Chandra Bose Puspa Lata Das Bhim Sen Sachar Ram Manohar Lohia Acharya Kripalani Ram Prasad Bismil Aruna Asaf Ali Sagarmal Gopa Ashfaqulla Khan Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Bal Gangadhar Tilak Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chandra Shekhar Azad Last Updated on : August 8, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule