Consultation in Hitech Floriculture And Horticulture & Turnkey Project in Poly House AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Consultancy Services Consultation in Hitech Floriculture And Horticulture & Turnkey Project in Poly House Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Consultation in Hitech Floriculture And Horticulture & Turnkey Project in Poly House LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 1 Week Ago #1 shrushti Join Date Apr 2012 Posts 845 Consultation in Hitech Floriculture And Horticulture & Turnkey Project in Poly House Shrushti Hitech & Agriculture Development Add :-Vishwa Empire Office No .47 ,Baramati ,Dist-Pune Maharashtra .Pin-413102 Email-realagro1@gmail.com / shrushti.hitech@gmail.com 09403967696, 09890769945 Introduction of The Company Is an organization established to render the service to the respected farmers, a backbone of Indian economy? The establishment is made after the one year’s continual efforts of promoters & their sister concern in the agriculture & allied field. We are broadly in the consultation in Hitech Floriculture And Horticulture & Turnkey Project in Poly House Construction for the farmers residing in the Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka Gujarat & Rajasthan Delhi, state, Nepal and Sri lanka to provide various services in the field of agriculture. We also Supply of Floriculture & Horticulture plants. Manufacture in Soil Application Foliar products for the Agriculture sector, while promoting the organic farming concept. The company has efficient, cost effective products of International standards. The products have been established for their efficacies for over one year. The Company believes in eco-safety, high quality & efficacious products, intensive customer & end user training & consistent after- sale service. We have our registered office at Dist Pune Baramati, Maharashtra. INTODUCTION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT & CONSULTATION Consultant for Hitech Floriculture & Horticulture Horticulture and floriculture Development & Maintenance Develop your farm with innovative ideas with all facilities you deserve w. r. t. horticulture & floriculture development & also get financial assistance from govt. agencies. Trading of Agriculture input & output No need to go for hunting at different sources for the agriculture & allied inputs you requires & the sale output you want to market. It’s all with. Shrushti Hitech & Agriculture Development Project-Wise research in agriculture & allied fields Want to have idea about economics or want to submit the project report at bank in agriculture & allied fields. Just visit with your requirements. Contour & irrigation system survey. Establishment of projects Establish the Horticulture land development, Turnkey Project in Poly house, Shade house, Net House processing units & provide further technical Support etc. Erection of project on Turnkey basis from design stage up to final production. Plantation of selected crop & support to our comprehensive Technical Assistant. We Provide - - - Consulting in Hitech Floriculture & Horticulture www.shrushtihitech.com Supply of Cut Flowers Rose, Grebera , Carnation , Pot Anthurium , and Capsicum . Supply of All type of Plants Like - - - Dutch Rose Plant Top Grafted & Budding (Natal Briar & Multi Root Stock) Gerbera, Carnation, Gladiolus, Tube Rose, & Colour Capsicum Develop & supply of Plants like Pomegranate, Grapes, Banana, Guava, Mango, Sapota, Custard Apple, Orange, Lemon, Litchi, Papaya Seed & Strawberry Plants. Exports of Fruits and Vegetables - Potato , Onion , Soyabean Seed, Mango , Pomegranate , Banana Export from India Maximum Production of throughout life of plants, plants are made in cool place & imported breeder. Supplies are also supported by our comprehensive technical assistance. Green House & Poly House Construction. Turnkey project in all Green House, Poly House. Shrushti Hitech & Agriculture Development - India Please feel free contact me if you need further information. Thanking You! Ravindra Saste. Email- shrushti.hitech@gmail.com Website – www.shrushtihitech.com 9890769945 9403967696 Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 06:09 PM .