My India, My Pride - Know India: National Portal of India Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Options You are here: Home Know India My India, My Pride My India, My Pride India is one of the oldest civilizations in the world, spanning a period of more than 4000 years, and witnessing the fusion of several customs and traditions, which are reflective of the rich culture and heritage of the Country. The history of the nation gives a glimpse into the magnanimity of its evolution - from a Country reeling under colonialism, to one of the leading economies in the global scenario within a span of fifty years. More than anything, the nationalistic fervour of the people is the contributing force behind the culmination of such a development. This transformation of the nation instills a sense of national pride in the heart of every Indian within the Country and abroad, and this section is a modest attempt at keeping its flame alive. Did You Know That? Sanskrit is considered as the mother of all higher languages. This is because it is the most precise and therefore the suitable language for computer software (a report in Forbes magazine, July 1987). More Interesting facts about India Other Links National Days Indian Armed Forces Quotes on India Historians, writers, politicians and other eminent personalities across the Globe have greatly appreciated India and its contribution. More Quotes on India 66 th Republic Day Celebration Video on Demand: Republic Day 2015 (External website that opens in a new window) President's Address to the Nation Photos: Glimpses of Republic Day Parade Awardees 2015 Journey of Indian Republic Republic Day Celebrations History of Indian Tricolor Send Republic Day Greetings to Friends Poems on India Republic Day Celebrations & images from the past Know about Awards Bharat Ratna Param Vir Chakra (PVC) Padma Awards Gallantry Awards Bravery Awards 68 th Independence Day Celebration Video on Demand: President's Address to the Nation on 14 th Aug 2014 (External website that opens in a new window) President's Address in English (External website that opens in a new window) President's Address in Hindi (External website that opens in a new window) Live Webcast / Video on Demand: Independence Day Celebrations at Red Fort, Delhi on 15 th Aug 2014 (External website that opens in a new window) Awardees @ Independence Day 2014 President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service (79.29 KB) (PDF file that opens in a new window) President's Police Medal for Gallantry and Police Medal for Gallantry (21.5 KB) (PDF file that opens in a new window) Police Medal for Meritorious Service (19.16 KB) (PDF file that opens in a new window) Correctional Services Medal (17 KB) (PDF file that opens in a new window) Force wise/State wise Medal Awardees (49.6 KB) (PDF file that opens in a new window) Photo Gallery History of Indian Tricolor Send Independence Day Greetings to Friends The Pledge of Independence Facets of the Nation The Code of Conduct of the Indian National Flag, which has been dubbed as Flag Code of India, 2002 (File referring to external site opens in a new window) is an attempt to bring together laws, conventions, practices, and instructions for the guidance and benefit of everyone concerned. Download National Flag of India (gif - 2 KB) . The song Jana-gana-mana, composed originally in Bengali by Rabindranath Tagore, was adopted in its Hindi version by the Constituent Assembly as the National Anthem of India on 24 January 1950. It was first sung on 27 December 1911 at the Calcutta Session of the Indian National Congress. Download Audio - National Anthem of India (871 KB, 0:52 Sec.) More on Facets of the Nation Source: National Portal Content Management Team Global Navigation Profile National Identity Elements of India Culture & Heritage States/ UT s Districts of India Photo Gallery Kids Corner My India My Pride General Information India & the World Downloads My India My Pride Badge Badge in .jpg (6 KB) Badge in .ai (198 KB) Badge in .eps (559 KB) Badge in .tif (439 KB) Badge in .pdf (50 KB) (Opens in a new window) Badge in .png (9 KB) National Flag National Flag in eps format (438 KB) National Flag in gif format (2 KB) National Flag in jpeg format (4 KB) National Anthem (Audio) National Anthem in mp3 format (817 KB, 0:52 Sec.) National Anthem (Video) National Anthem in High Quality Video (6.5 MB, 0:56 Sec.) National Anthem in Medium Quality Video (2.3 MB, 0:56 Sec.) National Anthem in Low Quality Video (1 MB, 0:56 Sec.) National Song (Audio) National Song in mp3 format (1.06 MB, 1:09 Sec.) National Song (Video) Photo Gallery Independence Day Celebrations & images from the past Republic Day Celebrations & images from the past Webcast Webcast of Republic Day Celebrations (External website that opens in a new window) Webcast of Independence Day Celebrations (External website that opens in a new window) Send e-Greeting Send Greetings on Indian themes to your friend / relative (External website that opens in a new window) . Home Help Add to Favorites (Refer the Help section) Terms of Use Accessibility Statement     © 2014 NIC . All rights reserved.