Tamil Nadu Temples & Shrines Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Tamil Nadu Travel Tourist Map How to Reach Shopping Hotels in Tamil Nadu Places to Visit in Tamil Nadu Vadapalani Temple Nilgiris Hills Kanyakumari Temples Kodaikanal Lake Sri Meenakshi Temple Brihadisvara Temple Shrine of Subrahmanya Covelong Beach Shore Temple Government Museum in Chennai Vivekananda House Victory War Memorial Temples in Kanyakumari Beaches in Tamil Nadu Temples and Shrine in Tamil Nadu Cities in Tamil Nadu Ooty Travel Kanyakumari Travel Kodaikanal Travel Madurai Travel Thiruvarur Travel Tiruvannamalai Travel Vellore Travel Yercaud Travel Coonoor Travel Tamil Nadu Hotels Madurai Hotels Ooty Hotels Rameswaram Hotels Chennai Hotels Kodaikanal Hotels Yercaud Hotels Coonoor Hotels About Tamil Nadu History of Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Festivals Tamil Nadu Food Tamil Nadu Facts Home » Tamil Nadu » Tamil Nadu Temples & Shrines Temples & Shrines in Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Temples & Shrines Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The glorious history of Tamil Nadu Temples & Shrines manifests the architectural brilliance of the bygone centuries. Exotic creative skills of the Cholas, Pallavas, Pandyas and the Nayakas have left their imprints in the numerous Temple structures that don the holy land of Tamil Nadu. From Lord Venkatesha, Vinayaka and Shiva to Murugan and Vishnu, the Temples of the place are enshrined with the marvelous idols of various Gods and goddesses. From the prehistoric ages to the recent 20th century, Tamil Nadu showcases both period and contemporary style of Temple architecture. Inspired by the art, culture and mythic sagas of the ancient rulers, the Temples & Shrines present an awe-inspiring series of ancient extravaganza of Tamil Nadu. Characterized by a common tower, also known by the name of gopurams, the Temples of Tamil Nadu dates back even to 700 AD. Primarily built with the raw materials of brick and mortar, these sacred places of worship are revered worldwide for their majestic pillar structures, spacious prakarams and embellished entrances. The outstanding Temples & Shrines that adorn the landscape as well as the sky of Tamil Nadu are the Maruthamalai Shri Murugan Temple at Coimbatore and the Nataraja Temple at Chidambaram. However, the district is dominated by several other equally fascinating Temples like the Meenakshi Temple, Ramanatha Swamy Temple, Gangaikonda cholapuram Temple, Rajagopala Temple, Nageswaran Temple, Tyagrajar Temple, Murugan Tample, Chayavaneswara Temple, Krishnapuram Temple, Pancha Sabha Temples, Srivilliputtur Temple, Chidambaram Kapaleeswarar, Swamimalai and Kailasamundaiyar Temple, among others. Being visited by thousands of devotees from every corner of India, the Temples & Shrines offer blessings of various deities of Hindu mythology. By providing opportunities for social celebrations and educational programmes, the Temples of Tamil Nadu sets a unique mark of their own. Famous Temples & Shrines of Tamilnadu Adi Kumbeswarar Temple It is said to be nearly 1300 years old. The Temple has a huge premises, established over an area of 30181 sq ft, with a length of 750 feet, and breadth of 252 feet respectively. The vast temple complex is decorated with wonderful artwork. It has three Praharas and three Gopurams in the eastern, northern and western directions of the temple. During 16th century, Govinda Theeksithan, the Chief of Achutha Nayakar of Thanjavur, revived Adi Kumbeswarar Temple, Kumbakonam. The East Gopuram is 128 ft in height comprising of 9 stories. The temple constitutes of Mangala Theertham, Marriage hall and small temples for Muruga, Ganapathi and Mangalambigai. Alagar Koil Situated at about twenty-one kilometers northeast of the City of Madurai, is the temple of Alagar Koil, Madurai. The presiding deity in the temple is Lord Vishnu. The Alagar Koil Temple is at the base of the beautiful Alagar Hills. The temple of Alagar is also known as Azhagarkovil. The idol of Lord Vishnu is made out of stone and is known as Kallalgar. In this temple, more than one idols of Kallalgar are seen in different postures. Lord Vishnu is seen in standing, sitting and reclining positions. Although there are a total number of one hundred and eight Divya Desam, which are also called Vaishnavite Shrines, in the temples of India; it is only in two temples that there are idols of Lord Vishnu in different postures. Devarajaswami Temple It is a magnificent temple built by the Vijaynagar kings. The temple is dedicated to one of the chief Gods of Hindu religion, Lord Vishnu. Devarajaswami Temple, Kancheepuram is located on the eastern end of Kancheepuram, nearly 76 km from Chennai. It is popularly believed that after creating the Universe Brahma wanted Lord Vishnu to reside on the Earth. So He performed the Aswamedha Yagam and when the Yagam was about to end, Lord Varadaraja and His Consorts, Sridevi and Bhudevi emerged from the flames of the Yagam. Lord Brahma requested the Lord to come on Earth and bless devotees. The Lord agreed and thus stayed behind in Hasthagiri. Koodal Alagar Temple It is devoted to Lord Vishnu, one God of the Divine Trinity in the Hindu Mythology. A unique feature of this temple is the three different postures of the same God residing in three different alter. The three figures of Vishnu are in standing, sitting and reclining postures. These three figures of the deity are known by three different names. The most venerated of the three figures is Lord Vishnu in the seated posture. The seated Lord Vishnu is locally known as Lord Koodal Alagar from whom the temple derives its name. The reclining idol is more popu-larly known acknowledged as Sri Ranganatha. Sri Surya Narayan Perumal is the name for the standing image of Lord Vishnu. Kumariamman Temple Kumariamman Temple is situated in Kanniyakumari which is on the southernmost tip of India, where the Arabian Sea, the Indian Ocean and the Bay of Bengal meet. It is a well known pilgrimage center and a famous tourist spot of India. Kanniyakumari was ruled by various dynasties like the Cholas, Cheras, Pandyas and Nayaks. These rulers have contributed immensely to enrich the architectural wealth and heritage of Kanyakumari, by building many temples. Apart from Kumariamman Temple the other popular tourist destinations at Kanyakumari are Mahatma Gandhi Memorial, Thiruvalluvar Statue, Kamarajar Manimandapam, Vivekananda Rock Memorial, Sri Sthanumalayan Temple at Suchindrum, Kanyakumari Bagavathiamman Temple, Udayagiri Fort, Mathur Hanging Bridge, St. Xavier Church etc. Mahamaham Temple It is actually a collection of temples, that surrounds the famous Mahamaham Tank in the city. Located near the Head Post Office of Kumbakonam, the tank is encircled with sixteen small Mandapams or temple structures and the Nava Kannika Temple in the east of the tank. The deities, which are kept and worshiped in these Mandapams are Mukunthar, Bhramatheerthesar, Rishkesar, Umalpakesar, Thalesar, Brahmeesar, Nairuthesar, Gangatheerthesar and Seshtra Paleesar. Mariamman Theppakulam Mariamman Theppakulam, Madurai is located at about five kilometers east of the most famous Temple of the city, the Meenakshi Temple. An enormous water tank, it has its source in the river of Vaigai. The tank was built back in the year sixteen hundred and forty six. It covers an area of three hundred meters by two hundred and eighty five meters. There is a dais in the center of the tank. A Mandap is built on the platform in which there resides an idol of Lord Ganesh. People worship the Ganesh idol and He is better known as Lord Vigneshwara or Vinayaka. This Ganesh temple is known as tank temple as it is placed on a tank. Surrounded by a serene ambiance, the tank temple of Mariammam Theppakulam enjoys the status of being one of the most popular tourist spot in the region. Vekuntha Perumal The historical facts indicate that Vaikuntha Perumal Temple, Kancheepuram was constructed shortly after the Kailashnatha temple was built. It was built by the Pallava king Nandivarman and was completed in the 7th century A.D. There are three different levels of the main shrine. There are a number of sculptures of Lord Vishnu in the main shrine, which are quite massive in size depicting the Lord in sitting, standing and reclining postures. Last Updated on 02/11/2013 Hotels in Tamil Nadu Chengalpattu Hotels Chennai Hotels Chidambaram Hotels Coimbatore Hotels Coonoor Hotels Erode Hotels Hosur Hotels Kanchipuram Hotels Kanyakumari Hotels Karur Hotels Kodaikanal Hotels Kumbakonam Hotels Madurai Hotels Mahabalipuram Hotels Mayiladuthurai Hotels Mettupalayam Hotels Nagapattinam Hotels Namakkal Hotels Ooty Hotels Palani Hotels Rajapalayam Hotels Rameswaram Hotels Salem Hotels Sivakasi Hotels Tanjore Hotels Thanjavur Hotels Thoothukudi Hotels Tiruchirapalli Hotels Tirunelveli Hotels Tirupur Hotels Tiruvannamalai Hotels Vellore Hotels Villupuram Hotels Yercaud Hotels Travel to Tamil Nadu Travel to Chennai Travel to Chettinad Travel to Coimbatore Travel to Chidambaram Travel to Courtallam Travel to Coonoor Travel to Kanchipuram Travel to Kanyakumari Travel to Kodaikanal Travel to Krishnagiri Travel to Madurai Travel to Mahabalipuram Travel to Nagapattinam Travel to Namakkal Travel to Ooty Travel to Poompuhar Travel to pudukkottai Travel to Salem Travel to Sivagangai Travel to Theni Travel to Thirurvarur Travel to Thoothukudi Travel to Tirunelveli Travel to Tanjore Travel to Tiruchirappalli Travel to Tiruvannamalai Travel to Velankanni Travel to Vellore Travel to Virudhunagar Travel to Yercaud Places to Visit in Tamil Nadu Places to Visit in Ooty Places to visit in Chennai Places to visit in Chettinad Places to visit in Coimbatore Places to visit in Kanchipuram Places to visit in Kanyakumari Places to visit in Kodaikanal Places to visit in Madurai Places to visit in Thanjavur Places to visit in Tiruchirappali About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule