The Taj Mahal Museum Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Agra Travel Tourist Map About Agra Weather Shopping Hotels in Agra How to Reach Taj Mahotsav Travel Agents Travel Tips Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri How to Reach Agra Agra Airport Agra Distance Chart Flights to Agra Agra Buses Trains to Agra Agra Route Map Delhi to Agra Varanasi to Agra Bharatpur to Agra Agra to Nanital Agra to Dehradun Agra to Lucknow Agra to Jaipur Agra to Allahabad Agra to Ajmer Tourist Destinations near Agra Mathura Travel Vrindavan Travel Bharatpur Travel Delhi Travel Jaipur Travel Ranthambore Travel more.. Agra Map Location Map Railway Map District Map Road Map more.. Home » Agra » The Taj Mahal Museum The Taj Mahal Museum The Taj Mahal Museum is a museum in Agra, Uttar pradesh which lies within the complex of Taj Mahal-one of the greatest creations dedicated to love. The museum was formed in 1982 and it is to be found in the Jal Mahal, a Mahal inside the Taj Mahal. It is an integral part of Taj Mahal-one of the supreme wonders of the world. It is a big museum consisting of two floors and has three galleries along with a main hall. The Taj Mahal Museum, as the name suggests, showcases all those things related to the creation of Taj Mahal. There are a total number of one hundred and twenty one antiques displayed in the museum. These things can be largely classified into Mughal manuscripts, Mughal miniature paintings, inscription samples, Royal decrees, drawings and plans of Taj Mahal. Some other items which are also exhibited in the museum are arms, utensils, specimen of decorative pieces, marble pillars, etc. The main hall contains the most significant items. These are the paintings of Shah Jahan and Mumtaz Mahal, his most preferred wife. These are seen on an ornate wooden frame. Imitation of coins, which were minted in Akbarabad, now Agra, is also on display. These things of immense antique value are displayed in a well-planned manner. The antiquities are displayed in the spacious museum in such a way that it is easy for the visitors to relate and understand. Everyday, millions of people come to visit Taj Mahal-one of the Seven Wonders of the World. It is but natural that the museum which displays antiques related to Taj Mahal will also be flooded by visitors. The Taj Mahal Museum remains open from ten in the morning to five in the evening. A nominal amount of entrance fee, five rupees per head is charged. Children up to fifteen years of age are exempted. Like the Taj Mahal, the museum which stands within it, is also a wonder and an interesting place to be visited by all people on earth. Last Updated on : December 21, 2013 Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule