::::::::::::::::AIFPA - :::::::::::::::: All India Food Processors' Association All Members of AIFPA, Food Industry From the Desk of President, AIFPA I may inform all the esteemed members of this Association that your Association has taken pro-active initiatives in the following three important areas concerning the Food Processors in the country:- 1. Budget Proposals for 2011-12 including SOS Messages to PM, FM and other Govt.Deptts. regarding Budget 2011-12. 2. Suggestions to the FSSAI on the draft Notification GSR 39(E) dated 19/1/2011 regarding Food Safety & Standards Rules-2011. 3. Suggestions to the Ministry of Environment and Forest on the draft Notification No S.O. 2400(E) and S.O. 249(E) dated 4th February 2011. The highlights of suggestions made to the Govt. on each of the above important topics are as under:- 1. Budget Proposals for 2011-12:- Though your Association had already submitted useful suggestions in the past few months for inclusion in the Union Budget 2011-12, but the latest suggestion on the same has been sent as SOS message reminding and requesting the Govt. not to levy Excise Duty on the perishable processed food products. The brief details of the proposal submitted to Hon’ble Prime Minister, Finance Minister, Secretary (Revenue), Secretary (Finance) and others are available on the Website of the Association, which will be published in “Indian Food Packer”. 2. Suggestions to the Food Authority on the draft Notification GSR 39(E) dated 19/1/2011 regarding Food Safety & Standards Rules 2011:- Your Association has also made very useful suggestions on the above referred notification of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The points covered in the representation are on Qualifications, Powers and Duties of Designated Officer, Food Safety Officer, Food Analyst, Procedure of taking extracts of documents and matter connected therewith, Sampling and Analysis procedure, Fourth sample for analysis- option of food processors, Analysis of food samples by Food Analyst, Action by the Designated Officer including the report of the Food Analyst and Nomination by the food company, etc. 3. Suggestions to the Ministry of Environment and Forest on the draft Notification No S.O. 2400(E) and S.O. 249(E) dated 4th February 2011:- Your Association has also made representations to the Ministry of Environment and Forests on the above referred Notification highlighting the anomalies in certain provisions of the Rules and difficulties to be faced by the food processors in following these Rules. I may assure you that your Association will continue to strive to follow-up with concerned authorities in the Govt. to remove difficulties to the food processors for the speedy development and growth of the Sector. You may kindly see the contents of these representations made to Govt. on the website of the Association at www.aifpa.net I am pleased to inform you that Association with the Assistance of Ministry of Food Processing Industries and India Trade Promotion Organization (A Govt.of India Enterprise) is organizing a National Seminar on "Food Ingredients and Additives- Opportunities and Challenges" on 11th March 2011 at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi. We have invited Sh. Harish Rawat, the Hon’ble Minister of State for Agriculture & Food Processing Industries to inaugurate the seminar. The Key Note address will be delivered by renowned food scientist, Dr. V. Prakash, Director, CFTRI. Besides, other experts from industry will be presenting their views on important topics during the seminar. I strongly suggest to the Members of AIFPA to participate in the Seminar and have the benefit of knowing about the latest developments, challenges and opportunities in this field for their own benefit. Therefore, kindly book/block your diary to participate in the event which is being held along with famous event of the Govt. i.e. AAHAR-2011(from 10th -14th March 2011). (Piruz Khambatta) President, All India Food Processors' Association 206, Aurobindo Place Market, Hauz Khas, New Delhi-110016 Tel:- 011-26510860/26518848 Fax:- 011-26510860 Website:- www.aifpa.net