 Free Blog Counter Hitwebcounter.com How to and What is Blog Technical,Health and other Articles Get Free Web Counter for your WebSites and BLOGS Here Home Free Blog Counter Jan.16, 2010 in Uncategorized Blogs have become a very popular medium for individual user and people and even corporates to be in continuous contact with their friends and customers. The basic concept of a blog is like a personal diary where you would write your entries. You can keep it private and public too. Most of the blogs will also have option that the visitors have the option to comment on your posts or articles. So in this sense it is a very interesting thing and sort of interactive website where you can update your site visitors over the time so that they keep on coming back for fresh content unlike regular websites. Hitwebcounter.com offers Blog counter and Counter code for Blog so that the website or blog owners can embed that code in their website to keep track of their visitors. Blog owners can put this web hit counter or blogger counter on their website to keep track of visitors. The advantage is that you do not need any sort of sign up. You just paste this code in your blog and you are ready to go. This is true for almost all type of blog platforms for example for Wordpress Blogs you can edit you footer file and embed our code and the counter will start appearing under your page. This wordpress counter will start working immediately as you put the code in your page. There are almost blogs on every fields now a days and many people who are expert in different domains of life on operate these blogs. Our traffic counter or stat counter can be put on every sort of blog and you are ready to go immediately. There are many styles in which our fancy counters are available in and you have many designs to choose from as you wordpress counter, counter blogspot or any other type of Blog. The web counters are free to use and Blog Counter code have to be put on your site on the page you want this counter to be working on. So after all this effort of making a Blog the next step is Marketing your blog and for this purpose you can contribute on Social networks more actively and submit you blog to some old directories like DMOZ and also to the newly established directories like Sites Directory and Business Directory to name just a couple. There is a huge big list of them which can be found on internet. After all this effort and hard work the final step is to put a counter to keep track and Stats of Visitors to measure your success. All the blogs keep on updating and obviously all the owners of blog definitely want to keep a track on the number of visitors that are visiting their website. So they can track unique visitors and total visitors as there are both of the types available for our traffic hit counters. Blogs some times are further divided into categories for example a Blog that will just have videos can be called vlog. The blog that will just have photos can be called photolog but in broad terms they will all be called weblogs or Blogs. Comments are below Reviews, Tips, Questions and Answers asked by article audience on “Free Blog Counter” are below. How to put Counter on tumblr February 11th, 2011 at 6:32 pm Just paste the code as a usuall HTML page and it must start working General Blog This blog have articles about Science, Travel, Health, Automobile, Geography and much more. Also visit our site http://www.hitwebcounter.com HitwebCounter.com Meta Ads Tag Cloud Health Problems, Better, Possible Medical Tips, USA Reasons For, Feet Diabetes, Problems, Control Mushrooms Health, Cure, Should Pregnancy Women Issues Swollen Ankles Headache, Diabetes, Good For Important, Consider, Control What, Why, How, if Kidney, Lipoma, Benefits Issues, Risks, Cancer Symptoms, America, Visa Treatments, Home Remedies Compare Cars, Automobiles Kids, Children Samsung, iPhone, Android Heart, Liver, Bones Pros and Cons, Healthy Condition, Increase, Concern Blogroll Acer Laptops and Notebooks American Immigration Through Investment Andreas Lubitz Antivirus and Firewalls AT&T Address of Stores in AZ Arizona AT&T Stores in Alabama (AL) AT&T vs Comcast Australia Web Hosting Best And Cheapest Way To Send Money To India Best CMS Best Web Hosting Black Friday 2011 Best Buy Bone Cancer Breitbandnetzen Router Broadband router BSNL Tarrif and Broad band Plans Burj Khalifa or Burj Dubai Business Web Hosting Buy Nokia N8 Cellular Smart Phone Cancer Canon Pixma MX420 Cartridge Refilling Catching Fire Hungry Games Book Online Charter vs Verizon DSL Cheap Flights Cape Town South Africa Child Obesity Reasons China Mobile 中国移动通信 Compare 2015 Altima & Camry Compare Vonage and Ooma Condo Vs House Comparison Core I7 Processors Counter Tracker For Blogs Dark Chocolate Dell Laptop Batteries Diabetes And Eye Vision Problems Dish Network Internet Domain Name Registration E Plus Germany Facebook Payments Flat Feet Forum Counter Tracking Free Web Site Counter Free Windows 10 Galaxy S6 Features Ginger Health Benefits Good Foods For Kids Günstige besten Web-Hosting Hair Hair Transplantation Hard Disk Headache Health Of Bones Heart Surgery-What To Expect Hosting in United Kingdom Hotels Internet Security How Laser Printer Works How To Lose Weight Fast Diet and Tips http://www.hitwebcounter.com/how-to/ways-tips-to-start-burning-fat-fast.php Fat Burning Tips Hypertension and High Blood Pressure iiNet Broadband Plans Improve Memory Information About Pregnancy Internet Provider Services IOS 8.2 Review iPhone 6 Plus Features And Specifications iPhone 6 Plus Review Iridium Satellite Phones Kidney Cancer Latest Honda CRV Details Lenovo XI Carbon Ultrabook Lord of the rings online game Low Blood Pressure Majorque Make Internet Safer Making a Website Making PHP Website Mallorca Majorca Hotels and Vacation Rentals Marketing Benefits Mushrooms Health New Yorker iPhone App O2 Pay As You Go Optus Australia Prepaid Prize Win Orange Pay As you Go Orlando things to do Osteoporosis Paris Must See Attractions Price and Specs of Galaxy Samsung Note Promote Websites Purchase a notebook Réseaux routeur Rogers payasyougo Samsung Galaxy S II-2 I9100 Samsung vs Apple Phones Pros & Cons Satellite Phone Sauna Benefits Second Hand Car Purchase Tips Skin Wrinkles Home Remedies Sprint vs Verizon Stockholm Tourch Screen Ultrabook Travel Trip Plan Ulcers Ultrabook USB Hard Disk Verizon 4S iPhone Verizon Planes de llamadas celulares Verizon Wireless Cellular Mobile Plans Vodafone Prepaid Sim Voice over IP VOIP Walmart Coupons Deals Black Friday Web Counters What Is My IP Whistler Blackcomb Windmobile Windows 7 Windows 7 consejos de instalación Windows 8 Information の構築とサイトをホストしている Privacy Policy Full RSS - Comments RSS