India Political Map in Assamese, Map of India in Assamese Language Home » India Political Map in Assamese   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       India Political Map in Assamese Political Map of India in Assamese Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing All the States of India in Assamese Language. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Assamese is one of the 22 scheduled languages of India. It is also the formal language of the Indian state of Assam and is spoken in various areas of Northeast India. The Assamese speaking people can use an India political map in Assamese language to know about the political subdivisions of the country and their capitals as well. A political map is always helpful in knowing a country better and an India political map in Assamese language is not an exception. These innovative maps are available on the Internet as online versions and can be downloaded easily. Getting a printout of any of these maps will help you use it as an offline version. Then you can carry this map along with you to your favorite destination. Exploring a country like India which features unity in diversity becomes a wonderful experience with this map. This map will be particularly helpful for the visitors coming from the state of Assam and adjoining areas where the Assamese language is spoken and written predominantly. Whenever they want to visit a place in India, they can carry this type of a map with them to ensure a hassle free tour. Last Updated on : April 2, 2014 View India Map in Gujarati Bengali English Malayalam Oriya Sanskrit Hindi Marathi Tamil Punjabi Kannada Nepali Telugu Urdu Assamese              