Bengaluru (Bangalore) City Map Home » Maps » Karnataka » Bengaluru City Map   Cities in Karnataka Manipal Bangalore Hubli Mangalore Gulbarga Davangere Mysore                    more... कर्नाटक का नक्शा Karnataka Karnataka Map Districts of Karnataka Karnataka Railways Karnataka Roads Rivers of Karnataka Tehsils of Karnataka Places to visit in Karnataka Travel to Karnataka Wildlife Sanctuaries in Karnataka Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Mysore Hotels Coorg Hotels Mangalore Hotels Udupi Hotels Belgaum Hotels              more... Physical Map Where is Karnataka Forests in Karnataka Karnataka Agriculture Sex Ratio Minerals in Karnataka Latitude and Longitude Industrial Map Karnataka Air Network Karnataka Pin Code Karnataka STD Code How to Reach Karnataka Karnataka Facts Education in Karnataka Universities in Karnataka Geography and History People Culture and Festivals Karnataka Government and    Politics Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Constituencies Population of Karnataka Karnataka Handicrafts Karnataka Economy Bangalore Fort Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka       Bengaluru (Bangalore) City Map Click on the Map to get Large Bengaluru City Map City Map of Bengaluru (Bangalore) Click here for Customized Maps View Larger Map Print Email Free Download   * Bangalore city map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Karnataka   Manipal City Map Bangalore City Map Mangalore City Map Gulbarga City Map         Davangere City Map Bellary City Map Hampi City Map Bidar City Map     other cities of Karnataka  >>   Travel to Karnataka       Bengaluru Travel Map Mysore Travel Map     Bangalore, also known as Bengaluru, is designated as the capital of the state of Karnataka in India. The name of the city is synonymous with the IT (Information Technology) revolution in the country. Bangalore houses a population of 8,474,970 (2011 census) and ranks as the third biggest city in the nation in terms of population. The city has turned into a major commercial, industrial, and cultural hub in South India. A number of nicknames are used to describe Bangalore including the 'Silicon Valley of India', 'City of Gardens', and 'Pub Capital of India'. The city houses a number of scenic parks, movie theater complexes, boulevards, and famous memorials and edifices. The city is a vibrant and fast developing city. The various areas of the Bangalore Urban district form a significant part of the city and at the same time, the adjoining rural regions make up the rural district of the city. The city features an exciting nightlife with a host of exotic pubs. The weather of Bangalore is truly enjoyable and as a result, Bangalore attracts thousands of travellers round the year and is a popular traveler destination in India. When you are visiting the city, it is necessary that you carry a Bangalore City Map with you which you can always refer to. Getting all the necessary information about the Silicon Valley of India has never been simpler. There are many tourist places in the city which have been highlighted in this map and they include the following: Yelahanka Satellite Township Madivala Tank BTM Layout Bull Temple Biotechnical Garden St Andrew's Church Lal Bagh Gardens Bengaluru International Airport (Kempegowda International Airport) Golf Course of Bangalore Tipu Sultan's Summer Palace Bangalore Palace Cubbon Park Varthur Kere Mayo Hall Vidhana Soudha Venkatappa Art Gallery Visvesvaraya Industrial and Technological Museum Bangalore Museum Karnataka High Court Bangalore is one of the fastest developing metropolitan areas in India and houses many software companies, aerospace engineering and research institutes, telecommunication companies, and defense organizations. Using a Bangalore city map will help you locate important roadways, railway stations, water bodies, airports, hospitals, hotels, religious places and major landmarks in the city. You can also locate the cities that edge Bangalore from different sides such as Mandya, Kolar, Yumkur, and Hassan. A Bangalore city map is particularly useful for the travelers since it helps them find all the major hotels and restaurants in the city. Finding the airports and railway stations is necessary to tour the city and nearby places conveniently and this map acts as an ideal guide regarding that. Bengaluru Facts State Karnataka District Bangalore District Headquarters Bangalore Tehsil/Taluk Four Taluks- Banglore- East, West, South And Anekal Lat Long 12.972358,77.594619 Area 9,596 km2 (3,705 sq mi) Population as per 2011 9621551 Official Languages Kannada and English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) STD Code 080 Transport Air, Rail, Road Vehicle registration KA-01 Food and Cuisine South Indian, North Indian, Muslim food, Chinese and Western fast food Religion Hindus, Christians and Muslims. Festival Bangalore Karaga, Kadalekaye Parishe, Makara Sankranthi, Gowri Habba ,Ganesh Chaturthi, Krishna Janam Ashtami ,Dussehra Deepavali , Mahashivratri, Ugadi , Varamahalakshmi Monuments Vidhan Soudha , Tipu's Palace, Attara Kacheri (High Court), Museum, Seshadri Iyer Memorial Hall, Bangalore Palace Places of interest Lal Bagh, Bangalore palace, Attara Kacheri, Government Museum, Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium, Bannerghatta National Park, Butterfly Park, Bull Temple, St. Mary's Basilica, Shivanasamudra Falls, Mysore, Ulsoor Lake, ISKCON temple complex, Someshwara Temple, Vidhana Soudha, Tipu Sultan's Palace, Cubbon Park etc. Markets Brigade Road ,Commercial Street ,M.G. Road ,Residency Road , Sampige Road, Malleswaram Marathahalli Main Road , Jayanagar Shopping Complex , Gandhi Bazaar , Chickpet , KR Market/ City Market , Gandhi Bazaar ,N R Colony ,Banashankari , Malleswaram, Jayanagar ,JP Nagar Shivajinagar, Bangalore Central, Cosmos Mall , Garuda Mall , Garuda Swagath Mall , Gopalan Mall , Leela Galleria , Lido Mall , Mantri Square Royal Meenakshi Mall , Sigma Mall , The Collection , The Forum , The Forum Value Mall etc. Hotel The Leela Palace Bangalore , Ramada Encore Domlur Bangalore ,Citadines Richmond Bangalore, The Elanza Hotel, Mango Hotels, Bangalore- Koramangala ,Elmas Hotel, Mango Hotels, Bangalore- Koramangala etc. Industries Information Technology (IT), Aerospace and Aviation industries, Manufacturing Industries, Space technology, Electronics City, industrial park, Research and Development (R&D), electronics and software production etc. University/College University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering, Visvesvaraya Technological University, R.V. College of Engineering, PES Institute of Technology, BMS College of Engineering, M. S. Ramaiah Institute of Technology, Bangalore Institute of Technology, Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences, St. John's Medical College, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, Sir M. Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology and Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering etc. Notable people K.C. Reddy, Former Chief Minister, H.D. Deve Gowda, Former Prime Minister, Siddaramaiah, Former Deputy Chief Minister, Kuvempu - poet, Jnanpith awardee, Masti Venkatesh Iyengar - Jnanpith awardee, T. P. Kailasam - Kannada writer, playwright, Sir M. Visvesvarayya, engineer and statesman, Dr. Krishnaswamy Kasturirangan, astrophysicist, former Chairman of ISRO, member of Rajya Sabha etc About Bangalore Bangalore airport Innovative Film City International Schools in Bangalore Bangalore Metro Map Passport Offices In Bangalore Bengaluru To Kodaikanal Road Map Bangalore Rail Map Namma Metro Stations Map Bengaluru To Munnar Road Map Bangalore Road Map Education in Bangalore Bengaluru To Ooty Road Map Software Companies In Bangalore Schools in Bangalore Bengaluru To Tirupati Road Map Weather In Bangalore Colleges in Bangalore Bangalore Bus Routes Places to visit in Bangalore Amusement Parks in Bangalore Lakes in Bangalore Wildlife in Bangalore Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Bangalore Museums in Bangalore Cubbon Park in Bangalore Religious Places in Bangalore Parks and Gardens in Bangalore Historical Monuments in Bangalore Shiva Temple Bangalore Restaurants In Bangalore Places to Visit in Bangalore Tipu Sultan Palace Bangalore Shopping Areas in Bangalore Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium Bangalore Ulsoor Lake Bangalore Bangalore Weekend Getaways Blogs about Bangalore Which are the Best Cities in India to Live? : The development of cities and increasing urbanisation in India has transformed the Indian society and culture. A change in terms of occupation, living standards, thinking, education, culinary preferences etc is apparent. Cities, which are the hub of trade and commerce, attract everyone as growth rate here is higher as compared to small towns and villages. The wish to live a better life results in internal migration. People migrate from town and villages to cities and… read more... Which is the worst city to live in India? : Defining just one city as the worst city to live in India would not be appropriate. Some score good on one index and low on the other. Take a look at the capital of India. Every year Delhi welcomes hundreds of thousands of people from all across India as it has an edge over other cities in terms of infrastructure and employment opportunities. On the other hand, it also tops the list when crime and… read more... The Super-Dazzling Nightlife of Bangalore : Super crazy night-outs, the upbeat jazzy music at the pubs, the ultra-cool dance moves and the carefree wobbling in the streets- if this is what describes you then you are a sure-shot party animal! Life is a party for the true party buffs who are in a constant lookout for the hottest party locations anywhere and everywhere. As a country with diversity in every aspect, India also has a diverse nightlife culture that varies from… read more... Bangalore Palace: A Bewitching Royal Prodigy : Location: Bengaluru, Karnataka My unprecedented love for forts and palaces shoots up sky-high when I stumble upon places such as these. A true masterpiece of royalty, the Bangalore Palace gives a bona fide testimony of the Indian architectural heritage. Situated amidst the hustle bustle of the cosmopolitan city of Bangalore, this majestic castle is owned by the royal family of Mysore. It serves as the venue for holding various programs, exhibitions and concerts in the… read more... Explore Science with Fun at the Visvesvaraya Museum : The Visvesvaraya Industrial and Technological Museum (VITM), a treasure trove of knowledge, popularizes science through live demonstrations to give you a fun-filled educational experience. It is one place where science merges with frolic, becoming a pleasure for children and adults alike. Located in the heart of Bengaluru, the museum was constructed in the honour of Sir M. Visvesvaraya, one of the architects of modern Karnataka. Spread over an area of 40,000 sq. ft., the five-floored… read more... Last Updated on : November 18, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule