Anita Desai India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Literature » Anita Desai   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Anita Desai Born on 24th June 1937, in Mussoorie this eminent novelist and short story writer is a Professor of Humanities, Emeritus at the Massachusatts Institute of Technology. Born as Anita Mazumdar,the daughter of D.N. Mazumdar, a Bengali businessman and Toni Nime,who was a German, Anita received her earlier education at Delhi 's Queen Mary's Higher Secondary School. Anita was a precocious child, she started writing short stories at a very young. Her first short story was published when she was mere nine.She joined 'Miranda House' for her bachelor's degree and completed her graduation in English literature in 1957 at the age of 20. In 1958 Anita tied the nuptial knot with Ashvin Desai, a businessman. She ventured into the field of novel writing with her novel 'Cry, The Peacock', followed by 'The Voices of the City' and 'The Fire on the Mountain'. The Fire on the Mountain is based on the lives of three women residing in Kasauli and their different experiences of life. In 1980 came her famous novel, The Clear Light of Day, which bears impressions of Anita Desai's own life. This novel set in Old Delhi , is a story of a middle-class Hindu family around the time of partition of India . The story revolves around the central character, Bim (Bimla). She lives in her house with her mentally retarded brother Baba. Her sister Tara and her elder brother go away with their respective families leaving her to bear all the problems and responsibilities of the household alone. The novel is partially a trip down memory lane. Her another important works include Where Shall We Go This Summer?, Games at Twilight and Other Stories, Village by the Sea, In Custody, Baumgartner's Bombay, In Journey to Ithaca , Diamond Dust and her booker prize nominated novel, Fasting Feasting. The Zig Zag Way published in 2004 is her most recent novel. Anita desai has been honored with many literary awards including The Guardian Award for Children's Fiction, for the novel The Village by the Sea and the 1978 National Academy of Letter Award for her novel Fire on the Mountain. Anita Desai is a Fellow of many prominent literary organizations such as The Royal Society of Literature,London and the American Academy of Arts and Letters. Her daughter Kiran Desai has won the 2006 Man Booker Prize for her novel the 'Inheritance of Loss'.   Related Links   English Authors Amitav Ghosh Anita Desai Arundhati Roy Jhumpa Lahiri Khushwant Singh Kiran Desai Mulk Raj Anand R. K. Narayan Raja Rao Salman Rushdie V.S. Naipaul Vikram Chandra Vikram Seth Romesh Chandra Dutt Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule