Srinagar City Map Home » Maps » Jammu & Kashmir » Srinagar City Map   Jammu and Kashmir Cities Srinagar Jammu Leh Pahalgam Gulmarg Udhampur                    more.. जम्मू और कश्मीर का नक्शा About Jammu and Kashmir Jammu and Kashmir Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Rivers Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map India Pakistan Border Dispute Travel to Jammu and Kashmir Places to visit in Jammu Amarnath Yatra Map Vaishno Devi Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hotels in Jammu and Kashmir Jammu Hotels Katra Hotels Leh Ladakh Hotels Pahalgam Hotels Patnitop Hotels Srinagar Hotels Gulmarg Hotels Assembly Polls J&K Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities In Jammu And Kashmir Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Srinagar City Map City Map of Srinagar Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * City Map of Srinagar highlights all Major Roads, Hotels, Hospitals, Religious Places, Schools, Colleges, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Jammu and Kashmir   Pahalgam City Map Sopore City Map Srinagar City Map Udhampur City Map         Gulmarg City Map Jammu City Map Leh City Map         more cities of Jammu & Kashmir >> Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir is located in the Kashmir valley, surrounded by Himalayas on all sides. The city is located between 34°5' N and 74°47'E at an elevation of 1585 meters and spread out in an area of 294 sq kms. The Jhelum River, a tributary of the Indus River, flows through the city into the Dal Lake. The temperature in the city ranges from 29° C in summer to -2° C in winter. Snowfall in winter cuts road access to the city. Srinagar is connected through the National Highway no 1 A to Punjab and from there to the rest of the country. The NH 1A begins from Jalandhar in Punjab, travels through Srinagar, and further to Uri border in J&K., NH 1D is also known as the Srinagar-Leh road. It joins Srinagar to Kargil and then to Leh in Ladakh. Srinagar City Dal Lake in the heart of the city is its major landmark and a top tourist attraction, famous for its house-boats. Srinagar has a number of gardens and tourist spots near the Dal Lake. The gardens are those historically laid down by the Mughal emperors. Some of the tourist spots are Mughal Garden Shalimar Ghat Dargah Sharif is also known as Hazratbal Shrine. It is located on the left bank of the Dal Lake. Chashma Shahi Garden, laid by the Mughal emperor Jehangir in the 16th century is a few kilometers from the center of the city. Botanical Garden Hariparbat Fort Nagin Lake is joined to the Dal Lake by a causeway. The Lalit Grand Palace is a former palace of the maharaja now converted into a luxury hotel. Shankracharya temple is situated on a hill, 1100 feet above the city level. This Shiv temple is the oldest shrine in the city. The city has a population of 10.94 lakhs. The residential areas in the city are Badami Bagh near the Cantonment, Aramwari, Ram Munshi Bagh, Maharajpur, Batmaloo, Wazir Bagh in the south. Some of the other residential areas in the north and center of the city are Akhon Mohalla, Mazgam, Nasim Bagh, Lal Bazaar, Kakar Bagh, Saidpura, Buchpora, Hafiz Bagh, Lati Mohala , Dangarpura, Khaga Bagh Colony. The hotels in the city are located near the cantonment in the south, near the Boulevard Road. Some of the hotels are Sadaf, Blooming Dale, Swiss, and the Lalit Grand Palace. Srinagar also has a number of educational institutes. There are three government schools; the Government Boys Higher secondary School is located in the south of the city near the cantonment, and another one in the north of the city near Batt Bagh. There is a Government girls higher secondary school in the north also. Some of the institutes for higher education are University of Agriculture Science & Technology Kashmir University Polytechnic college Islamia college of Science and Commerce Important Landmarks in The City Industrial Estate in the north of the city Srinagar Development Authority in the South Haji Masjid Doona Pora Park Hariparbat Fort Hussain Park Golf Course Srinagar City Information Country India State Jammu and Kashmir District Srinagar Established Year 3rd century BC Founded by Raja Pranavsarena Area 294 km2 (114 sq mi) Population 1273312 as Census January 2011 Population Density 8,523/km2 (22,070/sq mi) as Census January 2011 Language Kashmiri, Urdu, Hindi, English Official Languages Kashmiri, Urdu Literacy Rate 71.45% as Census January 2011 Sex Ratio 888 / 1000 Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Pin code 190 001 Area code 194 Lat Long 34.0900° N, 74.7900° E Religion Islam, Hinduism Festivals Lohri Festival, Navroz Festival, Urs Festival, Baisakhi Festival, Ramzan Festival. University University of Kashmir, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology of Kashmir Sports Sher-i-Kashmir Stadium, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad, Royal Springs Golf Course Airport Srinagar Airport (IATA code SXR) Railway Station Srinagar railway station Tourist Attractions Dal Lake, Chashma Shahi ,Nishat Bagh ,Shalimar Bagh ,Sher Garhi Palace ,Gulab Bhavan Nearby Tourist Attractions Gulmarg, Pahalgam ,Sonamarg Popular Things Carpets, shawls, handcrafted clothes, Dry fruits and spices, furniture and showpieces made in Srinagar, Royal Springs Golf Course,Pari Mahal, Tulip Garden. Notable People Khwaja Abdul Karim Kashmiri, Lalla Arifa, Bulbul Shah, Sheikh Hamza Makhdum, Gulam Ahmad Mehjoor National Highway National Highway 1A, National Highway 1D Last Updated on : 28/09/2013 Travel to Jammu and Kashmir Travel to Jammu and Kashmir Travel to Gulmarg Travel to Katra Travel to Ladakh Travel to Leh Travel to Patnitop Places to Visit Jammu and Kashmir Places to Visit Jammu Places to visit in Gulmarg Places to visit in Katra Places to visit in ladakh Places to visit in Leh Places to visit in Srinagar             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule