goat farm pvc flooring AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Goat Farming - Mohsin Shaikh goat farm pvc flooring Results 1 to 4 of 4 Thread: goat farm pvc flooring LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… February 25th, 2015 #1 ajuptpm Join Date Feb 2015 Posts 1 goat farm pvc flooring sir am about to construct a goat shed of about 1000sqft. my question is how can i construct the floor in pvc. its merits and demerits. dealers of pvc flooring in south india. Reply With Quote March 6th, 2015 #2 smy82482 Join Date Mar 2012 Posts 2,324 PVC floor will be very costly as compare to wooden and metal flooring,its an unnecessary investment.PVC,wooden and metal flooring's on elevated platforms,does the same work.If you are getting same merits ans same workings with wooden and metal flooring,than why to invest more on PVC flooring.Shed will not provide you the profit,its the goats who will provide you the returns.Beside investing o PVC flooring invest more on good type of goat breed. Note:Construction of shed must be as per standard goat farming methods,i.e goats must be easily adjustable and gets well protected from rain in rainy season and from cold in winter season,must be well ventilated in summer. Regards, DR.Shaikh www.goatfarm.co.in Reply With Quote March 20th, 2015 #3 vanifarms Join Date Mar 2015 Posts 6 Dear Dr.Shaikh, I haven't seen people using metal flooring for goat shed. Interesting piece of information. I was wondering what will be the cost of such metal flooring per sqft or how it compares to wooden floors cost wise.Also it would be helpful if you can name some source. thanks!! Dr.Kumar Vani Farms - India - Boer and Thalachery Goats Reply With Quote March 26th, 2015 #4 smy82482 Join Date Mar 2012 Posts 2,324 I m using metal flooring for last four years.Check my sheds video which is attached below,you will know how to use it.The cost of such metal flooring is on weight.The per kg cost is same as that of per kg cost of iron in your place. Regards, DR.Shaikh www.goatfarm.co.in Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 07:33 PM .