Assocham India :: Services Thought Leadership The Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India "The Knowledge Chamber: Serving the Nation since 1920" Home About Mission History Structure Persons at the helm President Quotable Quote Vision Membership Membership Forms Services To Members At A Glance Online Registration Services Events Forthcoming Events Recent Events National Councils Gallery Publications Contact Us Membership Complain / Feedback Publication Management Physical Address with Map Overseas Branches Services Click Here For Special benefits offered to Patron Members Services to Members include: Close interaction with ASSOCHAM’s renowned Members, Central & State Governments, international agencies and academia. Assistance to  trade and industry in becoming competitive in national and international markets. Promotion of international trade through meetings with visiting foreign business delegations, participation in Trade Fairs/Exhibitions and  business delegations abroad. Expert advice on diverse subjects such as industrial growth, monetary and fiscal policy, exchange rate policy, economic planning, taxation and corporate laws. Regular and timely information on latest national and international policies Govt. Legislations and technical developments. Generating awareness and gathering public support regarding specific aspects of business for overall business development. Analysis of legislation: Helping policy makers, foreign investors and trade and industry. Platform to interact and gain professional knowledge through seminars, workshops and round table meetings. Total Quality Management Cell (TQMC): Organises seminars/workshops/training programmes on TQM, ISO 9000,  ISO 14000, TPM and related topics.  Provides guidance in adoption of lean operation practices including ISO 9000, ISO 14000.  Networks with other operational bodies towards promoting new concepts of management. Energy Efficiency Centre : An Energy Efficiency and Conservation Promotion, Guidance, Counselling and Consultancy Centre functioning at ASSOCHAM disseminates information about energy efficiency measures and provides guidance in financing energy efficiency projects. Participate in the Expert Committees/Task Forces of ASSOCHAM ASSOCHAM has more than 100 National Councils which regularly take up the Issues of its Members interest in various fields with the Policy Makers. Redressal of general/common problems of Members at Central/State Government levels and other Institutions. Networking with Indian missions and counterpart organizations across the globe. Assist identifying joint venture partners at various national and international events organized by ASSOCHAM. Web Services :  information on important events organised by ASSOCHAM and other activities, press releases, membership, etc. Quick Mail Service :  QMS (Weekly) makes available to members government notifications, circulars, reports, etc. Opportunity to gain mileage by becoming a sponsor/co-sponsor of ASSOCHAM events. Access to ASSOCHAM periodicals/publications: Assocham Bulletin, Overseas Business Contacts, Parliamentary Digest, News & Views Weekly etc. Access to library, Study Reports & Data. Access to use Conference and Meeting Room facilities of Centrally located at concessional rates at Centrally Airconditioned ASSOCHAM House, New Delhi. ASSOCHAM Business Directory : Complete profile of your organization vis-à-vis full address, telephone/fax numbers, email id, name of the chief executive, details of manufacturing/trading activities, etc. is published in the ASSOCHAM Business Directory.  This directory is usually brought out every year and circulated to Ministries, Government Offices, Promoter Chambers and Ordinary Members throughout the country.  In addition, it is sent to all our Embassies/High Commissions and counterpart organizations abroad.  ASSOCHAM has a direct and indirect membership of over 200,000 corporates throughout the country.  This would mean a wide publicity free of cost. Certification of Export documents including Certificate of origin, Visa Recommendation Letters for business promotion visits abroad. Escort Service to Entrepreneurs setting up new projects and Technology upgradation. Developmental programmes with special focus on Human Resources and Industrial Relations. Concessional fee for participating in various paid programmes organised by ASSOCHAM. Nomination of Member's Representative on Committees/Advisory Forums constituted by the Central/State Governments. Click Here For Special benefits offered to Patron Members Photo Gallery read More Publications read More Membership read More Events read More ASSOCHAM in News read More National Councils read More Blog read More Research Papers read More Tweets by @followassocham RSS Feed Widget ASSOCHAM Across the World India Japan London UAE USA            The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India ASSOCHAMM Corporate Office,5, Sardar Patel Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi - 110021 Phone: 46550555(Hunting Line) Fax: 01123017008/9 Email: assocham@nic.in Copyrights ©2014 assocham.org, All Rights Reserved.