Is Papaya and Banana Cultivation Possible in Agra (Western Uttar Pradesh)? - AgricultureInformation.com Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your Message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store My Orders Need Help? Is Papaya and Banana Cultivation Possible in Agra (Western Uttar Pradesh)? QUESTIONS > Is Papaya and Banana Cultivation Possible in Agra (Western Uttar Pradesh)? Dear Sir, I am desirous of commercial papaya and banana cultivation in Saharanpur (Western Uttar Pradesh) in open field. Is it possible to cultivate the same in Agra. The soil type is Sandy Loamy. I intend to use drip irrigation. A lot of farmers are cultivating the same successfully in Barabanki area around 300 kms south from Agra having almost similar climatic conditions. The temperature rises above 40 degree Centigrade in summers and falls to minimum to 3-4 degree centigrade in winters. What variety of Papaya and Banana are cold and frost hardy. What kind of precautions should i take in winters? Kindly guide me. Complete this form to contact the person who posted the above message Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Enter above letters/numbers: You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) Search – messages Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Tags agriculture land agriculture land for sale aloevera capsicum coconut consultancy consultant cows cultivation dairy farm dairy farming distributors farming farm land ginger goat goat farm goat farming green house Job land for sale lease loan mango medicinal plant Melia Dubia moringa mushroom mushroom farming organic organic farming PAKAYOKO NATURAL SEED partner poly house poultry farming project report rice spirulina subsidy training turmeric vegetable vermicompost wanted farm land want land PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Related messages – questions, wanted, for sale Is Papaya and Banana Cultivation Possible in Agra (Western Uttar Pradesh)? Papaya Farming Want to start PAPAYA FARMING Reg Banana cultivation… Log in Sign in Remember me Lost your password? Forgot your details? Reset Password I remember my details