Mollies Offered by Chempakasseril India | ID - 229136 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Chempakasseril Member Since : 2011 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Home » Product » Mollies Mollies Mollies are the most common live bearers.Molly is usually included among the first fish for beginner aquarists.You can keep a single Molly, but they are more interesting when kept together since you can witness more of their natural behaviour. The male Molly sporting the most striking colours and largest fins is the alpha Molly.You can choose between to major types of Molly; the Short finned mollies and the Sailfin mollies. All Mollies are Livebearers and unlike many fish species, Livebearers do not deposit eggs. A male Molly will instead fertilize the eggs while they are still inside the body of the female Molly, and the eggs will develop into a fry inside the mother. When the fry is large enough, the female Molly will give birth. We are breeding various color patterns of mollies like orange, silver,black and dalmatian.We are now able to supply in any amount and of any size.The size varies from 2" seeds to 3.5" brood stock. Color : Black, Orange, White Size : 2"-3" Tail. : Moon tail,sailfin Additional Information : Payment Terms : D/A, D/P, Western Union Minimum Order Quantity : 1000 Piece(s) Packaging Details : We are using heat cases for transportation so that the fishes will not get stressed by sudden temperature changes or shocks.We are promising zero percentage mortality for our fishes. In case of death,we are ready to replace the dead ones or refund the money. Delivery Time : depends upon distance SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mr. Sree Madhav,Rishikesh Mobile Phone : +91-9447542024,+91-8547015488 » More detail Product Range » Aquarium Fish » Mollies Yes No Related Catalogs Rajsons Exports glucose biscuits, cream biscuits, confectionery, lollipop, candy, safety matches, woven sacks, non basmati rice, sugar, pulses, motor cycles,... Subodh Brothers Pvt. Ltd. black tea, green tea, oolong tea, organic tea Ideal Icecream ice creams, vanilla ice cream, strawberry ice cream, butterscotch ice cream, mango ice cream, banana ice cream, chocolate ice cream,... Alpha Overseas dairy products, milk powders, dairy whiteners, milk product, ghee, milk fats, edible casein, edible lactose, milk Suggested Companies National Egg Centre Gulf Processing Industries Grace Supermarket Gananayaka Exports B. N. Exports. Pvt. Ltd Siva Krishna Traders Unity Exports Related category Match Aquarium Fish Fish WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com