Amritsar Kolkata Industrial Corridor Project (AKIC) Home » Infrastructure » Amritsar Kolkata Industrial Corridor Project   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views About India India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels Current Events India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       Amritsar Kolkata Industrial Corridor Project AKIC Alignment Map Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing AKIC Alignment Map. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Amritsar Delhi Kolkata Industrial Corridor Project The Amritsar-Delhi-Kolkata Industrial Corridor Project, an economic corridor to connect Amritsar, Delhi and Kolkata under the Industrial Zone, has been approved by the Government of India. The project was proposed by Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP). The corridor has been divided into two phases. It will be designed following the pattern of the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) along the Eastern Dedicated Freight corridor. In order to ensure a well organised preparatory work for the construction of the corridor, the Prime Minister of India has established an Inter-Ministerial Group (IMG). The IMG includes: Secretary, DIPP Chairman Secretary, Shipping/Chairman, IWAI Member Secretary, DEA Member Secretary, Urban Development Member Chairman, Railway Board Member Secretary, RTH Member Some of the recommendations submitted by the IMG to the Prime Minister included: The project will be lined up with the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC). An Apex Monitoring Authority will be set up for overall guidance, planning and approvals, setting up of timelines for implementation and monitoring. This will be chaired by the Union Minister for Commerce and Industry. Also, Amritsar-Delhi-Kolkata Industrial Corridor Development Corporation will be constituted as a corporate entity. The ADKIC will involve both the Public Private Partnership (PPP) and non-Public Private Partnership. The Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) or Implementation Agency will develop the non-Public Private Partnership section through grant-in-aid. The ADKIC must be stretched for a length of 150-200 km in a phased manner on both sides of the EDFC. First phase of the ADKIC Project It has been estimated that the first phase will cost a sum of Rs. 5,749 crore. The first phase will spread over West Bengal, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and Bihar. As recommended by the IMG, in the first phase, minimum one cluster of 10 sq. km. is to be constructed by each state. The cluster will be called an 'Integrated Manufacturing Cluster', 40% area of which would be granted for activities related to production. Benefits of the ADKIC Project More job opportunities for the young people. Growth in industrial production. Development of new industrial cities. Last Updated on : February 3, 2014               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule