Mumbai Maps, Mumbai India Map Home » Maps » Mumbai Maps   About Mumbai Mumbai Map Mumbai Road Map Mumbai Metro Mumbai District Map Mumbai Railways Mumbai Localities Mumbai Airpot Map Climate of Mumbai Culture of Mumbai Mumbai Location Mumbai Metro Fare Education in Mumbai Maharashtra Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Maharashtra Places to Visit in Maharashtra Travel to Mumbai Tourism How to Reach Shopping in Mumbai Hotels in Mumbai Weekend Trips from Mumbai Places to Visit in Mumbai Mumbai Film City Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Mumbai Amusement Parks Essel World Water Kingdom Fantasy Land Beaches in Mumbais Chowpatty Beach Juhu Beach Marine Drive Gardens in Mumbai Hanging Garden Kamla Nehru Park Sanjay Gandhi National park Religious Places in Mumbai Siddhivinayak Temple Mumbadevi Temple Haji Ali Dargah Monuments in Mumbai Elephanta Caves Gateway of India   Tourist Destinations Near Mumbai Travel to Aurangabad Travel to Khandala Travel to Lonavala       Mumbai Maps Click on the Map to View big clickable Mumbai Map. Click for Enlarge View Mumbai is dubbed as the commercial capital of India and it also serves as the capital city of the state of Maharashtra. The city was created from seven islands and they are Mazagaon, Colaba, Wadala, Old Woman's Island, Parel, Mahim, and Matunga-Sion. Currently, Mumbai City is the result of a significant extent of development carried out on the seven islands mentioned above. The city is famous for its historical background. However, the present of the city is just as luminous. The city has been given many sobriquets like the "city of dreams" or the "city that never sleeps". The reason behind this is the powerful existence of Bollywood or the Hindi film industry. Today, Mumbai, or erstwhile Bombay ranks as the biggest metropolitan region in the country. The city is home to above 13 million people. As a result, Mumbai is among the most populous cities in the globe. Mumbai/Bombay is one of the top ten commercial hubs in the world by worldwide economic transactions. The city offers endless job and career opportunities to the people of India. It is one of the important reasons why so many people across the country come to Mumbai to earn their livelihood. The city stands out from other cities in India because of its energetic lifestyle and abundance of tourist destinations. Mumbai is currently one of the top-rated tourist destinations in India. In addition, it houses a national park inside its precincts (Sanjay Gandhi National Park) which is a unique feature that only limited cities in the world have. Mumbai District maps Mumbai district maps can be broadly categorized into Mumbai city district maps and Mumbai suburban district maps. Mumbai suburban district is made up of three tehsils - Andheri, Kurla, and Borivali. The city area is known as South Mumbai. The city district stretches from Mahim and Sion in the north to Colaba in the south. The place includes areas like Worli, Mumbai Central, Lower Parel, and Prabhadevi. Demographics of Mumbai As per the Census 2011, this Western Indian city is the 4th most populous city of the world and the most populous city in the nation. Following are the demographic details of the city: Total population: 12, 478, 447, according to the 2011 census (12.4 million or 1.24 crore) Metropolitan population: 18, 414, 288 Total male population: 6, 736, 815 Total female population: 5, 741, 632 Density of population: 20, 694 per sq. km. Growth of population: 12, 478, 447 Growth rate of population: 4.7 % Rate of literacy: 89.7 % Sex ratio: 848 females per 1, 000 males Official language: Marathi Main religion: Hindus (67.39 %), Muslims (18.56 %), Buddhists (5.22 %), Christians (4.2 %), Jains (3.99 %), Sikhs (0.58 %) and Jews, Parsis and other religion (0.6 %) Tourist Places in Mumbai The city of Mumbai has got numerous places of visit, which attracts tourists from domestic as well as international destinations. To name a few of them are: Afghan Church : Located in the quiet atmosphere of the army cantonment in the southern part of the city, this church of the Evangelist St. John was constructed in the year 1858 and is made of lofty limestone. Banganga Tank : This is a famous, quaint and ancient Jain pilgrimage on the way to the Malabar Hills. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya : Formerly called the Prince of Wales Museum, this museum was established in the 20th Century. Apart from reflecting the Victorian architecture, this museum of Mumbai has got a collection of ancient and rare artifacts of natural history, archaeology and art. Elephanta Island : This island is known for its rock cut temples. This World Heritage Site is a complex, which includes shrines, inner cells, courtyards, porticos and grand halls that are filled with some exclusive stone sculptures of Lord Shiva and other Gods and Goddesses of the Hindu religion. Essel World : Based in West Borivali, this is one of the renowned amusement parks in the city, which has got a number of joy rides. Gateway of India : Built to commemorate Queen Mary and King George V's visit to India, this is the most popular monument of the city. Motor launches are available from the back of the arch to take you on a short cruise so as to explore the natural harbor of this city. Hanging Gardens : Situated near the Malabar Hill, this well maintained park provides a picturesque view of the Mumbai city. Mani Bhavan : This used to be the home of Mahatma Gandhi, which has now been turned to a museum that exhibits some of the things used by Gandhiji. Marine Drive : Even known as the "Queen's Necklace" for the evening lights, this place offers a panoramic view of sunset. Chowpatty Beach : This sea beach is one of the ideal places for evening hangouts in the city. The food stalls on the beach serving local bhel puri and pav bhaji just add on to the people's enjoyment. Besides the ones mentioned above, names of some of the other tourist attractions in and around Mumbai are: Aksa Beach Borivali National Park or Sanjay Gandhi National Park Dr. Bhau Daji Lad Museum F. D. Alpaiwalla Museum Haji Ali Mosque Jama Masjid Juhu Beach Kamla Nehru Park Mahalakshmi Temple Mumbadevi Temple Mumbai Port Trust Garden Nariman Point Nehru Science Centre Suraj Water Park St. George Fort Veermata Jijabai Udyan (Zoo) Resources of Economy in Mumbai This city, being the richest Indian city, has got the highest Gross Domestic Product (G. D. P.) among all the other cities of west, south and central Asia. This commercial capital of India is a land of innumerable multi-national companies, domestic as well as foreign banks, financial institutions etc. To name a few are Wipro Limited, Larsen and Toubro, Tata Group, State Bank of India, Reliance, Life Insurance Corporation of India (L. I. C.) and Godrej. Though in the earlier days, the economical resources were limited to seaport and textile mills, but presently the sources of economy of this city include healthcare, engineering, polishing of diamond and Information Technology (I. T.). Modes of transport in Mumbai The Mumbai city can be reached from any part of the nation as well as the major international destinations by one or the other modes of transport, which are mentioned below: Air Transport : Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, located at a distance of around 28 km from the heart of the city, is the main and the nearest airport to the city. This busiest airport in India has got international flights operated by the following airlines: Air Asia British Airways Delta Emirates Lufthansa Malaysia Airlines Qantas and Singapore Airlines Airlines, which operate domestic flights to almost all the main cities of the country, are: Go Air Indigo Jet Airways Spice Jet Rail Transport : Indian Railways help the city connect to places all over the nation. Chattrapati Shivaji Terminus, earlier called Victoria Terminus or V. T., Kurla Terminus, Dadar Terminus and Churchgate Railway Station are the 4 important railways station in the city. Road Transport : The capital city of Maharashtra has got a number of highways passing though it, which help the city connect to the neighboring areas as well as the distant places. To name some of them are: Eastern Express Highway National Highway 3 National Highway 4 National Highway 6 National Highway 8 National Highway 9 National Highway 17 National Highway 222 Western Express Highway Besides these, there are few more, some of which are as follows: Eastern Freeway Mumbai - Nashik Expressway Mumbai - Pune Expressway Mumbai - Vadodara Expressway Sion Panvel Expressway Western Freeway Various types of buses, starting from air conditioned and luxury to normal ones, ply to and from the city, thus, connecting the place to the other parts of the nation. Apart from that, the rented taxis and cars are even available. The Utility of Mumbai Maps A detailed map of Mumbai will help you locate major tourist attractions like the following: Vasai Fort, Aarey Milk Colony, Atria Millennium Mall, Asiatic Society of Mumbai, Bhuleshwar, Banganga, Bombay Stock Exchange, Bombay Natural History Museum, Chaityabhoomi Dadar, University of Mumbai, Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya, Chor Bazaar, Chhota Kashmir, Crawford Market, Chowpatty Beach, Essel World, Elephanta Caves, Film City, Fashion Street, Flora Fountain (currently known as Hutatma Chowk), Gurdwara Shree Guru Singh Sabha, Gateway of India, Hanging Gardens, Haji Ali Mosque, INS Vikrant, Bombay High Court, Jijamata Udyaan, Jehangir Art Gallery, Kamala Nehru Park, Juhu Beach, Mahalaxmi Racecourse, Kanheri Caves, Marine Drive (formerly known as the Queen's Necklace), India Government Mint, Mani Bhavan Gandhi Museum, Nehru Nehru Planetarium, Centre, Prithvi Theatre, Powai Lake, Reserve Bank of India, Rajabai Tower, Hotel Taj Mahal, Borivali National Park (Sanjay Gandhi National Park), Veermata Jeejabai Bhosale Udyanm, Taraporewala Aquarium, Siddhivinayak Temple, Vihar Lake, Tardeo Agiary Parsi Temple, Mahalaxmi Temple, Global Pagoda, Shri Swaminarayan Temple, and Aksa Beach. Other than these tourist attractions, you will also be able to locate the beaches, major roads, airports, and railway stations in Mumbai. If you are thinking about staying in the city, you can also choose from the following hotels highlighted in the map: Grand Hyatt Le Meridien Sun-N-Sand Taj Lands End Hyatt Regency Leela Kempinski Taj Mahal In this way, Mumbai district maps help the tourists travel across the largest city in India. Mumbai Maps Mumbai City Map Mumbai Seven Island Map Central Mumbai Map Mumbai Railway Map Mumbai Hospitals Map Mumbai Hotels Map Tour and Travel offices Map Departmental Shops Map Leather shops Map Lifestyle shops Map Mumbai Local Train Map Location of Haji Ali Dargah North Mumbai Map Navi Mumbai Map Mumbai Tourist Map Mumbai Metro Map Bandra Worli Sea Link Map Airlines offices in Mumbai Antiques and Art shops Map Gift shops Map Mumbai Location Map South Mumbai Map Greater Mumbai Map Mumbai Road Network Map Mumbai Travel Map Offices Location Map Carpets Shops Map Handicraft shops Map Men's wear shops Map Monorail Route Map Mumbai Office Map Mumbai Road Companion Andheri - Mumbai Central Dadar - Malabar Hill Santacruz - Shivaji Terminus Bandra - Colaba Juhu - Mumbai Central Worli - Nariman Point Church Gate - Cuffe Parade Mumbai Central - Chembur More... More About Mumbai Places of Interest in Mumbai Manufacturers &    Wholesalers Mumbai Business Mumbai Airport Mumbai Stock Exchange Shopping Areas in Mumbai Flights to Mumbai Service providers in Mumbai Education in Mumbai Mumbai Weekend Getaways Mumbai Police Mumbai Getaways Mumbai Hotels Mumbai Weather Mumbai Train Schedule Shops and Retailers Mumbai Real Estate Last Updated on : 12/07/2012             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule