Aurangabad City Map Maharashtra Home » Maps » Maharashtra » Aurangabad City Map   Cities in Maharashtra Mumbai Ahmednagar Akola Aurangabad Kolhapur Latur Nagpur Nashik Pune Solapur Shirdi                        more.. महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Regions Mumbai Central North Mumbai South Mumbai About Maharashtra History and Geography Maharashtra Climate Maharashtra Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Maharashtra Economy Industrial Map Maharashtra Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Maharashtra Education Universities in Maharashtra Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Aurangabad City Map City Map of Aurangabad Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Aurangabad city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Maharashtra   Mumbai City Map Pune City Map Nashik City Map Nagpur City Map         Ahmednagar City Map Aurangabad City Map Mahabaleshwar City Map Shirdi City Map       other cities of Maharashtra >>   Travel Map of Maharashtra   Aurangabad Travel Map Mumbai Travel Map Pune Travel Map         Founded in 1610 by Malik Ambar, Aurangabad was then known as "Khidki" meaning window. The city served the real purpose of its ancient name as the Mughals could look into the Deccan through it. Later in 1953 the city was renamed as Aurangabad when Aurangazeb took over the Deccan kingdom. Aurangabad is most famous for its historical monuments and caves. The most renowned tourists' attraction of Aurangabad is Bibi-Ka-Maqbara, built in memory of Aurangazeb's wife, Begum Rabia Durani. Among others there are Aurangabad Caves, Panchakki, Himroo Factory, Darwazas, Daulatabad Fort, Khuldabad, Shirdi, Grihneshwar Temple, Paithan, Ajanata and Ellora Caves, and History Museum of Marathwada University. Attractions: Bibi-Ka-Maqbara: 5 km away from Aurangabad, built in the memory of Begum Rabia Durani, by her son Prince Azam Shah, Bibi-ka-Maqbara is a complete replica of Taj Mahal . It is an excellent example of the Percian Architecture. Aurangabad Caves: Travel a few kilometers from bibi-ka-maqbara and you would reach the Aurangabad Caves. The excavation of these caves goes back to the time of 2nd to 6th century AD. The most famous caves of Aurangabad are the 34 caves of Ellora and 29 caves of Ajanta. The world's largest monolithic sculpture, the Kailash Temple is to be found in the Ellora Caves. Panchakki: Built in the pre Mughal era this enormous water mill was used for grain grinding stones. It's an example of a 17th century engineering wonder. Himroo Factory: A glimpse of conventional type of Himroo Weaving can be seen at the Himroo factory situated at Aurangabad's Zaffer gate. You can also buy shawls and saris from this factory. Daulatabad Fort: Daulatbad or "the city of fortune" was named by the Delhi Sultan Muhammad Tughlaq. 13 km away from Aurangabad this fort is known to be the oldest existing forts of India.. Khuldabad: 3km from Ellora this town houses the holy tomb of emperor Aurangazeb. Shirdi: The land of sacred Sai Baba, Shirdi is 130km away from Aurangabad. With a puja every Thursday thousands of devotees pay pilgrimage to Shirdi. How to get there: The Aurangabad airport is connected to Mumbai, Delhi and Jaipur. There are 2 trains from Mumbai to Aurangabad everyday. There are also several state and luxury buses from Mumbai to Aurangabad. Many star and luxury hotels are available at Aurangabad. Blogs about Aurangabad Ajanta Caves in Aurangabad: A Spectacular Architectural Heritage :   Location: Aurangabad, Maharashtra The finest spectacles of the Indian classical art are hidden in an isolated canyon located in the Aurangabad district of Maharashtra. A world-renowned heritage site, the Ajanta Caves are one of the oldest cave monuments in India, dating back to the 2nd Century BC. These caves were artistically excavated by the craftsmen for the Buddhist monks who prayed, lived and taught at this site. The exclusive paintings at the Ajanta caves… read more... The Invincible Grandeur of the Daulatabad Fort in Aurangabad : Location: Aurangabad, Maharashtra The architectural masterpieces of India are as unique as the country itself. Each piece of architecture has its own eccentricity and grandeur. As we talk about uniqueness, one place that strikes my mind right away is the Daulatabad Fort in Aurangabad. Built in the 12th Century, this fort is said to be the impenetrable fort of that time. Established by Raja Bhillamraj of the Yadav clan, it later passed on to several… read more... Last Updated on : 25/04/2013 Cities in Maharashtra Akola Alibag Amravati Beed-city Bhiwandi Chandrapur Chiplun Jalna Dombivli Khandala Kolhapur Latur Lavasa Lonavala Malegaon Matheran Mumbai Kalyan Nanded Navi Mumbai Pandharpur Panvel Sangli Satara Vajreshwari Washim Hotels in Maharashtra Ahmednagar Hotels Alibaug Hotels Amravati Hotels Aurangabad Hotels Baramati Hotels Bordi Hotels Chandrapur Hotels Chikhaldara Hotels Chiplun Hotels Jalgaon Hotels Karad Hotels Karjat Hotels Khandala Hotels Kolhapur Hotels Kopergaon Hotels Lonavala Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Matheran Hotels Mumbai Hotels Murud Janjira Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Navi Mumbai Hotels Panvel Hotels Patalganga Hotels Pune Hotels Raigad Hotels Shirdi Hotels Shrirampur Hotels Sinnar Hotels Solapur Hotels Thane Hotels Thane West Hotels Trimbakeshwar Hotels Umbergaon Hotels Travel to Maharashtra Travel to Ajanta Travel to Aurangabad Travel to Ellora Travel to Khandala Travel to Lonavala Travel to Haji Ali Travel to Mumbai Travel to Nagpur Travel to Nashik Travel to Panchgani Travel to Pune Travel to Shirdi Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Ajanta Places to visit in Aurangabad Places to visit in Khandala Places to visit in Lonavala Places to visit in Mahabaleshwar Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Mumbai Places to visit in Nagpur Places to visit in Nashik Places to visit in Pune Places to visit in Shirdi   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule