KISSAN-Kerala   Sitemap | Contact Us | Feedback         Search | About KISSAN | Kerala @ Glance | What's New | Events | FAQs | The Team | Institutions | Home   ICAR INSTITUTES IN KERALA Central Tuber Crops Research Institute Central Plantation Crops Research Institute Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute Indian Institute for Spices Research National Research Centre for Oil Palm, (Regional Station) Palode Central Institute of Fisheries Technology OTHER ICAR INSTITUTES   ICAR INSTITUTES IN KERALA Central Tuber Crops Research Institute CTCRI started functioning in july 1963 with its headquarters at Sreekaryam near Trivandrum. It has a regional center at Bhubaneswar. The Institute co ordinates all India Co- ordinated research projects on tuber crops and is one of the centers of All India Co-ordinated research projects on harvest and post harvest technologies. Mandate of CTCRI is to: To undertake basic, strategic and applied research for generating technologies to enhance productivity and utilization potential of tuber crops (other than potato) To act as a national repository of scientific information on tuber crops To coordinate network research with state Agricultural universities for generating location specific technologies To act as a centre of human resources development for various clientele systems involved in tuber crops research and development. To undertake transfer of tuber crops technology through consultancy, outreach programmes and linkage with developmental agencies. More... Top.. . Central Plantation Crops Research Institute The CPCRI was established in 1970 under ICAR by merging the Central Coconut research Stations at Kasargode and Kayamkulam and Central Arecanut Research Station, Vittal.It has regional stations at Kayamkulam Vittal,Minicoy, Research Centres at Kidu, Mohitnagar, Kahikuchi, Kannara More... Top... Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute was established by the Government of India by the Ministry of Agriculture in 1947.It came under the ICAR in 1967 with its headquarters at Cochin. It has a regional center at Madapam Camp, T.Nadu and Research centers at Veraval (Gujarat), Mangalore (Karnataka), Calicut ( kerala) , Mumbai (Maharashtra) , Vizhinjam (Kerala) Karwar (Karnataka) , Vishakapattinam (AndraPradesh,Tuticorin (TN), Minicoy Lakshadweep ) ,Kakinada (AP). Fisheries Harbor Laboratory at Thoppumpaddy, Kochiand KVK of CMFRI at Njarackkal, Ernakulam. More... Top... Indian Institute for Spices Research (IISR) The Indian Institute of Spices Research (IISR), Calicut a constituent body of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is a major Institute devoted to research on spices. In 1976, it started as a Regional Station of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI), Kasaragod engaged in research on spices. A National Research Centre for Spices was established in 1986 with its headquarters at Calicut, Kerala by merging the erstwhile Regional Station of CPCRI at Calicut and Cardamom Research Centre at Appangala, Karnataka. Realising the importance of Spices Research in India this Research Centre was upgraded to Indian Institute of Spices Research on 1st July, 1995 Mandate · The Indian Institute of Spices Research will serve as an Institute of excellence for conducting and coordinating research on all aspects of spices improvement, production, protection and post harvest technology. · To extend services and technologies to conserve spices genetic resources as well as soil, water and air of spices agro-ecosystems. · To develop high yielding and high quality spices varieties and sustainable production and protection systems using traditional and nontraditional techniques and novel biotechnology approaches. · To develop post harvest technologies of spices with emphasis on product development and product diversification for domestic and export purposes. · To act as a centre for training in research methodology and technology upgradation of spices and to coordinate national research projects. · To monitor the adoption of new and existing technologies to make sure that research is targeted to the needs of farming community. · To serve as a national centre for storage, retrieval and dissemination of technological information on spices More... Top... National Research Centre for Oil Palm, (Regional Station) Palode The Research Centre has established in 1959 under the erstwhile Central Arecanut Committee. In 1970, it became a part of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute(CPCRI) and in 1999 it became a Regional Station of the Nation Research Centre for Oil Palm (NRCOP) with its Head quarters at Pedavegi in Andhra Pradesh under Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). the Research Centre located at Palode village 35 km away from Thiruvananthapuram the capital city of Kerala State. More... Top... Central Institute of Fisheries Technology The Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) set up in 1954 is the only national center in the country where research in all disciplines relating to fishing and fish processing is undertaken. The institute started functioning at Cochin in 1957. Research centers function at Veraval (Gujarat), Visakhapatnam (AP), Burla (Orissa), Mumbai (Maharashtra), Calicut (Kerala) and Hoshangabad (MP). The institute functions with the following mandate: To evolve innovative and cost-effective technologies for fish harvest. To develop and standardize various aspects of post-harvest technologies with a systematic data base. To conduct transfer of technology through training, education and extension education programmes. To provide consultancy services and to popularize the innovations for overall development of the fisheries industry. More... Top... OTHER ICAR INSTITUTES Central Agricultural Research Institute, Port Blair CARI is mandated to provide a research base to improve the productivity of important agri-horticulture, livestock and fisheries of Andaman and Nicobar Islands through adaptive and basic research for attaining economic self-sufficiency. Top... Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur, Rajasthan A unique multidisciplinary research organization in South and South-East Asia having research facilities for over 30 different disciplines. Top.. . Central Avian Research Institute, Izatnagar, Uttar Pradesh A premier institute in the field of poultry research, education, extension and training in India. Top... Central Inland Fishries Research Institute, Barrackpore, West Bengal The oldest premier research institution in the field of inland fisheries research and training in India. Top... Central Institute for Cotton Research, Nagpur, Maharashtra Its mission is to Improve production, productivity and quality of cotton through the development of ecologies for different agroclimatic regions. Top... Central Institute for Research on Goats, Farah, Uttar Pradesh A pioneer institute dedicated to the development of goats in india. Top.. Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology, Mumbai, Maharashtra An Instituite engaged in research and development activities in cotton technology in India. Top.. Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh It aims to develop appropriate equipment and processes for modernization of agriculture utilizing animate and mechanical power sources, develop technology for reducing post harvest losses and add value to agro-produce through processing. Top.. Central Institute of Brakishwater Aquaculture, Chennai, Tamilnadu Mandated to conduct research for development of techno-economically viable and sustainable culture system for finfish and shellfish in brakishwater Top.. Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Orissa Premier Research Institute on Freshwater Aquaculture in Indiar Top.. Central Institute of Fisheries Education, Mumbai, Maharashtra First fisheries university in India mandated to conduct education and research programmes leading to post-graduate (M.F.Sc.) and doctoral (Ph.D.) degrees in specialised disciplines of fisheries science and technology. Top.. Central Institute of Post Harvest Engineering & Technology, Ludhiana, Punjab A nodal institute for lead researches in the area of post harvest engineering and technology appropriate to the agricultural production catchments, agro-processing industries, pilot plants, industrial liaison, technology transfer and national and international cooperation to meet national needs. Top. Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh   Top. Central Research Institute for Jute and Allied Fiber, Barrackpore, West Bengal Mandated to the Improvement of jute (C.Capsularis and C.olitorius) and allied fibre crops like mesta (H.Cannabinus and H.Sabdariffa), sunnhemp, (Crotalaria Juncea), ramie (Boehmeria nivea) sisal (Agave sisalana) and flax (Linum usitatissimum) for yield and quality. Top. Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack, Orissa Its main objective is to carry out research on basic and applied aspects in all disciplines of rice culture in order to devise ways and means of optimising hectare yields of rice. Top. Central Sheep & Wool Research Institute, Avikanagar, Rajasthan Its mandated to undertake basic and applied research in all disciplines relating to sheep and rabbit production. Top. Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana Its mission is to generate new knowledge and understanding of the processes of reclamation and develop technologies for improving and sustaining the productivity of salty lands and waters. Top. Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi The Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) is the country's premier national Institute for agricultural research, education and extension. It has served the cause of science and society with distinction through first rate research, generation of appropriate technologies and development of human resources. Top. Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute New Delhi The Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute aims to promote and conduct research and education / training in Agricultural Statistics and Computer Applications and to advise, liaise with other Institutes who have a stake in strengthening of agricultural statistics system. Top. ICAR Research Complex For Goa, Ela Old, Goa Mandated to conduct strategic and applied research on potential Agricultural and Horticultural crops, Livestock and Fisheries for improving productivity and post harvest management Top. Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Gwalior, Jhansi The Institute is mandated to organized research work on grassland and forages and during last four decades have achieved several commendable breakthroughs Top. Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore, Karnataka Mandated to undertake basic and applied research for developing strategies to enhance Productivity and utilisation of tropical and subtropical horticultural crops viz., fruits, vegetables, ornamental, medicinal and aromatic and mushrooms Top. Indian Instritute of Soil Science , Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh In view of the fast changing scenario of Indian agriculture, and the growing importance of enhancing and sustaining productivity of soil resource, the ICAR established the Indian Institute of Soil Science in 1988 at Bhopal to conduct basic and strategic research on this aspect. Top. Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh It was established in 1952 for conducting research on fundamental and applied aspects of sugarcane culture as well as to co-ordinate the research work done on this crop in different States of the country. Top. Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh The project has been envisaged as a national network of multidisciplinary research on the improvement of the major vegetable crops. Top. Indian Lac Research Institute, Namkum, Ranchi The only research Institute of its kind in the world, being devoted exclusively to all aspects of lac research including its cultivation, processing, value addition and utilisation. Top. National Academy of Agricultural Research Management, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh   National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana   National Institute of Animal Nutrition and Physiology, Bangalore, Karnataka   National Institute for Research on Jute & Allied Fibres Technology, West Bengal (formerly JTRL)   Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore, Tamilnadu A pioneering breeding institute in the world, works to evolve superior varieties of sugarcane to cater to the needs of the various agro climatic zones in the country. Top. Vivekanand Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan, Almora, Uttaranchal It is a premier institute of ICAR engaged in hill agricultural research for North-Western Himalayan region of India. Top. Bureaus National Bureaue of Animal Genetic Resources, Karnal, Haryana It is responsible for identification, evaluation, characterisation, conservation and utilisation of livestock and poultry genetic resources in India. Top. National Bureaue of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Mandated to collection, classification and evaluation of information on fish genetic resources of the country. Top. National Bureaue of Plant & Genetic Resource, New Delhi A nodal organisation for Plant Genetic Resource (PGR) activities in India. Top. National Bureaue of Soil Survey & Land Use Planning, Nagpur, Maharashtra It was setup in 1976 with a mandate to provide a research input in the soil survey activities of the country and also carryout soil resource mapping programs at national, state and district level for land use planning.. Top. National Research Centres National Centre for Agril Economics & Policy Research, New Delhi Conducts Policy oriented research and strengthens agricultural economics research and teaching capability in state agricultural universities and ICAR institutes. Top. National Research Centre for Agroforestry, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh Mandated to undertake basic and applied research for developing and delivering technologies based on sustainable agroforestry prctices on farms, marginal and wastelands for different agroclimatic zones in India. Top. National Research Centre for Cachew, Puttur, Karnataka Mandated to increase production and productivity of cashew by evolvolving high yielding varieties of cashew. Top. National Research Centre on Camel, Bikaner, Rajasthan Mandated to undertake basic and applied research for improvement of camels. Top. National Research Centre for Coldwater Fisheries, Bhimtal, Uttaranchal It is emerging as the nodal facility in the country where research investigations are under taken both on capture and culture aspects with a focus on exotic and Coldwater species.. Top. National Research Centre on Equines, Hissar, Haryana A premier institute established under the aegis of Indian Council of Agricultural Research for conducting research on equine health and production. Top.