Parmeshwar Hegde talks on dairy farming - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Parmeshwar Hegde talks on dairy farming Home Parmeshwar Hegde talks on dairy farming Bangalore based dairy farm consultant specializes in setting up dairy farm Mr. Parmeshwar Hegde, an agriculture / dairy expert established MagDairy Farm Consultancy Centre in Bangalore after having worked with many organizations at different positions. He holds more than 10 years of experience in agriculture and dairy farm sector. He specializes in setting up a dairy farm initiating from farm layout, with bank finances till the smooth operations of the farm. He shares, “in South India and North India the milk consumption is increasing day by day either as a raw milk or as the value added products like ice cream, curd, ghee, butter, cheese or paneer. Hence, milk is one commodity that shall have regular income and the demand would never come down. There is a huge prospect for the dairy industry especially for small and big dairy farmers”. Talking on establishing dairy farm, he explains, “Understanding the basics is very important and so one needs to undergo a training course for at least 6 -8 days from research institutes like National Dairy Institute NDRI, agricultural universities or in any state government sponsored training centers.” Training is vital as it facilitates the smooth routine operations and control at the dairy farm even from the remote locations.  The Excerpts: What is the investment required for the dairy farm? Generally one animal requires about Rs. 1.2 lakh as the capital investment. The break-up: Rs 1.2 lakh is Rs. 60, 000-70, 000 cost of one animal, Rs. 30,000- 40, 000 on the shed, farm development activities and machinery requirements accounts for about Rs.15,000-20,000 per animal. So for a farm of 10 animals the total capital investment needed is about Rs. 12 lakh approximately. The payback period will be 3 to 4 years. How to get loan from bank? To get loan from banks first the important documents have to be collected, namely project proposal, owner’s background and collateral security for the loan amount. The detailed project report needs to be prepared by an expert or by the owner himself giving details on basic drawing and the farm machinery plus instruments required and then approach the bank for loan. Once these documents are submitted then in parallel, identify the land and start construction of the farm and basic necessities like farm sheds, fodder production land, development etc. The bankers will later come to the site and approve the loan based on the credit history of the dairy farm owner. Once the loan is arranged then the actual dairy farming activity can be started. One can approach 3 or 4 nationalized banks preferably because in private banks interest rates may be quite high. Are there any schemes where one can receive some grants on initial investment needed for setting up dairy farm? Please share the details. Information on financial schemes can be gathered from the local veterinary department or an animal husbandry department. In Karnataka the KMF, Karnataka Milk Federation, is one such co operative milk organization that offers some kind of subsidy for farm setup. Ideally with how many animals should a dairy farm be started? Initially it is recommended to start with 10-15 cows as big dairy farm requires high capital investment and efficient farm management. Slight negligence even for one or two days can lead to some serious chaos at the farm. How to select the breed of the dairy animals? Breed selection is the most critical aspect in dairy farm. It can be cows or buffaloes. Depending on the climatic situation and market demand one has to select whether it has to be a cow or buffalo farm. As both are different breeds it has different management practices. Moreover, the quality and quantity of milk also varies in cows and buffaloes. What are the differences between cows and buffaloes? 1. Cow is docile and easy to handle while buffaloes are a little wild and difficult to manage. 2. The milk perspective – cow milk has less fat, that is 3% – 5% depending on the breed of the cow while in the buffalo milk the fat percentage ranges from 6%- 9%, again depending on the breed of the buffalo. 3. The lactation period in the cows is about 300 days (gestation period is 9 months 9 days) and in the buffaloes it is about 300 to 305 days (gestation period is 10 months 10 days). In case of inter-calving period it is 12 to 13 months in cows whereas 15 to 17 months in buffaloes. 4. Average milk production in cow may range from 10 liters to 15 liters while in buffaloes it is about 7 to 8 liters. It is less in buffaloes as the fat percentage is high and the milk will be sold at a higher price, may be Rs 35-40 and the cow milk is sold at Rs 25-30. Decide on cow or buffalo farm based on these basic differences and market demand. South Indian’s prefer cow’s milk and North Indian’s prefer buffalo’s milk. For how many years can a good cow produce milk? Generally life of the cow is 15-20 years and the commercial life time is 8 years, that is 4 to 5 lactation from the date of its birth. Till 8 years it gives good milk from calf period of first 3 years to cow period of later 5 years. What to do with the animal after its commercial life is over? Some people sell them to butchers. Is there any other alternative to it? For one farmer the viability is set in about 10 liter minimum milk production from a dairy cow, when it comes to 9 liter dairy production for x farmer it is not viable. However, the 9 liter can be viable for another farmer and so at that point of time sell the cow to another farmer but certainly not to the butchers. Which breed of cow is good for dry weather condition? Gir and Jersey cow are good for areas having high temperature. Even though these are exotic breeds it is good for hot places. How to identify good quality cow or buffalo? It is advisable when purchasing a cow go with a known local veterinary doctor as he would be a correct person to identify the good breed, healthy cow or a buffalo. It is strongly suggested to avoid agents as it might lead to some cheating. Also, it is important to purchase the different breeds from the established geographical location. For example good HF breed cows are available in and around Bangalore, Hosur, Coimbatore or Ooty. In North India the good cows are available in Punjab and Haryana. In case of buffaloes, the good buffaloes are available in Punjab and Haryana and in some parts of Gujarat. At the time of purchase what are the important factors to be considered? The important factors to check when purchasing cow/buffalo are age, health condition, vaccination given, insurance, and the milk yield (if possible test at the site itself) of the animal. All these should be checked strictly. What are the general care and medication for dairy animals? Once an animal is purchased, take the insurance and provide proper medication facility. Vaccination is another medical part which should be strictly followed by all the dairy farmers at regular intervals. There are vaccines for FAMD and other diseases to be given during monsoon and towards May end. In addition, there are some vaccines that should be given regularly at an interval of 6 months or 1 year. What are the necessary documents to be maintained for the farm’s dairy cattle? Three important documents to be maintained are document for production, health and reproduction. Every animal in the farm should be given a proper identification number, and daily these animals’ details should be recorded and updated. The biggest challenge in dairy farming is land for fodder. Land is costly these days. How do you suggest these challenges or costs can be mitigated? If land for fodder is not available then it is best to go for contract farming. Even the nearby farmer can be contacted and deal can be fixed with him to supply the fodder continuously. In contract fodder growing, how much is the farmer paid? Generally the cost of production of the fodder if grown at owner’s farm would be 70-80 paise per kg. However, in case of contract fodder productions it may be 90 paise to Re 1 depending on the area. Can you share the diet chart for buffaloes? The fodder requirement for a buffalo is about 30- 40 kgs and the concentration requirement depends on the milk production. The body maintenance of buffalo needs 1-1.5 kg concentrate. Regarding milk production, half kg concentrate is required for every one liter of milk. If a buffalo is giving 10 liters of milk one should give 6 – 6.5 kg concentrate with 30- 40 kg green fodder. Can you share the diet chart for cows? In the cows the difference will be in the concentrate feeding, for every one liter of milk production the cow needs to be given 400 grams of concentrate. Cows take less green fodder when compared with buffaloes. How to identify the affordable plus good quality dairy equipment suppliers like milking machines? There are good milking machine suppliers like Alpha Lavel, De Lavel, Full Laval or Vanson. These are some good branded companies operating in India. One has to purchase from an authorized dealer and has to carefully select the equipment with respect to the quality aspect and the price aspect. What are the major mistakes dairy farmers commit which results in losses or closure of the farm? 1. It is the improper breeding cycle. Generally a cow should give birth to a calf at every 12 months to 13 months interval and if the inter-calving period is extended to 15 months the milk production will not increase but the dry period will start increasing then and the earning of the farm will drop. 2. Improper feed management. 3. The farm workers adulterate milk with water. Complete live discussion available at – http://bit.ly/1c5w8dj Our Correspondent Contact Details – Mr. Parmeshwar Hegde MagDairy Farm Consultancy Centre Bengaluru, Karnataka, India Mobile : +91-9535136206 Email : h.parameshwar@gmail.com Website : http://magdairy.webs.com/ Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Parmeshwar Hegde talks on dairy farming Related – articles, consultants, downloads Parameshwar Hegde – Dairy Consultant Khurana Dairy Farm Satya Sai Dairy Farm Eva Dairy Farm You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture