Andaman and Nicobar Islands Map Home » Andaman and Nicobar Islands Map   Andaman and Nicobar Island अंडमान और निकोबार का नक्शा Andaman and Nicobar Island Map Portblair City Districts Location Map How to reach Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar Travel to Andaman and Nicobar Wildlife Sanctuaries Beaches in Andaman & Nicobar Andaman & Nicobar Monuments Museums in Andaman & Nicobar Hotels in Andaman and    Nicobar Portblair Hotels Havelock Hotels Culture Geography and History Government and Politics Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Infrastructure Language Education Facts Lat Long Pin Code Std code       Andaman and Nicobar Islands Map Map of Andaman and Nicobar Islands Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Detailed map of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a union territory of India, with Port Blair as its capital. It is located in The Indian Ocean, and has over 570 islands, out of which only 38 are permanently inhabited. Earlier British used them as an isolated prison for the fighters of Indian Independence, but now these 'Emerald Islands' are a famous tourist destination. It has various hotels to cater to the demands of tourists. Some of the islands in Andaman and Nicobar are hilly in places, covered with tropical jungle and with flat stretches of beaches. Adventure tourism like trekking, Island camping, snorkeling, SCUBA diving are the real attractions. The places of interest include Cellular Jail, Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park, Water Sports Complex, Fisheries Museum, Chidiya Tapu, Mount Harriet and Samudrika Museum. It is also famous for its only active volcano, Barren Island. It also has many state of the art hotels to cater to its ever-booming tourism industry. Spectacular mix of nature's most prized delights; the Andaman & Nicobar Islands are a once in a lifetime holiday experience. Andaman and Nicobar Islands State Information Capital Port Blair Date of formation 1. Nov. 1956 Lt. Governor Lt. General A. K. Singh Tourist attractions Cellular Jail, Ross Island, Havelock Island, Marine Museum Festivals Andaman and Nicobar Tourism Festival, ethnic tribal festivals Languages Hindi, Nicobarese, Bengali, Tamil, Malayalam, Telugu Size 8,249 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 380,381 State animal Dugong (Sea Cow) State bird Andaman Wood Pigeon State tree Andaman Padauk Major crops Paddy, coconuts, nuts, banana, mango Factoids It is located in the Bay of Bengal. It is composed of 572 Islands. No. of District 3 Last Updated on : September 24, 2014 Places to visit in Andaman-nicobar-islands Places to visit in Port Blair Travel to Port Blair Travel to Andaman & Nicobar   Union Territories of India   Andaman and Nicobar Pondicherry Dadra and Nagar Haveli Daman and Diu Delhi Chandigarh Lakshadweep             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule