Policy Analysis Tools | Food Security Portal Food Security Portal About Us Contact Us Join Login Supporters Home Countries Commodities Policy Analysis Tools Data Dashboard Blog Food Security News Print Policy Analysis Tools Policy Analysis Tools AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY MARKETS AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY PRICES AND RETURNS CAPACITY STRENGTHENING EXCESSIVE FOOD PRICE VARIABILITY EARLY WARNING SYSTEM FOOD CRISIS REPORTS FOOD SECURITY MEDIA ANALYSIS (FOMA) POLICY TOOLS This section presents information- and decision-support tools to strengthen the ability of policymakers, food policy experts, and researchers to respond quickly to dynamic developments in the world food system. The latest research findings on policy responses to the food crisis, policy tools to assess impact, and knowledge about key concepts related to food security for strengthening capacity of decision-makers can be accessed in this section. The objective is to make available well-defined sets of information and analysis that governments can employ to manage global food crises and other future challenges in their respective countries. A strong national capacity to respond effectively and adequately to food policy challenges ultimately translates to poverty reduction, agricultural growth, and economic development. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, all tools provided in the Policy Analysis Tools section are public goods.   IFPRI gratefully acknowledges the European Commission (EC) and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) for their financial support of the Food Security Portal. Facebook Twitter About Us The Food Security Portal, facilitated by IFPRI, aims to provide improved food security for the world's poor and increased resilience of global food systems against food and financial crises. The project brings together international, regional, and country-level data, news, and research aimed at meeting countries' immediate food security needs, as well as building long-term global food security. The open-access project encompasses a global research-based monitoring and capacity-strengthening device for successful identification and implementation of the appropriate policy actions in response to food crises. The Food Security Portal is designed to pool information in structured ways and ensure data quality, timeliness, and relevance, as well as the opportunity for collaboration among policymakers, development professionals, and researchers. Home Countries Commodities Policy Analysis Tools Data Dashboard Blog Food Security News Partners Contact Us Food Security Portal   |   Facilitated by IFPRI   |   2033 K St, NW   |   Washington, DC 20006-1002 USA Copyright ©2012 All Rights Reserved Share Home Countries Commodities Policy Analysis Tools Data Dashboard Blog Food Security News About Us Contact Us Join Login Supporters