 East-West Seed Group - asia tropical seed, asia vegetable seed Select your location EW International EW China EW India EW Indonesia EW Philippines EW Thailand EW Vietnam Other Regions EW Americas EW Africa EW Myanmar Other Countries asia tropical seed asia vegetable seed Latest News   Dutch Secretary for Economic Affairs Sharon Dijksma visited Myanmar on a trade mission focusing on agriculture and food security. Together with representatives from the private sector, she visited farmers fields in Inle Lake, where East-West Seed extension manager Stuart Morris showed the delegation our efforts to train farmers on modern vegetable farming and to bring them closer to the market. Read more… "We are always thinking of ways for farmers to increase their income." Jan Arie Nugteren talks about East-West Seed's cooperation with the IFDC and BOP in the 2SCALE project in Ghana, Mali, Benin and Nigeria. Read more… Wageningen University student wins the first East-West Seed Graduation Award for Plant Science. The 5.000 euro East-West Seed Graduation Award was given to Rutger Las for his research on plants' adaptation strategies against insect attacks. The ceremony was held last Nov 28 at the Royal Dutch Academic Society. The new Young Talent Graduation Award will be awarded yearly by East-West Seed to encourage the study of Plant Science. Read more… East-West Seed awarded best booth at the 2014 Asian Seed Congress. Macau, China – The company bagged the top prize for Booth Exhibition during the 2014 Asian Seed Congress, among 62 participating exhibitors. The booth features a sleek design, combined with fresh vegetables, eye-catching graphics and a strong message. Congratulations to the EW-China and EWIT team that made all of this possible! Read more… Grow Myanmar seminar held at the Royal Tropical Institute, Amsterdam. On the occasion of the 80th birthday of Simon Groot, founder of East-West Seed, a seminar called "Grow Myanmar: Boosting Rural Livelihoods" was held at the Royal Tropical Institute in Amsterdam. The seminar was attended by members of the seed industry, the academe, government, and friends of Simon Groot. Click here to view photos Myanmar President Thein Sein meets East-West Seed on a state visit to the Netherlands. Last September 9, East-West Seed had the rare opportunity to meet Myanmar’s President Thein Sein, along with key government officials, during a state visit to the Netherlands. Read more… Aung San Suu Kyi meets East-West Seed. Joost Pekelharing, President of the East-West Seed group, meets Nobel Peace Prize recipient Aung San Suu Kyi on Monday, Nov 18 in Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar. Aung San Suu Kyi is seen here receiving a garland of marigolds developed by the company. The meeting was held during a Dutch trade mission headed by Ms. Lilianne Ploumen, Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation of the Netherlands. Read more… Dutch trade mission visits Myanmar. A Dutch trade mission headed by Foreign Trade Minister Ms. Lilianne Ploumen visits a farmer’s field in Nay Pyi Taw. This field is part of the extension work being done by East-West Seed in Myanmar to support small-scale farmers with knowledge on cultivation techniques from seed to harvest. Read more… asia tropical seed asia vegetable seed About EWS Group | Contact EWS Group | Sitemap East-West Seed Group Copyright 2011 East-West Seed Group. All Right Reserved. | Powered by TNT   | asia tropical seed | asia vegetable seed