My India: A unique digital hub of information, analysis and opinion Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized My India Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas May 28, 2015 Book: An insider’s view of emotional traumas: how to help or seek help Author: Dinesh Kumar Publisher:  Leadstart Publishing Pvt Ltd, Mumbai Launch: 2014 Author Dinesh Kumar, a mental health counsellor since 20 years, combines his wealth of professional experience, anecdotes from real life cases, experts’ views and his personal charm in this book on counselling. Acknowledging the need for both non-specialised counselling and specialised psychiatric care, Kumar builds a good case for treating ‘mental [...] by Dr Deepak Pawar Book Reviews , Health No Comments India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement May 28, 2015 A Gay Marriage Advertisement A matrimonial advertisement seeking a same-sex partner for her son, placed by a 57-year-old woman, broke many conventions and taboos despite much disapproval from orthodox quarters. Earlier this month, Mumbai resident, Ms. Padma Iyer, published an advertisement in the matrimonial section of the Mid-Day newspaper. Published on 19 May, it read: “Seeking 25-40, Well-placed, Animal-Loving, Vegetarian GROOM for my SON (36, 5’11”) who works with an NGO”. Ms. Iyer’s move to [...] by Sujatha Social Issues , Society No Comments Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies May 27, 2015 All Central Government employees, including defence personnel keenly await the Seventh Pay Commission. Since Independence, India has had seven Pay Commissions put up to review the existing costs, inflation and other impact costs and make suitable revisions to the salary structure of central government employees. The Seventh Pay Commission On 24 February 2014, the Government of India issued a Gazette notification announcing the formation of the Seventh Central Pay Commission with Justice A.K.Mathur as the [...] by Debu C Government No Comments The What and How of RuPay Card May 27, 2015 National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) had launched RuPay which is an Indian domestic card scheme. RuPay has been conceived keeping in mind the fact that India is one of the largest economies in the world and offers huge potential for card penetration. People these days prefer using cards to pay their bills instead of cash as it is more convenient. The foreign-based Mastercards and Visa cards are popular in the Indian markets and they [...] by Sanchita Paul India No Comments FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated May 26, 2015 Change in NRI Investment Policy Last week, on Thursday, 21 May 2015, the government of India, in what has been termed a major economic decision, agreed to liberalise the country’s Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) norms. These norms relate to investments from non-Resident Indians (NRIs), persons of Indian origin (PIOs), and overseas citizens of India (OCIs). “The Cabinet approved amendments to FDI policy on investments by NRIs, PIOs, and OCIs. This will give PIOs and OCIs [...] by Sujatha Business No Comments Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership May 26, 2015 Google, the undisputed king of web search, teamed up with Twitter. The news of this partnership came out in February but the integration started rolling out on mobile webpage in the United States only recently. Soon, it would expand largely to desktop and the new feature would be made available in other countries. As the new developments suggest, Google will now have access to Twitter’s stream of tweets popularly known as Firehose. The firehose hosts [...] by Rituparna Sengupta Technology No Comments Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission May 25, 2015 The next big interplanetary space mission from ISRO could be to Venus! From all indicators, the next stop in space will be Venus. Although still under discussion, there is a fair chance ISRO will launch a Venus Mission in about 2-3 years. This would be a continuation of its interplanetary space programme that started with the Chandrayaan-1 Mission to the Moon and was followed by the Mars Orbiter Mission. Around the time the Venus Mission [...] by Debu C India , Technology No Comments 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! May 25, 2015 Affairs, controversies, link-ups and break-ups, Bollywood has it’s own fair share of hang-ups when it comes to relationships. Finding love in the industry is a matter of luck, which not everyone is blessed with. While most of the celebrity affairs end up in break-ups, there are some lucky stars who find happy endings in not just their films but personal lives as well. And we as fans, can’t wait for these happy endings to turn [...] by Nandni Movies No Comments Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots May 24, 2015 On 24 March 2015, Germanwings Flight 9525 plunged into the French Alps, somewhere midway through its flight from Barcelona in Spain to Düsseldorf in Germany. All 144 passengers and six crew members were killed. It soon came to light that the crash was a deliberate one and co-pilot, Andreas Lubitz who had been suicidal locked the pilot, Patrick Sondheimer, out of the cockpit before proceeding to destroy the plane. In the days following the crash, [...] by Sujatha India No Comments 1 2 3 4 5 Next Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register About My-India My-India is a unique digital hub of information, analysis and opinion about key aspects related to India encompassing its culture, polity, business, finance, society, sports, science etc. It is not a news site rather an opinion site that currently has 12 broad categories -- Business, Culture, Reviews, Food recipes, Education, Politics, India, Social issues, Sports, Technology, Travel. The portal promises to be an ideal resource if you are looking for current insights on the latest developments on a wide spectrum of topics pertaining to India. The opinions and after thoughts on various topics found here however may sometimes chime with the popular notions/opinions and at other times reflect totally conflicting thought currents. Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? parmindersingh on Time to feel the heat of Delhi University Admission for session 2015-16 Dheerendra yadav on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd pardeep singh on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits suchithra p s on Human Trafficking in India must end Nimesh Vyas on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012