Places to Visit in Shimla, Tourist Destinations near Shimla Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Shimla Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Travel Agents Shimla Hotels Places to Visit in Shimla State Museum Christ Church Tara Devi Temple Jakhoo Temple Sankat Mochan Temple Hatkoti Temple The Ridge The Mall Wildlife Parks Chail Tattapani Route Maps Dehradun to Shimla Amritsar to Shimla Delhi to Shimla About Shimla Weather History Economy Shimla Map Road Map District Map Railway Map Airport Map City Map How to reach Himachal Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Home » Shimla » Places to Visit in Shimla Places to Visit in Shimla Shimla, the capital of Himachal Pradesh, is one of the top tourist destinations in India. The picturesque city is situated in the northwestern part of the Himalayan Mountain Range and the mean elevation of the city is 7,234 feet (2,205 metres). A Shimla location map shows the different highways, rail lines, railway stations, hospitals, hotels, educational institutions, religious places, water bodies, and other important places of interest in the city. The coordinates of Shimla are 31°6'12'' North and 77°10'20'' East. A location map of Shimla also highlights the Jakhoo Hill, the tallest point in the city. Places to See in Shimla Christ Church Category : Religious Christ Church One of the oldest churches in North India, Christ Church was built by the British in 1857 to serve the large Anglican British community in the area. Built in the Neo-Gothic style of architecture, Christ Church is one of the long lasting legacies of British rule in India and is one of Shimla's most recognized landmarks. Jakhoo Temple Category : Religious The Jakhoo Temple is an ancient temple dedicated to Lord Hanuman. Located on Jakhoo Hill, 2.5 km from the Ridge, the Jakhoo Temple offers beautiful views of the Shivalik Mountains and the nearby town of Sanjauli. The Ridge of Shimla Category : History & Culture The Ridge of Shimla is a large open spacious platform from where you can have a panoramic view of the mountain peaks of Shimla. The snow capped mountain ranges engulfed in the beauty of the nature is a phenomenal view that the Ridge of Shimla offers to the crowd. Shimla State Museum Category : History & Culture The Shimla State Museum houses a huge collection of magnificent paintings, sculptures, coins, handicrafts, photos, etc of not only the state of Himachal Pradesh but outside too. The state museum is a major attraction of the Mall area of Shimla built in the style of colonial edifice with sprawling lawns all around. This museum was inaugurated in 1974. George Castle Category : History & Culture Also known as the Shimla of Madhya Pradesh, Shivpuri is an ancient town in Gwalior, whose dense forests were used as the hunting grounds for the Mughal Emperors. The royalty of this small place lies in the exquisite hunting lodges and palaces that were built by the Scindia Rulers. Madhav National Park, the hunting preserve of the rulers of Gwalior, houses the most beautiful creation by them-The George Castle. Himachal State Museum Category : History & Culture Himachal State Museum: A colonial building laid out in a spacious lawn, this museum is located on the Mall Road and is home to an excellent collection of coins, photographs and local handicrafts. The Mall Category : History & Culture The Mall: This is the main shopping area in Shimla and has many restaurants, shops, offices and post offices. Tara Devi Temple Category : Religious Tara Devi Temple is situated at a height of 1851 meters above sea level. Tara Devi Temple is situated at a distance of 11 kilometers from Shimla. Tara Devi Temple is accessible by rail, bus and car. The road is the National Highway 22 (NH 22). Summer Hill Category : Nature Summer Hill: Located 5 km from the Ridge is the beautiful little township of Summer Hill. Sitting at an altitude of 5600 feet on the Shimla- Kalkarailway line, this is where Mahatma Gandhi used to stay when he used to visit Shimla. This is also where the Himachal Pradesh University is situated. Gaiety Heritage Cultural Complex Category : History & Culture Gaiety Heritage Cultural Complex: One of the most historic places in Shimla, the Gaiety Heritage Cultural Complex is 122 years old and has been recently been reopened to the public. The theatre is built in a Gothic Victorial style and is an important centre for various cultural and literary events. Tourist Destinations Near Shimla Sankat Mochan Sankat Mochan: This temple is located 7 kilometers from Shimla. Sankat Mochan Temple is situated at an altitude of 1851 meters from sea level. Sankat Mochan Temple is dedicated to Lord Hanuman- a God of the Hindu Pantheon. Naldehra Naldehra: Naldehra is 23 kilometers from Shimla. It has India's oldest nine hole golf course laid out by Lord Curzon during the era of the British Raj. Chail Chail is situated at a distance of 45 kilometers from Shimla city. Chail has the unique distinction of having the highest cricket pitch in the world. The twinkling lights of Shimla from Chail is a memorable sight. Kufri Kufri is a winter sports capital. Kufri is situated at an altitude of 2622 meters above sea level Skiing can be pursued in Kufri. It takes approximately one hour to drive to Kufri from Shimla city Last Updated on : May 31, 2014 Travel to Himachal Pradesh Travel to Dalhousie Travel to Shimla Travel to Dharamshala Travel to Kullu Travel to Manali Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Dalhausi Places to visit in Dharamsala Places to visit in Kullu Manali Shimla Tourism Jakhoo Temple State Museum Tara Devi Temple Arki Shimla Wildlife Sukh Sagar Resort Trekking Hatkoti Temple The Mall Summer Hill Sankat Mochan Temple Tatapani Shimla Wildlife Parks Wildflower Hall Star Resort Shimla Christ's Church The Ridge of Shimla Chail Shimla Tour Packages Shimla Skiing About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule