Administration | Indian Council of Agricultural Research Indian Council of Agricultural Research Home Speeches President of India Prime Minister of India Director General Other Speeches Circulars Administrative Circulars Appointments Coordination DARE Circulars Financial Foreign Tour Legal Medical NASC Official Language Personnel RTI Work Study 6th Pay Commission Technical Services Scientific Services CJSC Other Circulars Miscellaneous Tenders Events Innovations Publications Latest Publications Publications Catalogue Free ICAR E-Journals & Online Submission Abstracting Journals e-books Hindi Magazines ICAR Mail Krishika Official Language Magazines Other Open Access Journals Reports DARE/ICAR Annual Reports ASRB Annual Reports Other Reports Report of the High power committee on Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra Newsletters ICAR News India-ASEAN Newsletter ICAR Reporter ICAR Mail Agbiotech Digest Contact us Search Webmail Downloads ICAR at a Glance About us Vision 2030 AICRPs & Network Projects Research Institutes Zonal Project Directorates Krishi Vigyan Kendras Technologies and Knowledge Resources Commercialisation of Technology ICAR Awardees ICAR Awards 2014 Divisions Crop Science Horticultural Science Natural Resource Management Agricultural Engineering Animal Science Fisheries Science Agricultural Education Agricultural Extension Knowledge Management Administration Finance Important Links AgriCat Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board Agrinnovate India Limited ARS Scientists’ Forum Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture (CeRA) CSICAR Department of Agricultural Research and Education Department of Agriculture and Cooperation Design Resources Server ICAR Vichar Manch International Agricultural Organizations Knowledge Innovation Repository of Agriculture in the North East Microbial Genetic Resource Portal National Academy of Agricultural Sciences National Agricultural Innovation Project National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF) National Initiative on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) Parliament Questions PGR Portal Public Grievances Rice Knowledge management Portal Right to Information Act RTI applications, appeals and their replies Rohu Database Statistical Computing for NARS Telephone Directory The Agriculture Centre Women’s Complaint Committee Administration The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is an apex organization at the national level for promoting Science and Technology Programmes in the agricultural research and education. The ICAR was set up on 16 July 1929, as the Registered Society under the Societies Registration Act 1860, on the recommendations of the Royal Commission of Agriculture. It was reorganized twice, in 1965 and 1973. The headquarters of the ICAR is located at Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi, and its other buildings are Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I and II, and NASC Complex, New Delhi. The Union Minister of Agriculture is the President of the ICAR. The Principal Executive Officer of the ICAR is the Director-General, who is also the Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Agricultural Research and Education. The General Body of the ICAR Society is the supreme authority of the ICAR, and the Minister for Agriculture, Government of India, heads it. Its members are the Ministers for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, and the Senior Officers of the various state governments, representatives of Parliament, industry, education institutes, scientific organization and farmers The Governing Body  is the chief executive and decision-making authority of the ICAR. It is headed by the Director-General. It consists of eminent agricultural scientists, educationists, legislators and representatives of the farmers. It is assisted by the Standing Finance Committee, Accreditation Board, Regional Committee, Policy and Planning Committee, several Scientific Panels, and Publications Committee. In the scientific matters, the Director- General is assisted by 8 Deputy Directors-General, one each for (i) Crop Sciences, (ii) Horticulture, (iii) Natural Resource Management, (iv) Agricultural Engineering, (v) Animal Sciences, (vi) Fisheries, (vii) Agricultural Education, and (viii) Agricultural Extension. The DDGs are responsible for the Institutes, National Research Centres, and the Projects Directorates belonging to their respective fields. Total number of employees in the ICAR and its Research Institutes and number of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes Contact Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary (DARE) & Director General (ICAR) Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001. Phone: (Off.) 91-11-23382629, 91-11-23386711; Fax: 91-11-23384773 E-mail: dg.icar@nic.in , ayyappans@icar.org.in Shri R. Rajagopal , Additional Secretary (DARE) & Secretary (ICAR) Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001. Phone: (Off.) 91-11-23384450; Fax: 91-11-23387293 E-mail: secy.icar@nic.in   English   हिन्दी News Workshop cum Brainstorming Session on Seed Spices Plant Genetic Resources New Varieties of Paddy and Faba Bean Notified Interface Meeting on Enhancing Preparedness for Agricultural Contingencies for Kharif 2015 for Haryana Counseling Notice for ICAR's AIEEA-UG-PG-PGS 2015 Enhancing the Preparedness for Agricultural Contingencies in Kharif 2015 for Karnataka ICAR Regional Committee Meeting at Tripura Young Scientists’ Meet ‘AGRI SEARCH-2050’ Organised ICAR to Collaborate with DD Kisan as Knowledge Partner Up-scaling of Quality Protein Maize (QPM) for Nutrition Security Prof. M. S. Swaminathan Interacted with scientists of ICAR-CTCRI Quick links Weather Based Agro Advisory Current Seasonal Bulletin Agricultural Universities Capacity Building Program Employment Scholarships & Fellowships Citizen's / Client's Charter Examinations/Results Online Guest House Booking Guidelines / Circulars / Notifications of Education Division Results-Framework Documents Guidelines for Uniformity in Contents of Websites of all the ICAR Institutes GPF Status for HQ employees Record Retention Schedule Resources National Agricultural Science Centre Complex International Conference Facilities International Guest House Museum Virtual Tours of Museum Offices at NASC Complex VISION Documents Image galleries Agriculture News Approved ICAR Logos Equipments/Facilities Available Home | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Linking Policy | Contact us | Feedback Copyright © 2010 Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Bhavan, Dr. Rajendra Prasad Road, New Delhi-110 001. INDIA Developed & Maintained by Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, ICAR