Extension | Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering University Home About OSU Academics Faculty and Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Growing Oklahoma Search... Division Home Calendar Campus Map OSU Quicklinks Local Weather Menu           Division Home People Faculty (All) Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Resources CEAT Giving Page DASNR Giving Page CASNR Alumni Page OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation Hire OSU Grads BAE Newsletters OSU Job Search Employment Opportunities Student Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Degree Options Degree Sheets and Flowcharts Recruitment and Application Process Scholarships and Financial Aid Senior Design Projects Study Abroad Student Projects Student Links Graduate Student Welcome Graduate Programs Biomechanical Systems Bioprocessing and Biotechnology Environment and Natural Resrouces Food Processing BAE Graduate School Application Process Assistantships BAE Graduate Courses BAE Research Labs Graduate Student Links Accreditation Research BAE Research Labs Advanced Technology Research Center BioEnergy BioEnvironmental BioTechnology BioPhysical Properties Bioprocessing Lab Environmental Preperation FAPC Ground Water Machine Testing Machine Vision Research Shop Sensors Lab SPREC Welding and Engines class Wind Tunnel BAE Research Shop Bio Products and Energy Hydraulic Engineering OK-FIRE EPSCoR Extension Extension News Agriculture Machinery Systems AgWeather Applications Engineers BAE Fact Sheet Biobased Products and Energy Center OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Stored Products Research and Education Center (SPREC) Stormwater and Low Impact Development SUNUP Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Program News and Events News Events BAE Newsletters Publications and Outreach Impact Statements – April 2014 Archive Links Professional organizations American Society of Agriculturaland Biological Engineers North American Benthological Society American Society of Civil Engineers Energy Management Institute American Meteorological Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Automotive Engineers Collegiate organizations Alpha Epsilon ASABE student club ASABE Facebook page Cowboy Motorsports BAE Sites AGMACH$ Agricultural Machinery Systems Agweather BAE Extension fact sheets BAE Labs OSU Biobased Products and Energy Center Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit OK EPSCoR BREOI Oklahoma Mesonet OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Poultry Waste Management Stormwater and Low Impact Development Sun Grant Initiative – South Central Region Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Programs DASNR Sites DASNR OCES county office directory Robert M. KerrFood & Agricultural Products Center SUNUP CEAT OSU Sites OSU Home Hire OSU Grads News OSU Athletics Stillwater Resrouces Oklahoma Resources Oklahoma Departmentof Agriculture, Food, and Forestry Oklahoma Bioenergy Center Oklahoma Departmentof Environmental Quality Federal Resources Agriculture Research Service ARSGrazinglands Research Laboratory ARS, Conservationand Production Laboratory USDA U.S. Departmentof Energy – Bioenergy U.S. National Science Foundation U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency, Region 6 Other Resources Worldwide Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Directory The Environmental Working Group Microsoft Research Maps (formerly Microsoft Terra Server – satellite photos) Ground Water Protection Council, GWPC Center for Advanced Spatial Technologies, CAST Contact Us BAE Links BAE Home About BAE Archive People Undergraduate Resources Graduate Students Resources Research Extension News and Events Links and Resources Alumni Resources Contact Us Extension BAE EXTENSION Biosystems engineers support the extension mission by extending university knowledge to the people of Oklahoma. This is done by educating the public and working with county OCES educators. We focus on the areas of buildings and farm processing, energy management, equipment, farm home, water management and water quality. Below are examples of our outreach efforts. Please explore these areas to see successful extension programs at work. Each extension title listed in orange is a direct link to the project’s main website. Agricultural Machinery Systems :  This site contains extension fact sheets from land grant universities across the country. They are organized by field tasks such as seeding, grain harvesting, and etc. Also listed are OSU faculty who have expertise in the area of agricultural machines. Agweather : Agweather is a free online tool that keeps you ahead of Oklahoma’s changing weather. It uses the  Oklahoma Mesonet  to deliver the latest weather data. You’ll have the info you need, when you need it to meet Oklahoma’s weather challenges. Agweather and the Oklahoma Mesonet are jointly managed by Oklahoma State University and the University of Oklahoma. Weather data is collected automatically and updated every 5 minutes from the 120 statewide Oklahoma Mesonet towers. Applications Engineers : The Applications Engineers work to increase the competitiveness of small- and medium-sized Oklahoma manufacturers by providing on-site, one-on-one, focused engineering assistance and technology transfer services. Applications Engineer Program reaches $1 billion milestone for Oklahoma July 21, 2011 – An Oklahoma State University program that supplies engineering expertise has contributed more than $1 billion in total services and economic impact value to rural manufacturers in Oklahoma, according to program coordinators. “We’re excited to announce that the $57 million in services provided through the Applications Engineer Program in this fiscal year puts the total value of services and economic impact above $1 billion for the program since it started in 1997,” said Doug Enns, senior applications engineer. Click here to read the OSU news release. BAE Fact Sheets :  OSU extension fact sheets provide research-based information on a wide variety of subjects in regard to agriculture, economic development, family and consumer sciences and youth development. Biobased Products and Energy Center :  The mission of the Center is to conduct research and provide educational programs in environmentally-sound biobased product and energy development leading to the establishment of sustainable bioenergy and biorefinery industries in Oklahoma. OK-FIRE :  OK-FIRE is a weather-based system for wildland fire management featuring products for fire weather, fire danger, and smoke dispersion. Utilizing the  Oklahoma Mesonet  for recent/current weather conditions and an 84-hour numerical forecast, OK-FIRE is useful for both wildfire (anticipation of high fire danger periods and suppression guidance) and prescribed fire (planning for and conducting the burn). OK-FIRE is a program of the Oklahoma Mesonet and is directed by Dr. J. D. Carlson of our department. Half-day computer workshops are offered throughout the state during the fall to train wildland fire managers in the available products and use of the website. Plans and Building Information Services :  These materials are designed to increase your knowledge of building and equipment requirements for agricultural enterprises and to help you compare building and equipment alternatives. You are strongly encouraged to obtain and study the appropriate handbooks or digests before any major investment in buildings or equipment. Stored Products Research and Education Center  (SPREC) : SPREC is dedicated to use by faculty, staff and collaborators for generation and dissemination of new information about protection, management and marketing of a wide variety of postharvest agricultural bulk commodities and value added products. The facility is used for applied grain industry training and technology transfer including Oklahoma Grain Elevator Workshops, Grain Grading Schools, Fumigation Workshops, and other training programs. Stormwater and Low Impact Development :  The OSU Stormwater and Low Impact Development (LID) program is an interdisciplinary research and extension program addressing stormwater management and control issues in Oklahoma. A specific focus of the program is low impact development, which are engineered controls for stormwater management which utilize and enhance natural processes and include rainfall harvesting, rain gardens, pervious pavement, green roofs, and wetlands. For more information on the program, visit our web site at lid.okstate.edu. SUNUP :  BAE SUNUP regulars are Randy Taylor, professor and extension machinery specialist; Wayne Kiner, lab manager; and Al Sutherland, extension assistant specialist with Oklahoma Mesonet and Agweather. SUNUP is your place for Oklahoma agriculture. You can find video resources to help you with projects in the home, field or shop. Videos feature Oklahoma Cooperative Extension Service experts. Waste Management Engineering : There is no such thing as waste. In the process of making things, we also create byproducts. If the byproduct has no value it is a waste product, but everything has some value, so let’s call it “undervalued byproduct”. The three main program areas in waste management engineering are: materials handling, systems operations and waste treatment. Water Quality Program :  The OSU Water Quality Program coordinates research and extension in the areas of drinking water, environ