Trade Facilitation The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Trade Facilitation Written by Administrator on 04 May 2014 . Posted in Services Twitter Certification of origin  (Fee : Rs. 200.00 Only) The Federation is one of the chambers designated by Government of India to issue Certificates of Origin. Studies on Economics Issues and Government Polices The Federation examines economic and Industrial policy issues of North East. Its studies consultation papers , legislative proposals , as well as new government regulations  with implications on the economy of North East . It consolidates the views of members and prepares memorandums and representations to the relevant authorities. Ait also conducts study reports on various economic subjects from time to time. Information Dissemination  and Publications The federation disseminates information relating to manufacturing and the service industries through its website, circulars and the monthly journal ‘FINER NEWS & VIEWS’. The federation’s official website www.finer.in gives the local and international audience easy access to information on the current issues and the latest development on the matters affecting industry and business. The site also a platform for the audience to grasp the information on the Federation’s activities and training courses , services , membership details and recent articles from the ‘FINER NEWS & VIEWS’. The federation also issues press statements to relay its views to the community on the matters pertinent to trade and industry. Members receive weekly circulars by fax, emails or mail , all of which carry information on a wide variety of issues and on the forth coming activities of the Federation. A comprehensive Members’ Directory is published for the members’ reference and for the local and overseas buyers who wish to source from particular suppliers . Social Functions The Federation organizes members’ luncheons annual picnic  and other social gatherings. These useful functions offers members and the opportunity to acquaint themselves  with each other and to establish business contacts. Throughout the year , the secretariat also organizes visits to the factories and other places of interest  that have proved to be good channels for experience exchanges and sharing. Trade Missions Each year the Federation organizes overseas fact-finding visits so that the members can obtain first-hand information on the local business environment and manufacturing technologies. During the year , it receives a number of overseas visitors and trade missions that bring along updated investment information and facilitate members explore opportunities overseas. Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Comments Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS No comments found Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Home About Finer What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com