System of Rice Intensification - SRI Instruction Manuals SRI International Network and Resources Center   Home About Us Projects SRI News Events Latest Additions Contact Us About SRI Methodology FAQs Origin of SRI Other Crops Countries and Regions Asia | Africa | Americas Information Resources SRI Websites / Groups Research Practical Information Other Publications Photo Gallery Videos Presentations Marketing Past Conferences Spanish documents Home > Instruction Manuals SRI INSTRUCTIONAL MANUALS by Language European Languages Indian Languages Other Asian Languages African/Caribbean Languages English Hindi Bahasa Indonesia Kiswahili (Kenya) French Oriya Bahasa Malaysia Malagasy (Madagascar) Spanish Tamil Dari (Afghanistan) Creole (Haiti) [forthcoming] (See all languages ) Telugu Philippine Langauage       Nepali (Nepal)       Thai (Thailand)   Note: Instructional videos can be found in the general video section (though they are not yet separated out) ENGLISH General SRI - Achieving More with Less: A New Way of Rice Cultivation . World Bank website . (8p. pdf) [A multimedia toolkit produced by the World Bank Institute. See also toolkit with videos ] How to Help Rice Plants to Grow Better and Produce More: Teach Yourself and Others . System of Rice Intensification website. (15 p., 175 KB pdf) [The original SRI manual developed jointly by CIIFAD and Association Tefy Saina to explain SRI to persons working with farmers to communicate the main ideas underlying SRI.] Bhutan Lhendup, Karma. 2008. System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Method of Rice Cultivation: How to Produce More Rice with Less Inputs. College of Natural Resources, Royal University of Bhutan. System of Rice Intensification website. (2p., 253KB pdf). [Field extension manual in poster format from the Faculty of Agriculture, Royal University of Bhutan] India (directly below are English manuals from India, see also material in Indian languages ) Thawait, Damini. 2014. System of rice intensification, a sustainable method to increase crop production. 43 slides. Presentation by Damini Thawait, Dept. of Agronomy, Indira Gandhi Agricultural University, Chhattisgarh. (slideshare) PRAN. SRI method of paddy cultivation . Preservation and Proleferation of Rural Resources and Nature (PRAN) website. Bihar, India. System of Rice Intensification - Principles and practices . Directorate of Rice Development, Patna, Bihar. 6 p. Jat, Aanandi Lal. 2013. Increasing rice production through System of Rice Intensification . Popular Kheti 1(1): 10-14, January-March. Baskaran, P. 2012. STI -- Sustainable Turmeric Initiative: An Innovative Method for Cultivation of Turmeric ( Curcuma longa ) . System of Rice Intensification website. (8p., 321 KB pdf) [General information and instruction for STI, an adaptation of SRI methods for turmeric developed in Thumbal, Tamil Nadu.] Haridas, V. R. 2012.   Rice - The Golden Grain . Caritas India website. January 23. ( 51p., 11.7 MB pdf)  [Instructional booklet about organic SRI for farmers - published by the NGO Cartias in India.] Dash, Tuskar Kanta and Ashutosh Pal. 2011. Growing Crops with SRI Principles . STT-SRI website (42p, 26MB pdf) [The booklet, published by the Livolink Foundation's SRI Secretariat in Bubaneshwar, Orissa, contains information on applying SRI principles to wheat, finger millet, mustard and several vegetables.] Mahender Kumar R., Ch Padmavathi, K. Surekha, L. V. Subba Rao, V. R. Babu, M. S. Prasad, SP Singh, S. V. Subbaiah, P. Muthuraman  and B. C. Viraktamath. 2008. Package of practices for SRI . Technical Bulletin No. 31. Rice Management Knowledge Portal . (27. p) [Publication by the Directorate of Rice Research (ICAR) in Rajendranagar, Hyderabad.] RASS-ARKVK. 2004. System of Rice Intensification. Acharya Ranga Krishi Vigyan Kendra (ARKVK) Rashtriya Seva Samithi (RASS) Website. [Instructional material is included in the report of the experiences of RASS-ARKVK, Chittoor District, A. P., India](11p. pdf) Kumar, Rajesh, and Sourav Nayak. Kadiramangalam System of Rice Intensification . System of Rice Intensification website. [This is an adaptation of SRI methods involving two transplantings that was developed by S. Gopal and used in the Cauvery Delta region of Tamil Nadu, India] Satyanarayana, A., and K. S. Babu. 2004. SRI: A Revolutionary Method of Rice Cultivation . Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University, India. System of Rice Intensification website. (14p., 821KB pdf) [This manual was put together by the director of extension and senior scientists at ANGRAU in Hyderabad, India.] 2006. System of Rice Intensification: An Emerging Alternative . Watershed Support Services and Activities Network website. (20p. pdf) [English translation of SRI manual produced in Andhra Pradesh by the Indian NGOs Watershed Support Services and Activities Network (WASSAN) and the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture (CSA) with support from the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)] Lakshmi, Prayaga (translation). 2006. SRI Method of Paddy Cultivation. Watershed Support Services and Activities Network website. (20p. pdf) [Manual originally published in Telugu language for farmers by WASSAN (with input from K. Rao, WWF, ICRISAT, CRISP, J.Raju, ANGRAU, Sitaramaswamy, and the People's Science Institute).] (also available in Hindi , Oriya and Telugu versions)] WASSAN. 2006. Weeders: A Reference Compendium . Watershed Support Services and Activities Network website. (28p. pdf) Ramasamy, S., C. Susheela and K. Sathyamoorthi. 2006. 'Direct-Planting System' - Energy Saving High Output Rice Establishment Technique for Lowland . Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. System of Rice Intensification website. (867KB pdf). [Direct planting system aimed at reducing labor requirements associated with SRI.] Rice: System of Rice Intensification. IKISAN Agriportal website. 2007. SRI in Large Irrigation Projects in Andhra Pradesh, India . Jalaspandana website. [online booklet that details the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) method of paddy cultivation carried out by JalaSpandana in Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme, Priyadharshini Jurala Project and Kurnool Cuddapah Canal in Krishna Basin in Andhra Pradesh. Techniques for carrying out comparative analysis are also included]. Sen, Debashish and Sarkar, N. C. 2007. System of Rice Intensification- Minor Change in Management for Major Increase in Rice Yield . e-Arik website. [The authors are from the Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, Arunachal Pradesh and the School of Agril. Science and Rural Dev. (SASRD), Nagaland University, Medziphema, Nagaland, respectively. For more information, contact: Dr. P. Raja Assistant Professor, Central Agricultural University: phone no: 943625090] Special Technology: System of Rice Intensification . Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Agritech Portal. [An online description with good photographs and instructions of SRI practices using 15-day-old seedlings. Included is an embedded video in Tamil language. Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Agritech Portal.] Singh, Pratyush Ranjan. 2011. System of Rice Intensification (SRI) â€“ Practices for improving crop and water productivity in India . System of Rice Intensification website. (3.1 MB pdf) [Poster prepared for the South Asia Water Conference held at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, on April 8, 2011] Kenya Mati, Bancy. 2012. System of Rice Intensification (SRI): Growing More Rice While Saving on Water . System of Rice Intensification website. (12p, 638KB pdf). [Updated version of the original 2009 SRI training manual for farmers in Mwea, Kenya. Hard copy published in cooperation with Jomo Kenyatta University and the National Irrigation Board.] Mati, Bancy M. and Matolo Nyamai. 2009. System of Rice Intensification (SRI): Growing More Rice While Saving on Water . Improved Management of Agricultural Water in Eastern & Southern Africa, Kenya website. (6p. pdf). [An information brochure used for SRI training on SRI in Mwea, Kenya.] Madagascar System of Rice Intensification / Système de Riziculture Intensive. Association Tefy Saina. (36p pdf).[English and French translations of this manual, originally published in Malagasy , can be accessed through the Operation SRI Madagascar website.] 2011. Intensive Rice Cultivation . CTA Practical Guide Serie No. 17. 4p. [This maual is a collaborative effort of the Technical Centre for Agricultural and Rural Cooperation (ACP-EU) - CTA, Groupement SRI Madagascar and Group Conseil Developpment (GCD)] Nepal SRI Group-Nepal. What is S.R.I.? " System of Rice Intensification website. (16p., 749KB pdf). [Produced by the SRI-Nepal discussion group, an alliance of NGOs and individuals working on various aspects of SRI in Nepal ( sri-nepal@yahoogroups.com )] (See also Nepal manuals in Nepali language ) Philippines More Rice with Less Water through SRI . System of Rice Intensification website. (8p., 143KB pdf) [This SRI manual has been adapted by Dr. Pam Fernandez (University of the Philippines at Los Baños) from materials by Norman Uphoff and and article in ECHO Development Notes no.70 by D. Berkelaar.] SRI - Achieving More with Less: A New Way of Rice Cultivation . World Bank website . (8p. pdf) [A multimedia toolkit produced by the World Bank Institute] (See also manuals in Philippine languages ) Sierra Leone Gerald Aruna and Mendesora United. 2013. System of Rice Intensification (SRI) - Achieving More with Less: A new way of rice cultivation: A manual for facilitators . S ystem of Rice Intensification website. Hardcopy published by CRS. (25p., 1.64MB pdf) [uploaded January/February 2014] Zambia 2007. Operationalizing the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) . System of Rice Intensification website . (17p., 89KB pdf).[Revised (01/07) from earlier manual/guide for explaining and undertaking SRI, updated with reference to Zambia] FRENCH Mali Styger, Erika, M. A. Attaher, H. Guindo, H. Ibrahim, I. Abba, M. Diaty, M. Traore and M.S. Mahamar. 2009. Fiche Technique pour le Système de Riziculture Intensive (SRI) à Tombouctou, Mali . Africare, Bamako, Mali. System of Rice Intensification website. (27p.,1.89MB pdf) Madagascar 2011. Système de Riziculture Intensive (SRI) . Collection Guides Practiques du CTA No. 17. Groupmement SRI Madagascar website. 8p. [French language SRI manual published by CTA in collaboration with GDC and the Groupement SRI Madagascar] (also available at http://www.anancy.net/documents/file_fr/PracGuide17Fr.pdf ). Association Tefy Saina. 2006. Voly Vary Maro Anaka: Systeme de Riziculture Intensive . Association Tefy Saina website. (36p., 3.1MB pdf) [Malagasy language SRI manual, also online on CIIFAD's System of Rice Intensification website . This version has contains both French and Malagasy text]. Uphoff, Norman, and Association Tefy Saina. Comment Faire pour Avoir des Plants de Riz Qui Croissent Mieux et Qui Produisent plus Informez--Vous et Informez les Autres. System of Rice Intensification website . (20p., 230KB pdf) [Manual written with Association Tefy Saina, an NGO in Madagascar.] SPANISH Cuba Pérez, Rena. 2003. SICA: Sistema Intensivo de Cultivo Arrocera . System of Rice Intensification website. (2p. 2.54MB pdf)[trifold brochure; also available as pptx file ] Pérez, Rena. 2003. Sistema Intensivo de Cultivo Arrocera, SICA #2 . Carta Agropecuaria Azucarera No. 03-1. System of Rice Intensification website. (3p., 38KB pdf), [based on materials from CIIFAD and Tefy Saina, this information was developed by Dr. Rena Pérez, Asesora Grupo Estatal Alimentos, Minaz, for use in Cuba. Additional information is in SICA #1 ] Pérez, Rena. 2002. Sistema Intensivo de Cultivo Arrocera, SICA #1 . Carta Agropecuaria Azucarera No. 00-1. System of Rice Intensification website. (3p., 30.7KB pdf), [based on materials from CIIFAD and Tefy Saina, this information was developed by Dr. Rena Pérez, Asesora Grupo Estatal Alimentos, Minaz, for use in Cuba. Additional information is in SICA #2 ] Peru PRO-A. El Sistema de Intensificación del Cultivo Arrocera (SICA) . Asociación Promoción y Desarrollo Agario (Pro-A). System of Rice Intensification website. (6p., 864KB pdf) . [Instructional material developed by the NGO Asociación Promoción y Desarrollo Agario (Pro-A) in Chiclayo, Peru, together with the Asociación Productores de Arroz Ramadino in La Victoria, Chiclayo, Perú] Madagascar System of Rice Intensification / Système de Riziculture Intensive. Association Tefy Saina. (36p pdf). [English, Spanish and French translations of this manual, originally published in Malagasy , can be accessed through the Operation SRI Madagascar website.] BAHASA INDONESIA (Indonesia) Perluasan dan Pengelolaan Lahan. 2014. Pedoman Teknis Pengembangan System of Rice Intensification TA 2014. Indonesian Ministry of Agriculture website. (101p. pdf) Adnany, Zaki. 2013. Budidaya padi dengan pendekatan teknologi SRI (System of Rice Intensification) . E-Petani website. March 22. Suharto, Imam, and Suswadi. 2011. Manual Pembelajaran Penerapan SRI (System of Rice Intensification) di Lahan Tadah Hujan di Kabupatan Boyolali . System of Rice Intensification website. (41p., 1.24MB pdf) [Manual in Bahasa Indonesia put together by LSK Bina Bakat Surakarta, a local NGO, in cooperation with VECO Indonesia, a Belgian NGO. The manual was prepared for use by rainfed SRI farmers in the Andong sub-district of the Boyolali Regency in Central Java]. Suiatna, R Utju. 2010. Pola Tanan SRI . Go SRI. Healthy-Rice website. July (10p. pdf) 2009. Tehnik dan Budidaya Penanaman Padi - System of Rice Intensification (SRI) . Pusat Pelatihan Kewirausahaan Sampoerna. Sukorejo, Pasuruan, Indonesia. System of Rice Intensification website. (12p., 5.96MB pdf). [Indonesian language manual originally developed for projects in Dusun Betiting, Desa Gunting Kecamatan Sukorejo, Kabupaten Pasuruan, by Pusat Pelatihan Kewirausahaan Sampoerna] Augustina, Peni, and Imam Suharto. 2008. Menembus Batas Kebuntuan Produksi: Cara SRI dalam budidaya padi . VECO Indonesia, Denpasar, Bali. System of Rice Intensification website. (10p., 1.92MB pdf) Buku Petunjuk Padi Organik "SRI" Masa Depan Petani Indonesia: Menuju Kehidupan Yang Sejahtera & Mandiri . Dewan Permerhati Kehutanan dan Lingkungan Tatar Sunda (DPKLTS) website. (13p. pdf) BAHASA MALAYSIA (Malaysia) Taharim, Noorazimah. 2011. Penaman Padi Cara SRI . Padi SRI Selangor website. (6p., 82KB pdf) [Manual in Bahasa Malaysia put together on behalf of the Menteri Besar Incorporate (MBI) Selangor] See also Bahasa Indonesia manauls DARI (Afghanistan) ترتيب دهنده گان: علی محمد رمزی، ونسنت توماس، فواد حسين و غلام حضرت . 2009. سيستم افزايش شالی(ايس آر آی) - بديل نوپيدا . Participatory Management of Irrigation System (PMIS) Project. Aga Khan Foundation. System of Rice Intensification website. (24 p., 4.35MB) [Dari language version of the English language SRI manual entitled " System of Rice Intensification - An Emerging Alternative "] Kiswahili (Kenya, Tanzania) Nyamai, Matolo, Bancy Mati and Andrew Gidamis. 2010. Mfumo wa Kilimo Shadidi cha Mpunga (MKiShaMpunga) . System of Rice Intensification website. (16p. 6.82MB pdf) [Kiswahili language SRI manual developed for Kenyan farmers in conjunction with Jomo Kenyatta University, AICAD, IMAWESA and WBI and translation assistance from Sokoine University of Tanzania] PHILIPPINE LANGUAGES (See also instructional material from the Philippines in English. ) ILONGGO SRI - Binag-o nga Pagpananum Sang Humay . Kahublagan Sang Panimalay Foundation. System of Rice Intensification website . (2p. trifold brochure, 1.27MB pdf). [Ilonggo language translation of an extension brochure originally prepared by Leyte State University's Farm and Resource Management Institute. Translated by the Kahublagan Sang Panimalay Foundation, Inc., Iloilo, Philippines] PILIPINO 2011. Ang Sistema ng Pagpapalago ng Palay (Sipag-Palay o SRI) . SRI-Pilipinas. System of Rice Intensification website . (4p., 1.39MB pdf) [Pilipino language manual used provided by the SRI-Pilipinas network. The 4-page download can be used to reconstruct an 8-page primer.] 2009. Ang SRI (System of Rice Intensification) . PASALI Philippines Foundation. Issuu.com website. (4p pdf). [Tagalog language SRI manual developed for use in PASALI's programs in Mindanao, Philippines] INDIAN LANGUAGES (See also other instructional material from India in English.) HINDI 2006. SRI Method of Paddy Cultivation. Watershed Support Services and Activities Network website. (20p. pdf) [Manual originally published in Telugu language for farmers by WASSAN (with input from K. Rao, WWF, ICRISAT, CRISP, J.Raju, ANGRAU, Sitaramaswamy, and the People's Science Institute).] (also available in English , Oriya and Telugu versions)] 2011. SWI manual (in Hindi). As a pdf from JEEVIKA and a PowerPoint presentation by PRADAN . Instructional material about the System of Wheat Intensification (SWI) methods used in Bihar. (See also instructional material from the India in English. ) ORIYA 2006. SRI Method of Paddy Cultivation. Watershed Support Services and Activities Network website. (20p. pdf) [Oriya language manual originally published in Telugu language for farmers by WASSAN with input from K. Rao, WWF, ICRISAT, CRISP, J.Raju, ANGRAU, Sitaramaswamy, and the People's Science Institute.] (also available in English , Hindi and Telugu versions). (See also instructional material from the India in English. ) TAMIL 2008. System of Rice Intensification (SRI) . Ecoventure. System of Rice Intensification website. (32p., 1.82 MB pdf). [Tamil language manual for farmers produced by the NGO Ecoventure, which is promoting of SRI in the districts of Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry in India.] NABARD. 2007. Tamil language manual for Organic SRI cultivation . System of Rice Intensification website. (8p., 1.31MB pdf) [Tamil language originally published by National Bank for Rural Agricultural Development, Mumbai. For more info contact Dr. V. Palaniappan (04362) 245077)] (See also instructional material from the India in English. ) TELUGU 2009. Direct Seeding with Drum Seeder . Acharya Ranga Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh. System of Rice Intensification website. (10p., 4.8MB !! ) [Telugu language manual on direct seeding with SRI principles provided by P. Bala Hussain Reddy.] Centre for Rural Programmes Society. 2008. SRI instructional booklet . SRI-India website. [Telugu language booklet originally published by the European Commission in cooperation with the WWF - ICRISAT project in Hyderabad.] (12p. pdf) SRI extension bulletin. Watershed Support Services and Activities Network website. (6p., 852 KB pdf) [A longer version of this telugu language manual is available directly below. Hard copies available for RS 10./ from the WASSAN SRI website] 2005. SRI extension bulletin. System of Rice Intensification website. (16 p., 2.25 MB pdf ). [This Telugu language manual, obtained from Dr. A. Satyanarayana, Director of Extension for Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (ANGRAU) in Andhra Pradesh, was sponsored by WWF, WASSAN, and CSA. A shorter version is directly above.] SRI extension bulletin (Telugu). RASS-ARKVK. System of Rice Intensification website. (16p.,1.35 MB pdf). [This Telugu language manual was obtained from P. Balahussain Reddy, Training Associate (Agricultural Extension), RASS-ARKVK. 2000 hard copies were provided to extension functionaries, officers of the state agriculture department, NGOs and farmers]. RARS. 2004. SRI extension bulletin . Agricultural Information Series No. 70, January 2004 (RARS). System of Rice Intensification website. (6p.,1.4M !! pdf) [This telugu language manual was obtained from Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University] 2006. SRI Method of Paddy Cultivation. Watershed Support Services and Activities Network website. (20p. pdf) [Manual originally published in Telugu language for farmers by WASSAN with input from K. Rao, WWF, ICRISAT, CRISP, J.Raju, ANGRAU, Sitaramaswamy, and the People's Science Institute. (also available in English , Hindi , and Oriya MALAGASY (Madagascar) Association Tefy Saina. 2006. Voly Vary Maro Anaka: Systeme de Riziculture Intensive . Association Tefy Saina website. (36p., 3.1MB pdf) [Malagasy language SRI manual, also online on CIIFAD's System of Rice Intensification website . Contact Operation SRI Madagascar for Spanish and French translations NEPALI (Nepal) EU/FAO Food Security project. 2011. SRI poster (in Nepali; English version in not online). System of Rice Intensification website. (A corresponding booklet is not yet online) Appropriate Technology Asia. SRI manual . System of Rice Intensification website. (6p., 4MB pdf - slow download!) [Nepali language SRI instructional manual] Uprety, Rajendra. SRI manual . System of Rice Intensification website. (16p., 2.234MB ! pdf). [Nepali language manual produced by the Morang District Agricultural Development Office, Ministry of Agriculture, Nepal.] SRI-Group Nepal. What is S.R.I.? " System of Rice Intensification website. (16p., 785KB pdf). [Nepali language manual produced by the SRI-Nepal discussion group, an alliance of NGOs and individuals working on various aspects of SRI in Nepal ( sri-nepal@yahoogroups.com ) An English version is also available.] (See also instructional material from Nepal in English) THAI (Thailand) Gypmantasiri, Phrek, et al. System of Rice Intensification (in Thai). Science and Technology Research Institute website. (37p. pdf) [This Thai language manual was authored by The Agricultural Extension Unit at the McKean Rehabilitation Center in Chiang Mai, Thailand. Rotary weeder designs are included.] A separate English language introduction to the Thai version and a related Thai version with an English title and author page (41p., 445 KB pdf) are also available on the System of Rice Intensification website). The SRI International Network and Resources Center (SRI-Rice) is supported by Ohrstrom Foundation, The Bridging Peace Fund, Marguerite and Norman Uphoff, and Jim Carrey's Better U Foundation   Contact Us   | SRI-Rice is associated with International Programs - CALS at Cornell University   | ©2014