TNAU Agritech Portal :: Post Harvest Technology Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact Post Harvest Technology :: Agriculture :: Sugar Crops Constituents of sugarcane and sugarcane juice The sugarcane contains not only sucrose but also numerous other dissolved substances, as well as cellulose or woody fibre. The percentage of sugar (polarization) in the cane varies from 8 to 16 per cent and depends to a great extent on the variety of cane, its maturity, the condition of the soil, the climate and agricultural practices followed. The constituents of the ripe cane vary widely in different countries and regions but fall generally within the following limits: Sl.No Constituents Level, % Ripe cane Cane Juice   1 Water 69 to   75 75 to 88 2 Sucrose 8   to   16  10 to 21 Total solids 12 -23 0 brix 3 Reducing sugars  (Dextrose, Levullose) 0.5 to 2.0 0.3 to 3.0 4 Organic matter other than sugar 0.5  to   1.0 0.5 to 1.0 5 Inorganic compounds 0.2 to 0.6   0.2 to 0.6 6 Nitrogenous bodies 0.5  to 1.0  0.5 to 1.0 7 Ash 0.3 to 0.8     8 Fibre 10.0 to 16.0     Other organic compounds include proteins, organic acids, pentosans and pectins (gums), colouring matters and wax. Organic acids present in the cane juice are glycollic acid, malic acid, succinic acid and a small quantity offanoic acid, butyric acid and aconitic acid. These vary from 0.5 to 1.0 per cent of cane by weight. The inorganic compounds are made up of phosphates, chlorides, sul­phates, nitrates and silicates, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, aluminium and iron chiefly. These are present to the extent of 0.2 to 0.6 per cent. The 'Nitrogenous bodies' are albuminoids, amides, amino acids, ammonia and xanthine bases. These are present to the extent of 0.5 to 1-0 per cent. Fibre is the insoluble substance in cane. Dry fibre contains about 18 per cent lignin, 15 per cent water soluble substances, 45 per cent cellulose and the remainder hemicellulose. The colouring matters viz. (i) Chlorophyll, (ii) Anthocyanin, (iii) Saccharetin and (iv)Tannins are present in sugarcane juice. VALUE ADDITION BOTTLING OF SUGARCANE JUICE FOR BEVERAGE  Fresh sugarcane juice obtained from mature cane is sweet and tasty. It is not only a thirst quenching drink but also nutritious due to the presence of several minerals like phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, vitamins, amino acids etc., and has medicinal properties also particularly for the cure of jaundice. Cane juice mixed with the extracts of lemon, ginger, chillies etc., adds to the taste, helps in better digestion and improved bowel movement. But due to its seasonal availability and fast deterioration by microbial decomposition, the possibility of its use as fresh juice is very much limited. In order to make the availability of cane juice at all times as a soft drink prepared under hygienic conditions, a simple method of bottling the cane juice has been developed. Choosing a good variety The sugarcane variety for juice should give high in juice extraction and have high sugar content. The internodes should be long without splits. The rind should be preferably light coloured and the cane should have less fibre and pith. Some of the varieties which are ideally suited for bottling of juice are CoC 671, Co 62175, Co 7717, Co 86032 and Co94012. Harvesting the cane for juice extraction The canes should be harvested when they are at peak maturity ie, when the sucrose content is maximum and the non-sugars are at maximum. After harvesting, the top few immature internodes should be removed as they contribute to bad taste due to high amount of salts and other undesirable organic substances. The canes should be cleaned free of roots at the nodes and adhering soil particles. It is preferable to remove the rind portion of the cane by suitable means as the pigments present in the rind contribute to dark colour and unpleasant taste to the juice. The canes should be crushed in clean power operated crusher (preferably with stainless steel rollers) and juice collected after filtration through muslin cloth into a clean sterilized stainless steel vessel. One medium sized lemon and 2-3g of ginger can be added for every 3kg of cane while the canes are crushed. FLOW CHART FOR PREPARATION OF SUGARCANE JUICE * Procedure for bottling the juice a) Materials required Glass bottles of 300ml capacity Stainless steel vessels of 30-40 lit capacity Cane crusher Gas/electrical heaters Sterilizer/hot water tank Bottle corking machine b) Juice treatment The filtered clear juice taken in a stainless steel vessel is heated to 60-70 0C and the juice is maintained at that temperature for about 15 minutes. Due to this, impurities in the juice start coagulating. A part of the coagulated material that floats on the top of the juice is scooped out with the help of a ladle or strainer. Another part of precipitated material starts settling at the bottom of the vessel. After 15 minutes, the clear supernatant juice is decanted through a muslin cloth. While the juice is still at bearable warmth, sodium meta-bi-sulphite is added as a preservative @ 1g per 8 lit of juice and stirred well. When the juice is till warm, it is transferred to hot water sterilized bottles and sealed with sterilized corks with a help of a corking machine. Chilling before consumption improves the taste. Storage period The juice bottled as above was found to keep well at room temperature without much deterioration for at least 6-8 weeks and the taste was also not affected. Storing bottles under refrigerated condition will prolong the life for a further period of 3-4 weeks. Precautions to be taken The cane material should be clean and the crusher, bottles, vessels, etc., should be completely sterilized to prevent deterioration of juice by microbial decomposition. The juice should not be heated above 80 0C and should not be heated beyond 15 minutes at that temperature. Bottling of juice should be done before the juice is completely cooled to room temperature. Economics The initial investment for bottling 500 nos. of juice bottles daily is approximately Rs.5000/ to Rs.6000/. The cost of 300 ml quality of juice will work out to be Rs. 3-4/ approximately. Technology Available *- Post Harvest Technology Centre, TNAU, Coimbatore. Source http://www.artuproar.com/uploads/skins/previews_m/dsci0043.jpg http://d3.biggestmenu.com/00/00/33/cb5608f4ede062a8_m.jpg   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved. © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.