Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home Newsletter EnHAaNS - November 2012 - Tamil Version The Department of Horticulture & Plantation Crops, from a small beginning at Dharmapuri in 1979, has blossomed into a full fledged Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops and its impact can be seen in all sectors of horticulture i.e. fruits, flowers, vegetables, spices, plantation crops and medicinal plants, from the area coverage, production and productivity that has been achieved, bringing in prosperity to Horti entrepreneurs. EnHAaNS - November 2012 We are happy that our initiative of introducing this Magazine has met with all round appreciation as is evidenced by the numerous letter and calls we have received, a few of which I have reproduced above. Much as I would have loved to put all the letters on record, constraint of space prevents me from doing so. While launching the Magazine on 15.10.12, the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu directed me to come out with the Tamil version also. Accordingly from this edition (which focuses on fruits) onwards this will be both Tamil and English edition. The Tamil edition has been appropriately titled as "Menmai". We hope that this edition will suit your taste. EnHAaNS - October 2012 The Department of Horticulture & Plantation Crops, from a small beginning at Dharmapuri in 1979, has blossomed into a full fledged Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops and its impact can be seen in all sectors of horticulture i.e. fruits, flowers, vegetables, spices, plantation crops and medicinal plants, from the area coverage, production and productivity that has been achieved, bringing in prosperity to Horti entrepreneurs. However, thanks to the trust being given by the Hon'ble Chief Minister under Vision 2023, our objectives have expanded to cover market led production, adoption of high technologies like use of high yielding / hybrid seeds, shade net nurseries, micro irrigation, protected cultivation, high density planting, canopy management, etc., which aims at increased production and productivity of Horticulture crops. It is to project this achievement of Government of Tamil Nadu that we have brought out this monthly maganize named "EnHAaNS". We hope you will find this first edition of the magazine on floriculture useful. Visitor Counter: 843427 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015