Business Services Trade Shows,International Business Exhibition,Trade Fair Organizers JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Business Services Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Business ServicesTrade Shows Date : 03 Mar - 05 Mar 2016 fht bali - food, hotel & tourism bali -  Indonesia FHT Bali is recognised as the platform for Indonesia’s food, hospitality & tourism industry, and provides the perfect opportunity to meet face to face with potential clients and reconnect with existing customers. Venue : Bali Nusa Dua Convention Center ,Bali Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Nov - 20 Nov 2015 Milipol Paris -  France Milipol Paris 2015 is the international exhibition of internal state security, which is providing an ideal place for the related industry and related professionals. Venue : Paris Expo Porte de Versailles ,Paris France Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Nov - 13 Nov 2015 Elmia Subcontracto -  Sweden Elmia Subcontractor is Northern Europe's leading trade show for subcontractors in the manufacturing industry and their customers - a genuine specialist fair for product development and purchasing. The fair is held annually at Elmia in.... Venue : Elmia exhibition halls ,Jonkoping Sweden Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Sep - 03 Oct 2015 International Technical Fair-Bulgaria -  Bulgaria International Technical Fair-Bulgaria 2015 is one of the most renowned bulgarian forum of investment goods and technologies. which is providing an ideal place for the related industry and related professionals. Venue : International Fair Plovdiv ,Plovdiv Bulgaria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 30 Sep - 01 Oct 2015 START ESSEN 2015 -  Germany The START fair is the leading German fair for Start-ups, Franchising and Entrepreneurs. Venue : Messe Essen ,Rhine-Westphalia Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Aug - 06 Aug 2015 Fishing Retailer World Trade Expo -  United States Fly-Fishing Retailer World Trade Expo Is Where Brands Are Launched, Innovations Are Unveiled And Connections Are Made. Designed For The Specialty Fly-Fishing Industry, Fly-Fishing Retailer World Trade Expo Connects A Targeted Audience To Conduct.... Venue : Salt Palace Convention Center ,Salt Lake City United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Mar - 18 Mar 2016 Asia Pacific Maritime -  Singapore Asia Pacific Maritime 2015 is one of Asia's most established and proven maritime exhibitions and is strongly supported by the international maritime community. Take this opportunity to create business exposure with the industry where over 900.... Venue : Marina Bay Sands ,Bayfront Avenue Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 24 Jun - 27 Jun 2015 Assembly and Automation Technology -  Thailand International Integrated Manufacturing Technology Exhibition. The Assembly Technology features the full stream of assembly technology products for all manufacturing processes. Venue : Bangkok International Trade & Exhibition Centre (BITEC) Thailand Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 24 Nov - 26 Nov 2015 HOTEX 2015 -  Israel International Exhibition for Hotel Management, Restaurants, Bars Venue : Israel Trade Fairs & Convention center ,Tel Aviv Israel Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 30 Sep - 02 Oct 2015 RECLAMA & DESIGN 2015 -  Moldova, Republic of Reclama Design 2015 is international specialized exhibition of advertising products, pr-technologies and services that reflect the diversity of innovative products and services in advertising. Venue : I.E.C. Moldexpo ,Chisinau Moldova, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jun - 14 Jun 2015 Asian International Trade Expo -  Bangladesh Asian International Trade Expo has been placed, to showcase the developments of the Asian economies, their leading products & services to the ever-growing consumer markets. Venue : BICC - Bangabandhu International Conference Centre ,Dhaka Bangladesh Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Jun - 08 Jun 2015 Model-Expo -  Finland The event is an important marketing channel for companies and an inspiration and novelties industry source enthusiasts. Model Expo on suuren yleisön ainoa tilaisuus Model Expo is a large public the only opportunity under the same roof of access to.... Venue : Helsinki Fair Centre Finland Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Nov - 05 Nov 2015 Design & Manufacturing Midwest -  United States Design & Manufacturing Midwest keep you abreast of the latest advances in your industry but it also presents your best opportunity of the year to explore supplier alliances, technology licensing, partnerships, and joint ventures. Venue : Minneapolis Convention Center ,Minneapolis United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Aug - 25 Aug 2015 Signs & Media World Expo -  Philippines SIGNS & MEDIA WORLD EXPO 2015 is the 6th International Signage & Displays, Out of Home Media, Multimedia & Presentation Technology, Equipment, Materials and Services Exhibition. Venue : SMX Convention Center ,Manila Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Jun - 06 Jun 2015 HVAC/R Visayas 2015 -  Philippines HVAC/R Visayas is an international Exhibition in PHILIPPINES, HVAC/R Visayas events includes products are Air Conditioning, Refrigeration presents an ideal marketing, medium to provide the infrastructure and building services industry a platform of.... Venue : Waterfront Cebu City Hotel & Casino ,Lahug Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Jul - 16 Jul 2015 The ASI Show Chicago -  United States The ASI Show Chicago 2015 is the industry's biggest show which is delivering over twice as many distributors and asi chicago delivers the tools you need for a strong second half of the year. Venue : McCormick Place Convention Center ,IL United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Oct - 09 Oct 2015 Design Engineering & Manufacturing Solutions Expo 2015 -  Japan (DMS)   Design Engineering & Manufacturing Solutions Expo 2015 is largest it solutions expo for manufacturing industry. designers and development engineers from the manufacturing industry visit dms to.... Venue : Intex Osaka ,Osaka Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Aug - 15 Aug 2015 Pro Sound and Light Africa Exhibition -  South Africa Pro Sound & Light Africa is a specialized exhibition presenting products of professional sound, light, stage technology & musical instruments for entertainment industry in Africa. As an event of Fun & Biz Africa, This trade fair is scheduled to be.... Venue : Johannesburg Expo Centre, South Africa ,Gauteng South Africa Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Aug - 15 Aug 2015 Fun & Biz Africa Expo -  South Africa Fun & Biz Africa is a brand new expo in Africa focusing on leisure, tourism &urban recreation business. Fun & Biz Africa is an expo aiming to promote the improvement of entertaining facilities of South Africa especially in fields.... Venue : Johannesburg Expo Center ,Gauteng South Africa Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Jun - 03 Jun 2015 Middle East EVENT Show -  United Arab Emirates Now in its fifth year, the Middle East EVENT Show will return to the JW Marriott Marquis from the 2 – 3 June 2015. Providing visitors with a unique opportunity to source new MICE, event and entertainment industry suppliers while catching up with.... Venue : JW Marriott Marquis Hotel Dubai ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Feb - 20 Feb 2016 Malaysia International Technology Expo 2016 -  Malaysia Entering its 15th year in 2016, MTE will once again bring recognition to many of the best ideas and inventions in the region at the Invention & Innovation Awards 2016 and the Malaysia International Design Expo & Awards (mIDEAS) 2016 to be held in.... Venue : Putra World Trade Centre (PWTC) ,Kuala Lumpur Malaysia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 May - 28 May 2015 Carbon Expo 2015 -  Spain Join the specialist Trade Fair and Conference and use this international platform to inform yourself about the latest CO2 projects and climate development. Venue : Fira Barcelona Venue ,Barcelona Spain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 May - 15 May 2015 DSE-Data Storage Expo-Japan -  Japan DSE is Japan's largest exhibition featuring essential data storage solutions to manage and protect enormous volume of information. A great number of information/network systems managers and specialists in positions such as researchers and.... Venue : Tokyo International Exhibition Center (Tokyo Big Sight) ,Tokyo Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 May - 12 May 2015 9th Wenzhou Int'l Optics Fair, China (WOF) -  China Wenzhou International Optics Fair( WOF) is the leading international fair in the eyewear sector, an exceptional event where a preview of new products is presented to visitors. It is an event with a wealth of initiatives, personalities,.... Venue : Wenzhou Int`l Convention & Exhibition Center ,zhejiang China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 May - 06 May 2015 Mostra Convegno Expocomfort - MCE -  Saudi Arabia Mostra Convegno Expocomfort-MCE 2015 is the international showcase of the technological excellences conceived to improve quality of life.innovation, comfort, attention to  energy efficiency and saving issues will be the main topics of the.... Venue : Riyadh International Convention & Exhibition Center Saudi Arabia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship