Profile | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > India at a Glance > Profile Profile This section links Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents Profile   India is one of the oldest civilizations in the world with a kaleidoscopic variety and rich cultural heritage. It has achieved all-round socio-economic progress during the last 67 years of its Independence. India has become self-sufficient in agricultural production and is now one of the top industrialised countries in the world and one of the few nations to have gone into outer space to conquer nature for the benefit of the people. It covers an area of 3,287,590 sq. km (1,269,346 sq mi), extending from the snow-covered Himalayan heights to the tropical rain forests of the south. As the 7th largest country in the world, India stands apart from the rest of Asia, marked off as it is by mountains and the sea, which give the country a distinct geographical entity. Bounded by the Great Himalayas in the north, it stretches southwards and at the Tropic of Cancer, tapers off into the Indian Ocean between the Bay of Bengal on the east and the Arabian Sea on the west. Lying entirely in the northern hemisphere, the mainland extends between latitudes 8° 4' and 37° 6' north, longitudes 68° 7' and 97° 25' east and measures about 3,214 km from north to south between the extreme latitudes and about 2,933 km from east to west between the extreme longitudes. It has a land frontier of about 15,200 km. The total length of the coastline of the mainland, Lakshadweep Islands and Andaman & Nicobar Islands is 7,516.6 km. GEOGRAPHY Particulars Description Location The Indian peninsula is separated from mainland Asia by the Himalayas. The Country is surrounded by the Bay of Bengal in the east, the Arabian Sea in the west, and the Indian Ocean to the south. Geographic Coordinates Lying entirely in the Northern Hemisphere, the Country extends between 8° 4' and 37° 6' latitudes north of the Equator, and 68° 7' and 97° 25' longitudes east of it. Indian Standard Time GMT + 05:30 Area 3.3 Million sq. km Telephone Country Code +91 Border Countries Afghanistan and Pakistan to the north-west; China, Bhutan and Nepal to the north; Myanmar to the east; and Bangladesh to the east of West Bengal. Sri Lanka is separated from India by a narrow channel of sea, formed by Palk Strait and the Gulf of Mannar. Coastline 7,517 km encompassing the mainland, Lakshadweep Islands, and the Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Climate The climate of India can broadly be classified as a tropical monsoon one. But, in spite of much of the northern part of India lying beyond the tropical zone, the entire country has a tropical climate marked by relatively high temperatures and dry winters. There are four seasons: winter (December-February) summer (March-June) south-west monsoon season (June-September) post monsoon season (October-November) Terrain The mainland comprises of four regions, namely the great mountain zone, plains of the Ganga and the Indus, the desert region, and the southern peninsula. Natural Resources Coal, iron ore, manganese ore, mica, bauxite, petroleum, titanium ore, chromite, natural gas, magnesite, limestone, arable land, dolomite, barytes, kaolin, gypsum, apatite, phosphorite, steatite, fluorite, etc. Natural Hazards Monsoon floods, flash floods, earthquakes, droughts, and landslides. Environment - Current Issues Air pollution control, energy conservation, solid waste management, oil and gas conservation, forest conservation, etc. Environment - International Agreements Rio Declaration on environment and development, Cartagena Protocol on biosafety, Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on climatic change, World Trade Agreement, Helsinki Protocol to LRTAP on the reduction of sulphur emissions of nitrogen oxides or their transboundary fluxes (Nox Protocol), and Geneva Protocol to LRTAP concerning the control of emissions of volatile organic compounds or their transboundary fluxes ( VOCs Protocol). Geography - Note India occupies a major portion of the south Asian subcontinent. Download various maps of India Physical, Political, Population, Rain fall, Railway & Sea Routes, Road, Soil, etc. PEOPLE Particulars Description Population India's population, as on 1 March 2011 stood at 1,210,193,422 (623.7 million males and 586.4 million females). Population Growth Rate The average annual exponential growth rate stands at 1.64 per cent during 2001-2011. Birth Rate The Crude Birth rate was 18.3 in 2009. Death Rate The Crude Death rate was 7.3 in 2009. Life Expectancy Rate 65.8 years (Males); 68.1 years (Females) in the period 2006-2011. Sex Ratio 940 females per 1000 males according to 2011 census Nationality Indian Ethnic Groups All the five major racial types - Australoid, Mongoloid, Europoid, Caucasian, and Negroid find representation among the people of India. Religions According to the 2001 census, out of the total population of 1,028 million in the Country, Hindus constituted the majority with 80.5%, Muslims came second at 13.4%, followed by Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, and others. Languages There are 22 different languages that have been recognised by the Constitution of India, of which Hindi is an Official Language. Article 343(3) empowered Parliament to provide by law for continued use of English for official purposes. Literacy According to the provisional results of the 2011 census , the literacy rate in the Country stands at 74.04 per cent, 82.14% for males and 65.46% for females. GOVERNMENT Particulars Description Country Name Republic of India; Bharat Ganrajya Government Type Sovereign Socialist Secular Democratic Republic with a Parliamentary system of Government. Capital New Delhi Administrative Divisions 29 States and 7 Union Territories . Independence 15 th August 1947 (From the British Colonial Rule) Constitution The Constitution of India came into force on 26 th January 1950. Legal System The Constitution of India is the fountain source of the legal system in the Country. Executive Branch The President of India is the Head of the State, while the Prime Minister is the Head of the Government, and runs office with the support of the Council of Ministers who form the Cabinet Ministry. Legislative Branch The Indian Legislature comprises of the Lok Sabha (House of the People) and the Rajya Sabha (Council of States) forming both the Houses of the Parliament. Judicial Branch The Supreme Court of India is the apex body of the Indian legal system, followed by other High Courts and subordinate Courts. Flag Description The National Flag is a horizontal tricolour of deep saffron (kesaria) at the top, white in the middle, and dark green at the bottom in equal proportion. At the centre of the white band is a navy blue wheel, which is a representation of the Ashoka Chakra at Sarnath. National Days 26 th January ( Republic Day ) 15 th August ( Independence Day ) 2 nd October (Gandhi Jayanti; Mahatma Gandhi's Birthday) Was this information useful? Was this information useful for page: * Feedback option: * Very useful Quite useful Unsure Not very useful Not at all Take a moment to tell us how we could improve this page, but please don't leave any personal details like your name or address. This is for comments only and you will not receive a response. Show summary in full view Comments: * Lines and paragraphs break automatically. Allowed HTML tags: <a> <em> <strong> <cite> <code> <ul> <ol> <li> <dl> <dt> <dd> Web page addresses and e-mail addresses turn into links automatically. E-Mail addresses are hidden with reCAPTCHA Mailhide . More information about formatting options Language: Language neutral English Hindi About the Portal Contact us Feedback Help Link to Us Newsletter Tell a Friend Website Policy Accessibility Statement Visitor Summary Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communication Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services Online Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms People Speak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance This is the National Portal of India, developed with an objective to enable a single window access to information and services being provided by the various Indian Government entities. The content in this Portal is the result of a collaborative effort of various Indian Government Ministries and Departments, at the Central/State/District level. This Portal is Mission Mode Project under the National E-Governance Plan, designed and maintained by National Informatics Centre (NIC), DeitY, MoCIT, Government of India. Last reviewed and updated on 21 May, 2015