Machinery Trade Show,Industrial Equipment Exhibition,Industrial Machinery Trade Fair JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Industrial Machinery Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Industrial MachineryTrade Shows Date : 12 Nov - 13 Nov 2015 ITMA Barcelona -  Spain ITMA Barcelona is one of the largest textile machinery exhibition in throughout the world. Held at Barcelona International Convention & Exhibition Centre, Spain, the event is aimed towards providing an entrusted podium for.... Venue : Fira de Barcelona ,Barcelona Spain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Mar - 10 Mar 2016 ITIF Asia 2016 -  Pakistan 13th ITIF Asia 2016 ~ Int'l Trade & Industry Fair Buy & Sell Industrial Machinery Equipment Heavy Metal Working Machines Exhibition, incorporating Engineering Asia, Auto & Transport Asia, Oil & Gas Asia, Alternative.... Venue : Karachi Expo Centre ,Karachi Pakistan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 23 Feb - 27 Feb 2016 Metav Dusseldorf -  Germany Metav Dusseldorf 2016 is one of the leading international fair for manufacturing technology and automation, which is offers right at the beginning of the year a platform for the personal interaction between suppliers and investors. exhibitors.... Venue : Düsseldorf Exhibition Centre ,Dusseldorf Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Jun - 24 Jun 2016 Maintain-Germany -  Germany Maintain-Germany 2015 is the european trade fair for the maintenance industry. the exhibition presents an international range of the key areas of inspection, maintenance, repair and optimization of machinery, equipment and technical.... Venue : Muenchner Order Center (MOC) ,Munich Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Sep - 01 Oct 2015 CMTS - Canadian Manufacturing Technology Show -  Canada The Canadian Manufacturing Technology Show speaks your language! In October 2015, CMTS transforms Toronto's Direct Energy Centre into Canada's definitive showcase for the latest machine tools, automation technologies, production methods,.... Venue : The International Centre ,ON Canada Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Jun - 19 Jun 2015 Western Canada Farm Show -  Canada Agricultural Equipment Trade Show specializing in Dryland Agriculture, Livestock Equipment, Agricultural Chemicals, Farmstead Products and Services Venue : Evraz Place Canada Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Nov - 29 Nov 2015 Excon-Bangalore -  India Confederation of India Industry (CII), India's premiere industry Association presents Excon 2015 - the 8th edition of Excon is scheduled to be held 25th - 29th November 2015, Bangalore, Karnataka, India. Venue : Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) ,Bangalore ,Karnataka India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Dec - 11 Dec 2015 Mda India -  India World of Industry INDIA 2015, will be demonstrating complete range of products and services, from Hydraulics and Pneumatics to Electro-Mechanical Transmission, automation components to process and factory automation systems, materials handling.... Venue : PRAGATI MAIDAN ,Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Jan - 16 Jan 2016 ZAK Garmentech Bangladesh -  Bangladesh Zak Garmentech Bangladesh is International Garment & Textile Machinery Trade Show. It includes buyers and sellers meet, technology seminars, country pavilions, and industry workshops. Venue : BICC - Bangabandhu International Conference Centre ,Dhaka Bangladesh Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 11 Jun 2015 Automation Technology Expo East -  United States Exhibiton on the latest advances in automation including adhesives/dispensing equipment, assembly systems, custom automation, control software/hardware, materials handling, motion control, robotics, sensors, vision inspection systems. Venue : Jacob K. Javits Convention Center ,New York United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Nov - 19 Nov 2015 Plastec South -  United States Exhibition on The latest advances for every industry specialty and every application in primary processing machinery, computer-aided design and manufacturing, production machinery, materials, molds and mold components, automation technology,.... Venue : Orange County Convention Center ,Orlando United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Oct - 16 Oct 2015 IFEX : International Flower Expo Tokyo -  Japan IFEX : International Flower Expo Tokyo 2015 is asia's largest and most significant business-generating trade venue in the industry. flower and garden industry professionals such as florists, garden centers, home center buyers, wholesalers,.... Venue : Makuhari Messe Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 Nov - 19 Nov 2015 ITMA -  Spain International Exhibition of Textile and Textile Machinery. Venue : Fira de Barcelona ,Barcelona Spain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Mar - 08 Mar 2016 International Hardware Fair -  Germany The leading global trade fair for the hardware and DIY industry. Impressive organisation of the trade fair to cater for market and visitor interests from the international hardware and DIY industry. Venue : Exhibition Centre Cologne Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Aug - 23 Aug 2015 International Industrial Expo & Conferences-Gurgaon -  India International Industrial Expo & Conferences, (IIEC) have been meticulously planned to provide an upbeat, pioneering and value based platform for interaction within professionals, manufacturers/distributors of latest technology under one roof..... Venue : HSIIDC Manesar ,Gurgaon ,Haryana India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Jul - 03 Jul 2015 IIME-International Industrial Machinery Exhibition -  Viet Nam International Industrial Machinery Exhibition (IIME) is an integrated exhibition showcasing machinery and equipment, products, systems, technology and services in the field of plastics, metal working, print and pack, food pack, automation. All are.... Venue : Saigon Exhibition & Convention Center Viet Nam Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Sep - 25 Sep 2015 FEBRAVA 2015 -  Brazil 19th International Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, Ventilation, Heating and Air Treatment Fair.  Febrava-Brazil 2015 will be the largest generator of business and information, the fair will offer tools to expand.... Venue : Imigrantes Convention Center ,SP Brazil Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Aug - 29 Aug 2015 OIL & GAS AFRICA -  Tanzania, United Republic of The first Oil & Gas Africa - Int'l Trade Exhibition, will be held from the 27th to the 29th of August 2015. This event will be the hub for key players in the Oil and Gas industry, attracting leading oil, gas and petroleum companies from.... Venue : Mlimani Conference Centre, ,DAR-ES- SALAAM Tanzania, United Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Oct - 23 Oct 2015 2015 the 3th International Exhibition on Evaporation & Crystallization -  China Organizers: Evaporation and Crystallization Technology Professional Group of Technology and Equipment Office under China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Federation Evaporation Professional Group of Chemical Engineering Professional Committee.... Venue : Shanghai Convention & Exhibition Center of International Sourcing ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jun - 12 Jun 2015 Paper Vietnam 2015 -  Viet Nam Paper Vietnam 2015 is a paperchemtech, Paper Machinery and Paper Product exhibition. Venue : Saigon Exhibition and Convention Center ,Hồ Chí Minh Viet Nam Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 May - 28 May 2015 Propak Malaysia -  Malaysia Propak Malaysia is the premier exhibition of packaging and processing machinery, materials and associated technology in the Malaysian region. Propak Malaysia is your opportunity to present your products and solutions live and in person to a.... Venue : Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre (KLCC) ,Kuala Lumpur Malaysia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 23 May - 25 May 2015 18th East Africa International Trade Exhibition 2015 -  Tanzania, United Republic of This is the 18th EAITE on Industrial equipment and machinery, is the largest trade show in Tanzania, as it is the hub of the vast East African market. This exhibition attracts exhibitors from more than 30 countries and visitors from all over East &.... Venue : Mlimani Holdings Limited ,Dar es Salaam Tanzania, United Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 May - 23 May 2015 Busan International Machinery Fair 2015 -  Korea, Republic of Busan is in the largest concentrated area of the Korean Machinery Industry. The cities of southeastern(Busan, Ulsan, Changwon) manufacture more than 50% of the Korean Machinery Market. Moreover, in 2005, the APEC was held in Busan and then in 2010,.... Venue : BEXCO ,Seoul Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 May - 07 May 2015 Glassman Europe -  France Glassman Europe is the leading exhibition of industrial–scale primary glassmaking equipment and service. With a wealth of new features for 2015, including local site visits and the 'Innovation Zone' to view new product presentations.... Venue : Cite Centre de Congres France Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 29 Apr - 01 May 2015 Mini India Show 2015 -  Nepal Relations between India and Nepal have traditionally been close since ancient times as a result of geographical location and common religious, linguistic and cultural identities that overlap the two countries. India contributes to the development.... Venue : Bhrikuti Mandap ,Kathmandu Nepal Book Your Stall