ciiblog | Confederation of Indian Industry (www.cii.in) ciiblog Confederation of Indian Industry (www.cii.in) Main menu Skip to content Home About CII National Theme 2015-16 CII’s Role CII Leadership 2015-16 CII Initiatives myCII.in Indian Women Network Young Indians Contact Us CII on Social Media Search GO Twitter Facebook May 28, 2015 Launch of the Sector Skill Council for Green Jobs Skilling people as ‘Surya Mitras’ to create a cadre to meet the energy demands of the future, taking India from Megawatt to Gigawatt. Mr Upendra Tripathy, Secretary, Ministry of New Renewable Energy allots Rs 220 Cr to Skill 50,000 ‘Surya Mitras’. As renewable energy gains ground in India, propelled by efforts of the Government and industry, the renewable energy sector is estimated to generate two million green jobs in the next decade. There is an urgent need to create a pool of appropriately trained manpower which could accelerate India’s efforts to go green. To help bridge this gap in trained manpower, a Sector Skill Council for Green Jobs (SSCGJ) was launched by Mr Upendra Tripathy, Secretary, Ministry of New Renewable Energy, Government of India, in New Delhi today in presence of Mr Pawan Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship; Mr Sumant Sinha, Chairman, CII National Committee for Renewable Energy and Mr Atul Bhatnagar, COO, National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC). The SSCGJ being set up by CII, in partnership with the Ministry of New Renewable Energy, under the aegis of Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship and the National Skill Development Council. Sector Skill Council for Green Jobs (SSCGJ) will draw up job roles, train 1500 Trainers, accredit 60 training organizations in the sector and certify 10.60 lacs students in the first year of its operations. Over the next decade, the Council will work towards creating a comprehensive skill development plan to be executed in phases spread over 10 years each. Mr N B Raju, Director, National Institute of Solar Energy (NISE) stated that curriculum and standards of training will be designed keeping in mind Industry needs. The target for India is pegged at 100 GW for the future. The skilled workforce created will not only address the local needs of India but also meet the demands of regions abroad such as Africa and Gulf Nations. He further added that NISE is also launching a GPS backed mobile application to provide solar services within the next 3 months. Mr Pawan Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship stated that Sector Skill Council for Green Jobs (SSCGJ) was the first Sector Skill Council that will cut across horizontally and work with several other Sector Skill Councils. He also congratulated CII and MNRE to help create this SSC keeping in mind the growing demand for clean energy in India. He also added that the creation of SSCGJ has happened at an opportune time as the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna (PMKVY) scheme is being launched with an outlay of Rs 1500 Cr to skill and certify workforce throughout India. Speaking at the occasion, Mr Sumant Sinha, Chairman, CII National Committee for Renewable Energy and Founder-Chairman & CEO, ReNew Power Ventures Ltd , said that faced with the twin concerns of energy security and climate change, the Government is committed to mainstreaming renewable energy in India’s fuel mix. He added that while the Government is providing the policy levers, the multi-fold scaling up of renewable generation capacity requires commensurate development of appropriately skilled personnel to conceive, plan and build these facilities. The new Sector Sill Council should help produce appropriately skilled people. CII has played a key role in skilling India and has been setting up various sector-specific Skill Councils to meet the growing requirement of skilled people. Over the years, it has partnered NSDC & Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship to set up Sector Skill Councils to meet the requirement of skilled manpower across sectors. CII has promoted 9 Sector Skill Councils in Healthcare; Tourism & Hospitality; Logistics; Life Sciences; Beauty & Wellness; Infrastructure Equipment; BFSI; Paint & Coatings and Sector Skill Council for Green Jobs. SSCs for Furniture & Fitting; Strategic Manufacturing; People with Disabilities, Allied Manufacturing are under progress. As industry realizes the criticality of skill development, Sector Skill Councils become increasingly important to provide manpower that meets the needs of industry. They complement the efforts of vocational training institutes in creating a workforce that is employable, and will raise the productivity levels. This assumes great significance given the thrust of the Government on manufacturing, and the launch of the ‘Make in India’ campaign. Share this: Email Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Google Tumblr Pinterest More Pocket Reddit Print Like this: Like Loading... Posted in Business Leave a comment May 27, 2015 A Year of Unparalleled Achievements: Mr Sumit Mazumder, CII Unveils Agenda Going Forward CII Unveils Agenda Going Forward Congratulating the Government on completion of the first year in office, the President of CII, Mr Summit Mazumder said that “Under the exemplary leadership of the Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, the country has witnessed a year of unparalleled achievements. Never before has a government done so much in its first year in office. As Indians we are proud of what India stands for in the eyes of the world. We have personally seen how in the last one year, India once again commands respect and admiration in the same measure. This is owed to the Prime Minister’s unstinted efforts to change India’s image globally.” Mr Mazumder went on to say that “the economic fundamentals are strong and the government has created strong foundation for building a developed India. As CII, we believe that building India is a shared responsibility and industry must play its part. We are committed to ensure that industry’s commitment is well made.” In a press release issued here today, along with a report marking one year of the government, CII has said that it welcomes the many path-breaking economic reform measures announced by the Government during the past year and called for continuing the strong momentum across ten critical areas. Commenting on the agenda for the coming years, Mr Sumit Mazumder stated, “The Government has exceeded the expectations of industry in the area of economic reforms. We are hopeful that that the Government would continue to maintain strong momentum of reforms going forward.” The CII release said that the government’s achievements during the year can broadly be categorized into four areas, namely corruption-free governance, economic diplomacy, empowerment of states and putting in place key policies to revive investment in the economy. With transformational changes being envisioned not only on the economic front but on the social, technology and foreign policy fronts as well, the first anniversary of the Modi government has been marked by fresh thinking on all major areas of governance, the release said. Outlining the area of reforms requiring further policy attention, CII has urged the Government to consider policy strategies in ten critical areas that would bring huge economic benefits for growth, investment and employment creation. First, is in the area of macro-economy – CII has said that the government has done a remarkable job of fiscal discipline and hopes that it would stay the course. “Setting a ceiling on subsidy expenditure would be an important step in that direction,” stressed the CII President. All subsidy disbursal may be converted into direct benefit transfer (DBT) by linking Jan Dhan Yojana, Aadhar and mobile technology or the JAM trinity, including for foodgrains, LPG and kerosene, within two years, said the CII press release. PSU disinvestment must be rolled out through the year while restructuring and privatization of loss-making PSUs should be actioned, it added. Welcoming the government’s initiative to introduce GST, CII said that this would add 1.5 percentage points to the GDP growth rate. Second, is the issue of land acquisition – On this CII has supported the government’s efforts to get the legislation through Parliament and has additionally suggested that it should review the compensation package to reduce rehabilitation and resettlement costs as sellers receive multiples of market value on acquisition. The consent clause from Gram Sabhas should be dropped as it is already required from land owners for Schedule V areas, suggests CII. “There is huge need for ex ante zoning of land for identification of land use over a 100 year time horizon and establishment of State Land Bank Corporations for scientific acquisition and disbursal of land parcels for industrialization and urbanization,” pointed out Mr Mazumder. Third,  is the area of Infrastructure – According to CII, the infrastructure sectors require multiple interventions across cross-cutting areas such as renegotiation of PPPs, securing Government approvals before award of projects, long-term financing options, systematic exit policies and dispute resolution, among others. It is important to distinguish treatment of non-performing assets in the infrastructure sectors from those in other sectors, CII said in the press release. . Fourth, is the area of Energy – CII has requested the Government to address financial health of distribution companies to facilitate expansion of power and coal sectors. The Electricity (Amendment) Bill draft separating carriage and content is in accordance with CII recommendations and should be passed speedily. In the hydrocarbons sector, there is need for a roadmap for transition to a market-based gas pricing. To maintain continuity, CII suggests that the New Domestic Natural Gas Pricing Guideline 2014 may include discoveries prior to November 2014. “There is need to attract global investments in the energy exploration space and to that end, we recommend that Production Sharing Contract should be in line with global best practices,” noted Mr Mazumder. In the midstream section, building a gas grid through public private partnership can be encouraged through appropriate policy stance, said the CII press release. Fifth, is the area of manufacturing – Mr Mazumder recommended comprehensive actions for boosting the manufacturing sector. He added, “In particular, an early announcement is needed on a National Policy on Capital Goods including competitiveness, exports, capacity building, R&D and appropriate standards”. National Policies for strategic sectors under the Make in India campaign, such as Textiles, Chemicals, and Electronics must be devised as well, with comprehensive agendas for making India a manufacturing hub for global markets. In the mining sector, exploration by private sector can be facilitated through an Exploration Fund for scarce minerals. CII also called specifically for a National Steel Policy with focus on availability of ores and coal, a reasonable tariff regime, long-term financing, and skill development. Sixth, is on labour reforms – To encourage mass manufacturing operations, CII urged the Government to modernize the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 to apply to establishments with over 500 workers instead of 100 workers. This may be supplemented with increased provision for compensation in case of retrenchment, recommended CII. Mr Mazumder observed, “CII has suggested that labour laws be converged and simplified to avoid contradictions and ensure easy compliance. This will promote creation of jobs in factories.” CII recommended permitting contract labour and distinguishing contract workers working with large contractors as primary employers. Several amendments are also required in the Factories Act and Trade Unions Act 1926, while pending legislation relating to labour issues should be passed without delay, the CII release said. Seventh, is the area of skill development – Private sector participation in skill development needs to be encouraged, said CII. “Skill development should be eligible for mandatory expenditure under CSR activity under the new Companies Act,” suggested Mr Mazumder. He added that there is need for capacity building in over 11,000 Industrial Training Institutes and private institutes through participation of industry, use of advanced technology and training of trainers, among others. A single body is required for funding of training programs. The National Occupational Standards should be rolled out as national standards by the National Skill Qualification Committee, said the release. Eighth, is on Companies Act – The Companies (Amendment) Bill 2014 seeks to make certain amendments to the 2013 Act. “Many CII recommendations have been settled in the Bill. However, certain other amendments relating to onerous requirements for private companies, related party transactions, CSR, criminalization of offences, and other areas may also be considered by the Government,” said the CII President. Ninth, is on Taxation – CII has welcomed the stress on a fair, transparent and hassle-free tax regime being promulgated by the Government. “We are happy that the Finance Minister has pledged to bring down corporate tax to global rates in the next four years and we hope this would be front-loaded, given subdued global environment,” said Mr Mazumder. Processes for Alternate Dispute resolution mechanism, arbitration and conciliation should be introduced. Tax administration must minimize uncertainty and maximize convenience, emphasized the CII press statement. Tenth, and the final area of intervention is the financial sector – “The Indian financial sector needs to move from a bank-dominated system to a diversified regime with multiple financing options,” stressed the CII President. “A National Assent Management Company may be urgently considered to take non-performing assets off the balance sheets of banks and attract fresh capital, besides other functions.” There is need for an integrated bond, currency and derivatives market at par with the equity market, the CII release said. “With a multi-pronged strategic economic reforms package, we believe that the Indian economy could hit a growth rate of 9-10 per cent in the medium term horizon,” concluded Mr Mazumder. Share this: Email Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Google Tumblr Pinterest More Pocket Reddit Print Like this: Like Loading... Posted in Business Tagged #OneYearofModi , BJP Leave a comment May 23, 2015 A Strong Standards Ecosystem is vital for ‘Make in India’: Cabinet Secretary Action Plan on Standards in 4 weeks Mr. Ajit Seth, Cabinet Secretary, Government of India stressed the importance of a strong standards ecosystem under the ‘Make in India’ campaign. He said that it is important for Indian manufacturers to comply with the right standards to export value added products and for India to become a manufacturing hub. The Cabinet Secretary was addressing the  Standards Conclave 2015, jointly organised by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). The Cabinet Secretary noted that India’s standards regime is at a nascent stage with low awareness and adoption. This provides the opportunity to build a progressive and futuristic standards eco system, including standards in services. He directed the Department of Commerce to prepare a time-bound action plan in four weeks to stress the urgency of reforms in the area. Earlier, Mr. Rajeev Kher, Commerce Secretary, Department of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, noted that the big takeaway from the event is for all the government agencies to work towards creating a standards ecosystem around the relevant products with identified tasks. He said that the standards agenda now has political endorsement but industry must take ownership and drive it further. Mr. Kher also noted that a Standards Training Institute is getting materialised. The technical institute will involve multiple stakeholders from the government as well as industry. The institute will be a step in the right direction in effectively taking forward the standards agenda. Mr. Kher also stressed the importance of hastening the services standards agenda given the very important part it plays in the economy and in improving efficiency of the manufacturing sector. Mr. G Gurucharan, Additional Secretary, Department of Consumer Affairs, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, noted the various legislative reforms to modernise the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) Act, 1986 and the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. The comprehensive reforms have been approved by a group of ministers and will now be tabled in Parliament. The reforms are intended to improve the ease of doing business, bring greater coherence with international standards and make the mandatory standards broader, among other reforms, he said. The reforms in the Consumer Protection Act includes the introduction of Product Liability that will support the new standards ecosystem, he added. Although a ‘Standards Vision 2020’ document that had been recommended by a panel during the conclave, would be a good idea, he stressed the need to get down to action immediately by identifying certain products in certain sectors on a priority basis. Mr. Anil Jauhri, CEO, NABCB, provided a summary of the deliberations and noted the way forward on technical barriers to trade (TBT) issues. He raised the importance of private standards in the market. Mr. S. Dave, Director, APEDA and Former Chairman, Codex Alimentarius, enumerated 20 action points for the government and 9 for the industry towards achieving higher standards and building capacity at all governmental levels. Mr. M J Joseph, Former DG, BIS, during his summary on services standards highlighted the low level of development as well as adoption of standards in the sector. Chairing the session, Mr. J.S. Deepak, Additional Secretary, Department of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce and Industry noted that the Standards conclave has received support from all the stakeholders in government, industry and civil society. The Conclave saw the participation of over 400 participants over the two days and involved all the major stakeholders, including, brought together BIS, Export Inspection Council, NABCB, FSSAI, APEDA, NABH and the National Skills Development Corporation. The Government plans on an advocacy drive to take the standards agenda forward at the state and local level. Share this: Email Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Google Tumblr Pinterest More Pocket Reddit Print Like this: Like Loading... Posted in Business Tagged MAKE IN INDIA , Quality , Standards Conclave 2015 Leave a comment May 22, 2015 The Government has Exceeded Expectations: CII President Has Done More than Any Other Government has Done in One Year: Sumit Mazumder Commenting on the first one year of the Government, Mr Sumit Mazumder, President, CII said “the Government has exceeded our expectations and has achieved more in the first year than any other government has achieved in their first year.” Mr Mazumder added “an action-packed year has gone by since the Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi assumed office and CII believes that economic strategies and deliverables have gained huge momentum. Stress on governance and tax administration for a non-adversarial, corruption-free and predictable policy regime has greatly buoyed investor sentiments. Strong action to pass critical bills  through Parliament, rapid rollout of campaigns for financial inclusion, social security and direct transfer of subsidies, initiatives in power, coal and mining sectors and so many other areas have imparted huge credibility to the Government.” The CII release said that empowerment of State governments with more policy flexibility and revenues would enable tailored policies according to diverse resources. Prime Minister Modi’s personal interventions to attract FDI are resulting in concrete projects and outcomes. A wide range of quick reforms across sectors has been initiated and would hasten the growth forces for incomes and employment for all sections of society. There are clear signs of recovery and India is already the fastest growing large economy in the world. The CII President went on to say “the Government’s emphasis on lower tax rates and introduction of GST in coming years will greatly enhance competitiveness of the Indian Industry. CII believes that India’s GDP can grow at 9-10 per cent in the medium term with such a multi-pronged reform strategy. CII looks forward with hope and excitement to continuing initiatives which will propel fresh investments from public, private and overseas sources and set India on a high-growth trajectory.” Share this: Email Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Google Tumblr Pinterest More Pocket Reddit