West Bengal Home » West Bengal   West Bengal पश्चिम बंगाल का नक्शा West Bengal Map পশ্চিমবঙ্গ মানচিত্র Cities in West Bengal পশ্চিমবঙ্গের শহরসমুহ Kolkata Darjeeling Siliguri Barrackpore Haldia Bankura Suri                    more... West Bengal Districts পশ্চিমবঙ্গ জেলা মানচিত্র West Bengal Roads West Bengal Railways West Bengal Rivers Tehsils of West Bengal Physical Map West Bengal Location Lat Long Map Mineral Map Industry Map Agriculture Map West Bengal Forests West Bengal Assembly Polls West Bengal Lok Sabha Elections West Bengal Economy West Bengal Government Places to Visit in West Bengal Travel to West Bengal Wildlife Sanctuaries Travel to Kolkata Travel to Siliguri Travel to Darjeeling Places to visit in Kolkata Places to visit in Darjeeling Victoria Memorial Hotels in West Bengal Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Kalimpong Hotels in Howrah Hotels in Durgapur            more... Society and Culture West Bengal Geography West Bengal History West Bengal Airport Map Kolkata Metro Map Siliguri Location Map Road Companion West Bengal Information West Bengal Media West Bengal Emergency numbers West Bengal Pin Code West Bengal STD Code পশ্চিমবঙ্গ পর্যটন Sex Ratio Map Salt Lake Map Location of Nakhoda Masjid Varanasi Darjeeling Route Map Delhi Darjeeling Route Map Patna Darjeeling Route Map Power Network Map West Bengal Judiciary West Bengal Handicrafts Growth Centers Kolkata Siliguri Route Map Varanasi Siliguri Route Map Patna Siliguri Route Map Universities in West Bengal       West Bengal Victoria Memorial Imambara Mosque at Bandel Kalna Temple Katra Mosque Tea Gardens Interior of Darjeeling Train Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park Darjeeling Train at the Batista Loop Chauu dance Kanchenjunga Mountain West Bengal Location Map West Bengal Map West Bengal Travel Map Places of Interest Travel Guide Route Maps Important Places How To Reach Kolkata Siliguri Darjeeling Nakhoda Masjid Wildlife Sancturies Cities Travel Map Kolkata Metro Map Climate Population Information Road Maps Varanasi Darjeeling Route Map Delhi Darjeeling Route Map Kolkata Siliguri Route Map Varanasi to Siliguri Route Map Patna Siliguri Route Map Delhi Siliguri Route Map Kolkata City Durgapur City Salt Lake City Sightseeing Attractions West Bengal Tourism Railways & Roadways Trams and Buses Airports About West Bengal West Bengal is located in the Northeastern part of the country. It is bounded on its north by Bhutan and the state of Sikkim , on its east by Bangladesh, on its northeast by the state of Assam , on its south by the Bay of Bengal, on its southwest by the state of Odisha, on its northwest by Nepal, and on its west by the state of Bihar. The alluvial plain in the south is watered by the legendary River Hooghly and its tributaries - Mayurakshi, Damodar, Kangsabati and the Rupnarayan. The Himalayan north, comprising the districts of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar are watered by the swift flowing rivers Tista, Torsa, Jaldhaka and Ranjit. Variations in altitude result in diversity in the nature and climate of West Bengal. From the northern highlands at the feet of the Himalayas to the tropical forests of Sunderbans, West Bengal is a land of myriad beauty, each region different from the other. Facts on West Bengal Official Website www.westbengal.gov.in Date of Formation Nov 1, 1956 Area 88,752 sq km Density 1,029/Km2 Population (2011) 91,276,115 Males Population (2011) 46,809,027 Females Population (2011) 44,467,088 No. of District 20 Capital Kolkata Rivers Hooghly, Teesta, Jaldhaka, Rupnarayan Forests & National Park Gorumara NP, Sundarbans NP, Ballavpur WS, Chapramari WS Languages Bengali, Hindi, English, Nepali Neighbours State Assam, Sikkim, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha State Animal Fishing cat State Bird White-throated Kingfisher State Tree Devil Tree State Flower Night-flowering Jasmine Net State Domestic Product (2011) 48,536 Literacy Rate (2011) 86.43% Females per 1000 males 947 Assembly constituency 294 Parliamentary constituency 42 West Bengal Facts Although in area, West Bengal ranks as one of the smaller states of India, it is one of the largest in population. The capital is Kolkata, India's third largest metropolitan city; other important cities and towns are Howrah, Asansol, Durgapur and Siliguri, Darjeeling, Kharagpur and Haldia. West Bengal has a single-chamber legislative assembly with 295 seats. The state sends 58 members to the Indian Parliament: 16 to the Rajya Sabha (Upper House) and 42 to the Lok Sabha (Lower House). Local government is based on 20 administrative districts. West Bengal History Bengal finds a coveted place even in pre-historic times. At the time of Alexander's invasion, a powerful kingdom called Gangaridai ruled over Bengal. Ascendancy of the Guptas and the Mauryas had somewhat little effect on Bengal. Later Sasanka became the king of Bengal and is said to have played an important role in the early half of the seventh century. He was succeeded by Gopala who founded the Pala dynasty which ruled for centuries and had created a huge empire. The Palas were followed by the Sena dynasty which was ended by Muslim rulers from Delhi. Bengal was ruled by various Muslim rulers and governors till the Mughal period in sixteenth century. More Details... Click to View large Map West Bengal Industrial Map Economy and Infrastructure of West Bengal Agriculture plays a pivotal role in the state's income, and nearly three out of four persons in the state are directly or indirectly involved in agriculture. The state accounts for high percentage of the country's jute production. It is also a major producer of tea. Important crops of the state include potatoes, oilseeds, betelvine, tobacco, wheat, barley and maize. The state also occupies a leading position among principal rice growing states of India. The state has a significant mineral output, including dolomite, limestone, and china clay. It has steel plants, an automobile-manufacturing plant, and numerous chemical, machinery-building, and light-engineering industries. Here's a profile of the state's infrastructure: Roads Surfaces - 25984 Km, Un-surfaced - 32016 Km, National Highways - 1631 Km Railways 3767 Km Eastern & South Eastern Railway Headquarters are in Calcutta. Telecommunications Basic Telephone - Working Lines - 797800 Waiting list - 150200 Express Demand - 1.4 per 100 population VSNL has its International Gateway and Earthstation in and around Calcutta. Mobile Cellular Services (GSM) is provided by Modi - Telstra and Usha Martin Telecom Malaysia within Greater Calcutta. Mobile Services proposed in the rest of the State by Reliance/NYNEX. Public Radio Paging Services provided by four operators E-mail Services available from a host of operators. Airports Domestic: Bagdogra International: Calcutta Major Ports Calcutta, Haldia   More Details... West Bengal Geography The Geography of West Bengal is varied. The state is situated in the Eastern part of India; on its east lies Bangladesh. Sikkim and Bhutan lie on the north of West Bengal. The state of Assam is situated on the northeast of West Bengal. Bihar and Jharkhand are situated on the western side of the state. The geographical location of the state is 23 degree North latitude and 88 degree East longitude. The total area of West Bengal is 88,752 sq km. According to the census of 2011, the state has a population of 9,12,76,115. The population density of West Bengal per square kilometer is 1029. Out of the total population of the state, the ratio between males and females is 947. The population of West Bengal is predominated by the Bengali population. But immigration from different states of India has enriched the population diversity of West Bengal.   More Details... West Bengal Government The political scenario of the state comprise of the national parties like the Communist Party of India Marxist, CPI, All India Forward Block, Bahujan Samaj Party, the Indian National Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party, Samajwadi Party, National Congress Party and regional parties like the Trinamool Congress, SUCI, CPIML, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, PDS, JDS, JDU, RSP, etc. More Details... West Bengal Judiciary The state of West Bengal is blessed with a systematic and organised judiciary that helps in the quick delivery of justice. Unlike United States of America, India does not follow a Federal system of Government. India adheres to the Unitary System of governance under which the Supreme Court is the highest judicial authority that is supported by the High Courts of each state.  More Details... Society and Culture of West Bengal About three quarters of the population lives in the villages. Of the different religions, Hinduism, with its substrata of castes and aboriginal tribes, claims the adherence of more than three-fourths of the population, most of the remainder being Muslim. West Bengal contains about 40 recognised communities of tribes--the better known among them being the Santals, Oraons, Munas, Lepchas, and Bhutias--that make up less than one-tenth of the total population. Bengali is the language of most of the people, with Hindi, Urdu, Nepali, and English as minority languages. English, however, is the language of administration and a lingua franca for business purposes. More Details... Tourism in West Bengal This state of East India attracts tourists from all over the country. The diversified physical features of the place make West Bengal a favourable tourist destination. Be it mountains or lush green forests, sea beaches or places of worship, the state has all. West Bengal hill stations are one of the major attractions of this state. From the breathtaking views of Darjeling to the quite retreats of Siliguri, from the stunning tea gardens to the woody forests, West Bengal hill stations have something for everyone. Some of these hill stations are also sites of historical and religious significance. But it is the tranquil and scenic beauty of the West Bengal's hill stations that attract the visitors from all over the world. Each hill station is different from the other and provides great opportunities for the visitors to lose themselves in the serene lap of nature. There are forests and valleys, picturesque settings and tranquil mountain walks. Some of West Bengal's hill stations are very old and date back to the ancient times of Indian history. They provide the perfect mountain experience to the visitors. To name a few places which are worth visiting in this state are: Ayodhya Hill Bandel Church Cooch Behar Palace Curzon Gate Digha Beach Gandhi Ghat Indian Botanical Garden I. S. K. C. O. N. (International Society for Krishna Consciousness) Temple at Mayapur Kantanagar Temple Raiganj Bird Sanctuary Santiniketan Sunderbans National Park More Details... Transportation West Bengal is well-connected through different modes of transport. By road, the state is covered by about 92,000 km area through national highways, state highways. These roads connect the cities as well as small towns and villages of the state. The state also has a well linked railway network. The capital city of West Bengal, Kolkata, is the headquarters for three different zones of the Indian railways in the state - Eastern Railway, South Eastern Railway and the Kolkata Metro. It is easy to reach the state via airways. Kolkata's Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport at Dum Dum is the biggest airport of the state. Bagdogra Airport and Kazi Nazrul Islam International Airport are few other airports in the state. Much government-owned organisations run their bus services in the state. Besides these organisations, many private companies also operate their bus service in the state. Education The state government or the private organisations run schools in the state. The secondary schools are affiliated to West Bengal Board of Secondary Education, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) and the National Institute of Open School (NIOS). There are many universities and affiliated colleges in the state. These universities offer courses in several fields such as arts, science, medical, technology, management etc. The state of West Bengal also has several well established medical institutes like the Calcutta Medical College, Calcutta National Medical College and the North Bengal Dental College. Instructions in law are meted out to students in many colleges like Hazra Law College, South Calcutta Law College, Surendranath Law College and Jogeshchandra Chaudhuri Law College. Along with these, there are institutes in engineering and film studies. Language Bengali and English are the official languages of West Bengal. The National Language Hindi is also widely spoken in the state. The three subdivisions of the Darjeeling district have Nepali as their official language. Urdu, Oriya, Santali are some other languages spoken in the state. More Details... West Bengal Media In the modern world, newspapers are among the most easy and common ways to propagate information. West Bengal has over five hundred newspapers published daily out of which over three hundred are in Bengali. The state owned television broadcaster is Doordarshan and the public radio station is All India Radio. Private FM stations are only available in Asansol, Kolkata and Siliguri. Newspapers of West Bengal generally publish current news of the state, nation and the world. The news published in these newspapers is about political, social, criminal, cultural, business, sports events. They also publish editorials, cartoons focusing on contemporary issues in a comic way and articles by eminent scholarly people.   More Details... Last Updated on : December 19, 2014 West Bengal Cities Arambagh City Asansol City Bankura City Bardhaman City Barrackpore City Barsat City Cooch Behar City Darjeling City Durgapur City Haldia City Kalimpong City Kolkata City Naihati City Salt Lake City Siliguri City Suri City Rivers Map of West Bengal Bankura River Map Barddhaman River Map Birbhum River Map Darjeeling River Map Haora River Map Hugli River Map Uttar Dinajpur River Map Jalpaiguri River Map Koch Bihar River Map Malda River Map Paschim Medinipur River Map Murshidabad River Map Nadia River Map North 24-Parganas River Map Puruliya River Map South 24-Parganas River Map Dakshin Dinajpur River Map Purba Medinipur River Map Tehsil Map of West Bengal Bankura Tehsil Map Barddhman Tehsil Map Birbhum Tehsil Map Dakshin Dinajpur Tehsil Map Puruliya Tehsil Map South 24 Parganas Tehsil Map Purba Mednipur Tehsil Map Darjiling Tehsil Map Haora Tehsil Map Hugli Tehsil Map Jalpaiguri Tehsil Map Koch Bihar Tehsil Map Uttar Dinajpur Tehsil Map Kolkata Tehsil Map Maldah Tehsil Map Murshidabad Tehsil Map Nadia Tehsil Map North 24 Parganas Tehsil Map Paschim Mednipur Tehsil Map West Bengal Route Maps Varanasi To Darjeeling Delhi To Darjeeling Patna To Darjeeling Kolkata to Siliguri Varanasi to Siliguri Patna to Siliguri Delhi to Siliguri Famous Personalities of West Bengal Mamta Banerjee Pranab Mujherjee Jyoti Basu Rabindranath Tagore Bankim Chandra Chatterjee Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay Manik Chattopadhyay Bipasha Basu Jaya Bachchan Kajol Mukherjee Rimi Sen Riya Sen Sushmita Sen Sharmila Tagore Pt. Ravi Shankar Jamini Roy Ghanshyam Das Birla Poulomi Ghatak Mouma Das Dola Banerjee Dibyendu Barua Saurav Ghoshal Ritwik Bhattacharya Sourav Ganguly Jaideep Mukherjee Mihir Sen Jyotirmoyee Sikdar Prannoy Roy Keshab Chandra Sen Aurobindo Ghose Raja Ram Mohan Roy Satyendranath Bose Jagdish Chandra Bose Prafulla Chandra Roy Meghnad Saha Surendranath Bannerjee Rash Behari Bose Subhash Chandra Bose Nellie Sengupta Khudiram Bose Jatindra Mohan Sengupta Chittaranjan Das Travel to West Bengal Travel to Darjeeling Travel to Kalimpong Travel to Kolkata Travel to Nakhoda Masjid Travel to Siliguri Places to Visit in West Bengal Places to visit in Darjeeling Places to visit in kalimpong Places to visit in Kolkata Places to visit in Sliguri   Places To Visit   Red Panda in Himalyan Zoological Park Darjeeling Hill Station Durga Puja Tea gardens Nivedita Setu Chhau Dance Darjeeling Train Tiger Hills Victoria Memorial             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image