--:: National Horticulture Board ::-- हिन्दी | English Home About Us Schemes of NHB Online Facilities Contact Us @ NHB Intranet Info Bulletin Statistics Guidelines/Standards General Information Minutes of IC/PAC Meeting NHB's Beneficiaries List Tender Notice I am pleased to inform that I have taken over the charge of Managing Director, NHB on regular basis from 09.05.2013. I consider this assignment as one of the most challenging and having huge potential,... Introduction National Horticulture Board (NHB) was set up by the Government of India in 1984 as an autonomous society under the Societies Registration Act 1860. Board has its Head Quarter in Institutional Area, Sector 18, Gurgaon (Haryana). The Managing Director is the Principal Executive of NHB who implements various schemes under overall supervision and guidance of the Board of Directors of NHB as well as the Department of Agriculture & Co-operation, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India.. Aims & Objectives of NHB Schemes The broad aims & objectives of all the above mentioned schemes are as under : - 1:- Development of hi-tech commercial horticulture in identified belts 2:- Development of modern post-harvest management infrastructure as integral part of area expansion projects or as common facility for cluster of projects 3:- Development of integrated, energy efficient cold chain infrastructure for fresh horticulture produce, 4:- Popularization of identified new technologies / tools / techniques for commercialization / adoption, after carrying out technology need assessment, 5:- Assistance in securing availability of quality planting material by promoting setting up of scion and root stock banks / mother plant nurseries, carrying out accreditation/ rating of horticulture nurseries and need based imports of planting material, 6:- Promotion and market development of fresh horticulture produce, 7:- Promotion of field trials of newly developed/ imported planting materials and other farm inputs, production technology, PHM protocols, INM and IPM protocols, and applied R&D programmes for commercialization of proven technology. 8:- Promotion of  applied R & D for standardizing PHM protocols, prescribing critical storage conditions for fresh horticulture produce, bench marking of technical standards for cold chain infrastructure etc., 9:- Transfer of technology to producers/farmers and service providers such as gardeners, farm level skilled workers, operators in cold storages, work force carrying out post harvest management including processing of fresh horticulture produce, and to the master trainers, 10:- Promotion of consumption of horticulture produce and products. 11:- Setting up Common Facility Centers in Horticulture Parks and Agri-Export Zones. 12:- Strengthen market intelligence system by developing, collecting and disseminating horticulture database, 13:- Carrying out studies and surveys to identify constraints and develop short and long term strategies for systematic development of horticulture and providing technical services including advisory and consultancy services. Commercial Hort. Scheme Apply online for LOI Track your application Progress Reports Cold Storage Scheme Apply online for LOI Track your application Progress Reports Progress Report for Project through NABARD Tech. Dev. Transfer Scheme Apply online Track your application Progress Reports Nursery Rating System Apply online Track your application Progress Reports Find a Star Nursery National Cold Storage Database ALL INDIA COLD STORAGE CAPACITY AND TECHNOLOGY - BASELINE STUDY Statewise Cold Storages as per survey conducted by NHB RTI Corner Click For more Details..       Model Project Reports Cost Norms CIH & Growers Association NHB Trained Graduate Engineers in Cold Chain Commodity Bulletin Fruits Vegetables Aroma Plants Flowers Price & Arrival Statistics Area Production Statistics Schemes Of NHB Technical Standards for Cold Storages/Ripening Chamber /Refer Van Recognition of Horticulture Nurseries OTS Scheme Guidelines Board of Directors of NHB Delegation of Powers to NHB Functionaries Annual Reports of NHB Year-2008-2009 Year-2009-2010 Year-2010-2011 Year-2011-2012 Year-2012-20013 Year-2013-2014 NHB Rules & Regulations Memorandum of Association Minutes of DSC meetings regarding OTS Scheme in NHB IC Meetings PAC Meetings Year-2009-2010 Year-2010-2011 Year-2011-2012 Tender Notice About NHB Organisational Structure Schemes Of NHB Apply for LOI and Track Status Commercial Hort. Scheme Cold Storage Scheme Tech. Dev. Transfer Scheme Daily Price-Arrival Market Bulletin Daily Price-Arrival (All-crop / All Market) Weekly Price and Arrival Report Monthly Price and Arrival Report Monthly Comparison Price and Arrival Report Annual Price and Arrival Report Corporate Headquarter Area Officers Our Network NHB's HQ Officers