Hotels in Tripura, Tripura Hotels Home » Tripura » Hotels in Tripura   Tripura त्रिपुरा का नक्शा Tripura Map Districts of Tripura South Tripura Dhalai West Tripura North Tripura Agartala City Map Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Tripura Location Lat Long Map Travel to Tripura Places to visit in Tripura Wildlife Sanctuaries Bhuvaneswari Temple Tripura Sundari Temple Agriculture Map Tripura Forests Parliamentary Constituencies- East Tripura Parliamentary Constituencies- West Tripura Economy Government Geography Society and Culture Hotels in Tripura Attractions History STD Code PIN Code Assemblypolls Sex Ratio Universities In Tripura       Hotels in Tripura There are a wide range of Hotels in Tripura from star hotels to economy hotels. People who visit the princely state of Tripura have an extensive choice of Hotels in Tripura to choose from. These hotels cater to the need of every taste and even suit the pocket of every tourist. There are a large number of hotels in Tezpur that cater to the requirements of all kinds of visitors from business to leisure travellers. On the basis of the amenities the hotels in Tripura provide they can be broadly classified as Luxury hotels, Economy hotels and Budget hotels in Hotels in Tripura. Some of the common facilities and services provided by the hotels are STD or ISD facilities in room, well-furnished AC and Non AC Rooms with attached bathroom, 24 hour room service, constant supply of hot and cold water, restaurant and television. To promote tourism in the state, the Government has taken the initiative and established a number of lodges and yatri niwas. The Tourist lodges of the state Government are available for tourists visiting the state. Some of the Government accommodation facilities in Tripura are as follows: Sagar Mahal Tourist Lodge Melaghar Sonamura Rajarshi Yatri Niwas Agartala Uttarmegh Tourist Lodge Halflongcherra Dharmanagar Raima Tourist lodge Jatanbari, Amarpur Tourist lodge at Phuldungsie Jampui hill Saheed Bhagat Singh Youth Hostel Agartala Matabari Pantha Niwas Near Tripureswari Temple Udaipur Uttarayan Pantha Niwas Near Railway Station Kumarghat Some of the Private Tripura Hotels are: Hotel Welcome Palace Hari Gnaga Basak Road Agartala Hotel City Centre H.G.B.Road ,Madhyapara Agartala Hotel Minakshi, Hawkers Corner Road Agartala. Royal Guest House Palace Compound Agartala, Hotel Radha International 54,Central Road Agartala. Hotel Amber 13,Sakuntala Road, Agartala. Deep Guest House, L. N. Bari Road Agartala. Hotel Haven H.G.B.Road Agartala. Last Updated on 03/13/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule