India Edible Oil Market Outlook to 2019 - Trends, Growth and Development Analysis AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Press Releases India Edible Oil Market Outlook to 2019 - Trends, Growth and Development Analysis Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: India Edible Oil Market Outlook to 2019 - Trends, Growth and Development Analysis LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 2 Days Ago #1 rajbksh Join Date Jan 2014 Posts 36 Blog Entries 2 India Edible Oil Market Outlook to 2019 - Trends, Growth and Development Analysis • Future Growth of India Edible Oil Market is expected to be led by palm and soyabean oil segments • The market leader, Adani Wilmar is expected to maintain focus on Emerging Markets and global brands (Fortune) to compete with other players in the industry Ken Research announced its latest publication on “ India Edible Oil Market Report Outlook to 2019” which provides a comprehensive analysis of the various types of edible oils in India. The report covers various aspects such as market size of India Edible Oil Market, segmentation on the basis of palm, soyabean, mustard, sunflower, groundnut, cottonseed, rice bran and blended oil volume of exports and imports for edible oil. The report is useful for edible oil manufacturers, wholesalers of food and beverages, retail chains, edible oil products machinery manufacturers and new players venturing in the market. The Edible oil market in India has witnessed a growth in recent years on account of rising demand for variants of edible oil fueled by expansion in the production. The surge in growth is majorly originated from growth in palm and soyabean as a segment of edible oil market. The growth in this segment has been largely led by the domestic factors such as growing preference for healthy oils, growth in population base, shift in consumption pattern towards branded oil and favorable government policies. The edible oil market in India is comprised of large companies such as Adani Wilmar which offers large product portfolio of edible oil variants. The India Edible Oil Market Report revenues have grown at a CAGR of 13% from 2009-2014. According to the research report, the India Edible Oil Market Report will grow at a considerable CAGR rate thus exceeding INR 2,080 billion by 2019 due to the increasing number of edible oil brands and rising consumption of edible oil in the country. “While High level of imports, low agricultural productivity, absence of technology for oil refineries , lower capacity utilization, lack of liquid storage and warehousing facilities are few of the major challenges which will affect the growth of this industry in the future”, according to the Research Associate, Ken Research.   Key Topics Covered in the Report: Edible Oil Types - Market Size by Production, Revenue, Consumption - Market Segmentation by o Organized o Unorganized o Geography - Trends and Development - Export and Import - Average Price - Competition and Market Share - Growth Drivers - Future Outlook - Macro Economic Parameters Key Types of Oil Mentioned in the Report Palm Oil Soyabean Oil Sunflower Oil Mustard Oil Groundnut oil Cottonseed Oil Rice Bran Oil Blended Oil Companies Covered in the Report Adani Wilmar Marico Cargill Ruchi Soya ConAgra Foods (Agrotech Foods Ltd) Related Reports: China Cooking Oil Market Prospects to 2018 - Upgrading Agro-Economic System to Forerun Market India Organic Food and Beverages Outlook to 2019 - Growing Potential of Online Retailers to Steer Growth Malaysia Palm Oil Industry Outlook to 2018 - Demand for Bio Fuel to Drive Production Source: India Edible Oil Market Report Contact: Ken Research Ankur Gupta, Head Marketing & Communications Ankur@kenresearch.com +91-9015378249 Reply With Quote Tags for this Thread india edible oil market , mustard oil market , palm oil market , soyabean oil market , sunflower oil market View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 12:45 PM .