Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Programmes/themes >> Tourism for Development Tourism for Development DHAN Foundation’s Tourism for Development theme is an outcome of the four-year pilot project ‘Endogenous Tourism for Rural Livelihoods’ implemented by it in Karaikudi and Kazhugumalai in Tamil Nadu with the support of United Nations Development Programme and Government of India. One of the key learnings of the project was that the diversifiedlivelihood opportunities exist in the tourism sector can contribute in poverty reduction. ‘Tourism for Development’ is a crosscutting theme to facilitate DHAN’s programmes working in the locations of tourism importance to capitalize the emerging opportunities in the tourism sector. It would be a multi–stakeholder and inclusive approach with all the stakeholders in tourism including the poor communities. The key programme strategies are Organising the poor families into tourism based Peoples’ Organisations and introducing savings, credit and insurance services. Conserving and promoting heritage and artisanal skills by organising the artisans and service providers into Primary producer and marketing groups and federating them into a Producer cum Marketing Company. Strengthening existing skills and building new skills in production, servicing and marketing related to tourism. Linking the Peoples’ Organisations with commercial banks, markets and resource institutions for mobilizing resources, production and marketing of quality products. Facilitating research and development in the Peoples’ Organisations for product innovation, packaging and marketing. Ensuring responsible tourism through promoting tourism literacy and capacity building. Read more on Tourism for Development ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved