Tobacco - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Tobacco From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search For the plant genus, see Nicotiana . For the American electronic musician, see Tobacco (musician) . Not to be confused with Tabacco . Tobacco Tobacco can also be pressed into plugs and sliced into flakes. Botanical Tobacco Source plant(s) Nicotiana Part(s) of plant leaf Geographic origin North America Active ingredients Nicotine , harmine Uses Recreational Legal status AU :  Unscheduled CA : Unscheduled UK :  Unscheduled US :  Unscheduled UN :  Unscheduled EU :  Unscheduled see tobacco control A historic kiln in Myrtleford, Victoria , Australia. Basma tobacco leaves drying in the sun at Pomak village in Xanthi, Greece . Tobacco is a product prepared from the leaves of the tobacco plant by curing them. The plant is categorized within the genus Nicotiana of the Solanaceae (nightshade) family. While there are more than 70 species of tobacco, the chief commercial crop is N. tabacum . The more potent species N. rustica is also widely used around the world. Tobacco contains the alkaloid nicotine , a stimulant . Dried tobacco leaves are mainly smoked in cigarettes , cigars , pipe tobacco and flavored shisha tobacco . They are also consumed as snuff , chewing tobacco and dipping tobacco . Tobacco use is a risk factor for many diseases, especially those affecting the heart , liver and lungs , and several cancers . In 2008, the World Health Organization (WHO) named tobacco as the world's single greatest cause of preventable death. [ 1 ] Contents 1 Etymology 2 History 2.1 Traditional use 2.2 Popularization 2.3 Contemporary 3 Biology 3.1 Nicotiana 3.2 Types 4 Production 4.1 Cultivation 4.2 Curing 4.3 Global production 4.3.1 Trends 4.3.2 Major producers 4.3.2.1 China 4.3.2.2 India 4.3.2.3 Brazil 4.4 Problems in production 4.4.1 Child labor 4.4.2 Economy 4.4.3 Environment 4.5 Research 4.6 Genetic modification 4.6.1 Field trials 4.6.2 Production 5 Consumption 6 Impact 6.1 Social 6.2 Demographic 6.3 Harmful effects of tobacco and smoking 6.4 Economic 6.5 Advertising 6.6 Cinema 7 Gallery 8 References 8.1 Notes 8.2 Bibliography 9 Further reading 10 External links Etymology [ edit ] The English word tobacco originates from the Spanish and Portuguese word tabaco . The precise origin of the Spanish/Portuguese word is disputed but it generally thought to have originated, at least in part, from Taino , the Arawakan language of the Caribbean . In Taino, it was said to refer either to a roll of tobacco leaves (according to Bartolomé de las Casas , 1552), or to the tabago , a kind of Y-shaped pipe for sniffing tobacco smoke (according to Oviedo; with the leaves themselves being referred to as cohiba ). [ 2 ] However, similar words in Spanish, Portuguese and Italian were commonly used from 1410 to define medicinal herbs which are believed to have originated from the Arabic طبق tabbaq , a word reportedly dating to the 9th century, as the name of various herbs. [ 3 ] History [ edit ] Main article: History of tobacco See also: History of commercial tobacco in the United States William Michael Harnett (American, 1848-1892). Still Life with Three Castles Tobacco , 1880. Brooklyn Museum Traditional use [ edit ] The earliest depiction of a European man smoking, from Tabacco by Anthony Chute , 1595. Tobacco had already long been used in the Americas, with some cultivation sites in Mexico dating back to 1400–1000 B.C. [ 4 ] Many Native American tribes traditionally grew and used tobacco as an entheogen . Eastern North American tribes carried tobacco in pouches as a readily accepted trade item, and often smoked it in peace pipes , either in defined sacred ceremonies, or to seal a bargain. [ 5 ] They smoked it at such occasions in all stages of life, even in childhood. [ 6 ] They believed that tobacco is a gift from the Creator, and that the exhaled tobacco smoke carries one's thoughts and prayers to the Creator. [ 7 ] [ 8 ] Popularization [ edit ] An Illustration from Frederick William Fairholt 's Tobacco, its History and Association , 1859. Following the arrival of the Europeans, tobacco became increasingly popular as a trade item. Hernández de Boncalo , Spanish chronicler of the Indies, was the first European to bring tobacco seeds to the old continent in 1559 following orders of king Philip II of Spain . These seeds were planted in the outskirts of Toledo , more specifically in an area known as "Los Cigarrales" named after the continuous plagues of cicadas ("cigarras" in Spanish). Before the development of lighter Virginia and White Burley strains of tobacco, the smoke was too harsh to be inhaled. Small quantities were smoked at a time, using a pipe like the midwakh or kiseru or smoking newly invented waterpipes such as the bong or the hookah (see thuốc lào for a modern continuance of this practice). Tobacco smoking, chewing and stuffing became a major industry in Europe and its colonies by 1700. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] Tobacco has been a major cash crop in Cuba and in other parts of the Caribbean since the eighteenth century. Cuban cigars are world-famous. [ 11 ] In the late nineteenth century, cigarettes became popular. James Bonsack created a machine that automated cigarette production. This increase in production allowed tremendous growth in the tobacco industry until the health revelations of the late-20th century. [ 12 ] [ 13 ] Contemporary [ edit ] See also: Tobacco control and Tobacco in the United States Following the scientific revelations of the mid-20th century, tobacco became condemned as a health hazard, and eventually became encompassed as a cause for cancer, as well as other respiratory and circulatory diseases. In the United States, this led to the Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement (MSA), which settled the lawsuit in exchange for a combination of yearly payments to the states and voluntary restrictions on advertising and marketing of tobacco products. In the 1970s, Brown & Williamson cross-bred a strain of tobacco to produce Y1 . This strain of tobacco contained an unusually high amount of nicotine, nearly doubling its content from 3.2-3.5% to 6.5%. In the 1990s, this prompted the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to use this strain as evidence that tobacco companies were intentionally manipulating the nicotine content of cigarettes . In 2003, in response to growth of tobacco use in developing countries, the World Health Organization (WHO) [ 14 ] successfully rallied 168 countries to sign the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. The Convention is designed to push for effective legislation and its enforcement in all countries to reduce the harmful effects of tobacco. This led to the development of tobacco cessation products. Biology [ edit ] Nicotiana [ edit ] Main article: Nicotiana See also: List of tobacco diseases Nicotine is the compound responsible for the addictive nature of tobacco use. Tobacco flower, leaves, and buds There are many species of tobacco in the genus of herbs Nicotiana . It is part of the nightshade family ( Solanaceae ) indigenous to North and South America , Australia , South West Africa and the South Pacific . Many plants contain nicotine , a powerful neurotoxin to insects . However, tobaccos contain a higher concentration of nicotine than most other plants. Unlike many other Solanaceae, they do not contain tropane alkaloids , which are often poisonous to humans and other animals. Despite containing enough nicotine and other compounds such as germacrene and anabasine and other piperidine alkaloids (varying between species) to deter most herbivores , [ 15 ] a number of such animals have evolved the ability to feed on Nicotiana species without being harmed. Nonetheless, tobacco is unpalatable to many species, and accordingly some tobacco plants (chiefly N. glauca ) have become established as invasive weeds in some places. Types [ edit ] Main article: Types of tobacco There are a number of types of tobacco including, but are not limited to: Aromatic fire-cured is cured by smoke from open fires. In the United States, it is grown in northern middle Tennessee, central Kentucky and in Virginia . Fire-cured tobacco grown in Kentucky and Tennessee are used in some chewing tobaccos, moist snuff, some cigarettes, and as a condiment in pipe tobacco blends. Another fire-cured tobacco is Latakia , which is produced from oriental varieties of N. tabacum . The leaves are cured and smoked over smoldering fires of local hardwoods and aromatic shrubs in Cyprus and Syria . Brightleaf tobacco , Brightleaf is commonly known as "Virginia tobacco", often regardless of the state where they are planted. Prior to the American Civil War , most tobacco grown in the US was fire-cured dark-leaf. This type of tobacco was planted in fertile lowlands, used a robust variety of leaf, and was either fire cured or air cured. Most Canadian cigarettes are made from 100% pure Virginia tobacco. [ 16 ] Burley tobacco , is an air-cured tobacco used primarily for cigarette production. In the U.S., burley tobacco plants are started from palletized seeds placed in polystyrene trays floated on a bed of fertilized water in March or April. Cavendish is more a process of curing and a method of cutting tobacco than a type. The processing and the cut are used to bring out the natural sweet taste in the tobacco. Cavendish can be produced from any tobacco type, but is usually one of, or a blend of Kentucky , Virginia , and burley , and is most commonly used for pipe tobacco and cigars. Criollo tobacco is a type of tobacco, primarily used in the making of cigars . It was, by most accounts, one of the original Cuban tobaccos that emerged around the time of Columbus . Dokha , is a tobacco originally grown in Iran , mixed with leaves, bark, and herbs for smoking in a midwakh . Turkish tobacco , is a sun-cured, highly aromatic, small-leafed variety ( Nicotiana tabacum ) that is grown in Turkey , Greece , Bulgaria , and Macedonia . Originally grown in regions historically part of the Ottoman Empire , it is also known as "oriental". Many of the early brands of cigarettes were made mostly or entirely of Turkish tobacco; today, its main use is in blends of pipe and especially cigarette tobacco (a typical American cigarette is a blend of bright Virginia, burley and Turkish). Perique , a farmer called Pierre Chenet is credited with first turning this local tobacco into the Perique in 1824 through the technique of pressure-fermentation. Considered the truffle of pipe tobaccos, it is used as a component in many blended pipe tobaccos, but is too strong to be smoked pure. At one time, the freshly moist Perique was also chewed, but none is now sold for this purpose. It is typically blended with pure Virginia to lend spice, strength, and coolness to the blend. Shade tobacco , is cultivated in Connecticut and Massachusetts . Early Connecticut colonists acquired from the Native Americans the habit of smoking tobacco in pipes, and began cultivating the plant commercially, even though the Puritans referred to it as the "evil weed". The Connecticut shade industry has weathered some major catastrophes , including a devastating hailstorm in 1929, and an epidemic of brown spot fungus in 2000, but is now in danger of disappearing altogether, given the increase in the value of land. White burley , in 1865, George Webb of Brown County , Ohio planted red burley seeds he had purchased, and found that a few of the seedlings had a whitish, sickly look. The air-cured leaf was found to be more mild than other types of tobacco. Wild tobacco , is native to the southwestern United States, Mexico , and parts of South America . Its botanical name is Nicotiana rustica . Y1 is a strain of tobacco cross-bred by Brown & Williamson in the 1970s to obtain an unusually high nicotine content. In the 1990s, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) used it as evidence that tobacco companies were intentionally manipulating the nicotine content of cigarettes . [ 17 ] Production [ edit ] This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2008) Cultivation [ edit ] Main article: Cultivation of tobacco Tobacco plants growing in a field in Intercourse , Pennsylvania . Tobacco is cultivated similarly to other agricultural products. Seeds were at first quickly scattered onto the soil. However, young plants came under increasing attack from flea beetles ( Epitrix cucumeris or Epitrix pubescens ), which caused destruction of half the tobacco crops in United States in 1876. By 1890, successful experiments were conducted that placed the plant in a frame covered by thin cotton fabric. Today, tobacco is sown in cold frames or hotbeds, as their germination is activated by light. [ citation needed ] In the United States , tobacco is often fertilized with the mineral apatite , which partially starves the plant of nitrogen , to produce a more desired flavor. After the plants are about eight inches tall, they are transplanted into the fields. Farmers used to have to wait for rainy weather to plant. A hole is created in the tilled earth with a tobacco peg, either a curved wooden tool or deer antler. After making two holes to the right and left, the planter would move forward two feet, select plants from his/her bag, and repeat. Various mechanical tobacco planters like Bemis, New Idea Setter, and New Holland Transplanter were invented in the late 19th and 20th centuries to automate the process: making the hole, watering it, guiding the plant in — all in one motion. [ citation needed ] Tobacco is cultivated annually, and can be harvested in several ways. In the oldest method still used today, the entire plant is harvested at once by cutting off the stalk at the ground with a tobacco knife. It is then speared onto sticks, four to six plants a stick and hung in a curing barn. In the 19th century, bright tobacco began to be harvested by pulling individual leaves off the stalk as they ripened. The leaves ripen from the ground upwards, so a field of tobacco harvested in this manner will involve the serial harvest of a number of "primings," beginning with the volado leaves near the ground, working to the seco leaves in the middle of the plant, and finishing with the potent ligero leaves at the top. Before this the crop needs to be topped when the pink flowers develop. Topping always refers to the removal of the tobacco flower before the leaves are systematically removed and, eventually, entirely harvested. As the industrial revolution took hold, harvesting wagons used to transport leaves were equipped with man-powered stringers, an apparatus that used twine to attach leaves to a pole. In modern times, large fields are harvested mechanically, although topping the flower and in some cases the plucking of immature leaves is still done by hand. Most tobacco in the U.S. is grown in North Carolina, Kentucky, and Virginia. [ 18 ] Curing [ edit ] Main article: Curing of tobacco Tobacco barn in Simsbury, Connecticut used for air curing of shade tobacco. Sun-cured tobacco, Bastam , Iran . Curing and subsequent aging allow for the slow oxidation and degradation of carotenoids in tobacco leaf. This produces certain compounds in the tobacco leaves, and gives a sweet hay, tea , rose oil , or fruity aromatic flavor that contributes to the "smoothness" of the smoke. Starch is converted to sugar, which glycates protein, and is oxidized into advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs), a caramelization process that also adds flavor. Inhalation of these AGEs in tobacco smoke contributes to atherosclerosis and cancer . [ 19 ] Levels of AGEs are dependent on the curing method used. Tobacco can be cured through several methods, including: Air cured tobacco is hung in well-ventilated barns and allowed to dry over a period of four to eight weeks. Air-cured tobacco is low in sugar, which gives the tobacco smoke a light, mild flavor, and high in nicotine. Cigar and burley tobaccos are 'Dark' air cured. [ 20 ] Fire cured tobacco is hung in large barns where fires of hardwoods are kept on continuous or intermittent low smoulder and takes between three days and ten weeks, depending on the process and the tobacco. Fire curing produces a tobacco low in sugar and high in nicotine. Pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, and snuff are fire cured. Flue cured tobacco was originally strung onto tobacco sticks, which were hung from tier-poles in curing barns (Aus: kilns , also traditionally called Oasts ). These barns have flues run from externally fed fire boxes, heat-curing the tobacco without exposing it to smoke, slowly raising the temperature over the course of the curing. The process generally takes about a week. This method produces cigarette tobacco that is high in sugar and has medium to high levels of nicotine. Most cigarettes incorporate flue-cured tobacco, which produces a milder, more inhalable smoke. Sun-cured tobacco dries uncovered in the sun. This method is used in Turkey, Greece and other Mediterranean countries to produce oriental tobacco. Sun-cured tobacco is low in sugar and nicotine and is used in cigarettes. Global production [ edit ] Trends [ edit ] Tobacco production in Portuguese Timor in the 1930s Production of tobacco leaf increased by 40% between 1971, during which 4.2 million tons of leaf were produced, and 1997, during which 5.9 million tons of leaf were produced. [ 21 ] According to the Food and Agriculture organization of the UN, tobacco leaf production was expected to hit 7.1 million tons by 2010. This number is a bit lower than the record high production of 1992, during which 7.5 million tons of leaf were produced. [ 22 ] The production growth was almost entirely due to increased productivity by developing nations, where production increased by 128%. [ 23 ] During that same time period, production in developing countries actually decreased. [ 22 ] China's increase in tobacco production was the single biggest factor in the increase in world production. China's share of the world market increased from 17% in 1971 to 47% in 1997. [ 21 ] This growth can be partially explained by the existence of a high import tariff on foreign tobacco entering China. While this tariff has been reduced from 64% in 1999 to 10% in 2004, [ 24 ] it still has led to local, Chinese cigarettes being preferred over foreign cigarettes because of their lower cost. Major producers [ edit ] Top Tobacco Producers, 2012 [ 25 ] Country Production ( tonnes ) Note   China 3,200,000   India 875,000 F   Brazil 810,550   United States 345,837   Indonesia 226,700   Malawi 151,150   Argentina 148,000 F