Tripura Map Home » Maps » Tripura » Tripura Map   Tripura त्रिपुरा का नक्शा Tripura Map Districts of Tripura South Tripura Dhalai West Tripura North Tripura Agartala City Map Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Tripura Location Lat Long Map Travel to Tripura Places to visit in Tripura Wildlife Sanctuaries Bhuvaneswari Temple Tripura Sundari Temple Agriculture Map Tripura Forests Parliamentary Constituencies- East Tripura Parliamentary Constituencies- West Tripura Economy Government Geography Society and Culture Hotels in Tripura Attractions History STD Code PIN Code Assemblypolls Sex Ratio Universities In Tripura       Tripura Map Map of Tripura Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map of Tripura with major roads, railways, rivers, national highways, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Tripura Location Map Tripura District Map Tripura Rivers Tripura Road Map Tripura Rail Network Map Tripura is a state in northeast India and has Agartala as its capital. With an area of 10,486 kms, it is divided into three districts. The principle hill ranges of Tripura are Sakham Tlang, Langtarai, Athara Mura and Bara Mura. The chief occupation of the population in the state is agriculture. The principal crops are paddy, wheat, jute, sugar cane, potato, turmeric, coconut and oil seeds. Handloom weaving is the single largest industry in Tripura. Bamboo Handicrafts also make a major contribution to the state economy. Some quality timber like Sal, Garjan, Teak, Gamar are found abundantly in the forests of the State. The service sector comprises only real estate, insurance and tourism industry. Tripura State Information Capital Agarta Date of formation 21. Jan. 1972 Governor Padmanabha Balakrishna Acharya Chief Minister Manik Sarkar Tourist attractions Ujjayant Palace, Chaturdas Devata Temple, Neer Mahal, Sipahijala Festivals Kharchi Puja, Jer and Garia Puja, Ganga Puja Major dance and music forms Bihu dance, Sarinda, Sumui music Arts and crafts Bamboo mats; clothes with snakeskin designs known as Ponmongvom; garments called the risa and the rignai Languages Kok-borok, Bengali, Manipuri Size 10,486 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 3,673,917 Rivers Gomti Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Shepahijala WS, Trishna WS, Rowa WS State animal Phayre's langur or spectacled langur State bird Green imperial pigeon State flower Nageshwar State tree Agar Major crops Paddy, wheat, sugarcane, potato Factoids Singers are usually accompanied by instruments like the sarinda, chongpreng, bamboo flute or sumui. Lake Rudrsagar is the only lake in eastern India with a palace in it; Neermahal was built by Maharaja Bir Bikram Kishore Manikya Bahadur as a summer resort. No. of District 8 Last Updated on : October 15, 2014 Places to visit in Tipura Places to visit in Agartala Tripura Wildlife Sanctuary Travel to Agartala Travel to Tripura             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule