ï»¿ AED     Gallery Links Site Map FAQ           Home Schemes Central Sector Demonstration of Agricultural Implements Machinery and Implements Training to Farmers in handling and maintenance of Agal machinery State Sector Rain water harvesting and Run off management programme SWC in Tribal areas under Integrated Tribal Development Programme Solar Powered Pumping system with Micro Irrigation Solar Chilli Drier Onion Storage structures Scheme to Revive Agriculture In Fallow Land Pulses Villages in Rain fed Areas under NADP Diesel Engine Pump set with Rain gun / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation. SWC under Hill Area Development Programme SWC under Western Ghats Development Programme Dam Rehabiliation and Improvement TN IAMWARM Project National Agriculture Development Programme (NADP) Training on operation and maintenance of farm machinery Training rural youth on agricultural machinery and implements Master plan - Artificial Recharge to Ground Water Centre and State SWC in the catchments of River Valley Project Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Command Area Development and Water Management Programme Services Land Development Minor Irrigation Mandate Downloads RTI Contacts                                 Agricultural Mechanisation         About     Agricultural Mechanization, agricultural areas to develop all kinds of agricultural produce and agricultural products evaluation process to fulfill objectives used with all kinds of energy sources, mechanical tools and equipment design, construction development, distribution, marketing, publishing, education, operation and use-related issues is included. Agricultural mechanization is a production technology. In some countries, different levels of mechanization and application development is. This difference can be monitored, especially in the agricultural business. In other words, mechanization, agricultural business in each business, depending on the technical and economic structure is being implemented at different levels. Benefits of Agricultural Mechanization To enable the new technology in production applications. Production is dependent on natural conditions as possible to recover and to get more qualified products. Manufacturing operations in the most appropriate time to complete, without delay to avoid losses resulting product. Working conditions in rural areas more comfortable, attractive and safe to bring a case and agricultural workers to improve work efficiency. On the one hand, increase in agricultural products, on the other hand, developments in agricultural tools industry with the opening of new jobs to the area to allow. Human and animal agricultural operations can not be achieved with power to machine power, and new areas for agriculture and managed to make up. Agricultural mechanization is the number of these benefits, if the conditions are inappropriate and unplanned walk into an application that mechanization are some disadvantages. Unwanted as the mind can sort. All agricultural inputs for the largest share of mechanization has entered the car. Scale mechanization is an important application, business plan creates installed costs. Excessive mechanization result, unemployment in rural areas may increase. Unplanned result of mechanization, the balance between agriculture and industry sectors in the agricultural sector against damageable. Usually based on vehicle fuel energy Mechanization works. Negatively impact the country's overall energy balance plan for mechanization.                        