Official Website:: Indian Veterinary Research Institute A+   |   A   |   A- About IVRI Preface Milestone Mandate Past Directors IVRI Administration Research Milestone Organogram Link & Collaboration Honours & Awards Location Map Contact Directory Research Joint Directorate of Research Preface from Joint Director(Research) Mandate Activities Research Projects Patents Technologies Transfered Technologies for Transfer Contact Details Academic IVRI Deemed University Message from Joint Director(Academic) Deemed University Administration Academic Session Cources Offered MVSc PhD National Diploma Admission Procedure For Sponspred Candidate Fellowship Medals & Awards Facilities Available University News IVRI Alumini Divisions Animal Health Divisions Division of Animal Biotechnology Division of Bacteriology & Mycology Division of Biological Products Division of Epidemiology Immunology Section Division of Medicine Division of Parasitology Division of Pathology Divison of Pharmacology & Toxicology Division of Standardization Division of Surgery Division of Veterinary Public Health Division of Virology Animal Production Divisions Animal Genetics Div. Animal Nutrition Div Animal Reproduction Division Livestock Production & Management Section. Division Physiology & Climatology Divison of Temprate Animal Husbandray Basic & Social Sc. Divisions Biochemistry & Food Sc. Section BEMI Section Extension Education Div Liv. Eco., Statistics & IT Div. Liv. Products & Tech. Div Sections ARIS Cell Bioinformatics Centre Centre Data Cell Communication Centre Engineering Section Farm Section Farm Machinery and Power Workshop Institute Technology Management Unit (I.T.M.U.) Laboratory Animal Resources Feed Technology Unit Germ Plasm Centre Humal Hospital National Library for Vety. Science Wildlife Section Games & Sports Section राजभाषा अनुभाग Extension Joint Directorate (EE) Preface Objectives Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Infrastructure/Facilities Research Projects Scientific Staff Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - Single Delivery Window Kisaan Mela 2011 Training Programmes Contact Details Disease Diagnosis Joint Directorate (CADRAD) Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Scientific Staff Training Programme Contact Details Services Biological Products Diagnostics & Examination Vety. Polyclinic Livestock Products Disease Diagnosis Vermi Biocomposting Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - IVRI Single Window ITMU-Technology Transfer IVRI Publications Campuses Regional Campus Bangaluru Regional Station Kolkata Regional Station Mukteswar Regional Station Palampur Loading » Joint Directorate of Research Patents at IVRI Patents Granted S. No. Name of the patent application Name of the Inventors 1 A process for preparing a novel herbal formulation for the treatment manage in animals Dr. Suresh Chandra, Dr. Jawahar Lal and Dr. S.K. Tandan 2 Cold process technology for preparation of urea molasses mineral block Dr. (Mrs.) U. R. Mehra, Dr. R.S. Dass and Dr. N.N. Pathak 3 Development of a technology for an Area-specific mineral mixture to increase productivity of bovines i.e. milk yield and body weight in terai and hill region of Uttaranchal Dr. M.C. Sharma, Dr. N.N. Pathak and Dr. C. Joshi Patents Application Filed S. No. Name of the patent application Name of the Inventors Date of Filing 1 Indigenously developed cost-effective and potent aluminum hydroxide gel-concentrated, oil adjuvanted vaccine for foot and mouth disease Dr. S.P. Nair, Dr. V.V.S. Suryanarayana and Dr. K. Ganesh 2 A process for preparing a novel herbal formulation for the treatment manage in animals Dr. Suresh Chandra, Dr. Jawahar Lal and Dr. S.K. Tandan 17.09.2002 3 Cold process technology for preparation of urea molasses mineral block Dr. (Mrs.) U. R. Mehra, Dr. R.S. Dass and Dr. N.N. Pathak 17.09.2002 4 Development of an indigenous methodology IVRI Crystoscope as field tool for determining optimum time for fertile insemination in animals Dr. R.P. Verma, Dr. C.V.S. Rawal, Dr. Kali Charan and Dr. M.C. Sharma 17.09.2002 5 Oligonucleotide primer sequences for rapid identification of Mycobacterium bovis and Mycobacterium tuberculosis by a single tube multiplex polymerase chain reaction Dr. C.S. Bakshi, Dr. D.H. Shah, Dr. M. Malik, Dr. R.K. Singh, Dr. R. Verma and Dr. S.K. Das 17.09.2002 6 A Novel immunosensor apparatus for rapid diagnosis of FMD in Livestock Dr. M.R. Gajendragad, Dr. K.N.Y. Kamath, Dr. C. Natarajan, Dr. K Prabhudas and Dr. P.Y. Anil 7 Development of methodo-logy for production of a thermostable immunoprophy-lactic for production against infectious bursal disease (IBD) in chickens Dr. K.C. Verma, Dr. A.S. Panisup, Dr. J.M. Kataria and Dr. G.C. Mohanty 12.11.2003 8 Utilization of buffalo liver for preparation of loaves using carrot and potato Dr. S.K. Mendiratta, Dr. Suresh. K. Devatkal, Dr. M.C. Sharma and Dr. N. Kondaiah 9 Processing of buffalo Meat crackles – A crisp snack Dr. B.D. Sharma and Dr. N. Kondaiah 10 A new process for production of chicken (meat) emulation and chicken (meat) idli Dr. N. Kondaiah and Dr. A.S.R. Anjaneyulu 11 A novel peptide as transfection reagent for protein and nucleic acids Dr. Satish Kumar, Dr. M.V. Bais, Dr. R.S. Kataria and Dr. M.P. Yadav 12 Development of technology for an Area-specific mineral mixture for Uttar Pradesh to increase productivity of bovines in respect of milk yield and body weight Dr. M.C. Sharma and Dr. C. Joshi 13 Development of a technology for an Area-specific mineral mixture to increase productivity of bovines i.e. milk yield and body weight in terai and hill region of Uttaranchal Dr. M.C. Sharma, Dr. N.N. Pathak and Dr. C. Joshi 14 Development of a technology for an area specific mineral mixture for Delhi State to increase productivity of bovines in respect of milk yield and body weight Dr. M.C. Sharma and Dr. C. Joshi 15 A process for preparing an indigenous drug formulation for the treatment of diarrohea in animals Dr. Dinesh Kumar, Dr. S.K. Tandon, Dr. Jawahar Lal, Dr. Umesh Dimri, Dr. H.C. Tripathi and Dr. M.C. Sharma 16 Development of Technology for Preparation of inactivated oil emulsified egg drop syndrome-76 vaccine using indigenous strain Dr. J.M. Kataria, Dr. K.C. Verma and Dr. R.L. Shah 12.11.2003 17 Methodology for tenderization and preparation of enrobed produce from tough goat meat Dr. S.K. Mendiratta, B.M. Naveena, Dr. A.S.R. Anjaneyulu, Dr. N. Kondaiah, Dr. V.N. Lakshmanan and Dr. M.C. Sharmak <