 Who we are | Access Agriculture Skip to main content Access Agriculture Login | Register Home About us What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Sponsors Core sponsors Associates Contribute and make a difference Using this site How to use this website Submitting videos Translating videos Radio stations DVD packs information Useful technical information FAQ Contact us Forum Quotes Job Vacancies Awards User facts World map Video use Impact studies User login E-mail * Password * Create new account Request new password Languages English Français Custom FAQ Search All languages Adioukrou Adja Arabic Ateso Attié Bambara Bangla Baoulé Bariba Bassa Berba Bomu Buli Burmese Chichewa Dagaari Dagbani Dendi Dioula Ditammari Ebrié English Ewe Fon Frafra French Gonja Gourmantche Hausa Hindi Idaatcha Ife Indonesian Kabye Kannada Khmer Kikuyu Kiswahili Kpelle Krio Kusaal Lao Lobiri Luganda Lugbara Luo Malagash Mende Moba Mooré Nago Nepali Persian Peulh Fulfuldé Portuguese Runyakitara Sena Sisaala Spanish Temne Thai Twi Vietnamese Wolof Yao Yoruba Zarma Secondary menu What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Home › About us Who we are Access Agriculture is a group of passionate people devoted to promoting effective agricultural training videos for the benefit of farmers and rural businesses. To develop local language versions, mass multiply and disseminate agricultural training videos, Access Agriculture collaborates with more than 200 communication professionals across the globe.   Executive Secretary Bob Muchina  read Government and Economics at the University of Nairobi, proceeded to the Kenya Institute of Mass Communication and obtained an MA in Communication from the University of Pittsburg. He pioneered the Marketing Society of Kenya and honed his journalistic skills at the global charity, World Vision. He views the promotion of sustainable agriculture premised upon information streaming at three levels: lateral sharing of farm experiences; extending linkages between research and farmers; and collaboration between financial institutions and the entrepreneur farmer. Regional co-ordinator for West and Central Africa Florent Okry  studied agricultural sciences at the University of Abomey-Calavi, Benin and obtained a PhD in Social Sciences at Wageningen University, the Netherlands. He has worked for more than 12 years with national and international organisations in agricultural R&D throughout West Africa during which he steered rural learning interventions, evaluated interventions dealing with farmer-to-farmer training videos and supported multi-stakeholder projects. Florent has a keen interest in local knowledge and development dynamics. Regional co-ordinator for South Asia Saravanan Raj has a PhD in Agricultural extension from the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore, India. He is working as Associate Professor (Communication) and in charge of the School of Social Sciences at the Central Agricultural University in Meghalaya, India. He teaches and guides research for post-graduate students in agricultural extension. He has 10 years of field extension experience and implementing ICTs for Agricultural Extension projects for developing sustainable agriculture among marginal tribal farmers of the most disadvantaged region of India. Country representative for Bangladesh Harun-Ar-Rashid received his MSc in Agronomy from the Bangladesh Agricultural University and his MSc in Crop Physiology from Reading University, UK. He has worked in agricultural R&D and extension for 35 years for government agencies, NGOs, national and international organizations and for the private sector. Harun-Ar-Rashid is the founding director of the Agricultural Advisory Society (AAS), a leading national agricultural NGO. Since 2005 Harun has disseminated and used farmer-to-farmer training videos across Bangladesh. ICT Co-ordinator Francis Chepyegon has more than 10 years of experience with computers and graphics work. He learned about video work while he was with the NGO, Heifer International. Francis is responsible for ensuring that videos submitted to Access Agriculture are technically suitable for the site and for distribution on DVD. He supports and coordinates translations into local language versions of technical training programmes for farmers as well as assisting on various training courses which Access Agriculture run. Monitoring, Learning & Evaluation Officer Augustin Kouévi studied agricultural sciences at the University of Abomey-Calavi, Benin and obtained a PhD at Wageningen University on responsive monitoring and evaluation (M&E) for sustainable management of natural resources. He considers M&E as management tools that need to be tailored to specific contexts in order to ensure the sustainability of outside interventions. Since 2003, Augustin has conducted research on endogenous knowledge, ecological and organic farming, and supported the design and M&E of local development projects. Social Media Co-ordinator Ruth Muchaba studied for a Bachelor of Science degree in Economics and statistics at Egerton University. She has a passion for social media and has done courses on Social Media essentials and Online Strategies. Ruth is the voice of Access Agriculture on our social and digital media - Facebook, Twitter, Linked-In and Agtube. She is continuously generating content (both news and information), creating online campaigns and measuring their effect. Office Manager (Nairobi) Judy Muturi is in charge of the financial oversight of Access Agriculture. Having qualified with a Bachelor of Commerce (Accounting Option) from University of Nairobi, Judy has worked with many aspects of one of Kenya’s leading banks. Now she is enjoying the challenge of being part of a small team, but is determined that the efforts of Access Agriculture should help farmers. Judy is also keeping the office function of the Head Office in Nairobi under control. Office Assistant (Nairobi) Richard Ndibaru assists Judy on all matters to do with finance and administration. He has a Bachelor of Economics and Mathematics from the University of Nairobi and has studied for the Certified Public Accountants (CPA) professional course. Before coming to Access Agriculture, he worked in several private organisations in both accounts and administration departments. Office Manager (Cotonou) Enagnon Djodji qualified with a bachelor degree in management from University of Abomey Calavi (Benin). She has worked for many years in the private and public sectors. Interested in agriculture, she has participated in many conferences on organic and ecological agriculture, human nutrition and family agriculture. Enagnon is responsible for the accounting and administrative management at the regional office for West and Central Africa, based in Cotonou, Benin.       About us What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Sponsored by