Home Supplies Trade Shows,Household Consumables Trade Fair,Home Appliances Exhibition JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Home Supplies Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Home SuppliesTrade Shows Date : 03 Sep - 06 Sep 2015 Ceranor Expo -  Portugal World famous event for producers and suppliers of gift and decoration products including Ceramic Decorative Articles, Crystal and Decorative Glassware, Ceramic Tableware, China Tableware, Basketwork Goods, Wooden Products, Silverware, Gifts,.... Venue : Exponor - Feira Internacional Do Porto Portugal Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Sep - 04 Oct 2015 Du Und Deine Welt - Germany -  Germany DU UND DEINE WELT, one of Germany's biggest and most profitable consumer exhibitions, has offered exhibitors and visitors an attractive forum. It is a sales and information exhibition with event character mainly for consumers from Hamburg,.... Venue : Hamburg Messe und Congress ,Hamburg Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 Feb - 16 Feb 2016 Ambiente Germany -  Germany Ambiente will be the hub of the consumer goods world. Around 100 different nationalities on both the exhibitor's and visitor's side make visiting Ambiente a journey around the world in just five days. Venue : Exhibition Centre Frankfurt ,Berlin Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Jul - 06 Jul 2015 Trendset MÜnchen -  Germany TrendSet – International Trade Fair for Living, Dining and Lifestyle“ takes place in Munich. Trendset Munchen offers wide opportunities to new artists for exhibiting their antique jewelry, furniture, antique clocks etc. Venue : Messe Munchen ,München Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Jun - 06 Jun 2015 KBC - Kitchen & Bath China -  China China largest Exhibition for Kitchen & Bath. Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 12 Jun 2015 The 14th China International Consumer Goods Fair -  China The 14th China International Consumer Goods Fair (CICGF) is the largest and most professional international consumer goods fair in China, which ranks only second to Canton Fair among all the exhibitions sponsored by Ministry of Commerce. Venue : Ningbo International Conference & Exhibition Center ,Zhejiang China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 May - 31 May 2015 Aquarama Expo 2015 -  Singapore The World's biggest Trade Show for the Aquatic Industry - Aquarium, Fish and Accessories. Venue : Suntec Singapore ,Singapore Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Sep - 13 Sep 2015 Autumn Home Show -  New Zealand This season you'll find the latest home improvement ideas, home heating options, interior design solutions plus much more at the Autumn Home Show. Venue : ASB Showgrounds ,Greenlane New Zealand Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 May - 31 May 2015 HIA Sydney Home Show -  Australia HIA Sydney Home Show 2015 is the tried, proven and trusted building and renovation event: it will significantly increase your company sales. every year more than 350+ leading building and renovation companies select this show to exhibit in.... Venue : Sydney Olympic Park ,NSW Australia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Jan - 23 Jan 2016 Clean India Pulire -  India Clean India Pulire is a leading event dedicated to cleaning sector. The exhibition will showcase the latest technology in cleaning & hygiene and help spread awareness among the Indian Industries. Venue : Bombay Exhibition Centre ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Oct - 11 Oct 2015 Greater Cincinnati Kitchen, Bath & Remodeling Show -  United States Greater Cincinnati Kitchen, Bath & Remodeling Show 2015 is one of the world largest home improvments show whichb is displays showcasing the latest designs, techniques and products for the kitchen, bath and renovations to any area of the.... Venue : Duke Energy Convention Center ,Ohio United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Aug - 30 Aug 2015 Denver Modernism Show -  United States Denver Modernism Show 2015 will feature some of the very best vendors from the Rocky Mountain Region and around the country offering a wide selection of mid century modern, art deco, retro, pop and modernist furnishings, artwork and objects. Venue : National Western Complex ,CO United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Nov - 06 Nov 2015 TIM Expo Shanghai 2015 - the 13th Shanghai thermal insulation materials expo. -  China Shanghai Thermal Insulation Material and Energy-saving Technology Expo (TIM Expo Shanghai) is the most authoritative and influential trading expo in Asia-Pacific area. It attracts attentions of global thermal insulation industry. From real estate.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Nov - 06 Nov 2015 EDME Expo - The 11th Shanghai External Wall Decoration Material and Bonding Technology Expo. 2015 -  China Shanghai External Wall Decoration Materials and Bonding Technology Expo (EDME Expo) is the most influential and famous expo of new external wall decoration industry, focusing on thermal insulation decoration panel for external wall, clay panel, dry.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 China Import and Export Fair -  China China Import and Export Fair, also called Canton Fair, is held twice a year in Spring and Autumn since it was inaugurated in the Spring of 1957. It is China's largest trade fair of the highest level, of the most complete varieties and of the largest.... Venue : China Import and Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,Guangdong China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 ZAK Interior Exterior Expo & International Furniture Fair -  India The event is an international meeting point where companies will present the latest trends in the world of Interiors, elborating technology, innovations, equipment and concepts for the Architects & Designers community. Venue : Chennai Trade Centre ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Apr - 05 Apr 2015 Baby Boom Show-Bucharest -  Romania This year, the Baby Boom moves into his new house, preparing the edition with more than ever, continuing the tradition of being the most important exhibition of products and services in Romania for future mothers and children between 0 and 7.... Venue : Exhibition Centre Romexpo Baneasa ,Bucharest Romania Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Mar - 29 Mar 2015 House And Garden -  Russian Federation The aim of the exhibition is creation of global business and informational space for professionals and amateurs of landscape design. Architects and landscape designers will present interesting projects, establish contacts with suppliers of plants,.... Venue : Crocus Expo International Exhibition Center ,Moscow Russian Federation Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Mar - 22 Mar 2015 Homedecor + Hometextile China -  China Homedecor + Hometextile China is a significant event for producers and suppliers of gift and decoration products, is an opportunity for people to live in style here and now rather than in the distant future. Venue : China Import and Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,Guangzhou China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Mar - 16 Mar 2015 Manila FAME International -  Philippines Manila FAME International 2015 is refreshing look to a whole new world of innovation and craftsmanship in home and fashion lifestyle daring you to explore and find elegance, sophistication and perfection in the show's.... Venue : SMX Convention Center ,Philippines Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Mar - 08 Mar 2015 Buffalo Home & Garden Show -  United States JOHN AND WHITNEY SPINKS of HGTV'S Flipping the Block will be appearing at the 2015 Buffalo Home Show March 7 & 8 at Noon and 4pm. John and Whitney Spinks at the Buffalo Home Show Fans of HGTV’s Flipping the Block rooted for married.... Venue : Buffalo Nigara Convention Center ,NY United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Feb - 08 Mar 2015 Cincinnati Home & Garden Show -  United States It’S Winter, It’S January, There’S Frost On The Course! Head Down To The  Annual Cincinnati Golf Show® Where You’Ll Always Find Unbelievable Deals On Equipment And Clothing, The Best Places To Golf Near And Far,.... Venue : Duke Energy Convention Center ,Ohio United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Feb - 22 Feb 2015 B.C. Home & Garden Show -  Canada B.C. Home & Garden Show 2015 is one of the world famous architecture & designing show, which is providing an best place for the related industry and related professionals in the country. Venue : BC Place ,BC Canada Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Feb - 05 Feb 2015 Spring Fair International -  United Kingdom Spring Fair International 2015 won’t visit any other UK show, making it the must attend event for manufacturers and suppliers across every product area at the show. With so many new leads and potential new customers, not to mention your.... Venue : National Exhibition Centre United Kingdom Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 23 Jan - 26 Jan 2015 MOSTRA ROTA & GIFT SHOW -  Greece MOSTRA ROTA & GIFTSHOW is a trade event that is organized biannually and presents leading brands of the industry within a significant variety of gift items, bijoux and fashion accessories, seasonal items, toys, household items, glassware,.... Venue : ATHENS METROPOLITAN EXPO S.A. ,Spata Artemida Greece