India Political Map in Telugu, India Map in Telugu Home » India Political Map in Telugu   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       India Political Map in Telugu Political Map of India in Telugu Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing All the States of India in Telugu Language. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Importance India Political Map in Telugu The different types of Indian maps are published in almost all the major regional languages. This is done for the benefit of every people of this country. For example, a political map of India in the Telugu language is of utmost importance to those people, whose vernacular is Telugu. Apart from knowing about the different states, capitals, seas, oceans, neighboring countries, this helps them in locating any particular state or U. T. or a capital city from a political map of India. Though the north direction of this nation is being marked with "N", which is an English alphabet, all the other information in a Telugu versioned India political map are given in Telugu. It is even beneficial for a tourist to carry such a map especially while traveling to the south or south eastern part of the country where the locals of the place will be able to guide him or her through the map. Last Updated on : 04 January 2012 View India Map in Gujarati Bengali English Malayalam Oriya Sanskrit Hindi Marathi Tamil Punjabi Kannada Nepali Telugu Urdu Assamese              