Travel to Jharkhand - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Jharkhand Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Jharkhand Places to Visit in Jharkhand Daasam Falls Sun Temple Baidyanath Dham Hundru Fall Capitol Hill Jagannathpur Temple Tourist Destinations in Jharkhand Hazaribagh Travel Ranchi Travel Dhanbad Travel Hotels Hotels in Bokaro Hotels in Dhanbad Hotels in Ranchi Hotels in Jamshedpur Hotels in Deoghar About Jharkhand History Geography Home » Maps » Jharkhand » Travel to Jharkhand Travel to Jharkhand Tourist Map of Jharkhand Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the important tourist places in Jharkhand. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Jharkhand Tourism The state of Jharkhand is carved out of Bihar. The state is more prominent for the abundance of minerals underground and India's most renowned heavy industries. Located in the forest tracks of Chhotanagpur plateau, Jharkhand is aptly called "The queen of Chhotanagpur". The state has a rich history as old as the Harappan civilization. The discovery of Harappan pottery in Hazaribagh speaks for its antiquity. The region had also played significant role in India's freedom struggle. The heroic legend of Birsa Munda is still alive in people's memory. How to Reach Jharkhand The state of Jharkhand is one of the youngest ones in India. Earlier most of the state was part of the state of Bihar. The state capital Ranchi previously was the summer capital of Bihar. Although very young, Jharkhand is not hard to access. A number of industrial hubs are strategically located within Jharkhand and are served by strong communication network. By Air Jharkhand has a domestic airport in Ranchi, which is connected by regular flights with Kolkata, Patna, Mumbai & New Delhi. By Rail The main Railway Station in Jharkhand is also located in Ranchi. South Eastern Railways connect it to other major cities like Patna , Rourkela by regular trains. Another important railway station is in Hazaribagh. Location Eastern part of India Bihar to the north, Orissa to the south, West Bengal to the east, Chhattisgarh & Uttar Pradesh to the west Latitude 21°58' - 28°18' North Longitude 83°22' - 87° 57' East Area 79,714 Sq. Km Climate Pleasant and equable throughout the year Max Temperature 44 0 Min Temperature 5 0 Average Annual Rainfall 127 cm Capital Ranchi Population 21843911 Languages Santhali, Mundari, Kurukh, Khortha, Nagpuria, Sadri, Khariya, Panchparagnia, Ho, Malto, Karmali, Bhojpuri, Hindi, Urdu, Bengali Religion Hinduism, Islam and Christianity Best Time to Visit February to April Clothing Summer - Light cottons Winter - Heavy woolens By Road Ranchi is located at the junction of National Highways 23 and 33. Extensive road network is under construction to facilitate road transport in the area and make Jharkhand easily accessible from any corner of the country. Shopping in Jharkhand Shopping in Jharkhand mainly consists of tribal handicrafts. The population of Jharkhand is dominated by several groups of tribes who have developed over ages a rich tradition of arts and crafts. The expert hands of the artisans of Jharkhand work out exquisite variety of handicrafts. Until the government of the new state focused its attention, some traditional handicrafts were pushed to the verge of extinction due to lack of promotion and conservation. You may be still lucky enough to grab an item or two of rare Paitkar Paintings or Stone carving while shopping in Jharkhand. For shopping in Jharkhand, you would have check out at the private shops and local markets. Government Emporia are yet to make it big in the newborn state. Street-side vendors often offer great variety and good bargain. Places to Visit in Jharkhand Ranchi Jamshedpur Dhanbad Bokaro Hazaribagh Palamu Chatra Parasnath Hills Netarhat More on tourist attractions of Jharkhand Last Updated on : 11/09/2013 Hotels in Jharkhand Bokaro Hotels Deoghar Hotels Dhanbad Hotels Jamshedpur Hotels Kumardhubi Hotels Ranchi Hotels Travel to Jharkhand Travel to Ranchi Places to visit in jharkhand Places to visit in jharkhand Places to visit in Ranchi Flights to Jharkhand Flights to Ranchi   About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule