Policies and Schemes — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Education / Policies and Schemes Share Views View State: Open for Edit Info Policies and Schemes This sections covers information about various policies and schemes related to child education, development, protection etc. Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (Right to Education Act) This topic covers in detail various aspects related to RTE Act. New Education Policy Consultation Government of India would like to bring out a National Education Policy to meet the changing dynamics of the population’s requirement with regards to quality education, innovation and research.... Annual Plans and Reports RTE - FAQs Frequently Asked Questions on the Right to Education Schemes for Elementary,Secondary & Higher Education Schemes for Elementary Education, Schemes for Secondary Education, Schemes for Higher Education CBSE Merit Scholarship Schemes This page contains information about available merit scholarships available for CBSE students. INSPIRE Programme This topics covers information about INSPIRE Programme sponsored and managed by the Department of Science & Technology for attraction of talent to Science New Initiatives taken by the HRD ministary This page contains information about New Initiatives taken by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India. Scholarship to Young Artists This page covers about the Scholarship to Young Artists Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) The choice based credit system provides an approach in which the students can take courses of their choice, learn at their own pace, undergo additional courses and acquire more than the required credits. Navigation Child Rights Policies and Schemes Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (Right to Education Act) New Education Policy Consultation Annual Plans and Reports RTE - FAQs Schemes for Elementary,Secondary & Higher Education CBSE Merit Scholarship Schemes INSPIRE Programme New Initiatives taken by the HRD ministary Scholarship to Young Artists Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) Childrens corner Teachers corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance Digital Litercy Digital Learning Resources Resource Links Discussion Forum - Education Related Items RTE - FAQs Guidelines for conducting Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) under the RTE Act, 2009 Intellectual Disability related schemes Education more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector See More.... Energy Energy Basics Energy conservation Energy efficiency Energy production Best Practices Women and Energy