Dance in Goa, Goa Dance Home » Maps » Goa » People Culture and Festivals » Dance in Goa   Goa Weather History Culture गोवा का नक्शा Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Cities Panaji Calangute Vasco da Gama Margao Mapusa Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Dance in Goa The state of Goa is rich in culture and heritage, and art - especially performing art in Goa - in a unique feature of the state. Though all these forms fall under the wide classification of dance, drama and music, yet the Dance in Goa has a distinct Goan flavor and can be easily be distinguished from those of the other states. The most significant part about the Dance in Goa is the fact that it colorfully illustrates the unity in diversity of Goan heritage. Moreover, dance in Goa is very ethnic; it is an amalgamation of the Indian aspects with the imported Western one. As a direct result of this fusion, various forms of dances have evolved, depending on the interpretation and expression of the social trends and techniques over the ages. So, different dance forms grew alongside the classical dance style. Each occasion has a separate dance; and each of these dances is distinctly different from the others The Dekni is essentially performed by Women and is a traditional dance form. The music to which this dance is performed is has ingredients of both the East and the West. So the music is both ethnical and contemporary. The chief folk dances in Goa are the Fugdi and Dhalo and the Kunbi. The Kunbi, however, has elements of tribal dance to it as well. Their dance belongs to the era before the Portuguese conquest. The other unique feature about this dance is the fact that it is devoid of religious content and is mainly social. The Morulem is a folk dance of the rearward communities, and is performed on the Shigmo. The Lamp Dance too is a unique specialty of Goa. Performed chiefly by women during the time of the Shigmo, it is danced by balancing brass lamps with burning wicks on the head. It is popular mainly in southern and central Goa. The Goff too is a folk dance. It is performed by the Goan Peasants after the harvest as a manifestation of their delight and felicity. The dance is performed during Shigmo with colorful cords, in a technique by which the dancers by dancing create braids and other patterns. The forming of these braids happens during the first half of the dance. The second half of the dance is dedicated to unraveling the patterns made by using an opposite rhythmic movement. The songs that are sung for the dance are all dedicated to Lord Krishna. This dance has an affinity with Gujarati tribal dance forms. Dance in Goa also comes in the form of plays and dance-dramas. One of these types is the Jagar, which is performed by the Gawdas. Another is the Dhangar. The Dhangar is a Navratri dance. It is a fusion of adoration and dance - in essence, almost like the dance performed by the Sufis. The other prominent ones include Corredinho Dance, Fugdi Dance, Ghode Modni, Goff Dance, Mussal Dance and Romal Dance. The Dashavatara too is a major genre. Dashavatara directly translates as 'ten incarnations' and is associated with Lord Vishnu. Opinions are divided as the origin of the dance. Some believe it to have evolved from "Yakshagana"; others consider it to have emerged from "Kuchipudi". The subject involves the theft of the "Vedas". It is discussed by the Sutradhar (stage manager), Brahmin figures, women actors representing the rivers, actors playing Lord Brahma (the Creator) and Goddess Saraswati (the goddess of learning), and the demon Shankhasur. Performed by the Kshatriyas of Chandor, the Mussal Dance is performed as a celebration of Victory. It was first performed to celebrate the victory of Harihar, the Hindu King of Vijaynagar, after he defeated the Cholas in the early 14th century. The dance is so called because it is danced with Mussals (pestles). The dance constitutes 4 couplets while the main dance uses 22 couplets. Though the Kshatriyas finally converted to Christianity, yet they have preserved this cultural heritage. The Mussal dance is now performed on the second day of the carnival. Performed during the Shigmo, the Romat Dance is a thanks-giving observance. It is performed in a dance-cum-procession style by the people of northern and central Goa. It is an extremely crammed, clamorous and vibrant affair. It is performed with huge banners, ceremonial umbrellas, festooned sticks. The procession proceeds towards a temple or to the house of the landlord to the earsplitting beats of huge drums called Dhols and Tashas. Last Updated on: 20 th March 2013 About Goa Weather History Area Pincode STD code Facts Liberation of Goa Languages Culture Dance Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival Goa Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Tehsil Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map Goa Travel Map Wildlife Map Beaches Map Forest Map Shopping Centres             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule