Travel to Alwar: Destinations, Hotels, Food, Transport and Tour Guide Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Alwar Travel Tourist Map Hotels Places to Visit in Alwar Siliserh Lake Purjan Vihar Sariska Place Bala Quila Rani Moosi Chhatri Sariska Park Vijay Mandir Palace Pandupol City palace Kankwari Fort Museums Neemrana Bhangarh Temples Hanuman Temple Neelkanth Temple Jain Temple Bhartrihari Temple Travel to Behror Travel to Neemrana About Alwar Culture History Weather Geography Festivals Alwar Map Road Map Railway Map District Map Tehsil Map Rajasthan Travel Tourist Map Shopping Hotels Resorts Food How to Reach Home » Alwar » Tourism » Travel to Alwar Travel to Alwar Alwar Tourist Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing the major tourist places in Alwar, Rajasthan. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Alwar tourism is based on the history and rich heritage of this ancient city. An old world charm abounds in the city of Alwar that enthralls tourists who arrive from distant places to visit the city. Tourism in Alwar facilitates due to its closeness to the capital city of New Delhi which lies at a distance of 164 kilometers from Alwar. The tourists may visit the ancient and the magnificent palatial structures of the city while on a tour of Alwar. The city is dotted with palaces and other architectural extravaganzas that are reminiscent of the affluence of the royal family that reigned in Alwar - Rajasthan . The government has developed the infrastructure of the city to generate more tourism in the city of Alwar. The roads and the railways connect the city to some of them major cities of North India. The nearest airport is in the capital city of New Delhi. The city of Alwar remained a state under the rule of the Rajputs who ruled till the middle ages. It was in the 13th century that the city, which was formerly known as Mewat, was captured by Muslim ruler, Sultan Bulban. The empire was retrieved from the Muslim rule by Maharaja Pratap Singh in the 18th century. Henceforth, the princely state of Alwar remained under the dominion of the Rajput kings. The state is nestled in the midst of the imposing ranges of the Aravali Hills and is closely situated to the commercial city of Jaipur which lies at a distance of 143 kilometers. How to reach Alwar By Air The Jaipur airport is the nearest airport to Alwar and is situated at distance of 148 km from the city. By Rail Alwar is conveniently located on the western Railway tracks. It can be easily reached from Delhi and Jaipur. The Fairy Queen and the Ajmer Shatabdi is one of the important trains that operates from Delhi to Alwar. By Road Since Alwar is in Rajsthan which is a popular tourist destination it is but obvious that the city will share a good road network with the major Indian cities. There are frequent government and private buses that ply to Alwar from cities like; Delhi, Jaipur, Kota, Udaipur, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Ajmer. Tourist Attractions in Alwar: The Alwar Fort (Bala Quila) Sariska Tiger Reserve Haldia Bhawan - About 250 year old Haveli Siliserh Lake Jaisamand Lake Pandupol Hanuman Temple City Palace Government Museum Moosi MaharaniChhatri Purjan Vihar Ramayani Hanuman ji Tomb of Fateh Jang Nehru Garden Hope Circus Moti Doongri Park Bharthari Naldeshwar Neelkanth Narayani Mata Karni Mata Ada Pada Andheri Taalvriksh Saagar Ajabgarh Bhangarh Mansa Devi Mandir Garwaji Laal Diggi Kishan-Kund The Sariska Palace Surya Nagar Vijay Temple Karauli Kund Ganyatri Temple Natni ka Bara Jain Temple Tijara Purana Kila Tatarpur Puran Kila Barrod Sikar Gaha at Rundha Barrod Bhim panwa at Barrod Hills Dhokal Nath Ashram at Barrod Accommodation in Alwar Alwar is one of the most frequented tourist's destinations in Rajsthan. The city happens to be the historical capital of the state which is why it is visited by both foreign and domestic tourists. In order to cater to the needs of the different tourists that visit the city, Alwar has numerous hotels. Most of the hotels in Alwar are situated near the many tourists' attractions. The city has hotels that suit the needs and requirements of all kinds of travelers. Some of the important hotels in the city are; Center Point Resort and Spa, Hotel Alwar Bagh, Amrit Reosrts, Clarks Inn and the Hill Fort. Last Updated on : November 24, 2014 Alwar Travel Tourist Map Hotels About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule