Babar India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » History » Babar   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Babar Zahir-ud-din Muhammad Babar Biography Zahir-ud-din Muhammad Babar, founder of the Mughal dynasty in India was an excellent general and a wise ruler. He was born on 14th February 1483 and was a Chughtai Turk, descendant of king Taimur on his father's side and Chengez Khan on his mother's side. Thus conquest and efficient administration was in his blood. He succeeded to the throne of Farghana, a small state in Central Asia, when his father Umar Sheikh Mirza died. At that time he was barely eleven years old. His initial years to throne were marked by continuous wars, battles and treaties. After sometime he lost his state and has to live in exile. Few years later fate again smiled on him. His enemies fought among themselves and he converted this opportunity in his favor, and captured the kingdom of present day Afghanistan. Babar was able to re conquer his home state Farghana and Samarkand, but this happiness proved to be shortlived for him. As he was again driven out of his home by his Uzbeg enemies. He was invited to India by Rana Sanga and Daulat Khan Lodi, the Muslim Governor of Punjab , to fight against Ibrahim Lodi. After losing his empire in Central Asia, he found the invitation very lucrative, thus he invaded India. He was the first king to bring artillery to India. He met the forces of Ibrahim Lodi in the field of Panipat on 21st April 1526 and won this battle known in Indian history as the First battle of Panipat. This battle marked his conquest over Delhi . And changed the course of Indian history as well as Mughal empire forever. After this he fought another decisive battle with Rana Sanga in 1527, at Kanwaha. In this battle Rana Sanga was defeated and with this Babar became the unchallenged ruler of northern India. Although he restrained from plundering and looting the cities of India, he conquered, he was not very religiously inclined and did not convert the people of India to Islam. His first act of commemorating victory in Agra , Uttar Pradesh was not any religious but aesthetic, a garden in Persian style, called Aram Bagh. He had made himself the ruler of Punjab, Delhi and the Ganga plains as far as Bihar, before his death. He wrote an autobiography containing lively description of India. It is known as Tuzuk-I- Babari, and is written in Turkish. He died in 1530 and was succeeded by his son Humayun to the throne of Delhi. Facts and Information about Babar Full Name Zahir-ud-din Muhammad Babar Nick Name Babar Born February 23, 1483 (Andijan, Mughalistan) Died December 26, 1530 (Agra, Mughal Empire) Burried Kabul, Afghanistan Reign 30 April 1526 - 26 December 1530 Religion Islam Dynasty Timurid Grandfather Miran Shah Grandmother Qutlugh Nigar Khanum, daughter of Yunus Khan, the ruler of Moghulistan Father Umar Shaikh Mirza II, Amir of Farghana Mother Qutlugh Nigar Khanum Wives Aisha Sultan Begum, Zaynab Sultan Begum, Masuma Sultan Begum, Maham Begum, Dildar Begum, Gulnar Aghacha, Gulrukh Begum, Mubarika Yousefzai Son Humayun Brother Genghis Khan Successor Humayun About Babar was a conqueror from Central Asia who established the Mughal dynasty in India. He was the first Mughal emperor. Babarnama It is an autobiography of Babar. It was originally written in the Chagatai language. Later in 1589 it was translated to Persian language by Abdul Rahim, a Mughal courtier. Passion to kill people Babar liked to cut heads off people and create pillars out of these. He affirmed this in his autobiography also. Ascension In 1495 Babar became the ruler of Farghana, succeeding his father. Siege on Samarkand In 1501, soon after Babar had laid siege on Samarkand, Muhammad Shaybani attacked and defeated him. Formation of Mughal Empire In 1519, Babar reached Chenab. In 1524, Babar discovered that Daulat Khan Lodi was expelled by an Afghan Chief. Babar attacked the Chief and defeated him. Later he appointed Ala-ud-Din as Governor of Lahore. First battle of Panipat On 20 April 1526 Babar met Ibrahim Lodi on the battleground of Panipat. The battle of Panipat began on 21 April 1526. Ibrahim Lodi's army was surrounded by Babar. Babar army opened fire and dealt huge damage. Lodi died during the battle. The Lodi Dynasty ended with the death of Ibrahim Lodi. Death Babar died on January 5, 1531. He was succeeded by Humayun. His body was moved to Kabul, Afghanistan. Legacy Under the influence of the Persian, culture Babar expanded the Persianate ethos in India. In Uzbekistan, Babar is traeted like a national hero. In October 2005, the Babar Cruise Missile was developed by Pakistan in his honor. Babri mosque It is believed that the Rama Temple at Ayodhya was demolished by Babar. Later he built Babri Mosque at the same place. On 6 December 1992, the Karsevaks of Ramajanmabhumi movement demolished the Babri Masjid. Monuments Panipat Mosque, Jama Masjid, Babri Mosque Children Humayun, son Kamran Mirza, son Askari Mirza, son Hindal Mirza, son Fakhr-un-Nissa, daughter Gulrang Begum, daughter Gulbadan Begum, daughter Gulchehra Begum, daughter Altun Bishik, alleged son   Related Links   Medieval India Alivardi Khan Krishna Deva Raya Rana Sanga Kautilya Ibrahim Lodhi Jehangir Noor Jehan Iltutmish Mumtaz Mahal Harihar and Bukka Muhammad Bin Tughlaq Ghiasuddin Balban Jijabai Aurangzeb Chatrapati Shivaji Allauddin Khilji Bairam Khan Akbar Rana Pratap Babar Birbal Humayun Tanaji Prithviraj Chauhan Shah Jahan Sher Shah Suri Samudragupta Tansen Razia Sultana Qutubuddin Aibak Rajendra Chola Rajaraja Chola Raja Todar Mal Raja Man Singh Last Updated on : February 1, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule