Overview | Fish on Farms Skip to content Campuses UBC Directories UBC Quick Links [X] close The University of British Columbia a place of mind Faculty of Land and Food Systems Fish On Farms Home Overview People Case Studies Media Photos Partners Contact Us Blog » Home » Overview Overview The Challenge Cambodia produces enough rice to feed its population but maternal and child under-nutrition remains high because of a lack of crop diversity beyond rice, and a lack of nutrient rich food. This over reliance on rice has resulted in a diet that is about 76% carbohydrate, only 10% protein, and only 14% fat. Foods from animal sources—providing high quality protein,essential fatty acids, iron, and vitamin A—make up less than 9% of total energy intake. While there has been significant progress in the child survival rate in Cambodia, over a third of deaths under age 5 are directly related to under-nutrition and poor infant and young child feeding practices. Although there are several programs to improve nutrition and agriculture in Cambodia, an integrated system is needed to increase and diversify food production and provide low income households with affordable and nutritional foods and new income opportunities. There is also a need to evaluate whether new agricultural practices improve household nutrition. The Research This project,supported by IDRC and CIDA through the Canadian International Food Security Research Fund (CIFSRF), is studying how an integrated Homestead Food Production system can reduce poverty and food insecurity, particularly among women and children. Homestead Food Production is an environmentally sustainable, year-round production system focused on high nutrient vegetables and fruit, as well as egg-laying hens. This project, however, is substituting eggs for fish as the results from previous tests using hens have been disappointing in Cambodia. Chicks are expensive; many die from disease; and eggs are not widely consumed by Cambodians. A more culturally acceptable and potentially cheaper alternative is fish, a traditional food that is rich in iron, vitamin A, protein, and essential fatty acids. In this project, 600 households largely headed by women farmers are raising small nutrient-rich fish for their families’ consumption in the same ponds as large fish, which can be sold for income. Households are also receiving guidance in accessing markets for their produce and fish. A randomized control trial is helping to determine the impact of the intervention on household food security, incomes, and nutrition, particularly among women and children. The project also studies opportunities to scale up the model for broader use throughout Cambodia and the region. Expected Outcomes Greater fish consumption, less anaemia and under-nutrition among poor rural households, particularly women and young children Food secure households with higher incomes A Homestead Food Production model, using aquaculture, that can be replicated and scaled up throughout the region Improved understanding of women’s knowledge, attitudes, and practices related to nutrition and health An understanding of how Homestead Food Production impacts women’s (and men’s) workloads. Share this: Share Partners Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. Helen Keller International - Cambodia House #43Z43, Street 466 Sangkat Tonle Bassac, Khan Chamkar Mon, P.O. Box 168 , Phnom Penh , Kingdom of Cambodia Tel: +855-23-210851 Fax: +855-23-210852 Email: ZTalukder@hki.org Project Contacts (HKI): Zaman Talukder - Country Director Hou Kroeun - Program Manager Fish on Farms 2205 East Mall, Vancouver , BC , V6T 1Z4 , Canada Tel: 604-822-6195 Fax: 604-822-5143 Email: judy.mclean@ubc.ca Project Contacts (UBC): Associate Professor Tim Green Assistant Professor Judy McLean Emergency Procedures  |  Accessibility  |  Contact UBC  |  © Copyright The University of British Columbia