Do You Know Peanut Oil Expeller Oil Pressing Process? AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale Do You Know Peanut Oil Expeller Oil Pressing Process? Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Do You Know Peanut Oil Expeller Oil Pressing Process? LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 28 Minutes Ago #1 wintonemachinery Join Date Jul 2014 Posts 194 Blog Entries 7 Do You Know Peanut Oil Expeller Oil Pressing Process? Peanut oil Expeller Machine design scientific, reasonable structure, easy to operate, safe and stable, fully automated device to expect from the finished product once completed in just a few minutes. Do you know peanut oil expeller oil pressing process? In the first way, oil expeller is composed of seeds cleaning & crushing unit, steaming and drying units, pressing unit, conveyor, electrical cabinet box, etc. The oil expeller unit as the main stage, to make the vegetable seeds flake in a hardened cage to squeeze oil content out. It's complete set of oil expeller, which is automatically operated to save more labor and cost. Including to the following machinery and parts: Electrical apparatus control, materials feeder, conveyer, screening machine, steaming & frying machine, huller machine, medium boilor etc. The by-products from the oil expeller are cake and soap residue. The cake could be used as animal food with our expeller, or source material for the other way of extraction. Soap residue is the source material for laundry soap with soap making machinery and washing detergent. Peanut Oil Press Machine Email: wintone15@wintonemachinery.com Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread peanut oil expeller View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 03:28 PM .