Privacy Policy | National Academy Foundation mynaf login | community | e-news sign up | donate | contact | search ACADEMY SUPPORT HUB | QUALITY CENTER | WORK-BASED LEARNING CENTER About NAF NAF Academies For Teachers & Administrators For Students & Alumni For Business Partners Donate/Get Involved News & Events Experts Curricula Course Overviews The DelPrince Family Our History / Board / Staff / Strategic Relationships / Work at NAF / Contact NAF Statistics & Research / Our Themes / Regions / Why Choose NAF? / Starting an Academy / Year of Planning / Find a Local Academy NAF Curriculum / Professional Development / Resources / Assessments & Certification / Quality Center / Work-Based Learning Center Alumni Week 2014 / Student & Alumni Stories / College Resources / Scholarships Resources / Work-Based Learning Center / NAFTrack Donate Now / Volunteer Opportunities / Corporate and Foundation Supporters / Benefit / Other Ways to Give / Contact Us NAF In The News / Publications & E-News / Press Releases / Press Kit / Videos Privacy Policy By using the National Academy Foundation (NAF) Web site, you agree to the collection and use of your personal information as described in this policy. If we make any significant changes to this policy, we will notify you by posting a notice of such changes on the National Academy Foundation login page. You should know: We collect limited account information and store and maintain the same on our secure servers. We will never rent, sell or share information that personally identifies you for marketing purposes without your express permission. You can update your account information and preferences at any time. To comply with the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act, at this time National Academy Foundation is only available to users who are at least 13 years old. If you are under 13, please do not use the National Academy Foundation Web site.   What types of personal information do we collect and how do we use it? Account information. When you register with NAF, we will request some personal information, including your first and last name, a user name and password to create your account. Your password will be maintained on our system in an encrypted form. Just in case you forget your password, we also may ask you to choose a secret question and answer and provide an email address where we can contact you to re-access your National Academy Foundation account. The contents of your National Academy Foundation account are stored and maintained on our servers in order to provide the service. We also may collect information about the use of your account, such as how much storage you are using, how often you log in and other information related to your registration and use of National Academy Foundation accounts. Information displayed or clicked on in your National Academy Foundation account (including UI elements, ads, links and other information) is also recorded. We use this information internally to deliver the best possible service to you, such as improving the National Academy Foundation user interface, preventing fraud within our system, and better targeting related information.   The National Academy Foundation will never sell, rent or share your personal information, including your National Academy Foundation information, with any third parties for marketing purposes without your express permission.   Cookies & log information. Cookies. A cookie is a small data file that is sent to your computer when you first visit a Web site. As with most Web site cookies, our cookies include an identification number that is unique to the computer you are using. This identifier helps us better understand our user base and how they are using our site and services. When you visit the National Academy Foundation Web site and create a National Academy Foundation account, we may set and access cookies on your computer. We use cookies for a number of reasons, such as recognizing you when you visit the site, displaying the site according to your chosen user settings, and maintaining the security of your account. The National Academy Foundation may share cookie information among its other services for the purpose of providing you a better experience. For example, you may use your National Academy Foundation account to access other National Academy Foundation services such as the Data Center and the College and Career Center. We may also use the cookies to collect aggregated information about the use of the National Academy Foundation Web site in order to maintain, analyze and improve our service to you. We believe our cookies improve the quality of our services. If you prefer, however, you can reset your browser so that it refuses all cookies, or notifies you when a cookie is being sent. Although you will still be able to use some parts of the National Academy Foundation site, other parts of the site may not be available if you refuse cookies. Log information. When you use your National Academy Foundation account, we collect certain information (the same information that most Web sites log when they are accessed). This information, contained in the "header" of your request to access the National Academy Foundation page, usually includes the browser type you use, your Internet Protocol address, and the date and time of day. In addition, we log the unique ID provided by our cookie and the URL of the last site you visited. As a basic matter, we need this information to help us provide our services to you. For example, we need to validate your identity in order to maintain the security of your account. We also need to know what Internet Protocol address your query came from so we can send the appropriate pages back to you. In addition, we log this information for internal business purposes. For example, this log information helps us determine how well our services are working so we can continually improve the quality of the National Academy Foundation site. The log information is also important for security, audit, quality improvement and other internal business purposes.   How we deliver targeted content to you. We never share your personally identifying information with any advertiser as part of this service, unless we specifically decide to do so. When you are logged into your National Academy Foundation account, National Academy Foundation may display targeted ads. Advertisers receive a record of the total number of impressions and clicks for each ad. They do not receive any personal information about the person who viewed the ad. If you click on an ad, the National Academy Foundation will send a referring URL to the advertiser's site identifying that you are visiting from the National Academy Foundation. The National Academy Foundation does not send personally identifying information to advertisers with the referring URL. Once you are on the advertiser's site, however, the advertiser may collect personal information about you. The National Academy Foundation does not control or take responsibility for the privacy policies of other sites. The National Academy Foundation may send you information related to your National Academy Foundation account or other National Academy Foundation services. Because we believe such information is important, you will not be given the opportunity to opt-out of receiving them.   When we may disclose your personal information. We do not disclose your personally identifying information to third parties unless we believe we are required to do so by law or have a good faith belief that such access, preservation or disclosure is reasonably necessary to (a) satisfy any applicable law, regulation, legal process or governmental request, (b) enforce the National Academy Foundation Terms of Use, including investigation of potential violations thereof, (c) detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues, (d) respond to user support requests, or (e) protect the rights, property or safety of the National Academy Foundation site, its users and the public.   Transfer of information. Personal information collected by the National Academy Foundation may be stored and processed in the United States or any other country in which the National Academy Foundation or its agents maintain facilities. By using the National Academy Foundation Web site, you consent to any such transfer of information outside of your country. How does The National Academy Foundation safeguard your information? We pay close attention to security. First, we focus significant time and resources to ensure that user accounts and information are not misused by National Academy Foundation employees.  A limited set of employees are authorized to access user accounts, they are educated about the importance of maintaining user privacy, and their access to user accounts is recorded.  We implement technology and procedures to try to make sure that external parties cannot access or modify users' personal information on our servers. These technologies and procedures include industry standard methods as well as our own proprietary methods. ShareThis Copyright © 2012 National Academy Foundation. All Rights Reserved. Contact Us Site map Privacy Donate