Publication form Sectors Home About Us Economic Reports Sectors Media Room Newsletters Events Global Initiatives Membership Contact Us ICC Theme for the year 2014-15 : "Development through Connectivity" Brief about ICC Theme of the Year Committee Members Expert Committee Past Presidents Publications Policy Papers Priced Publications Budget Memorandums Agro & Food Processing Energy Banking & Finance Minerals & Metals IT & ITES Logistics Infrastructure Tourism Health Care External Trade & WTO Environment Media Coverage Forthcoming Events Past Events Corporate Trainings Overseas Delegation Successful Partnerships Country Report MOU Partners Current Issue Archives Eligibility Membership Charges Membership Forms Contact Info Important E-mails Feedback Advertise with us On West Bengal On External trade On Banking & Finance On Infrastructure On Company Law & Taxation On Agro & Food Processing Publications Policy related activities are one of the most important activities of Chamber of Commerce. ICC has been regularly doing this with firm objective of guiding industrial growth of the country in the proper track.   Apart from regular suggestions/ recommendations to the government representing concerns of the industry, the Chamber also regularly publish various Reports on important sectors of the economy. The economic research group of ICC carries on regular research & analytical activities to figure out economic situations and to make projection on the basis of these analyses. ICC provide constant research support to the member industries and try to find solutions to the emerging issues with detail consultation with government authorities. Some of the recent inclusions to the list of ICC publications has been:        1 .     Ratings of State Power Utilities: Some selected states of India.      2 .     Performance of Port infrastructure of West Bengal & Orissa.      3 .     Report on SWS.   No Records Found Home Privacy Policy Sitemap Terms & Conditions Membership Careers Contact Us Copyright © 2009 Indian Chamber of Commerce. All Rights Reserved Site developed by Computronics