Famous Sports Players in India, India's Famous Sports Personalities India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Who is Who in Indian Sports   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Famous Sports Players in India From the amount of newsprint and daily discussions dedicated to cricket, it is not tough to identify India's favorite sport! Even though hockey is the official Indian sport and football enjoys a fair degree of popularity, the Indian cricket team is the most loved, often despised and debated group of players in the subcontinent. Aside from cricket, football and hockey - Indians follow lawn tennis, badminton, athletics, weightlifting and boxing. Sports like car racing and mountaineering are popular among the younger generation. Those interested in flexing their mental muscles avidly follow chess. This interest in Sports is not a recent phenomenon, Indian sports date back to the Vedic Era. The Atharva Veda defines an oath for the sportsman - "Duty in my right hand and the fruits of victory in my left". Since ancient times, sports like Horse Riding, Wrestling, Archery and Athletics have always been very popular. Games like Polo, Chess and even Hockey are said to have their origin in India. The Indian Department of Sports was set up in 1982 and came to be known as the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports since 2000. The ministry provides infrastructure and promotes participation in various events at national and international levels. Individual state governments also have a department of sports which are concerned with the welfare of sports persons and promotion of state level championships. The Sports Authority of India was set up in 1984 to promote sports all over India. The Government takes an active interest in sports and efforts are being made to update facilities and introduce Indian players to international trainers and equipment. India will host the Commonwealth Games in 2010 and has already hosted two Asian Games, in 1951 and 1982. Indian Sports Awards: The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports rewards exceptional sports persons and performances every year with a presentation ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The President of India presents these awards himself. The Best Indian Sports Persons are given the Arjuna Award. The Best Indian Coach is presented with the Dronacharya Award. The Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award honors the best performance by a sports person or sports team in a year. India at the Olympics: Except for a few brilliant participations in events like Hockey, Track and Field, Archery, Weightlifting, Wrestling, Tennis, and Shooting; India's record in the Olympics has been dismal. The country first participated in the 1900 Olympics in Paris with just a single athlete, Norman Pritchard, who was fortuitously holidaying there. He won two silver medals in the 200 meters dash and 200 meters hurdles. The Indian Olympic Association was formed in 1927 and the first official representation was at the 1928 Olympics in Amsterdam. The Indian Hockey Team won a gold medal that year. The team successfully defended their title for six consecutive Olympics from 1928 to 1956. India won the Hockey gold again in 1964 at Tokyo and 1980 at Moscow. Aside from Pritchard, other successful Olympic Athletes include Henry Rebello, the "Flying Sikh" Milkha Singh and PT Usha. The women's 4x400 meters relay team consisting of PT Usha, MD Valsamma, Shiny Wilson and Vandana Rao reached the finals of the 1984 Olympics. Leander Paes won the bronze medal for the Men's Singles Competition in 1996. Karnam Malleshwari picked up a silver medal for Weightlifting in 2000 while Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore won the sole silver medal at the 2004 Olympics for shooting. Your favourite and India's leading sportspersons you'll find them all here.   Sports   Famous Badminton Players of India Anup Sridhar Prakash Padukone Saina Nehwal Aparna Popat Pulella Gopichand Dipankar Bhattacharya Chetan Anand Parupalli Kashyap P. V. Sindhu Famous Boxing Players of India Mary Kom Dingko Singh Shiva Thapa Ali Qamar     Famous Archery Players of India Dola Banerjee Limba Ram Tarundeep Rai Jayanta Talukdar     Famous Indian Athletes Ashwini Nachappa Soma Biswas P.T.Usha Jyotirmoyee Sikdar Anju Bobby George Shiny Abraham KM Beenamol Milkha Singh   Famous Cricket Players of India Famous Legendary Cricket Players In India Kiran More Ajit Wadekar Kapil Dev Javagal Srinath Ajay Jadeja Madan Lal G.R. Vishwanath C.G. Borde Mohammed Azharuddin E.D. Solkar Bishan Singh Bedi Manoj Prabhakar E.A.S. Prasanna B.S. Chandrashekhar Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi Sunil Gavaskar B.K. Venkatesh Prasad Navjot Singh Sidhu D. N. Sardesai Dilip Vengsarkar Syed Kirmani C.P.S. Chauhan     Present Cricketers Munaf Patel Irfan Pathan Sachin Tendulkar Yuvraj Singh Dinesh Kartik Sourav Ganguly Zaheer Khan Ajit Agarkar Shikhar Dhawan Virender Sehwag Anil Kumble Virat Kohli S. Srisanth Harbhajan Singh Ravindra Jadeja Mahender Singh Dhoni Rahul Dravid Gautam Gambhir Murali Kartik RP Singh   Car Racing Narain Karthikeyan Armaan Ebrahim Karun Chandhok Squash Joshna Chinappa Ritwik Bhattacharya Saurav Ghosal Famous Table Tennis Players of India Achanta Sharatha Kamal Mouma Das Poulomi Ghatak Chetan Baboor     Swimmers Bula Choudhury Mihir Sen   Famous Indian Shooters Vijay Kumar Gagan Narang Samresh Jung Abhinav Bindra Jaspal Rana Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore Anjali Bhagwat Manvjit Singh Sandhu   Famous Golf Players in India Gaurav Ghei Jyoti Randhawa Arjun Atwal Jeev Milkha SIngh Shiv Kapur   Billiards and snooker Geet Sethi Pankaj Advani Ashok shandilya Michael Ferreira     Famous Hockey Players in India Dilip Tirkey Leslie Claudius Dhanraj Pillay Gagan Ajit Singh Pargat Singh Dhyan Chand Famous Chess Players in India Dibyendu Barua Parimarjan Negi Koneru Humpy K Sasikiran Sandipan Chanda Viswanathan Anand P Harikrishna     Famous Football Players in India Baichung Bhutia Dr Talimeran Ao Inivalappil Mani Vijayan Famous Lawn Tennis Players in India Jaidip Mukerjea Vijay Amritraj Ramanathan Krishnan Ramesh Krishnan Leander Paes Sania Mirza Rohan Bopanna Mahesh Bhupathi   Mountaineering Tenzing Norgay     Famous Weightlifting Players Karnam Malleshwari N. Kunjarani Devi   Famous Wrestling Players Dalip Singh Rana Gulam The Great Gama Dara Singh Palwinder Singh Cheema Yogeshwar Dutt Gobar Goha Panne Lal Yadav Last Updated on : March 31, 2015             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule