Employment Opportunities | Human Resources Skip to main content University Home About OSU Academics Faculty / Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Human Resources Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Staff Resources News You Can Use Inside Human Resources Holiday Schedule Policies and Procedures Online EAs e~Print Report Login Guides and Forms HR WebFOCUS Login Login and Passwords Lactation Rooms on the Stillwater Campus Training Calendar Online Training Certificate Programs Learning Management System Supervisor Toolkit Employee Relations Employment at Oklahoma State University FMLA HR Contacts Maximizing Performance Policies and Procedures Search with Success Staff Pay Plan Employment New Applicant Tracking System! Applicant Login Only Employment Opportunities Employment at OkState PeopleAdmin - Admin Login Student Employment Benefits Web for Employees OSU Benefits New Employee Information Wellness Programs and Services Benefit Forms Information Sheets Vendor Contacts Student Health Plan News You Can Use Inside Human Resources Holiday Schedule Policies and Procedures Online EAs E~Print Report Definitions Guides and Forms HR WebFOCUS Login Login and Password Information Lactation Rooms Employment Opportunities IMPORTANT MESSAGE FOR APPLICANTS Welcome to Human Resources and thank you for your interest in a career at Oklahoma State University. Oklahoma State University (OSU) is transitioning to a new, cloud-based Applicant Tracking System.  This is the online system used by applicants to appy for vacant OSU jobs.  The "go live" date for the new system was March 2, 2015. New Job Listings as of March 2, 2015 - Click Here Job Listings Prior to March 2, 2015 - Click Here If you are a previous applicant and would like to check your status on a position you have applied for in our previous jobs site, click here . If you are a current OSU permanent faculty or staff employee seeking other employment opportunities within OSU, login into the main Talent Management portal, https://okstate.csod.com/samldefault.aspx , to search and apply for positions internally.   You will login with your O-Key address.  Once logged in, click on the “Search Jobs” icon in the center of the page to link to the OSU Jobs site. If you are a returning applicant, your application information will not be added to the new Applicant Tracking System.  You will need to create a new Applicant Profile in the new Applicant Tracking System. If you need assistance, please contact Human Resources, (405) 744-7401, osu-hr@okstate.edu .   New!  Employees at Oklahoma State University tell us why they love their workplace.   Watch now . Contact HR Partner Services Annual Public Safety Report ( In compliance with the Clery Act ) Temporary Employment Services – OSU System and A&M Colleges Title IX Compliance Other Employment Opportunities Whether you are seeking a part-time job while attending OSU, work-study, an internship for the summer, co-op job opportunities or full-time employment for after graduation, Career Services staff stands committed to assisting students and alumni with all of their career needs. Please visit OSU Career Services at 360 Student Union, call (405) 744-5253, email  careers@okstate.edu , or visit the website at  www.hireosugrads.com . Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Ethics Point Accessibility Legal and Trademarks Safety Webmaster © 2015 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved