India Political Map, Political Map of India Home » Maps » India » India Political Map   About India Political Map of India States and Capitals of India Districts of India Physical Map of India India Outline Map India River Map India Satellite Map India Zone Map Tier I And Tier II Cities of India Per Capita Income of India Climate Map of India Temperature Map of India India Seismic Zone Map India Topographic Map Mountain Ranges in India Soil Map of India Vegetation Map of India Lakes in India Telecom Circles Map Hydro Power Plants in India Thermal Power Plants in India Nuclear Power Plants in India Pre Partition Map of India Annual Rainfall in India Water Resources of India Map of Ruling Parties of India India Map in Various Languages Google Map India Universities in India Transport Network in India India Road Map National Highways in India India Railway Map Indian Railways Timetable Railway Zones Map of India Konkan Railway Delhi Metro Airports in India Air Network in India Ports in India Facts about India India Flag Geography of India History of India India Census Maps Economy of India Culture of India AIIMS in India Travel to India Tourist Places in India Religious Places in India Taj Mahal India Taj Mahal Facts Char Dham Yatra Beaches in India Hill Stations in India Hotels in India Jyotirlinga Shrines in India States of India Andhra Pradesh Goa Gujarat Tamilnadu Cities of India Delhi Mumbai Kolkata World Map World Continents Map Custom Mapping Major Events in 2015 My India What is Net Neutrality Land Acquisition Bill Child Labour in India Water crisis in India Unemployment in India Overpopulation in India Poverty in India       India Political Map भारत का राजनीतिक नक्शा Click any State on the map and get the Detailed State Map Political Map of India Click here for Customized Maps View Larger Map Print Email Free Download   * The India Political map shows all the states and union territories of India along with their capital cities. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. India is officially known as the Republic of India and comprises of 28 states and seven union territories. India is the second most populated country in the world and world's largest democracy. Spread over an area of 3,288,000 km sq, India is the 7th largest country in the world. Broadly, India is divided into six major zones: East India, West India, North India, South India, Northeast India and Central India. Eastern India includes the states of Bihar , Jharkhand , Orissa and West Bengal . The total population of these states is 226,925,195. The Eastern zone covers a total area of 418, 323 Sq.km. Bengali is the dominant language in the state of West Bengal whereas Oriya and Hindi are the principal languages in the states of Orissa and Jharkhand respectively. The Western region of India covers a total area of 508, 052 Sq.km. Some of the popular states of western India are Gujarat , Goa , Maharashtra and Rajasthan along with the Union Territories of Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli . Mumbai, the financial capital of India is the capital city of Maharashtra. The states of western India have a prosperous economy with relatively high standard of living. The six states of North India are: Jammu and Kashmir , Himachal Pradesh , Uttarakhand , Punjab , Haryana and Delhi (National Capital Territory). The economy of northern India is growing at a fast pace. The most populous cities of North India are New Delhi, Kanpur, Jaipur, Lucknow, Indore and Ludhiana. Southern India covers states like Tamil Nadu , Karnataka , Goa, Kerala , Andhra Pradesh , Telangana and the union territory of Lakshadweep . Over 48% of South India's population is engaged in agriculture.Bangalore , the capital of Karnataka is known as the 'Silicon Valley of India' because it is India's leading exporter in IT sector. North east India includes the seven sister states of Arunachal Pradesh , Assam , Meghalaya , Tripura , Mizoram , Manipur and Nagaland . Sikkim is also a part of northeast India. There is great ethnic and religious diversity within the seven sister states. The Central zone of India primarily refers to Madhya Pradesh and the newly formed state of Chhattisgarh . Last Updated on : April 2, 2015   List of Indian States   Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Asom (Assam) Bihar Karnataka Kerala Chhattisgarh Uttar Pradesh Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu and Kashmir Jharkhand West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Orissa Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Tamil Nadu Telangana Tripura Uttarakhand (Uttaranchal)   Union Territories of India   Andaman and Nicobar Pondicherry Dadra and Nagar Haveli Daman and Diu Delhi Chandigarh Lakshadweep India general Maps India Political Map India Road Map India River Map India Vegetation Map India Nuclear Plant Map Poverty Map of India Political Parties in States of India Top Cities by Rape Incidence in 2011 India Physical Map India Blank Map India Tourist Map India Seismic zoning India Major Sea Routes Map India Large Color Map India Power Grid Map Top States by Rape Incidence in 2011 India Outline Map Indian Railway Map Indian Cuisine Map Thermal Power Plant Map India Large Map India Globe World Heritage Sites in India   View India Map in   Assamese Bengali Chinese English French Hindi Italian Kannada Malayalam Marathi Nepali Oriya Punjabi Spanish Tamil Telugu Sanskrit Gujarati Urdu India Map 2012             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway