Nursing - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Nursing From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Nurse ) Jump to: navigation , search For other uses, see Nursing (disambiguation) . "Nurse" and "Nurses" redirect here. For other uses, see Nurse (disambiguation) . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2013) Nurse A British nurse caring for a baby Occupation Names Nurse Occupation type Healthcare professional Activity sectors Health care Description Competencies Caring for general well-being of patients Education required Qualifications in terms of statutory regulations according to national, state, or provincial legislation in each country Nursing is a profession within the health care sector focused on the care of individuals, families, and communities so they may attain, maintain, or recover optimal health and quality of life . Nurses may be differentiated from other health care providers by their approach to patient care , training , and scope of practice . Nurses practice in a wide diversity of practice areas with a different scope of practice and level of prescriber authority in each. Many nurses provide care within the ordering scope of physicians , and this traditional role has come to shape the historic public image of nurses as care providers. However, nurses are permitted by most jurisdictions to practice independently in a variety of settings depending on training level. In the postwar period, nurse education has undergone a process of diversification towards advanced and specialized credentials , and many of the traditional regulations and provider roles are changing. Nurses develop a plan of care, working collaboratively with physicians, therapists, the patient, the patient's family and other team members, that focuses on treating illness to improve quality of life. In the U.S. (and increasingly the United Kingdom), advanced practice nurses, such as clinical nurse specialists and nurse practitioners, diagnose health problems and prescribe medications and other therapies, depending on individual state regulations. Nurses may help coordinate the patient care performed by other members of an interdisciplinary health care team such as therapists, medical practitioners and dietitians. Nurses provide care both interdependently, for example, with physicians, and independently as nursing professionals. Contents 1 History 1.1 Traditional 1.2 19th century 1.3 20th century 2 Definition 3 As a profession 4 Theory and process 5 Practice settings 5.1 Work environment 6 Worldwide 6.1 Australia 6.2 European Union 6.3 United Kingdom 6.3.1 First and Second Level 6.3.2 Advanced practice 6.3.3 Managers 6.3.4 Nurse education 6.3.4.1 Pre-registration 6.3.4.2 Post-registration 6.4 Canada 6.4.1 History 6.4.2 Education 6.4.3 Public opinion 6.5 Japan 6.5.1 History 6.5.2 Types of nurses 6.5.2.1 Public health 6.5.2.2 Midwifery 6.5.2.3 Assistant 6.5.3 Education 6.5.4 Today 6.6 United States 6.6.1 Educational and licensure requirements 6.6.1.1 Diploma in Nursing 6.6.1.2 Associate Degree in Nursing 6.6.1.3 Bachelor of Science in Nursing 6.6.1.4 Graduate education 6.6.2 Licensure examination 6.6.3 Shortage in the United States 6.6.3.1 Causes 6.6.4 Continuing education 6.6.5 Board certification 7 Specialties 8 Picture gallery 9 See also 10 References 11 Further reading 11.1 Historical 12 External links History [ edit ] Main articles: History of nursing and Timeline of nursing history Traditional [ edit ] Nursing historians face the challenge of determining whether care provided to the sick or injured in antiquity was nursing care. [ 1 ] In the fifth century BC, for example, the Hippocratic Collection in places describes skilled care and observation of patients by male "attendants", who may have been early nurses. [ 2 ] Before the foundation of modern nursing, members of religious orders such as nuns and monks often provided nursing-like care. [ 3 ] Examples exist in Christian , [ 4 ] Islamic [ 5 ] and Buddhist [ 6 ] traditions amongst others. Phoebe , mentioned in Romans 16 has been described in many sources as "the first visiting nurse". [ 7 ] [ 8 ] These traditions were influential in the development of the ethos of modern nursing. The religious roots of modern nursing remain in evidence today in many countries. One example in the United Kingdom is the use of the honorific "sister" to refer to a senior nurse. [ 9 ] During the Reformation of the 16th century, Protestant reformers shut down the monasteries and convents, allowing a few hundred municipal hospices to remain in operation in northern Europe. Those nuns who had been serving as nurses were given pensions or told to get married and stay home. [ 10 ] Nursing care went to the inexperienced as traditional caretakers, rooted in the Roman Catholic Church, were removed from their positions. The nursing profession suffered a major setback for approximately 200 years. [ 11 ] 19th century [ edit ] Florence Nightingale was an influential figure in the development of modern nursing. No uniform had been created when Florence Nightingale was employed during the Crimean War . Both nursing role and education were first defined by Florence Nightingale. Florence Nightingale laid the foundations of professional nursing during the Crimean War . [ 12 ] Her Notes on Nursing became popular. The Nightingale model of professional education spread widely in Europe and North America after 1870. [ 13 ] Other important nurses in the development of the profession include: Agnes Hunt from Shropshire was the first orthopedic nurse and was pivotal in the emergence of the orthopedic hospital The Robert Jones & Agnes Hunt Hospital in Oswestry, Shropshire. Agnes Elizabeth Jones and Linda Richards , who established quality nursing schools in the USA and Japan; Linda Richards was officially America's first professionally trained nurse, graduating in 1873 from the New England Hospital for Women and Children in Boston Clarissa Harlowe "Clara" Barton , a pioneer American teacher, patent clerk, nurse, and humanitarian, and the founder of the American Red Cross. Saint Marianne Cope , a Sister of St Francis who opened and operated some of the first general hospitals in the United States, instituting cleanliness standards which influenced the development of America's modern hospital system. [ 14 ] Catholic orders such as Little Sisters of the Poor , Sisters of Mercy , Sisters of St. Mary , St. Francis Health Services, Inc. and Sisters of Charity built hospitals and provided nursing services during this period. [ citation needed ] In turn, the modern deaconess movement began in Germany in 1836. [ 15 ] Within a half century there were over 5,000 deaconesses in Europe. [ 16 ] Formal use of nurses in the modern military began in the latter half of the nineteenth century. Nurses saw active duty in the First Boer War , the Egyptian Campaign (1882) [ 17 ] and the Sudan Campaign (1883). [ citation needed ] 20th century [ edit ] A recruiting poster for Australian nurses from World War I . Hospital-based training came to the fore in the early 1900s, with an emphasis on practical experience. The Nightingale-style school began to disappear. Hospitals and physicians saw women in nursing as a source of free or inexpensive labor. Exploitation of nurses was not uncommon by employers, physicians and educational providers. [ 18 ] Many nurses saw active duty in World War I , but the profession was transformed during the second World War . British nurses of the Army Nursing Service were part of every overseas campaign. [ 19 ] More nurses volunteered for service in the US Army and Navy than any other occupation. [ 20 ] [ 21 ] The Nazis had their own Brown Nurses, 40,000 strong. [ 22 ] Two dozen German Red Cross nurses were awarded the Iron Cross for heroism under fire. [ 23 ] The modern era saw the development of undergraduate and post-graduate nursing degrees . Advancement of nursing research and a desire for association and organization led to the formation of a wide variety of professional organizations and academic journals . Growing recognition of nursing as a distinct academic discipline was accompanied by an awareness of the need to define the theoretical basis for practice. [ 24 ] In the 19'th and early 20'th century, nursing was considered a women's profession, just as doctoring was a men's profession. With increasing expectations of workplace equality during the late 20th century, nursing became an officially gender-neutral profession, though in practice the percentage of male nurses remains well below that of female physicians in the early 21's century. [ citation needed ] Definition [ edit ] Although nursing practice varies both through its various specialties and countries, these nursing organizations offer the following definitions: Nursing encompasses autonomous and collaborative care of individuals of all ages, families, groups and communities, sick or well and in all settings. Nursing includes the promotion of health, prevention of illness, and the care of ill, disabled and dying people. Advocacy, promotion of a safe environment, research, participation in shaping health policy and in patient and health systems management, and education are also key nursing roles. — International Council of Nurses [ 25 ] The use of clinical judgment in the provision of care to enable people to improve, maintain, or recover health, to cope with health problems, and to achieve the best possible quality of life, whatever their disease or disability, until death. — Royal College of Nursing UK [ 26 ] Nursing is the protection, promotion, and optimization of health and abilities; prevention of illness and injury; alleviation of suffering through the diagnosis and treatment of human responses; and advocacy in health care for individuals, families, communities, and populations. — American Nurses Association [ 27 ] The unique function of the nurse is to assist the individual, sick or well, in the performance of those activities contributing to health or its recovery (or to peaceful death) that he would perform unaided if he had the necessary strength, will or knowledge. — Virginia Avenel Henderson [ 28 ] As a profession [ edit ] The authority for the practice of nursing is based upon a social contract that delineates professional rights and responsibilities as well as mechanisms for public accountability. In almost all countries, nursing practice is defined and governed by law, and entrance to the profession is regulated at the national or state level. The aim of the nursing community worldwide is for its professionals to ensure quality care for all, while maintaining their credentials, code of ethics , standards, and competencies, and continuing their education. [ 25 ] There are a number of educational paths to becoming a professional nurse, which vary greatly worldwide; all involve extensive study of nursing theory and practice as well as training in clinical skills. Nurses care for individuals of all ages and cultural backgrounds who are healthy and ill in a holistic manner based on the individual's physical, emotional, psychological, intellectual, social, and spiritual needs. The profession combines physical science, social science, nursing theory, and technology in caring for those individuals. To work in the nursing profession, all nurses hold one or more credentials depending on their scope of practice and education . A licensed practical nurse (LPN) (also referred to as a licensed vocational nurse, registered practical nurse, enrolled nurse, and state enrolled nurse) works independently or with a registered nurse (RN). The most significant differentiation between an LPN and RN is found in the requirements for entry to practice, which determines entitlement for their scope of practice. For example, Canada requires a bachelor's degree for the RN and a two-year diploma for the LPN. A registered nurse provides scientific, psychological, and technological knowledge in the care of patients and families in many health care settings. Registered nurses may earn additional credentials or degrees . In the USA, multiple educational paths will qualify a candidate to sit for the licensure examination as a registered nurse. The Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) is awarded to the nurse who has completed a two-year undergraduate academic degree awarded by community colleges, junior colleges, technical colleges, and bachelor's degree-granting colleges and universities upon completion of a course of study usually lasting two years. The Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) is awarded to the nurse who has earned an American four-year academic degree in the science and principles of nursing, granted by a tertiary education university or similarly accredited school. After completing either the LPN or either RN education programs in the USA, graduates are eligible to sit for a licensing examination to become a nurse, the passing of which is required for the nursing license. RNs may also pursue different roles as advanced practice registered nurses . Nurses may follow their personal and professional interests by working with any group of people, in any setting, at any time. Some nurses follow the traditional role of working in a hospital setting. Despite equal opportunity legislation, nursing has continued to be a female-dominated profession. [ 29 ] For instance, the male-to-female ratio of nurses is approximately 1:19 in Canada and the United States. [ 30 ] [ 31 ] This ratio is represented around the world. Notable exceptions include Francophone Africa , which includes the countries of Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Congo, Côte d'Ivoire , the Democratic Republic of Congo , Djibouti, Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, and Togo, which all have more male than female nurses. [ 32 ] In Europe, in countries such as Spain, Portugal, Czechoslovakia , and Italy, over 20% of nurses are male. [ 32 ] Theory and process [ edit ] Main articles: Nursing theory and Nursing process Nursing practice is the actual provision of nursing care. In providing care, nurses implement the nursing care plan using the nursing process . This is based around a specific nursing theory which is selected based on the care setting and population served. In providing nursing care, the nurse uses both nursing theory and best practice derived from nursing research . In general terms, the nursing process is the method used to assess and diagnose needs, plan outcomes and interventions, implement interventions, and evaluate the outcomes of the care provided. Like other disciplines, the profession has developed different theories derived from sometimes diverse philosophical beliefs and paradigms or worldviews to help nurses direct their activities to accomplish specific goals. Practice settings [ edit ] Nurses practice in a wide range of settings, from hospitals to visiting people in their homes and caring for them in schools to research in pharmaceutical companies . Nurses work in occupational health settings [ 33 ] (also called industrial health settings), free-standing clinics and physician offices, nurse-led clinics , long-term care facilities and camps. They also work on cruise ships and in military service . Nurses act as advisers and consultants to the health care and insurance industries. Many nurses also work in the health advocacy and patient advocacy fields at companies such as Health Advocate , Inc. helping in a variety of clinical and administrative issues. [ 34 ] Some are attorneys and others work with attorneys as legal nurse consultants , reviewing patient records to assure that adequate care was provided and testifying in court. Nurses can work on a temporary basis, which involves doing shifts without a contract in a variety of settings, sometimes known as per diem nursing , agency nursing or travel nursing . Nurses work as researchers in laboratories, universities, and research institutions . Nurses have also been delving into the world of informatics, acting as consultants to the creation of computerized charting programs and other software. Work environment [ edit ] Internationally, there is a serious shortage of nurses. [ 35 ] One reason for this shortage is due to the work environment in which nurses practice. In a recent review of the empirical human factors and ergonomic literature specific to nursing performance, nurses were found to work in generally poor environmental conditions. De Lucia, Otto, & Palmier (2009) [ 36 ] concluded, "the profession of nursing as a whole is overloaded because there is a nursing shortage. Individual nurses are overloaded. They are overloaded by the number of patients they oversee. They are overloaded by the number of tasks they perform. They work under cognitive overload, engaging in multitasking and encountering frequent interruptions. They work under perceptual overload due to medical devices that do not meet perceptual requirements (Morrow et al., 2005), insufficient lighting, illegible handwriting, and poor labeling designs. They work under physical overload due to long work hours and patient handling demands which leads to a high incidence of MSDs . In short, the nursing work system often exceeds the limits and capabilities of human performance. HF/E research should be conducted to determine how these overloads can be reduced and how the limits and capabilities of performance can be accommodated. Ironically, the literature shows that there are studies to determine whether nurses can effectively perform tasks ordinarily performed by physicians. Results indicate that nurses can perform such tasks effectively. Nevertheless, already overloaded nurses should not be given more tasks to perform. When reducing the overload, it should be kept in mind that under loads also can be detrimental to performance (Mack worth, 1948). Both overloads and under loads are important to consider for improving performance." [ 36 ] Some countries and states have passed legislation regarding acceptable nurse-to-patient ratios. The fast-paced and unpredictable nature of health care place nurses at risk for injuries and illnesses. In the United States, the Occupational Health Safety Network (OHSN) is a secure electronic surveillance system developed by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to address health and safety risks among health care personnel, including nurses. OHSN modules currently focus on three high risk and preventable events that can lead to injuries or musculoskeletal disorders among healthcare personnel: musculoskeletal injuries from patient handling activities; slips, trips, and falls; and workplace violence. Hospitals and other healthcare facilities can upload the occupational injury data they already collect to the secure database for analysis and benchmarking with other de-identified facilities. NIOSH works with OHSN participants in identifying and implementing timely and targeted interventions. OHSN enrollment is open to all healthcare facilities. Nurses are also at risk for violence and abuse in the workplace. [ 37 ] Worldwide [ edit ] Australia [ edit ] Main article: Nursing in Australia Catholic religious institutes were influential in the development of Australian nursing, founding many of Australia's hospitals - the Irish Sisters of Charity were first to arrive in 1838 and established St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney in 1857 as a free hospital for the poor. They and other orders like the Sisters of Mercy , and in aged care the Sisters of the Little Company of Mary and Little Sisters of the Poor founded hospitals, hospices, research institutes and aged care facilities around Australia. [ 38 ] [ 39 ] A census in the 1800s found several hundred nurses working in Western Australia during the colonial period of history, this included Aboriginal female servants who cared for the infirm. [ 40 ] The state nursing licensing bodies amalgamated in Australia in 2011 under the federal body AHPRA (Australian Health Practitioner Registration Authority). [ 41 ] Several divisions of nursing license is available and recognized around the country. Enrolled nurses may initiate some oral medication orders with a specific competency now included in national curricula but variable in application by agency. Registered nurses hold a university degree (enrolled nurses can progress to registered nurse status and do get credit for previous study) Nurse practitioners have started emerging from postgraduate programs and work in private practice. Mental health nurses must complete further training as advanced mental health practitioners in order to administer client referrals under the Mental Health Act . Australia enjoys the luxury of a national curriculum for vocational nurses, trained at TAFE colleges or private RTO. Enrolled and registered nurses are identified by the department of immigration as an occupational area of need, although registered nurses are always in shorter supply, and this increases in proportion with specialization. In 1986 there were a number of rolling industrial actions around the country, culminating when five thousand Victorian nurses went on strike for eighteen days. The hospitals were able to function by hiring casual staff from each other's striking members, but the increased cost forced a decision in the nurses' favor [ 42 ] European Union [ edit ] In the European Union, the profession of nurse is regulated. A profession is said to be regulated when access and exercise is subject to the possession of a specific professional qualification. The regulated professions database contains a list of regulated professions for nurse [ 43 ] in the EU member states, EEA countries and Switzerland. This list is covered by the Directive 2005/36/EC . United Kingdom [ edit ] Main article: Nursing in the United Kingdom To practice lawfully as a registered nurse in the United Kingdom, the practitioner must hold a current and valid registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council . The title "Registered Nurse" can only be granted to those holding such registration. This protected title is laid down in the Nurses, Midwives and Health Visitors Act, 1997. [ 44 ] First and Second Level [ edit ] First-level nurses make up the bulk of the registered nurses in the UK. They were previously known by titles such as RGN (registered general nurse), RSCN (registered sick children's nurse), RMN (registered mental nurse) and RNMS (registered nurse (for the) mentally subnormal). The titles used now are similar, including RNA (registered nurse adult), RNC (registered nurse child), RNMH (registered nurse mental health) and RNLD (registered nurse learning disabilities). Second-level nurse training is no longer provided, however they are still legally able to practice in the United Kingdom as a registered nurse. Many have now either retired or undertaken conversion courses to become first-level nurses. They are entitled to refer to themselves as registered nurses as their registration is on the Nursing & Midwifery Council register of nurses, although most refer to themselves as ENs or SENs. Advanced practice [ edit ] Nurse practitioners – Most of these nurses obtain a minimum of a master's degree, and a desired post grad certificate. They often perform roles similar to those of physicians and physician assistants. They can prescribe medications as independent or supplementary prescribers, although are still legally regulated, unlike physician's assistants. Most NPs have referral and admission rights to hospital specialties. They commonly work in primary care (e.g. GP surgeries), A&E departments , or pediatrics although they are increasingly being seen in other areas of practice. In the UK, the title "nurse practitioner" is legally protected. Specialist community public health nurses – traditionally district nurses and health visitors , this group of research and publication activities. Lecturer-practitioners (also called practice education facilitators) – these nurses work both in the NHS, and in universities. They typically work for 2–3 days per week in each setting. In university, they train pre-registration student nurses (see below), and often teach on specialist courses for post-registration nurses Lecturers – these nurses are not employed by the NHS. Instead they work full-time in universities, both teaching and performing research. Managers [ edit ] Many nurses who have worked in clinical settings for a long time choose to leave clinical nursing and join the ranks of the NHS management. This used to be seen as a natural career progression for those who had reached ward management positions, however with the advent of specialist nursing roles (see above), this has become a less attractive option. Nonetheless, many nurses fill positions in the senior management structure of NHS organizations, some even as board members. Others choose to stay a little closer to their clinical roots by becoming clinical nurse managers or modern matrons . Nurse education [ edit ] Pre-registration [ edit ] In order to become a registered nurse, one must complete a program recognized by the Nursing and Midwifery Council . Currently, this involves completing a degree , available from a range of universities offering these courses , in the chosen branch specialty (see below), leading to both an academic award and professional registration as a 1st level registered nurse. Such a course is a 50/50 split of learning in university (i.e. through lectures, assignments and examinations) and in practice (i.e. supervised patient care within a hospital or community setting). These courses are three (occasionally four) years' long. The first year is known as the common foundation program (CFP), and teaches the basic knowledge and skills required of all nurses. Skills included in the CFP may include communication, taking observations, administering medication and providing personal care to patients. The remainder of the program consists of training specific to the student's chosen branch of nursing. These are: Adult nursing. Child nursing. Mental health nursing. Learning disabilities nursing. As of 2013, the Nursing and Midwifery Council will require all new nurses qualifying in the UK to hold a degree qualification. [ 45 ] However, those nurses who hold a diploma, or even a certificate in nursing are still able to legally practice in the UK, although they are able to undertake university modules to obtain enough credits to top up to a degree. Midwifery training is similar in length and structure, but is sufficiently different that it is not co