El Nino effects on india's Growth | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Business / Will El Nino Hit The Brakes On India’s Growth Story? Will El Nino Hit The Brakes On India’s Growth Story? July 7, 2014 by Sujatha What is El Nino? The El Nino (Spanish – The Little One) is a weather phenomenon that occurs every two to seven years and lasts for almost a year. During this period, the east equatorial Pacific Ocean waters tend to become unusually warm and this affects wind patterns causing abnormal rainfall in many parts of the world. The years that the El Nino strikes witness excessive rainfall in some parts of the world and droughts in others. One of the fallouts of the El Nino is the weakening of the Southwest Monsoon that brings rainfall to India. Worst affected by El Nino’s impact is India’s agriculture and consequently, the economy as a whole suffers. The production of summer crops including cash crops such as rice, cotton, sugarcane, and oilseeds is adversely affected due to a poor monsoon. High inflation and low gross domestic product growth are usual consequences, given that agriculture contributes almost 14 percent to our country’s GDP. Why is India Worried? In the previous two instances of El Nino occurrence – 2004 and 2009 – India suffered severe drought conditions with the monsoons dipping 88 percent and 79 percent respectively (of 50 year average rainfall measure). According to reports from the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the country received 92.4 millimeters (about 3.6 inches) of rainfall in June – this is about 43 percent less than the average rainfall recorded between 1951 and 2000.The central and western regions of the country seem to be the worst affected with the monsoon having made next to no progress since mid-June. This could potentially mean that the country will receive about 7 percent less rainfall that the average due to the El Nino. To make things worse, predictions from the Australian weather bureau suggest that the El Nino may have just picked up and its onset could be earlier than previously predicted (September). Even a 5 percent deficient monsoon could cause India’s GDP a loss of about 1.75 percent (INR 180000 crore). What Could Happen… The agriculture sector is likely to be severely affected by the occurrence of the El Nino. In India, about 833 million people depend on agriculture for their livelihood. Now with predictions that almost 90 percent of India is to expect deficient rains, the sowing of summer crops such as rice, soybeans, oilseeds, corn, and cotton has been considerably delayed. India is now likely to produce 8.2 million tonnes of soya in case of a strong El Nino, 9.9 million tonnes in case of a moderate El Nino, or 10.2 million tonnes if the phenomenon goes weak. In the previous El Nino free year (2012-13) Indian farmers harvested about 14.67 million tonnes of soyabean. Similarly, the production of corn could go down from 25 million tonnes in 2012-13 to somewhere between 23.1 and 22.5 million tonnes on account of a weak to moderate El Nino. India’s corn export has already been losing out to countries such as Russia and Ukraine and this could come as a big blow to the corn exporters. Data sourced from the Agriculture Ministry indicates that in 2012-13 about 3.6 million hectares of rice were planted across the country. This has sunk to about 2.2 million hectares as of end June. Oilseed farmers have also faced their share of woes with sowing dropping by about 47 percent to 479,000 hectares by end June; similarly the area under cotton farming has shown a 48 percent decline with only 2.9 million hectares been under plantation this year. What Are We Doing About It? Given the weather forecasts and the threat of a sub-normal monsoon, the government of India needs to start planning counter measures right away. Crop failure and agricultural setbacks could add to the food inflation woes – already one of the biggest challenges on the Finance Minister’s plate. The government of India has already promised to offload about 5 million tonnes of rice from its reserve stockpiles. This is almost 25 percent of the government rice reserves and transferring this quantity to the markets at subsidized prices should bring some relief from the skyrocketing food prices. After having set up a minimum export price for onions, the government is now considering initiating a similar price restriction on the export of potatoes. Furthermore, the central government has promised to import pulses to provide relief in case of crop failure due to drought-like conditions. It remains to be seen what impact the budget has on relief activities both by way of subsidies and support. Food accounts for almost 50 percent of the country’s consumer-price inflation kitty. In May, the skyrocketing food inflation reduced India’s consumer inflation gains to a mere 8.28 percent – a three month low. What we now await is news about the measures that the NaMo administration shall take to combat what is an already threatening inflation scenario.   indian Agriculture Indian Economy Monsoon Sujatha An Indian. Born a princess, now a storyteller. A gypsy at heart, rebel by nature, TamBrahm by nurture. Quintessential wine woman. An empath. A fauji biwi. More articles from Sujatha : India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots Weekly Business Roundup: Markets Gain for Third Consecutive Week 10 Things You May Not Know About Robert Vadra Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Comments Showing 2 Comments : Balram Dhandhukiya July 12, 2014 at 10:50 pm I really enjoyd d way u gave authentic details about Nino Reply sujatha21 September 5, 2014 at 10:17 am Thank you Reply Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? parmindersingh on Time to feel the heat of Delhi University Admission for session 2015-16 Dheerendra yadav on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd pardeep singh on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits suchithra p s on Human Trafficking in India must end Nimesh Vyas on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012