Water buffalo - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Water buffalo From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search This article is about the domesticated water buffalo. For its endangered wild ancestor, see Wild water buffalo . For the wild African species, see African buffalo . For other uses, see Water buffalo (disambiguation) . Water buffalo Female water buffalo and calf Conservation status Domesticated Scientific classification Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Mammalia Order: Artiodactyla Family: Bovidae Subfamily: Bovinae Tribe: Bovini Genus: Bubalus Species: B. bubalis Binomial name Bubalus bubalis ( Linnaeus , 1758 ) river buffalo swamp buffalo Global distribution of buffalo in 2004 The water buffalo or domestic Asian water buffalo ( Bubalus bubalis ) is a large bovid originating in South Asia , Southeast Asia , and China . Today, it is also found in Europe , Australia , and some American countries. [ 1 ] The wild water buffalo ( Bubalus arnee ) native to Southeast Asia is considered a different species , but most likely represents the ancestor of the domestic water buffalo. [ 2 ] Two extant types of water buffalo are recognized based on morphological and behavioural criteria – the river buffalo of South Asia and further west to the Balkans , Egypt , and Italy , and the swamp buffalo , found from Assam in the west through Southeast Asia to the Yangtze valley of China in the east. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] The origins of the domestic water buffalo types are debated, although results of a phylogenetic study indicate that the swamp type may have originated in China and was domesticated about 4,000 years ago, while the river type may have originated from India and was domesticated about 5,000 years ago. [ 4 ] Water buffalo were traded from the Indus Valley Civilisation , in modern Pakistan , to Mesopotamia , in modern Iraq , 2500 BC by the Meluhhas . [ 5 ] The seal of a scribe employed by an Akkadian king shows the sacrifice of water buffalo. [ 6 ] Water buffalo are especially suitable for tilling rice fields , and their milk is richer in fat and protein than that of dairy cattle . The large feral population of northern Australia became established in the late 19th century, and smaller feral herds are in New Guinea , Tunisia , and northeastern Argentina . [ 1 ] There are at least 130 million domestic water buffalo, and more human beings depend on them than on any other domestic animal . [ 7 ] Contents 1 Characteristics 2 Ecology and behavior 2.1 Diet 2.2 Reproduction 3 Taxonomic history 4 Domestication and breeding 5 Distribution of populations 5.1 In Asia 5.2 In Europe and the Mediterranean 5.3 In Australia 5.4 In South America 5.5 In North America 6 Husbandry 6.1 Dairy products 6.2 Meat and skin products 6.3 Bone and horn products 7 Environmental effects 8 Research 9 In culture 9.1 Fighting festivals 9.2 Racing festivals 10 See also 11 References 12 Further reading 13 External links Characteristics [ edit ] A water buffalo in Thailand An albino swamp buffalo in Chiang Mai province , Thailand The skin of river buffalo is black, but some specimens may have dark slate-coloured skin. Swamp buffalo have a grey skin at birth, but become slate blue later. Albinoids are present in some populations. River buffalo have comparatively longer faces, smaller girths, and bigger limbs than swamp buffalo. Their dorsal ridges extend further back and taper off more gradually. Their horns grow downward and backward, then curve upward in a spiral. Swamp buffalo are heavy-bodied and stockily built; the body is short and the belly large. The forehead is flat, the eyes prominent, the face short, and the muzzle wide. The neck is comparatively long, and the withers and croup are prominent. A dorsal ridge extends backward and ends abruptly just before the end of the chest. Their horns grow outward, and curve in a semicircle, but always remain more or less on the plane of the forehead. The tail is short, reaching only to the hocks . Height at withers is 129–133 cm (51–52 in) for males, and 120–127 cm (47–50 in) for females. They range in weight from 300–550 kg (660–1,210 lb), but weights of over 1,000 kg (2,200 lb) have also been observed. [ 1 ] Tedong bonga is a black pied buffalo featuring a unique black and white colouration that is favoured by the Toraja of Sulawesi . [ 8 ] The swamp buffalo has 48 chromosomes ; the river buffalo has 50 chromosomes. The two types do not readily interbreed, but fertile offspring can occur. Buffalo- cattle hybrids have not been observed to occur, and the embryos of such hybrids do not reach maturity in laboratory experiments. [ 9 ] The rumen of the water buffalo has important differences from that of other ruminants . [ 10 ] It contains a larger population of bacteria , particularly the cellulolytic bacteria, lower protozoa , and higher fungi zoospores . In addition, higher rumen ammonia nitrogen (NH 4 -N) and higher pH have been found as compared to those in cattle . [ 11 ] Ecology and behavior [ edit ] Water buffalo enjoy being in water. Water buffalo wallowing in mud River buffalo prefer deep water. Swamp buffalo prefer to wallow in mudholes which they make with their horns. During wallowing, they acquire a thick coating of mud. [ 1 ] Both are well adapted to a hot and humid climate with temperatures ranging from 0 °C (32 °F) in the winter to 30 °C (86 °F) and greater in the summer. Water availability is important in hot climates since they need wallows, rivers, or splashing water to assist in thermoregulation . Some breeds are adapted to saline seaside shores and saline sandy terrain . [ 12 ] Diet [ edit ] Water buffalo thrive on many aquatic plants and during floods, will graze submerged, raising their heads above the water and carrying quantities of edible plants. They eat reeds ( quassab ), a giant reed ( birdi ), a kind of bulrush ( kaulan ) , water hyacinth , and marsh grasses . Some of these plants are of great value to local peoples. Others, such as water hyacinth, are a major problem in some tropical valleys, and water buffalo may help to keep waterways clear. Green fodders are used widely for intensive milk production and for fattening. Many fodder crops are conserved as hay, chaffed, or pulped. Fodders include alfalfa , berseem and bancheri , the leaves, stems or trimmings of banana , cassava , fodder beet , halfa , ipil-ipil and kenaf , maize , oats , pandarus , peanut , sorghum , soybean , sugarcane , bagasse , and turnips . Citrus pulp and pineapple wastes have been fed safely to buffalo. In Egypt, whole sun-dried dates are fed to milk-buffalo up to 25% of the standard feed mixture. [ 1 ] Reproduction [ edit ] A water buffalo calf in India Swamp buffalo generally become reproductive at an older age than river breeds. Young males in Egypt, India, and Pakistan are first mated at about 3.0–3.5 years of age, but in Italy they may be used as early as 2 years of age. Successful mating behaviour may continue until the animal is 12 years or even older. A good river male can impregnate 100 females in a year. A strong seasonal influence on mating occurs. Heat stress reduces libido . [ 1 ] Although buffalo are polyoestrous, their reproductive efficiency shows wide variation throughout the year. Buffalo cows exhibit a distinct seasonal change in displaying oestrus , conception rate, and calving rate. [ 13 ] The age at first oestrus of heifers varies between breeds from 13–33 months, but mating at the first oestrus is often infertile and usually deferred until they are 3 years old. Gestation lasts from 281–334 days, but most reports give a range between 300 and 320 days. Swamp buffalo carry their calves for one or two weeks longer than river buffalo. It is not rare to find buffalo that continue to work well at the age of 30, and instances of a working life of 40 years are recorded. [ 1 ] Taxonomic history [ edit ] Carl Linnaeus first described the genus Bos and the water buffalo under the binomial Bubalis bubalus in 1758; the latter was known to occur in Asia and as a domestic form in Italy. [ 14 ] Ellerman and Morrison-Scott treated the wild and domestic forms of the water buffalo as conspecifics [ 15 ] whereas others treated them as different species . [ 16 ] The nomenclatorial treatment of wild and domestic forms has been inconsistent and varies between authors and even within the works of single authors. [ 17 ] In March 2003, the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature achieved consistency in the naming of wild and domestic water buffalo by ruling that the scientific name Bubalus arnee is valid for the wild form. [ 18 ] Bubalus bubalis continues to be valid for the domestic form and applies also to feral populations. [ 19 ] Domestication and breeding [ edit ] Murrah buffalo at the Philippine Carabao Center Water buffalo were domesticated in India about 5000 years ago, and in China about 4000 years ago. Two types are recognized, based on morphological and behavioural criteria – the river buffalo of the Indian subcontinent and further west to the Balkans and Italy, and the swamp buffalo , found from Assam in the west through Southeast Asia to the Yangtze valley of China in the east. [ 3 ] The present day river buffalo is the result of complex domestication processes involving more than one maternal lineage and a significant maternal gene flow from wild populations after the initial domestication events. [ 20 ] Twenty-two breeds of the river type water buffalo are known, including Murrah , Nili-Ravi , Surti , Jafarabadi , Anatolian , Mediterranean , and Egyptian buffalo . [ 21 ] China has a huge variety of buffalo genetic resources, comprising 16 local swamp buffalo breeds in various regions. [ 12 ] Results of mitochondrial DNA analyses indicate that the two types were domesticated independently. [ 22 ] Sequencing of cytochrome b genes of Bubalus species implies that the domestic buffalo originated from at least two populations, and that the river and the swamp types have differentiated at the full species level. The genetic distance between the two types is so large that a divergence time of about 1.7 million years has been suggested. The swamp type was noticed to have the closest relationship with the tamaraw . [ 23 ] Distribution of populations [ edit ] Carabao buffalo in the Philippines The water buffalo population in the world is about 172 million. [ 24 ] In Asia [ edit ] Carabao cart in the Philippines in 1899 More than 95.8% of the world population of water buffalo are found in Asia including both river and swamp types. [ 12 ] The water buffalo population in India numbered over 97.9 million head in 2003 representing 56.5% of the world population. They are primarily of the river type with 10 well-defined breeds comprising Badhawari, Murrah, Nili-Ravi, Jafarabadi, Marathwada, Mehsana, Nagpuri, Pandharpuri, Toda and Surti. Swamp buffalo occur only in small areas in the north-eastern part of the country and are not distinguished into breeds. [ 25 ] In 2003, the second largest population lived in China with 22.759 million heads, all of the swamp type with breeds kept only in the lowlands, and other breeds kept only in the mountains; as of 2003 there were 3.2 million swamp type Carabao buffalo in the Philippines, nearly three million swamp buffalo in Vietnam , and 772,764 buffalo in Bangladesh . About 750,000 head were estimated in Sri Lanka in 1997. [ 12 ] The water buffalo is the main dairy animal in Pakistan with 23.47 million head in 2010. [ 26 ] Of these, 76% are kept in the Punjab . Breeds comprise Nili-Ravi, Kundi and Azi Kheli. [ 27 ] Karachi has the largest population of water buffalos for an area where fodder is not grown, consisting of 350,000 head kept mainly for milking. [ citation needed ] In Thailand , the number of water buffalo dropped from more than 3 million heads in 1996 to less than 1.24 million heads in 2011. [ 28 ] Slightly over 75% of them are kept in the country's northeastern region. The statistics also indicate that by the beginning of 2012, there were less than one million in the country, partly as a result of illegal shipments to neighboring countries where sales prices are higher than in Thailand. [ citation needed ] Water buffalo are also present in the southern region of Iraq , in the marshes . These marshes were drained by Saddam Hussein in 1991 in an attempt to punish the south for the uprisings of 1991 . Following 2003, and the fall of the Saddam regime , these lands were re-flooded and a 2007 report in the provinces of Maysan and Thi Qar shows a steady increase in the number of water buffalo. The report puts the number at 40,008 heads in those two provinces. [ 29 ] In Europe and the Mediterranean [ edit ] It is generally considered that water buffalo were introduced to Europe from India or other Oriental countries. To Italy they were introduced about the year 600 in the reign of the Longobard King Agilulf . As they appear in the company of wild horses , it seems probable that they were a present from the Khan of the Avars , a Turkic nomadic tribe that dwelt near the Danube River at the time. Sir H. Johnston knew of a herd of water buffalo presented by a King of Naples to the Bey of Tunis in the mid 19th century that had resumed the feral state in northern Tunis . [ 30 ] European buffalo are all of the river type and considered to be of the same breed named Mediterranean buffalo . In Italy the Mediterranean type was particularly selected and is called Mediterranean Italian breed to distinguish it from other European breeds, which differ genetically. Mediterranean buffalos are also found in Romania , Bulgaria , Greece , Albania , Kosovo and Republic of Macedonia , and a few hundred in the United Kingdom , Germany , the Netherlands , Switzerland and Hungary . There has been little exchange of breeding buffalo among countries, therefore each population has its own phenotypic features and performances. In Bulgaria, they were crossbred with the Indian Murrah breed, and in Romania some were crossbred with Bulgarian Murrah. [ 12 ] Populations in Turkey are of the Anatolian buffalo breed. [ 21 ] In Australia [ edit ] A feral water buffalo in Australia Between 1824 and 1849, water buffalos were introduced into the Northern Territory from Timor , Kisar and probably other islands in the Indonesian archipelago . In 1886, a few milking types were brought from India to Darwin . They have been the main grazing animals on the sub-coastal plains and river basins between Darwin and Arnhem Land since the 1880s. In the early 1960s, an estimated population of 150,000 to 200,000 buffalos were living in the plains and nearby areas. [ 31 ] They became feral and are causing significant environmental damage. Buffalo are also found in the Top End . As a result, they were hunted in the Top End from 1885 until 1980. The commencement of the Brucellosis and Tuberculosis Campaign (BTEC) resulted in a huge culling program to reduce buffalo herds to a fraction of the numbers that were reached in the 1980s. The BTEC was finished when the Northern Territory was declared free of the disease in 1997. Numbers dropped dramatically as a result of the campaign, but have since recovered to an estimated 150,000 animals across northern Australia in 2008. [ 32 ] During the 1950s, buffalo were hunted for their skins and meat, which was exported and used in the local trade. In the late 1970s, live exports were made to Cuba and continued later into other countries. Buffalo are now crossed with riverine buffalo in artificial breeding (AI) programs, and may be found in many areas of Australia. Some of these crossbreds are used for milk production. Melville Island is a popular hunting location, where a steady population of up to 4,000 individuals exist. Safari outfits are run out of Darwin to Melville Island and other locations in the Top End, often with the use of bush pilots . The horns, which can measure up to a record of 3.1 m (10 ft) tip-to-tip, are prized hunting trophies. [ 33 ] The buffalo have developed a different appearance from the Indonesian buffalo from which they descend. [ citation needed ] They live mainly in freshwater marshes and billabongs , and their territory range can be quite expansive during the wet season . Their only natural predators in Australia are large adult saltwater crocodiles , with whom they share the billabongs, and dingoes , which have been known to prey on buffalo calves and occasionally adult buffalos when the dingoes are in large packs. [ citation needed ] Buffalos were exported live to Indonesia until 2011, at a rate of about 3000 per year. After the live export ban that year, the exports dropped to zero, and had not resumed as of June 2013. [ 34 ] In South America [ edit ] Murrah buffalo in a Brazilian Farm Water buffalo were introduced into the Amazon River basin in 1895. They are now extensively used there for meat and dairy production. In 2005, the buffalo herd in the Brazilian Amazon stood at approximately 1.6 million head, of which approximately 460,000 were located in the lower Amazon floodplain. [ 35 ] Breeds used include Mediterranean from Italy, Murrah and Jafarabadi from India, and Carabao from the Philippines. During the 1970s, small herds were imported to Costa Rica , Ecuador , Cayenne , Panama , Surinam , Guyana and Venezuela . [ 36 ] In Argentina , many game ranches raise water buffalo for commercial hunting. [ citation needed ] In North America [ edit ] In 1974, four water buffalo were imported to the United States from Guam to be studied at the University of Florida . In February 1978, the first herd arrived for commercial farming. Until 2002, there was only one commercial breeder in the United States. Water buffalo meat is imported from Australia . [ 36 ] Until 2011, water buffalo were raised in Gainesville, Florida , from young obtained from zoo overflow. They were used primarily for meat production, frequently sold as hamburger. Other local ranchers use them for production of high-quality mozzarella cheese. [ citation needed ] Husbandry [ edit ] Water buffalo ploughing rice fields in Java , Indonesia Water buffalo are used for ploughing in Si Phan Don , Laos .