Soya Milk Offered by Variam Enterprises Jalandhar India | ID - 385124 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Variam Enterprises Member Since : 2012 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Soya Products, Soya Tofu, Soya Milk, Food Grains, Rice, Maize Seeds Home » Product » Soya Milk Soya Milk We are a trusted Supplier of fresh Soya Milk throughout India. The Soya Milk that we provide is extracted from finest quality soybeans and is enriched with vitamins, proteins, calcium, carbohydrates and minerals. According to the FDA research, intake of 25% of soya protein a day reduces the risk of heart diseases. The Soya Milk that we offer is an excellent source of proteins, as soybeans contain the highest amount of proteins among all the legumes. Our Soya Milk is lactose free that is perfect alternative for those with lactose intolerance or dairy allergies and it also contains very less fat (not Trans-fat), which is required by the body. Soya Milk also has omega-3 fatty acids, which are essential for the brain’s development. We offer our Soya Milk in various delicious flavors like plain, vanilla, strawberry & chocolate and in the form of powder or flakes. The color of plain Soya Milk varies from tan to white. Highlights Available in different variants High quality protein Cholesterol free Contains high amounts of vitamin A, vitamin B1 and vitamin B2 Packaging Material : Pouches and poly bags printed with company’s name. SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mr. Sukhjit Singh Dhaliwal Telephone : +91-181-2753956 Mobile Phone : +91-9417633004 » More detail Product Range » Corn / Maize Seeds » Cotton Bales » Cotton Bales » Food Grain » Fresh Vegetables » Fruits » Hms 1, Hms 2 » HMS Scrap » Indian Spices » Pearl Millet Seeds » Rice » Soya Milk » Soya Nuts » Soya Tofu » Wheat Seeds Yes No Related Catalogs Shree Vinayak Ingredients hulled sesame seeds, sesame seeds, psyllium husk, psyllium husk powder, guar gum, agar agar, soya lecithin, castor oil Velmurugan Foods Exports fruits, vegetables, alphonso mangoes, banganapalli mangoes, totapuri mangoes, fruit pulp Enjayes Spices and Chemical Oils Ltd. dehydrated green pepper, essential oil, flavouring essence, green pepper, indian spices, natural food colours, natural herb extract Sachdeva Dairy Farm cows, cross breed cow, sahiwal cow, jersey cow, holstein friesian cow, buffaloes, murrah buffalo, heifer buffalo, murrah breeding bulls,... Suggested Companies Forest Nepal D.s.form Yash Fish Aquarium Rhf Industries Hlpl Diwakar Trading Company Agri Import Canada Corp Related category Match Cotton Soyabean Millet Maize Seeds Cotton Bales Pearl Millet Seeds soya nuts Fresh Vegetables HMS Scrap Wheat Seed Soybean Extract Soya Meals indian spices WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com