Change Text size A    A     A  Home  |  Site Map  |  Circular Search  |  CPENGRAMS  |  Innovative Idea  |  Discussion Forum  |  SANKALP  |  BHAVISHYA Search   Pensioners' Portal About Us Organisation All About Pension Noteworthy Aggrieved ? Circulars/Forms Guidelines Related Resources FAQs Travel/Reservation Citizens Health Services/CGHS State Govt. Pensioners Sixth Central Pay Commission      Pension Calculator Calculate your Pension, Gratuity & DR     Photo Gallery   Contact Us Feedback Terms of Use   Report Broken Links Forms for Offices - Pensioners Portal Downloads: Forms for Offices 1. Form for obtaining particulars by the Head of Office  from retiring goverment servant eight months before the date of his/her retirement  - Form 5 .     2. Form for assessing pension / family pension and gratuity - Form 7 .     3. Form of letter to the Accounts Officer forwarding the pension papers of a Government servant - Form 8 .     4. Form of letter to the member or members of the family of deceased Government servant where valid nomination for the grant of the death gratuity exists - Form 10 .     5. Form of letter to the member or members of the family of deceased Government servant where valid nomination for the death gratuity does not exist - Form 11 .     6. Form of letter to the widow / widower of deceased Government servant for grant of family pension - Form 13 .     7. Form for assessing and authorising the payment of family pension and death gratuity when a Government servant dies while in service - Form 18 .     8. Form of letter to the Accounts Officer forwarding papers for the grant of family pension and death gratuity to the family of a Government servant who dies while in service - Form 19 .     9. Form of letter sanctioning Family Pension to a member (other than spouse) on death of a retired Government servant - Form 20 .     10. Form of letter sanctioning Family Pension to another member of family on death or ineligibility of a recipient of Family Pension - Form 21 .     11. Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) reimbursement forms.