Places to Visit in Kolkata and Tourist Destinations near kolkata Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Kolkata Travel Tourist Map How to Reach Kolkata Shopping Airports in Kolkata Hotels in Kolkata Kolkata Travel Agents Places to Visit in Kolkata Religious Places in Kolkata Indian Museums Serene And Beautiful Prinsep Ghat Rabindra Sarovar Lake Hangseswari Temple Bandel Church Kalighat Temple Thanthania Kalibar Belur Math Dakshineshwar Temple Pareshnath Jain Temple Nakhoda Mosque St. Paul's Cathedral St John's Church Armenian Church Monuments in Kolkata Howrah Bridge Rabindra Sadan Victoria Memorial Vidyasagar Setu Kolkata Race Course National Library Shahid Minar Marble Palace MP Birla Planetarium Museums in Kolkata Birla Industrial Rabindra Bharti Birla Art Asutosh Museum Gurusaday Museum Gardens in Kolkata Botanical Garden Zoological Garden Agri Horticultural Garden Amusement Parks in Kolkata Aquatica Nicco Park Swabhumi Science City Millennium Park Nalban Boating Complex Clown Town Cities to Visit Near Kolkata Darjeeling Travel Siliguri Travel Sunderbans Travel Chandannagar Travel Krishnanagar Travel About Kolkata Kolkata Map Kolkata Metro Map Kolkata District Map Kolkata Tehsil Map Kolkata Weather West Bengal Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in West Bengal Getting Around Places to Visit in West Bengal West Bengal History West Bengal Climate Home » Kolkata » Places to Visit in Kolkata Places to Visit in Kolkata Places to See in Kolkata The 'City of Joy' of West Bengal is the most apt place for the eager visitants as the places of interest in Kolkata are numerous. This eventful city with its many marvels has truly a lot to offer. Since its birth in 1960, it has metamorphosed into one of the most sought after destinations for the tourists from all over the globe. Religious Places in Kolkata Indian Museum Want to have a close rendezvous with Egyptian mummies, dinosaurs or fossil skeletons? Then head to the magical Indian Museum in Kolkata right away! Founded by the Asiatic Society of Bengal, the Indian Museum is the oldest and the largest multi-purpose museum in the entire Asia-Pacific region of the world. It was the formation of this museum that pioneered the idea of having a museum to foster man-made and natural objects of national importance. The collection at the museum is so remarkable that it is often regarded as the "Jadu Ghar" or the house of magic by the locals. More Serene And Beautiful Prinsep Ghat Kolkata, rightfully known as the City of Joy, is full of attractions that provide immense joy to its visitors. And if you are on a lookout for a quiet and peaceful place to spend some quality time, then Prinsep Ghat is the ideal location for you! A place with an exceptional photographic view, Prinsep Ghat was built during the British Raj on the banks of the Hooghly River. The people of Kolkata built this ghat in the memory of James Prinsep, a learned man who helped in deciphering Emperor Akbar's Brahminical script. More Rabindra Sarovar Lake Rabindra Sarovar Lake or the Dhakuria Lake, as it was known earlier, are the lungs of Kolkata. This is one place in South Kolkata where you can escape the commotion and be with yourself. I remember going there when I was a kid with my grandpa. My brother, my cousins and I used to have a gala time running through the entire stretch, while grandpa continued walking at his usual speed. I remember the badam and muri I had there at that time. Then there was a gap; a gap of 25 years. My association with Dhakuria Lake somehow stopped during that time. I shifted houses and there was no one with whom I could go to the Dhakuria Lake. But something was there in the offering. More Hangseswari Temple Being a devout believer of God, I have always loved visiting different religious places. And India being a massive hub of temples, I have been lucky to explore an array of some of the most beautiful and ancient temples of the country. Just as my search continued, I happened to stumble upon a very bizarre temple, something which I had not seen ever before. Located in the famous Banshberia town in the Hooghly District, is a temple so unique and royal that it leaves you completely mesmerized in a glimpse. It is the much popular Hangseswari Temple near Kolkata. More Bandel Church With a long list of miracles attached with this church, it would have been more appropriate if it was called "A God's Blessing". Such is the divinity of the Bandel Church in the Hooghly District of West Bengal. Standing as the memoir of the Portuguese settlement in Bengal, it is one of the oldest Christian churches of the state. The present structure of the church was built in the year 1660 by Gomez de Soto and it still has the keystone of the old building with the date of 1599. More Kalighat Temple The Kalighat Temple in Kolkata of goddess Kali is 20 kilometers north of Kolkata city, situated on the banks of river Hoogly. It was established in 1847. Kalighat temple is about 200 years old. Kalighat Temple of Kolkata is a significant religious place for the Hindus in eastern India. More... Thanthania Kalibari in Kolkata The Thanthania Kalibari in Kolkata is the holy abode of "Goddess Kali", who is perhaps the most substantial and powerful image of raw womanly energy in this entire planet. It is needless to say that Goddess Kali is the undisputed presiding divinity of the "city of joy". One can easily spot a shrine dedicated to the mighty Goddess at any remote part of the city. More... Belur Math Belur Math is located on the banks of the river Hooghly in West Bengal. It was built in 1988. Belur Math is well known for its tranquil beauty. Belur Math is the international headquarter of the Ramakrishna Mission which was established by Swami Vivekananda in loving memory of his teacher Sri Ramakrishna Paramhansa who preached for unity of all religions. More... Dakshineshwar Temple Kolkata, the largest metropolis in India is famous for its religious places. Dakshineshwar Temple dedicated to Goddess Kali is 20 kilometers north of Kolkata city and was established in 1847 by Rani Rasmoni. More... Pareshnath Jain Temple Pareshnath Jain Temple is located in the north-east of Kolkata. The temple is decorated with mirrors, colored stones and mosaics made of glass. It has a beautiful garden around it. It has blocks of glass mosaics and European statues, painted with silver paint. More... Nakhoda Mosque Nakhoda Mosque is located in Jacquaria Street, near the junction of Chitpore Road and Mahatma Gandhi Road in Kolkata.Nakhoda Mosque of Kolkata in the beginning was a small mosque. It was as late in 1926, when resident of Kutch, Abdar Rahim Osman built the present structure. Nakhoda Mosque of Kolkata is the biggest of its kind in Kolkata. It was constructed following the style of Akbar's tomb at Sikandra- which is a piece of Indo-Saracenic architecture. More... St. Paul's Cathedral St. Paul's Cathedral in Kolkata is one of the most important religious places of Kolkata. The church took a much longer time to be completed. After about 8 years of construction the building was finally finished in 1847. The building architecture of St. Paul's Cathedral in Kolkata was magnificently designed by Major William Nairn Forbes. More... St John's Church The St. John's Church of Kolkata is one among the first public buildings that were constructed by the East India Company. St. John's Church was constructed in the year 1787. This church is popular as 'The Stone Church'. St. John's Church is located at BBD Bagh in Kolkata, West Bengal. More... Armenian Church Armenian Church of Kolkata is situated in the Armenian Street, at the north-west corner of Barabazaar, close to the Howrah Bridge in Kolkata.Constructed in 1764 and planned in the early 18th century, the Armenian Church of Kolkata is at present the most ancient church of Kolkata. The internal walls of the Armenian Church of Kolkata are ornamented with marble, while the overhead gallery has mural tablets. More... Famous Monuments in Kolkata Howrah Bridge Howrah Bridge is popularly known as Rabindra Setu in West Bengal. Howrah Bridge in Kolkata spans over river Hooghly and is considered to be a marvelous engineering work by the British. The Howrah Bridge is enumerated amongst the busiest cantilever bridge in the World. More... Rabindra Sadan Rabindra Sadan is the hub of the prime Bengali culture in the the metropolitan city of Kolkata. The large stage of Rabindra Sadan is a premier venue for 'Bangla' theater and other cultural activities of the city.Rabindra Sadan of Kolkata is a major entertainment zone and cultural center for the Bengali society where you can view dramas, dance cultural programmes and exhibitions every evening. More... Victoria Memorial The Victoria Memorial of Kolkata is a majestic structure in white marble, modeled on Taj Mahal. The Victoria Memorial was built in memory of Queen Victoria in the early 20th Century. The total expenditure of building Victoria Memorial was around Rs 1,50,000,000. More... Vidyasagar Setu The Vidyasagar Setu, popularly known as the second Hooghly Bridge is situated about 2 kilometers south of Howrah Bridge, Kolkata. The Vidyasagar Setu is the latest suspension bridge of Kolkata across the Hooghly connecting the city to its twin city of Howrah.Vidyasagar Setu of Kolkata has 9 lanes of traffic routes enabling it to handle nearly 85,000 vehicles daily. The Vidyasagar Setu of Kolkata,West Bengal is a toll bridge for all types of vehicles entering and going out of Kolkata. More... Kolkata Race Course Kolkata Race Course is one of the biggest race course in India. Kolkata Race Course was built in 1820 and well-kept by the Royal Turf Club of Kolkata.Kolkata Race Course is the renowned horse race venues in India where the country's most prestigious racing events such as the Calcutta Derby and the Queen Elizabeth Cup are organized at a regular interval. The Race Course of Kolkata is located in the south-western point of the green Kolkata Maidan. The Victoria Memorial lies in the western corner of the Race Course of Kolkata, West Bengal. More... National Library The National library is located at the Belvedere Estate very near to the Alipore Zoo in Kolkata. The National library of Kolkata is the largest library in India.The National library was the residence of the former Lieutenant Governor of West Bengal. The library at present contains almost 2 million books and half a million documents. More... Shahid Minar in Kolkata The Shahid Minar in Kolkata, West Bengal was built by Sir David Ochterlony in the year 1948 to immortalize his astounding triumph in the Nepal War that took place in the period between 1814 and 1816. This skyscraper monument standing at approximately 48 meters enlightens the night sky of the Maidan region situated in the hub of Kolkata, as it is superficially illuminated by a dazzling shower of bright light from all its corners. More... Kolkata Marble Palace The Marble Palace in Kolkata is an exquisitely engineered palatial mansion that was built by Raja Rajendra Mullick Bahadur, who was one of the wealthiest landlords of West Bengal in the year 1835. It's sheer magnificence and scintillating artistry will surely captivate you in a state of trance. More... MP Birla Planetarium in Kolkata The MP Birla Planetarium in Kolkata, West Bengal came into existence on 29th September, 1962 and officially opened to the public with an inaugural address by Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru on 2nd July,1963. It was first of its kind in whole of India and the mightiest in entire Asia. Ever since its beginning, it has proved to be an asset for the common people as well as the students in understanding the different sorts of phenomenon that take place in the ever so mysterious space. More... Museums in Kolkata Birla Industrial Museum Birla Industrial Museum or Birla Industrial and Technological Museum is situated at 19A, Gurusaday Road in South Kolkata.Birla Industrial Museum of Kolkata was founded in 1956. It was initiated by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). It was the untiring effort of Dr. BC Roy, the then Chief Minister of West Bengal, that the Birlas gave away the building and the adjacent piece of land. This actually was a property of Satyendranath Tagore. In the year 1978 the Birla Industrial Museum of Kolkata has been brought under the National Council of Science Museums (NCSM). The basic objective of the museum is to evoke the thirst for science and a concept of technology amongst the mass, particularly the students. More... Rabindra Bharti Museum Rabindra Bharti Museum of Kolkata is popularly known as 'Jorashanko Thakurbari' which is the home of Rabindranath Tagore. It is near Girish Park on Chittaranjan Avenue.It was constructed in the 18th century by Prince Dwarkanath Tagore (grandfather of Rabindranath Tagore). The premise houses several buildings. The Rabindra Bharti Museum of Kolkata, an integral part of the University is a significant reserve of the works of the Tagore, particularly of Abanindranath and Rabindranath. More... Birla Art Museum Birla Art Museum of Kolkata is a state gallery depicting the traditional and cultural heritage of India as well as a permanent showcase of Indian contemporary art. It is situated at Rabindra Sarobar, Kolkata.Birla Art Museum of Kolkata was founded in 1966. Paintings of the medieval age and modern art and various archaeological remains are displayed here. Frequent exhibitions by the contemporary Indian sculptors and painters are held. More... Asutosh Museum Asutosh Museum of Kolkata is the foremost public museum among the University of India. It was founded in 1937. The name of the museum goes after Sir Asutosh Mookerjee.He was one of the greatest educationists of our country who formulated the study of Indology which also includes Indian art and archeology at the postgraduate level. More... Gurusaday Museum Gurusaday Museum of Kolkata exhibits the rich folklore and handicrafts of Bengal. The idea behind this museum was of Sri Gurusaday Dutta. He worked as a District Collector with the British East India Company's rule. More... Gardens in Kolkata Botanical Garden Botanical Garden in Kolkata is an endeavor of the state government of West Bengal to maintain the ecological balance of Kolkata. The Botanical Garden of Kolkata, situated beside the river Hooghly in Shibpur, was founded in 1786 with a motive to promote the floral wealth of India. More... Zoological Garden The Zoological Garden in Kolkata consists of a hoard of animals within its premises. The Zoological Garden, which was the first of its kind in the whole of Asia, was established by the 'Burra Sahibs' and the 'Bengali Babus' of Kolkata, who intended to make Kolkata, the then capital of the East India Company, at par with the European capital cities. More... Agri Horticultural Garden Agri Horticultural Garden is situated near the Zoological garden of Kolkata in West Bengal and is one of the most famous horticultural gardens of India. Founded by William Carey in the year 1820, the Agri Horticultural Garden has a large collection of flowering plants. More... Amusement Parks Aquatica Aquatica is the latest hangout in Kolkata. Spread over an area of 8 acres, it is situated at Kochpukur in Rajarhat. Aquatica is a water park that was set up in the year 2000. Another amusement park named Nicco Park is just 6 kilometers away from it. More... Nicco Park Nicco Park, one of the most popular and largest amusement parks in the east, covers an area of around 40 acres. The park holds the rare honor of being the first amusement park in the world to be certified with SA 8000 (Social Accountability) certification, the first in Asia to be certified with ISO 14001 (Environment Management System) and the first amusement park in India to be certified with ISO 9001 (Quality Management System). More... Swabhumi Swabhumi is one of the finest heritage parks in eastern India. Swabhumi holds the elegance and charm of the Indian culture and has embodied it beautifully in its infrastructure. One of the busiest hubs of Kolkata, Swabhumi is worth a visit. More... Science City Science City was set up in the year 1997. It is located in the eastern region of Kolkata. Science City is the brainchild of the National Council of Science Museums. Science City is not only an amusement park but you gain lots of knowledge from this place on Science and Technology. People of all age groups enjoy the trip to Science City. More... Millennium Park Millennium Park in Kolkata is located on the banks of River Hooghly at Strand Road near BBD Bagh. Millennium Park was set up on 1st January 2000 and was first of its kind park in Kolkata. Its an amusement park for people of all ages. More... Nalban Boating Complex Nalban Boating Complex is one of the finest picnic sites in the city. As the name suggests, it is basically a boating complex where you can experience boating in various types of boats. The place attracts lots of people who want to spend their quality time amidst the glory and grace of nature. More... Clown Town Clown Town in Kolkata, West Bengal is a very popular amusement park. It is a favorite destination amongst the children. Clown Town is located at the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass Road in Kolkata. This is the first ever children's park in Kolkata. Everything including the interiors of the park is done keeping the likings of the children in mind. More... Tourist Destinations Near Kolkata Sunderbans The Sunderbans is one of the most famous places near Kolkata. The Sunderbans is the largest mangrove forests in the world. It lies at the mouth of the Ganges river and extends over an area comprising the territories of two countries - India and Bangladesh. The Sunderbans is crisscrossed by a network of tidal waterways, mudflats and is an excellent example of ecological progress. This area is known world-wide for its large variety of fauna. The most famous animal of Sunderbans is the Royal Bengal Tiger. Chandannagar Chandannagar is situated 30 kilometers distant from Kolkata. It is a former French colony. The history of Chandannagar makes it one of the most visited places near Kolkata. Chandannagar is located along the banks of the Ganga river. The French colonial heritage makes Chandannagar distinct from its surroundings. Chandannagar is easily accessible by train from Kolkata. You could also drive to Chandannagar. More... Krishnanagar Krishnanagar is the headquarters of Nadia district. It is located 118 kilometers north of Kolkata. The places to see in Krishnanagar include the Rajbari (Royal Palace) and the Roman Catholic Church. Last Updated on : May 26, 2014 Travel to West Bengal Travel to Darjeeling Travel to Siliguri Travel to Kalimpong Travel to Kolkata Travel to Nakhoda Masjid Places to Visit in West Bengal Places to visit in Darjeeling Places to visit in Kalimpong Places to visit in Sliguri Places to Visit in Kolkata Religious Places in Kolkata Monuments in Kolkata Museums in Kolkata Gardens in Kolkata Amusement Parks in Kolkata About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India