href Diana Hayden India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Health & Lifestyle » Diana Hayden   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Diana Hayden Diana Hayden, the eye-catching model from Hyderabad made India proud by winning the 1997 Miss World Title in Seychelles in November. In fact she was the only Miss World Title winner who won three titles in an international beauty pageant (Miss Beachwear, Miss Photogenic and Miss World). Diana Hayden was born in Hyderabad in 1973. During her teens she was a tomboy. She was educated at St Ann's High School at Secunderabad and completed her graduation in English from Osmania University (through correspondence). She then pursued her higher studies from Mumbai . Initially Diana Hayden started a career in modeling and did a small number of fashion shows in Mumbai and Bangalore . It was due to one of her friends' inspiration that Diana Hayden participated in the Femina Miss India Contest and then there was no looking back. After winning the Miss World Title, Diana Hayden became the brand ambassador for L'Oreal Paris and thus her pretty face with striking features became famous worldwide. Diana Hayden also served as the ambassador for CRY(Child Relief and You). As a person Diana is very lively and dance and music are her passions. She also enjoys reading, playing chess and horse riding. Diana made her foray into Bollywood and made a guest appearance in her debut film- Tehzeeb. Later she acted in 'Ab Bas', a Hindi Movie and in Hollywood movies like Othello-A South African Tale (2006) and All Alone (2006).   Related Links   Models Diana Hayden Yukta Mookhey Meghna Reddy Protima Bedi Reita Faria Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule