Official Website:: Indian Veterinary Research Institute A+   |   A   |   A- About IVRI Preface Milestone Mandate Past Directors IVRI Administration Research Milestone Organogram Link & Collaboration Honours & Awards Location Map Contact Directory Research Joint Directorate of Research Preface from Joint Director(Research) Mandate Activities Research Projects Patents Technologies Transfered Technologies for Transfer Contact Details Academic IVRI Deemed University Message from Joint Director(Academic) Deemed University Administration Academic Session Cources Offered MVSc PhD National Diploma Admission Procedure For Sponspred Candidate Fellowship Medals & Awards Facilities Available University News IVRI Alumini Divisions Animal Health Divisions Division of Animal Biotechnology Division of Bacteriology & Mycology Division of Biological Products Division of Epidemiology Immunology Section Division of Medicine Division of Parasitology Division of Pathology Divison of Pharmacology & Toxicology Division of Standardization Division of Surgery Division of Veterinary Public Health Division of Virology Animal Production Divisions Animal Genetics Div. Animal Nutrition Div Animal Reproduction Division Livestock Production & Management Section. Division Physiology & Climatology Divison of Temprate Animal Husbandray Basic & Social Sc. Divisions Biochemistry & Food Sc. Section BEMI Section Extension Education Div Liv. Eco., Statistics & IT Div. Liv. Products & Tech. Div Sections ARIS Cell Bioinformatics Centre Centre Data Cell Communication Centre Engineering Section Farm Section Farm Machinery and Power Workshop Institute Technology Management Unit (I.T.M.U.) Laboratory Animal Resources Feed Technology Unit Germ Plasm Centre Humal Hospital National Library for Vety. Science Wildlife Section Games & Sports Section राजभाषा अनुभाग Extension Joint Directorate (EE) Preface Objectives Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Infrastructure/Facilities Research Projects Scientific Staff Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - Single Delivery Window Kisaan Mela 2011 Training Programmes Contact Details Disease Diagnosis Joint Directorate (CADRAD) Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Scientific Staff Training Programme Contact Details Services Biological Products Diagnostics & Examination Vety. Polyclinic Livestock Products Disease Diagnosis Vermi Biocomposting Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - IVRI Single Window ITMU-Technology Transfer IVRI Publications Campuses Regional Campus Bangaluru Regional Station Kolkata Regional Station Mukteswar Regional Station Palampur Loading » IVRI Deemed University Students Welfare & Facilities available at IVRI Deemed University. Sports and Recreation The institute encourages extra-curricular activities outside the class-room that enrich cultural, physical and social life of students. Spacious play grounds are provided in the students’ hostels and necessary facilities exist for outdoor games like cricket, hockey, volley ball, badminton and various other athletic events. There are facilities also for indoor games in each hostel. There is a Student Sports Fund to which every student subscribes a sum of Rs. 200/- at the beginning of each academic year. The amount so collected is used in improving the sports facilities for the students and promoting literary activities among them. Medical Facilities Qualified medical officers look after the health of the students. The Institute dispensary is located within the campus. The medical officers reside at the Institute campus and are available round the clock. Medical services are provided to students at the Institute’s dispensary. Medical Insurance Scheme Besides the above, Mediclaim Insurance facility is available to post-graduate students of this Institute on optional basis. The policy under this scheme covers reimbursement of hospitalization expenses only for illness/diseases contracted or injury sustained by the insured person. This scheme is not applicable for in-service students. Students Welfare Fund With a view to render financial aid to students in distress and to support any other student’s activities a Student Welfare Fund has been instituted. All students are required to contribute Rs. 250/- for the Fund at the beginning of each academic year. Students' Council All students admitted to this Institute will automatically become members of IVRI Students’ Council and are entitled to participate in the Council Election. However, in the case of students sponsored by various organizations, the sponsoring organizations should indicate in the application form itself whether they would have/would not have any objection to their nominees holding an office in the IVRI Students’ Council. Student Hostel Mess Every hosteller will have to take meals in the hostel on payment of usual charges as fixed by the Competent Authority. Computer Centre The Institute has a well developed Computer Centre with adequate facilities for students for statistical analysis of data, etc. generated out of thesis research work. A Course on Data Processing and Computer Application is offered to the P.G. students by the Centre. Internet, intranet and e-mail facilities are also available. Library Facilities The National Library of Veterinary Sciences at IVRI has a collection of more than 2,50,000 highly specialized reading material in the form of books, journals, monographs, theses, reference works published data, bulletins, reviews, advances, reports, reprints, micro-documents etc. The library is subscribing about 125 foreign journals and about 103 Indian journals each year. Facilities for information, access and retrieval from CD-ROM databases in the multi-user environment is provided using CD-Mirror Hybrid Server on nominal charges. Library has been using KOHA V.3.8 software for automation of library activities. All the PhD theses available in the library have been digitized in PDF form and are available for use in library premises. Library provides E-mail & Internet facilities to its users at 24 terminals during all working hours and days. Three reading sections of the library are air-conditioned. Digital Video Recording based Close Circuit TV system with 22 cameras is being used in the various sections of the library for electronic surveillance. Photocopy facility is also made available in the library at nominal charges. Rules for Library Facilities for PG students: Five books are issued for 30 days and one journal for overnight to each student. If the issued publications are not returned within prescribed period a fine charged as per existing library rules. One soft copy (CD) of the books, if available, is issued to the student for overnight. If the books is torn out and misused while in custody of student/user, he/she shall be required to pay the penalty as decided by the competent authority. If one volume of multi-volume set is damaged or lost while in the custody of the borrower, he/she will be liable to replace whole volume or pay the cost of whole volume alongwith a penalty as may be imposed by competent authority. In case of loss of book, the borrower will be required either to replace the book with the latest available edition or pay the cost of book alongwith a penalty equal to the cost of book. Library provides the reference research facility through CD-ROM in computers and the printouts on the payment basis @ Re 1.00 per page. Photocopy facility is provided on nominal payment @ Re 0.50 per exposure. These rates are subject to change from time to time. Communication Centre The Communication Centre provides the necessary support to the scientific community of this Institute as a central facility for photography, art, reprography, printing, publication, information and media coverage. Placement Cell The Institute is annually producing, a sizeable number of well-trained competitive professionals with attractive employment opportunities in various sectors such as State and Central Govt., NGOs, Armed Services, Agricultural/Veterinary Universities, R&D jobs in Industry and Central Institutes, including Business and Media Management. The Placement Cell encourage linkages between leading organizations of livestock sector, other prospective employers and out-going post-graduate students to provide assistance in placement of this highly trained human resource. Courses Offered PhD MVSc National Diploma Quick Links IVRI Deemed University Messages from JD(Acad.) University Mandate University Administration Academic Session Admission Procedure For Sponsored Candidate FellowShip Medals & Awards Facilities Available University News Alumni Download Format Related to Deemed University Admission 2015-16 Admission Notice Information Bulletin Application Form