Nagaland Home » Nagaland   Nagaland नागालैंड का नक्शा Nagaland Map Kohima City Map Mokokchung City Map Districts of Nagaland Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Society and Culture Media Kohima Location Nagaland Location Physical Map Minerals Map Nagaland Pincode Nagaland STD Code Agriculture Map Capital Lat Long Geography Economy Assemblypolls Places to visit in Nagaland Wildlife Sanctuaries Nagaland Museums Japfu Peak Hotels in Nagaland Dimapur Hotels Kohima Hotels Government & Politics History Universities In Nagaland       Nagaland Khonoma Fort Khonoma Village Terrace rice fields Kohima War Cemetry Kohima City Kohima War Museum Kisama Heritage Village Morung of Pochury Tribe Hornbill Festival Traditional Dance during the Hornbill Festival Monolithic Artwork Nagaland Location Map Nagaland Map Nagaland Travel Map About Nagaland The state of Nagaland lies in the extreme Northeastern part of India. It is bordered on its west and north by Assam , on its east by Myanmar (formerly known as Burma), on its north by Arunachal Pradesh, and on its south by Manipur . Nagaland is one of India's smallest states, with a total area of 16,579 sq km (6400 sq mi). The Naga Hills run through this small state, which has Saramati as its highest peak at a height of about 12,600 ft. The main rivers that flow through Nagaland are Dhansiri, Doyang, Dikhu and Jhanji. The terrain is mountainous, thickly wooded, and cut by deep river valleys. There is a wide variety of plant and animal life. Nagaland has a monsoon climate with generally high humidity; rainfall averages between 1800 to 2500 mm (70 to 100 inches) a year. Facts on Nagaland Official Website www.nagaland.nic.in Date of Formation Nov 30, 1963 Area 16,579 sq km Density 119/km2 Population (2011) 1,978,502 Males Population (2011) 1,024,649 Females Population (2011) 953,853 Ratio of Urban Population (2011) 28.86% No. of District 11 Capital Kohima Rivers Doyang, Dikhu, Dhansiri, Chubi Forests & National Park Intanki NP, Rangapahar WS, Fakim WS, Puliebadze WS Languages Nagamese, Creole, Assamese, English Neighbours State Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur State Animal Mithun State Bird Blyth's Tragopan State Tree Alder State Flower Kopou Net State Domestic Product (2011) 52643 Literacy Rate (2011) 73.45% Females per 1000 males 931 Assembly constituency 60 Parliamentary constituency 1 Places of Interest Travel Guide Economy Important Places Reach Nagaland Kohima city Mokochung City Capital Of Nagaland Wildlife Sancturies Travel Map Geography Society and Culture Information Hotels Travel Tips v Media Nagaland Post Economy Agriculture Industries Tuli Town Nagaland State Museum Japfu Peak Naganimora Attractions Railway Map Road Network Map How to Reach By Air Nagaland has a single-chamber Legislative Assembly with 60 seats. The state sends two members to the Indian Parliament: one to the Rajya Sabha (Upper House) and one to the Lok Sabha (Lower House). There are seven local government administrative districts - Mokokchung, Tuensang, Mon, Wokha, Zunheboto, Phek and Kohima. The capital of the state is Kohima. There is something interesting about Nagaland that attracts many tourists from across the world. The state is located between the 93°20' E and 95°15' E Longitudes and 25°6' and 27°4' N Latitudes. The total area covered by the state is 16,579 square km. Nagaland was declared the 16th state of the country of India on 1 December 1963. Prior to this, Nagaland used to be a union territory. The other interesting information about Nagaland is that it houses as many as 16 different ethnic groups. These groups of people have their own separate cultural identities including customs, dresses and languages. Almost 90% of the population of Nagaland is devout Christians. The state also has a substantial Hindu populace. Speaking about Nagaland's climate, it can be said that the state has quite a pleasant weather at all the times of the year. The bracing weather makes it one of the most popular tourist spots in the Indian subcontinent. Some of the tourist attractions of the state are: State Museum Japfu Peak Dzukou ValleyKohima Village Khonoma Dzulekie Zoological Park Dimapur Kohima, the capital city of the state, has a number of sites that are worth visiting to get an insight of the place's rich history. The World War II Cemetery that lies in a beautiful surrounding, the Cathedral of Reconciliation with its striking red roof, the Bara Basti, the Nagaland Museum, Nagaland Zoo and Park are some of the attractions of Kohima. The sites near Kohima include the tribal village of Khonoma, Dzulekie (famous for waterfalls), Japfu Peak, Dzukou Valley, Dimapur, etc. History Very little is known about the early history of what is now Nagaland, including the origin of several large sandstone pillars at Dimapur. British rule was established over the area by the 1890s, and headhunting, then a traditional practice, was outlawed. The Naga territory remained split between Assam and the North East Frontier Agency after Indian independence in 1947, despite a vocal movement advocating the political union of all the Naga tribes; one faction called for secession from India. In 1957, following violent incidents, the Indian government established a single Naga administrative unit under Indian rule. The Naga people responded by refusing to pay their taxes and by conducting a campaign of sabotage. In 1960 the Indian government agreed to make Nagaland a self-governing state within India; the state was officially inaugurated in 1963. More Details... Geography A study of the geography of Nagaland denotes the topographical features of Northeast Indian state. Located in the Northeastern region of India, the state of Nagaland shares the international border with the country of Myanmar. The state lies between the geographical coordinates of 25°6' and 27°4' north latitudes and 93°20' and 95°15' east longitude. The state is home to 16 different tribes, each of whom has their distinct customs, attires, languages and dialect. More Details... Society and Culture The Nagas, inhabitants of Nagaland, are said to belong to the indo-mongoloid stock, a race whose presence was first noted ten centuries before Christ, at the time of the compilation of the Vedas. The Nagas form more than 20 tribes, as well as numerous subtribes, each having a specific geographic distribution. Though sharing many cultural traits, these tribes have maintained a high degree of isolation and lack cohesion as a single people. The Konyaks are the largest tribe, followed by the Aos, Tangkhuls, Semas, and Angamis. Other tribes include the Lothas, Sangtams, Phoms, Changs, Khiemnungams, Yimchungres, Zeliangs, Chakhesangs (Chokri), and Rengmas. The principal languages are Angami, Ao, Chang, Konyak, Lotha, Sangtam, and Sema. The Nagas are handsome and friendly people. More Details... Government and Politics The government departments of Nagaland are engaged in the work of administering and managing the different departments of the state government so that the state runs efficiently. The state government comprise many departments that are headed by the elected ministers of Nagaland. These government departments are integral part of the government and politics of the state. Some of such government departments are as follows: Health and Family Welfare Tourism Forest and Environment Wasteland Department Sericulture Agriculture Horticulture Fishery Department Soil and Water Conservation Higher Education Nagaland Pollution Control Board Raj Bhavan, Kohima Nagaland Information Commission   More Details... Demographics The population of the state is about two million people and the population has decreased during 2001-2011. According to Census 2011, post Independence, this is the first time that a state has witnessed a decline in its population. The decadal growth rate of the state 2001-2011 is -0.58%. The number of females per males in the state is 931. With a total area of 16,579 sq km, the density of population of the state is 119. Majority of the population lives in the rural areas and the literacy rate of the state is 80.11%. People of Nagaland are known as 'Nagas' and there are about 16 tribes living in the state. Language The language diversity existing in Nagaland can not be found in any other state in India. There are as many as 36 different languages and dialects which the Naga people speak. Besides Nagamese, there are many languages which the people of the state speak. These languages come under the Tibetan-Burmese group of language and are classified into three parts - Western, Central and Eastern Naga groups. More Details... Media The media of Nagaland, like media in any other place, is an important component of the state. The Indian state of Nagaland has a somewhat isolated location but the media makes sure that all kinds of news, both national and international reach the people of Nagaland. Media of this state include television, radio and newspapers. The state has an access to almost all the Indian news, entertainment and sports channels and is therefore well connected to the rest of the nation. The newspaper media in Nagaland is the broadest and besides the national newspapers of India, a number of newspapers are published from the state itself.   More Details... Economy and Infrastructure Agriculture employs about 90 percent of the people of Nagaland. Rice and corn are the main crops. However, the state is not self-sufficient in food. Shifting cultivation (also known as slash-and-burn agriculture) is widely practiced. Food needs have caused the fallow, or idle, period to be cut to a couple of years, causing erosion and a loss of soil fertility and crop yields. The forests, which cover about 17 percent of Nagaland, are its most important source of income. There are varied mineral reserves, including oil deposits, but little exploitation. The state has adopted an industrialisation program since the 1970s. Until the early 1970s, only cottage industries (e.g., weaving, woodwork, basketry, and pottery) existed in the state. Lack of raw materials, financial resources, power, poor transport and communications all hindered industrial growth. More Details... Education As per census 2011, the state has a literacy rate of 80.11%. The state government looks after the primary, elementary and secondary education and the children below the age of 14 years are entitled to 'free education'. The schools are mainly affiliated to the Nagaland Board of Secondary Education (NBSE) and some of the schools are affiliated to the CBSE Board. There are many colleges in the state which offer courses in different streams such as arts, science and commerce. There are also some educational institutions which offer professional or higher education in the fields of engineering, law and management. Capital The capital of Nagaland, Kohima, is located in the Northeastern part of the Indian subcontinent. The name 'Kohima' has been derived from the name of a plant called 'Kew Hi', which thrives in the mountainous region. Kohima is a fascinating place, endowed with a lot of natural beauty. The Nagaland capital can be easily accessed by all the major means of transportation. The nearest airport is located at Dimapur at a distance of 74 kms.  More Details... specialty of Nagaland The state of Nagaland, one of the major tribal regions in the country of India, attracts people for its quaint hills, green carpeted valleys, cascading waterfalls, dense forests and rich wildlife, all of which creates a pristine environment. Location of Nagaland Geographically located at 25.67° N and 94.12° E, it is a part of the Northeastern India.  More Details... Transport The state of Nagaland is easily connected from the other parts of India by air, rail and roadways. Connectivity through railways is minimal though. It can be best reached by roadways because of its proximity to a number of national as well as state highways. Most of the important villages and towns are served by the Nagaland State Transport Services, which even runs deluxe night buses from the city of Dimapur to Mokokchung, Guwahati and Shillong. Besides that, one can even hire an entire or shared yellow taxi as well as a rented car to move in and around the state. Dimapur railway station on the North East Frontier Railway is the main railway station of the state that connects it to Guwahati, which has got direct trains to some of the most important cities of India. Dimapur Airport is the sole airport of the state. Direct flights ply to and from that airport to the cities of Guwahati and Kolkata. Tourism This land of tribes attracts tourists for its natural beauty, pollution free environment, lovely landscapes and incomparable cultural heritage. The below mentioned table provides names of some of the location wise tourist attractions in Nagaland: Location Tourist Places Dimapur Diezephe Craft Village Rangapahar Reserve Forest Ruins of the Kachari Kingdom of the medieval age. Kiphire Fakim Wildlife Sanctuary Geysers and twin stones of Salomi and Mimi Mihki (River of Salt) Siphi Stone Monolith Sukhayap Cliff Wawade Waterfall Yimgphi Village Village Caves Kohima Catholic Cathedral Cemetery of World War II Dzukou Valley (Famous for camping and trekking) Khonoma Heritage Museum and Crafts Centre State Museum Zoological Park Mokokchung A. K. M. Monument Chuchuyimlang Village Langpanglong Village Longkhum Village Longritzu Lenden Valley Molung Village Mongzu Ki and Fusen Kei caves Mopongchuket Village Tangkum Marok Spring Mon Chui Village Langmei Village Longwa Village Naganimora Village Shangnyu Village's local museum and stone monoliths Veda Waterfall and Peak Peren Benreu Village Mt. Pauna (Stone carvings and tourist village) Phek Chizami Village Khezakenoma Village Pfutsero Village Poruba Village Ruzhazho Village Suthazu Village Thetsumi Village Weziho Village Yurba Village Zhavame Village Dzudu Lake Glory Peak Shilloi Lake Zanibu Peak Tuensang Changsangmonko Village Chilise Village Stones of Chungliyangti, Tsadang and Tsongliyangti Wokha Doyang River Mt. Tiyi Totsu Cliff Valley and Lagoons Zunheboto Aizuto (Forest, Lake and Village) Ghosu Bird Sanctuary Satoi Range Sumi Naga Villages   More Details... Last Updated on : December 19, 2014 Nagaland Famous Personalities K Sankaranarayanan Neipiu Rio Dr. Talimeran Ao Travel to Nagaland Travel to Kohima Places to visit in Nagaland Places to visit in Kohima   Places To Visit   Nagas and the Monoliths Kohima Night Bazaar Leimaram waterFall Kisama Heritage Village First green Village of India Khonoma Village Kohima War Cemetry Kohima City             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule