Himachal Pradesh Provides Comprehensive Information on All The Major Sectors of The State Level Consolidated Research Statistical Data Home Login About Us Subscribe Contact Us X OR Login Your Account Through IP Login Through Username & Password Username : Password :   Forgot Password? My Account Sorry! This IP 122.160.71.14 is not registered with us for the website www.indiastat.com. Close An Associate Website of Indiastat.com Data Search Socio-Economic Statistical Information about Himachal Pradesh             Specimen data tables                How to navigating the site for data            Visualise data with charts & maps Administrative Units This section provides information about number of Districts, Tehsil/Towns, Urban & Rural Local Bodies and Panchayats in India. More Agriculture Provides data on Agriculture Area, Production, Institutional Finance, Wages, Workforce, Horticulture, Irrigation and Fertilizers etc. at national and state level….. More Banks and Financial Institutions Covers statistical information on Scheduled Commercial Banks, Co-operative Banks, Financial Institution, Lending/Interest rates…. More Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Furnishes information on Household Consumption/Expenditure, Public Distribution Schemes, Fair Price Shops, Ration cards, Consumer Cooperative, Consumer Forum…. More Companies Provides data relating to number of government, non government, foreign companies, classified by paid up capital and broad industry groups. More Cooperatives Data on Credit Societies involving Central Co-operative banks, Primary Agricultural Credit Societies and State Cooperative Banks More Crime and Law Section covers data on Incidence of Crimes, Crime against SC/ST, Children/women cases, Accidents, Courts, Prison and Suicide cases…. More Demographics Provides Population as per Census, Age-group, Density, Disabled, Literacy, Sex-ratio, Social and religious groupsat national and state Level…. More Economy Useful data on National Income, Public Finance, Plans, Subsidy, Taxation, Foreign Exchange Reserves, External Assistance, Indices …. More Education Data about the Educational Infrastructure, Enrolments, Boards, Schemes in School/Colleges, Literacy and Teachers …. More Electoral Data Provides FREE access to summary results of all the 543 parliamentary constituencies and 4120 state assembly constituencies in India, since independence. Click ElectionsinIndia.com , which is a group site of Datanet India, to access the pool of electoral data. Environment and Pollution Section contains data on Water Quality, Air and Noise Pollution, Storage of Reservoirs,River action plans and Environmental standards implemented by India… More Foreign Trade Foreign trade exhibits data pertaining to Export/Import by country & products and Exchange rate …. More Forest and Wildlife Forest and wildlife section provides data on Forest produce, schemes implemented by Govt., plans and budget to conserve the wildlife and prevent illegal trade…. More Geographical Data Provides information about Flora and Fauna, Geographical Area and Wasteland at national and state level…. More Health Section caters to comprehensive data on Diseases, Immunization, Nutrition, Vital statistics, Disabled Population, Health Infrastructure and Manpower…. More Housing Housing data by type of household pertaining to occupancy, availability of drinking water, sanitation, fuel used for cooking, electricity, housing projects and construction…. More Industries Data on Industrial sectors and productions, Industrial accidents, Parks, Public Sector undertaking, Sick industries and Industrial Research and development…. More Insurance Covers Life Insurance, General Insurance,Agricultural insurance schemes ….. More Labour and Workforce Presents data about Employment and Unemployment, Employment in organized sector, disputes, Welfare, Wages, Distribution of Workforce…. More Media Covers partial information about Print media, Newspaper circulation, Radio/FM, and Television… More Meteorological Data Contains information on Rainfall, Temperature, Natural calamities like Floods, Earthquake and data on climate and weather at national and state level…. More Mines and Minerals Section highlights Coal and Non-coal mines, Mine/quarry accidents and Mineral exploration. .. More Per Capita Availability Provides insight about Per capita availability of income, cement, electricity, food items, health, petroleum products, telecom, textiles… More Petroleum This section gives broader picture on production, consumption, reserves, prices of Petroleum. It also covers sales, marketing, consumption of petroleum products and its retail outlets in India…. More Power Data on Electricity generation by various sources, consumption/sale of power, Non-conventional energy, power projects, tariff, transmission and distribution…. More Rural and Urban Areas Section provides useful insight on size of villages and towns, slum population, urban & Rural infrastructure, development projects and schemes implemented at national and state level More Social and Welfare Schemes Section covers national schemes on backward classes, disabled, minority, urban, Tribal, labour employment and women schemes and 20-point programme…. More Sports It gives useful information on financial allocation made for sports in various discipline, medals won in different national and international events, NCC and NSC... More Telecommunication It presents data onInternet, Mobile, Telecom, Services, Exchange, Network, Postal Service at national and state level. More Tourism Section contains data on Domestic/Foreign Tourists, Outbound Tourist, Approved Hotels and Monuments. Also gives insight about tourism receipts and tourist places of importance. More Transport It possesses data on Registered vehicles, Roads & Railways Network, Civil Aviation, Shipping, ports and Performance of STRUs… More This information is available only to registered Subscriber. Existing Subscriber please login by providing your Username and Password below User name:     Password: IP Access User click  for login. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of "Terms of Use and Disclaimer" Non-Subscriber , please check ' Subscribe ' for more details. (Please Note: After login, you are require to re-click the desired table heading) Socio-Economic Voices Changing Occupational structure and Economic Condition of Farm labourers in India: A Study Dr.N.Sayira Banu Assistant Professor, Dept. of Economics, Kandaswami Kandar’s College, P. Velur, Tamil Nadu The present study analyses the changing occupational structure and the condition of farm labourers in India. Rapid growth of agriculture is essential not only to achieve self-reliance at national lev... [+] Sex Differentials in IMR: An Inter-District Analysis Dr. Achala Srivastava ICSSR Post Doctoral fellow, Giri Institute of Development Studies, Lucknow Across the range of health problems, girls and women face differential exposures and vulnerabilities that are often poorly recognized in Uttar Pradesh, infant mortality rate in Uttar Pradesh is still ... [+] Submit your Article >> more >> Associate Websites (56) Sector-specific Websites (19) IndiaAgristat IndiaChildrenstat IndiaCrimestat IndiaDemographics IndiaEconomystat IndiaEducationstat IndiaEnergystat IndiaEnvironstat IndiaHealthstat IndiaHousingstat IndiaIndustrystat IndiaInfrastat IndiaLabourstat IndiaRuralstat IndiaSCSTstat IndiaTourismstat IndiaUrbanstat IndiaWelfarestat IndiaWomenstat State-specific Websites (31) AndhraPradeshstat ArunachalPradeshstat Assamstat Biharstat Chandigarhstat Chhattisgarhstat Delhis