Amritsar City Map Home » Maps » Punjab » Amritsar City Map   Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bathinda Mohali Ferozepur                    more पंजाब का नक्शा Punjab Punjab Map Districts of Punjab Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Punjab Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Punjab Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Telephone Directory Government and Politics Travel to Punjab Places to visit in Punjab Wildlife Sanctuaries Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Geography and History Handicrafts People Culture and Festivals Pin Code Universities In Punjab       Amritsar City Map City Map of Amritsar Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Amritsar city map showing major roads, railways, hotels, hospitals, school, colleges, religious places and important landmarks of Amritsar, Punjab. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Amritsar is situated, in the northwest region of India, in Punjab, 32 miles east of Lahore, Pakistan. Amritsar is also the administrative headquarter of the Amritsar District in Punjab, India. Geography: Amritsar is located 31.63 degree N 74.87 degree E, at an average elevation of 219 meters above the mean sea level. Climate: Statistical Figures: Area: 114 sq. km Population:1,500,000 (2001) Language: Punjabi, Hindi, English Religion:Sikhism, Hinduism Temperature: -3 to 47.7 degree Celsius Average Rainfall: 500 mm Climate: In Amritsar, Winter starts from November and remains till March, during which, the temperatures ranges from 18 °C to about -3 °C. Summer commences from April and remains till June, during which, temperature reaches up to 47.7 °C. Monsoon Starts from July and remains till September, and post-monsoon season is from September to November. Religious Shrines: Amritsar and its vicinity houses many religious shrines which are major attractions for pilgrims. Some of these places are: Harimandir Sahib: Also known as the Golden Temple, is the most significant shrine in Sikhism. It is considered holy because Sri Guru Granth Sahib, the 11th Guru of Sikhs, is believed to be present inside the shrine. Akal Takht: It is located in the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar and is the seat of supreme religious clergy of the Sikhs. It was built by Guru Har Gobind, 6th Guru of Sikhs, as a symbol of political sovereignty of Sikhs. Tarn Taran Sahib: It is a city situated near Amritsar in Punjab, India. The city has many Gurudwaras, which include, Gurudwara Sri Tarn Taran Sahib, Gurudwara Guru Ka Khuh, and Gurudwara Bibi Bhani Da Khuh. Maha Kali Mandir: It is situated at national highway Near Majitha bypass on Jalandhar-Rajashanshi airport road. This Mandir has the temples of Maha Kali, Shri Ram, Maa Durga, Shri Radha Krishan, Sindoori Hanuman, Maa Sarawati, Lakhsmi Narayan , Shiv Parivar. Mandir also has a Great Statue of God Hanuman on the top of Mandir. Saragarhi Gurudwara: Education: Amritsar has various notable universities and institutes for higher learning such as: Guru Nanak Dev University Govt Polytechnic DAV College for Women Khalsa College DAV College Government Medical College Amritsar City Information Country India State Punjab District Amritsar Established Year 1577 Founded by Guru Ram Das Area 5,056 km Population 966862 as Census January 2011 Population Density 928 km2 as Census January 2011 Language Punjabi,Hindi,English & Urdu Official Languages Punjabi,Hindi,English & Urdu Literacy Rate 76.27 as Census January 2011 Sex Ratio 889/1000 Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Pin code 143001 Area code 183 Lat Long 31.6400° N, 74.8600° E Religion Sikh, Hinduism Festivals Baisakhi, Basant Panchami at Chheharta Sahib, Guru Purab, Hola Mohalla, Ram Tirath Fair University Guru Nanak Dev University Sister Cities Birmingham (UK), London (UK) Sports Gandhi Sports Complex Ground , Airport Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport Railway Station Amritsar Jn (ASR), Amritsar Railway Station Tourist Attractions Golden Temple Amritsar, Maharaja Ranjit Singh's Ram Bagh Gardens Amritsar, Wagah Border, Jallianwala Bagh, Ram Tirath, Faridkot Fort Nearby Tourist Attractions Faridkot Fort, Dharamsala, Mcleodganj, Kasauli, Jammu, Chandigarh Popular Things Golden Temple, Wagah Border, Tarn Taran Sahib, Punjabi jutti Notable People Guru Tegh Bahadur, Manmohan Singh, Sam Manekshaw, Madan Lal Dhingra, Krishan Kant, Bhisham Sahni, Hans Raj Khanna, Dara Singh, Rajesh Khanna National Highway Grand Trunk Road, National Highway 1 Blogs about Amritsar Why did Arun Jaitley Lose from Amritsar? : The 2014 Lok Sabha elections has not turned out well for Arun Jaitley who lost his first election. So what went wrong in this high profile high stakes contest between him and Captain Amrinder Singh? BJP’s gamble to choose Arun Jaitley over the proven and media savvy Navjyot Singh Siddhu, has failed. Given his stature within the BJP, the logic of choosing Amritsar for his first ever election has raised questions. Could he have chosen… read more... General Elections 2014 – Day 25 : BJP should audit its decision making and executing process, it took all of seven days to formally expel Jaswant Singh Ji, whereas it should have happened hours after he filed his nominations from Barmer. BJP has another problem, they have Jaswant Singh Ji's son as a sitting MLA from Rajasthan, he has taken leave for one month from BJP. Probably BJP alone is not aware that son has taken "leave" to campaign for father who… read more... Mata Lal Devi Temple: The Sheesh Mahal of Amritsar : Location: Lal Bhawan, Rani Ka Bagh, Amritsar Punjab being a Sikh-dominated state, is prominently famous for the shrines of the Sikhism. Therefore, most of us aren't aware about the Hindu Temple that happens to be one of the most important temples for the Hindus all over. Located in the pious city of Amritsar, Mata Lal Devi Temple is a sacred Hindu pilgrimage that is considered to be full of miraculous powers. Dedicated to a 20th… read more... Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar: A Memorial of National Importance : Location: Near Golden Temple, the holy shrine of the Sikhs.Amritsar, Punjab After 66 years of Independence, as one looks back to the struggle for freedom, the heart still grieves for the massive loss of life that happened at that time. One of the most horrendous events that strikes the mind is the one that took place at the Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar. Jallianwala Bagh is the unfortunate site where thousands of innocents were brutally murdered by… read more... The Golden Temple: A Divine Abode : The Golden Temple,  respectfully known as “Darbar Sahib”,  is located in the city of Amritsar, Punjab.  It is the holiest Shrine in Sikhism.  It is also known as "harmandir" meaning "A Temple of God".  A place of prodigious beauty and splendid tranquility,  it was built by the fifth Sikh Guru,  Guru Arjan Dev Ji in the sixteenth century.  The dome of the Gurdwara is gilded with gold,  popularizing it by the name of "the Golden… read more... Last Updated on : 28/09/2013 Places to Visit in Amritsar Golden Temple Wagah Border Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Durgiana Temple Ram Bagh Ram Tirath Mata Temple Tarn Taran Sahib Faridkot Fort Govind Garh Fort Massacre Memorial Baba Atal Rai Tower Bathinda Fort   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule