Map of Bangalore, Bangalore Map Home Bangalore Tourism Bangalore Metro Hotels Shopping Trip Follow us The City of Garden Click to View Large Bangalore Map Map of Bangalore Bangalore, now known as Bengaluru, is the capital of Karnataka and serves as the cultural, administrative, industrial as well as the commercial center of Karnataka. It is situated on the Deccan Plateau in south east Karnataka. The greenery and the beautiful streets, within which the city of Bangalore is nestled, give it a picturesque view. Bangalore is the 3rd most populated city in India. At present this silicon valley of India, houses some of the top most colleges, research institutes, in India. Industries, aerospace, software companies, telecommunications, defense organizations etc. Bangalore is also an important cultural and economic hub of India and among the fastest developing metropolis. The most part of Bangalore is in Bangalore Urban district of Karnataka while the nearby rural areas forms a part of Bangalore Rural district. Civic Administration in Bangalore The highest judicial body is the Karnataka High Court body situated in Bangalore. The “Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike” (BBMP, Greater Bangalore Municipal Corporation) looks after the civic administration in Bangalore. The city council runs the BBMP. The city council comprise of 250 members, which includes 198 councilors for every ward of Bangalore and 52 elected representatives from among the Parliamentary members and state legislature. The Bangalore City Police (BCP) has been divided into various zones like the City Armed Reserve, Traffic Police, the Central Crime Branch and the City Crime Record Bureau. There are 86 police stations, Accessibility With the development of the transport system, the city of Bangalore has become very easily accessible. The city houses the Bengaluru International Airport. This has made traveling extremely easy in Bangalore. The headquarters of the Kingfisher Airlines and the Air Deccan are also located here. Namma Metro, a transit system is soon to start in the heart of Bangalore which is supposed to connect the major locations of Bangalore. The railway system in Bangalore connects the city to rest of India. Apart from these, other public transports like buses, cabs, autos etc are also there to facilitate the travelers. Historical Monuments Hotels Place of worship Trip from Bangalore Bus Routes Finder Download Bangalore Map in PDF Fact File of Bangalore Area 2190 sq.kms Altitude 920 m above sea level Geographical Location Latitude: 12 degree 8' N Longitude: 77 degree 37' E Population 5,686,844 Population Density 22,719/km 2 Literacy Rate 85.74% Sex Ratio 964 females per 1000 males Per Capita Income (1998-99) Rs. 28,305 Average Rainfall 859 mm (annual) Temperature 35 degree C (max); 14 degree C (min) Climate Tropical Savanna Climate March to May (hot) December to January (winter) June to September and November to December (rainy) Language Kannada, Hindi, English, Tamil and Telugu Religion Buddhism, Hinduism, Christianity, Jainism, Islam, Zoroastrianism & Sikhism Important Festivals Diwali, Ugadi, Navratri, Pongal, Varamahalakshmi, Navratri, and Mahashivratri Major Tourist Attractions Cubbon Park, Bangalore Palace, Ulsoor Lake, Bull temple, The Fort and Tipu Sultan's Palace, and Visvesvaraya Industrial and Technological Museum Best Time to Visit October to February Home   |   Bangalore Tourism   |   Cultures & Festivals   |   Hotels   |   Shopping   |   Restaurants   |   Bangalore Map   |   Sitemap   |   XML Sitemap Follow us Compare Infobase Limited ( An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company ) Copyright mapsofindia.com All rights reserved solutions@mapsofindia.com