Kamal Nursery-landscape, flowering and gardening plants - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Kamal Nursery-landscape, flowering and gardening plants Home Kamal Nursery-landscape, flowering and gardening plants Kolkata based nursery specializes in landscape, flowering and gardening plants Chayan Chakrabarty Kamal Nursery was established in 1972, at Andul-Mouri, Howrah, West Bengal. It was founded by Mr.Kamal Chakrabarty, the founder president of West Bengal Nurserymen Association and vice president of Indian Nurserymen Association. Now the company’s proprietor is Mr.Chayan Chakrabarty. He is a B.Tech in Information Technology. Their main business is manufacturer of nursery plants, exporters, suppliers and service providers. Kamal Nursery offers wide assortment of perennial flowering plants, landscape gardening plants, ornamental /decorative plants, indoor plants, palms (Rhapis, Foxtail etc.,), fruit plants (Hybrid mangoes, coconuts, Tissueculture grown bananas etc.,) flowering plants, roses, water lilies, lotus of various colors, rooted cuttings of marigold, dahlia etc. The company also offers garden consultancy, fireclay pots and garden tools. Initial Years Kamal Nursery was started from a scratch with a small capital of Rs 1,000 with 5 staff members, in a small leased land in Howrah. The company started the production of Chrysanthemum, Dahlia and Rose budding for all India market. When Kamal Nursery was started there were not many nurseries in India and were doing good business in local and all India market. At that time the production cost was very low compare to the present market. It was a profitable business with no significant competitors. [hidepost] The company now boasts of well organized business network in various countries. It imports beautiful varieties of Red Aglaonema which grows on soilless media. Now the company is also supplies fruit plants like Taiwan Apple/Ber, Mango, Guava, Sapota/Chiku, Lemon etc., since it generates revenue within 2-3 years of plantation. Nowadays Marigold flowers too are very popular among Indian farmers. Target Customers The team serves the clients like schools, hotels, colleges, offices and individuals in the domestic market. Apart from this it has got its own regular customers, who depend on them for necessary information about plants. To attract new customers the company participates in flower exhibitions. It gets queries too from different parts of India. Now the company is a reliable Rose Plants suppliers and wholesale Landscape Plants suppliers in India. Area of Operation Kamal Nursery supplies plants to the entire country viz whole of Maharashtra, Bangalore, Gujarat, New Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Orissa, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Chattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. It supplies plants through trucks all over India. Exports The company exports plants in the name of The Indian Nursery. It exports plants to South America, Australia, Europe, Korea, Middle East, Thailand, Malaysia etc. Orchids Now, orchids are gaining popularity in India. Different kinds of orchids are suitable in different climatic conditions. To get good flowers easily with minimum care, the company recommends. Phalaenopsis, it gives flowers 2-3 times a year with minimum care. Marigold flower is also getting popular these days. The company takes great care in transportation of flower plants so as to reach far off destinations safely and securely. The company’s sales team manages plants neatly. When one row of plants are sold, it will be filled up with new plants from the production farm. The company now boasts of 4 acres of nursery land. Manpower The company has got very competent sales team network who are directly in touch with big farm/land owners. At the nursery, there are 25 skilled workers. They get basic training for all kinds of job required in nursery. After this they will get special training in budding, grafting and other production and packaging procedures. Trained farmers and highly qualified horticulturists who are well versed in all types of cultivation field is the plus point of the company. In this competition age with increased labour and raw material cost and with marginal profit the company’s annual turnover in nursery is around Rs.1- 4 crore (approx). The company has a solid support of all kinds of resources to meet the increasing demand of its plantations like indoor flowering plants, garden & lawn grass etc. For the complete plantation solutions the company now boasts of own fertile fields with latest technology and modern cultivation techniques. Last but not the least, Mr. Chayan Chakrabarty suggests to get success in this field one should before investing in plants get proper technology know how and do the necessary market study. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr.Chayan Chakrabarty, The Indian Nursery, Andul Mouri,Howrah-711302, West Bengal,India Call :  +91-9038539472  / +91-9903914420 Fax : +91-33-26695053, e-mail : theindiannursery@gmail.com Web : www.indiannursery.net Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Kamal Nursery-landscape, flowering and gardening plants Related – articles, consultants, downloads Perikali Trading Company – nursery and landscaping services Ankur Nursery Ankur Nursery Bio Care Technology – agricultural exports You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water