Travel to Haridwar - Tourism, Haridwar Tourist Map Home » Haridwar » Travel to Haridwar   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views About India India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels Current Events India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more... Affiliate Sites Map Store Map of Mumbai Map of Hyderabad Map of delhi Map of Bangalore Map of Chennai Focus on Delhi Information Delhi       Travel to Haridwar Haridwar Travel Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the major tourist attractions of Haridwar, Uttarakhand. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Haridwar Tourism Ask any Indian about the best holy places in the country, and Haridwar will be mentioned without doubt. Located in Uttarakhand, Haridwar is the place where the Ganges enters the Indo-Gangetic plains in North India after descending from Gaumukh in the Gangotri Glacier. Haridwar has great historical and mythological significance in Hinduism. The Harki Pauri in Haridwar is one of the most sacred ghats. The Brahma Kund is found at this ghat and it is believed that it is the spot where the ‘amrit’ (nectar) fell while being carried by Garuda after the Samudra Manthan. The Kumbha Mela at Haridwar needs to be mentioned as it is a grand fair with people coming from all over India and world. Apart from this, the rush of pilgrims never abates in Haridwar, as people come to wash off their sins by taking a dip in the holy Ganges. Best time to visit The location of Haridwar makes the climatic conditions favorable almost throughout the year. The Shivalik Hills in the northeast and north, and the Ganges flowing in the south of Haridwar provide the city a cool and pleasant weather. Temperatures in summers rise up to 45 degrees, making it quite hot. In winters, temperatures drop down considerably. During monsoons, Haridwar faces heavy rainfall. If you are making a plan of visiting Haridwar, the best time to do so is from September to April. Carrying heavy woolens is recommended for the winter months. Local Transport Local transportation in Haridwar is quite convenient and easily available. Cycles and auto rickshaws are the most commonly used vehicles for local transport. There are also local buses connecting the various places within the city. Residents of the area use these modes of transportation for traveling in the city. Apart from these, private cars and taxis are also available. These are mainly availed by travelers and tourists visiting Haridwar. Though you can travel comfortably in a private car or taxi, the charges for the same are quite high when compared with those of buses, auto rickshaws or general cycle rickshaws. Food You will be spoilt for choice when it comes to food in Haridwar. There are different kinds of lip-smacking delicacies available in the city. However, almost all of them are vegetarian in nature. Since Haridwar is one of the leading pilgrimage destinations in India, strictly vegetarian dishes are cooked here. Puris with potato curry, kachoris, chapattis with vegetables, etc., are some of the popular foods in Haridwar. The vegetable dishes are done with spices and are extremely tasty. Sweets of Haridwar are also very popular. Popular Things It is quite obvious that when you visit Haridwar you must know of the popular things that the place offers to travelers and tourists. And Haridwar will not disappoint you in any manner. Since it is a religious place, you will get different kinds of memorabilia like beads, Rudraksha, prayer items, etc. Apart from these, you can look out for various kinds of glass bangles and other imitation jewelry items. Some of them are quite trendy and help in making a style statement. Brass and copper utensils are also available in plenty in Haridwar in different sizes and shapes. These can be used for pujas as well as for general purposes. Baskets made of cane are also very popular. If you are fond of pickles and Ayurvedic medicines, there is no better place to shop for them than Haridwar. Last but not the least, in the winters you can buy some really good woolen garments from the place. Cost to Travel Traveling within Haridwar is quite affordable. The cost of traveling will depend on the distance that is being covered. If you are traveling by cycle rickshaws for a short distance, you will be charged Rs. 10 for the same. However, traveling for a longer distance, say, from the station to Harki Pauri, via cycle rickshaw will cost you around Rs. 25. People hiring an auto rickshaw for about three hours for visiting the local ashrams and temples will have to pay around Rs. 200. If the same tour is done in a taxi, the charges will be Rs. 400. How many days are enough to travel? Usually people visiting Haridwar try and visit Hrishikesh at the same time. However, if you are planning to visit only Haridwar, then two days are more than enough for the same. In fact, some people cover Hrishikesh and Haridwar in the same day. But if you make a plan for one night and two days, you can explore all the places in the city well. Visit the different temples in Haridwar and offer prayers. In the evening, watch the grand 'sandhya-arati' on the banks of the Ganges – an experience that you will remember for lifetime. There are also many ashrams in the place that are worth visiting. Tourism Department Contacts Mr. K.S. Rawat Assistant Tourism Officer District Tourism Development Office, Pithoragarh Ph: 05964-225527, Mob: 9412998515 Mr. Sushil Nautiyal District Adventure Sports Officer District Tourism Development Office, Haridwar Ph: (Tel, Fax) 01334-265304/265304, Mob: 9412076849 Email: dd-tourism-ua@nic.in Website: http://uttarakhandtourism.gov.in Emergency Contact Numbers Some of the important emergency numbers for Haridwar are as follows. Police Stations Enquiry in Haridwar: 100 Blood Banks and Hospitals in Haridwar: City Hospital - 01334-220180-82 Ram Krishna Mission Hospital -01334-244176, 246141 Civil Hospital - 01334-226060 Bhooma Niketan Charitable Eye Hospital - 01334-260173, 260722 District women Hospital - 01334-227490 Dr.Leela Gupta Nursing Home Jawalapur - 01334-250268 B.H.E.L. Hospital - 01334-285247, 285225﻿ Places to Visit in Haridwar Chandi Devi Temple Shanti Kunj Har-Ki-Pauri Bharat Mata Temple Jairam Ashram Maya Devi Temple Mansa Devi Temple Kushavarta Ghat Neel Dhara Pakshi Vihar Last Updated on : September 17, 2014 Travel to Uttarakhand Travel to Auli Travel to Dehradun Travel to Haridwar Travel to Gangotri Travel to Bhimtal Travel to Kedarnath Travel to Mussoorie Travel to Nainital Travel to Ranikhet Travel to Dhanaulti Travel to Almora Travel to Rishikesh Travel to Uttarakashi Travel to Chamoli Travel to Pithoragarh Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Places to visit in Auli Places to visit in corbett Places to visit in Dehradun Places to visit in kedarnath Places to visit in Mussorie Places to visit in Nainital Places to visit in Rishikesh Places to visit in Uttarkashi Places to visit in Haridwar             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule