People | Fish on Farms Skip to content Campuses UBC Directories UBC Quick Links [X] close The University of British Columbia a place of mind Faculty of Land and Food Systems Fish On Farms Home Overview People Case Studies Media Photos Partners Contact Us Blog » Home » Overview » People People Tim Green, PhD Tim Green is a Professor with the Faculty of Land and Food Systems at UBC. He is a micronutrient expert, and the emphasis of his research is on iron, folate, vitamin B12 and vitamin D; nutritional assessment and human intervention studies; poverty reduction through improved nutritional status, and the Nutrition Transition. Vitamin D for pregnant women Judy McLean, phd Judy McLean is the Team Lead for the MNP projects and is a Senior Instructor with the Faculty of Land and Food Systems at UBC. Her areas of interest include global problems in food and nutrition and the political, social and cultural factors underlying malnutrition in different contexts; assessment of nutritional status, maternal infant and child feeding habits, nutrition knowledge, food intake and household food security as a basis for culturally appropriate nutrition intervention programs; and micronutrients and development issues. Of primary interest is the development, implementation and assessment of cost-effective, evidence based interventions aimed at reducing malnutrition among young children, adolescents and reproductive-age women, and improving pregnancy outcomes. Micronutrient powders to help children in Rwanda Zaman Talukder Mr. Talukder is the Country Director of Helen Keller International in Cambodia and the Regional Food Security Advisor for the Asia-Pacific Region. He has been working with HKI for more than 20 years in the field of food security and nutrition in different countries in Asia and Africa, and has been responsible for the development, implementation, and overall program direction for HKI’s homestead food production program. He has been considered an international expert on food and nutrition programming. He has presented many papers in international, scientific, and program-oriented meetings and symposia highlighting issues and challenges in the areas of food security, nutrition and homestead food production, with special emphasis in linking these with overall development and poverty alleviation. Youtube: Mr. Talukder speaks at the 2020 Conference Mr. Hou Kroeun Mr. Hou Kroeun, MPH, is the Program Manager at HKI. He has 17 years of experience in designing and managing household food production and nutrition behavior change communication in Cambodia. Mr. Kroeun’s particular interest has been the link of program interventions with research components to generate solid evidence for improved program interventions. Integration of household food production with nutrition components is a most heartfelt motivation of Mr. Kroeun’s work at HKI. Working with the local government to successfully scale-up the national VAS program is another key highlight of Mr. Kroeun’s tenure. Ms. Ly Sokhoing Ms. Ly Sokhoing, MPH, has been the Database Manager and Deputy Program Manager at HKI/Cambodia for 10 years. She is a highly qualified and effective individual in database management. Her areas of interest include research design, data cleaning, in-depth data analysis, and managing field staff to implement effective programs. Ms. Sokhoing has provided technical assistance to other organizations and national governments to carry out surveys, undertake program assessments and conduct evaluations in order to find innovative strategies for food and nutrition security related programs. Larry Lynd , phd Larry Lynd is a Professor with the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences at UBC. He is also Associate Director of the Collaboration for Outcomes Research and Evaluation (CORE); an MSFHR Scholar; a CIHR New Investigator; and a Peter Wall Institute of Advanced Studies Early Career Scholar. His research interests include pharmacoepidemiology, pharmacoeconomics, pharmaceutical outcomes research, risk-benefit analysis methods, asthma-related outcomes, population health and socioeconomic differences in prescribing and disease management, database analysis, and longitudinal analysis. David Kitts , phd David Kitts is the Associate Dean of Research and a Professor of Food Science with the Faculty of Land and Food Systems at UBC. His research interests are in Food Chemistry and Toxicology, with a focus on the cellular and molecular mechanisms of both nutrient and food toxicant action in living organisms. Roasting coffee beans a dark brown produces valued antioxidants Gwen Chapman , phd Gwen Chapman is Associate Dean of Academic, and Professor and Program Director of the Food, Nutrition and Health program at UBC. Her research interests are relates to how people’s everyday food practices and concerns are shaped by socially constructed notions about food, health, bodies, and social roles. She is also a co-investigator for Think & Eat Green @ School; the goals of the project are to address sustainability and health issues within school food systems by promoting school gardens, integration of foods produced at school and other local foods into school food systems, redesign of school food programs and spaces, and integration of food, health and sustainability issues across the curriculum. Video of Dr. Chapman speaking about her research into Family Food Practices Tony Farrell , phd Tony Farrell a Professor of Zoology and Chair in Sustainable Aquaculture at UBC. His research interests include: integrative and comparative animal physiology, cardiorespiratory dynamics, myocardial oxygen supply, coronary physiology and coronary pathology, blood flow regulation, salmon migratory passage, aquatic toxicology. Dr. Farrell speaking about the effects of climate change on BC’s salmon population Crystal Karakochuk Crystal Karakochuk is a PhD Student in Human Nutrition at the University of British Columbia. She is a Registered Dietitian with over 10 years of experience in clinical pediatrics, community based nutrition programming and international nutrition. She has worked internationally with the UN World Food Programme (Rwanda, Malawi, Ethiopia, Italy HQ) and UNICEF (Timor-Leste). Her research interests include food and nutrition programming to reduce maternal and child undernutrition, operations research, infant and young child feeding, and micronutrient supplementation and fortification. Pardis Lakzadeh Pardis Lakzadeh is a Master of Science student in Population and Public health in the Health economics option. She holds  a bachelor’s degree in Integrated Sciences in the area of Human Nutrition and Immunology from UBC. Her research interests involves understanding the economic impact of large-scale interventions at the household level as well as the Economic Evaluation of nutrition programs aimed at reducing maternal and child under nutrition. Vashti Verbowski Vashti Verbowski is a Master of Science student in Human Nutrition at UBC. She is investigating the dietary intakes of women and children participating in the Fish on Farms project. Vashti is also interested in behaviour change and understanding how cultural beliefs, gender, and food knowledge influence eating behaviour. Vashti has worked as a Registered Dietitian for four years, with experience in diabetes, residential care and various acute care settings. She also works as a private practice dietitian; see her website and video blog at:  www.KitchenDietitian.com . KYLY Whitfield Kyly is a PhD Candidate in Human Nutrition at UBC. She has combined her passions for food science and nutrition in her doctoral research, which aims to combat infantile beriberi in Cambodia through maternal consumption of thiamin-fortified fish sauce. More information can be found here  http://www.grandchallenges.ca/grantee-stars/0490-01-10/ . Kyly’s other research interests include infant and young child feeding, food and nutrition security, gender mainstreaming in nutrition programming, and knowledge translation and transfer. nick pons Nick Pons is a Vancouver based graphic designer with 6+ years of multi-disciplinary design experience. He has worked alongside the MNP team in the branding of the Micro Nutrient Project, as well as other various MNP projects in Cambodia, Zambia and Mozambique. Nick strives to create work that communicates unique ideas with functional and solid execution. His specialities include: branding, illustration, advertising, print, environmental sign-age, web design and packaging.  http://nickpons.com/ Share this: Share Partners Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. Helen Keller International - Cambodia House #43Z43, Street 466 Sangkat Tonle Bassac, Khan Chamkar Mon, P.O. Box 168 , Phnom Penh , Kingdom of Cambodia Tel: +855-23-210851 Fax: +855-23-210852 Email: ZTalukder@hki.org Project Contacts (HKI): Zaman Talukder - Country Director Hou Kroeun - Program Manager Fish on Farms 2205 East Mall, Vancouver , BC , V6T 1Z4 , Canada Tel: 604-822-6195 Fax: 604-822-5143 Email: judy.mclean@ubc.ca Project Contacts (UBC): Associate Professor Tim Green Assistant Professor Judy McLean Emergency Procedures  |  Accessibility  |  Contact UBC  |  © Copyright The University of British Columbia