TNAU Agritech Portal :: Patents Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact TNAU Agritech Portal :: Patents :: Patenting at TNAU   Updated TNAU Patents 2013 In TNAU , the Centre for Agricultural and Rural Development Studies is responsible for obtaining patent  for the technologies developed in TNAU. At present, six inventions have obtained patent. They are listed below; Patents Obtained by TNAU S.No. Name of the Scientist Name of the Invention 1 Dr.S.Mohan*, Professor of Agricultural Entomology, TNAU, Coimbatore - 641003  A device to remove insect    eggs from stored pulse  seeds 2 Dr. P. M. M. David, Professor of   Agricultural Entomology, AC&RI,   Killikulam.   A multi purpose device for    the management of insects  and rodents 3 Thiru. K. Chendrayan, Assoc. Professor of Microbiology, TNAU, Coimbatore-641003  Anaerobic microbial  dissolution of lead and  production of organic acids 4 Dr. K. Angappan, Assoc. Prof. of Plant Pathology,   CPMB,TNAU, Coimbatore-3  A process of preparing a  bio-fertilizer cum bio-  fungicidal composition 5 Dr.G.Kathiresan Professor of Agronomy  Sugarcane Detrasher 6 Dr.R.Jagannathan, Professor and  Head,Department of Agricultural Meteorology, TNAU, Coimbatore- 641003 Process for preparation of coconut fertilizer briquette . Commercialised C ommercialization of TNAU - Technologies and Products: Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has developed many viable agro-technologies and products. Some are already commercialized and some awaiting opportunities. Hence, Directorate of Agribusiness Development is entrusted with the responsibility of commercialization of the TNAU products / technologies developed. Accordingly, through a series of meeting, five technologies have been short-listed initially for commercialization as a first phase. Based on that, approval of the University has been obtained to invite “Expression of Interest” from reputed companies to grant license for the production and marketing of the following TNAU products / technologies. Among them one patented product were also subjected to commercialization. The highest offers quoted by the firms were approved by the university. Sl.No. Name of the product / technology OFFER approved by TNAU (in words & figures) * 1. TNAU Patent No.19834 – A device to remove insect eggs from pulse seeds Rs.10,000/- (Rupees ten thousand only) 2. Preparation  of “Ready to cook mix and food from pearl millet” – both  technology and machine(applied for patent) Rs.5,000/- (Rupees five thousand only)  Important terms and conditions are:  The license is granted for the production and marketing of certain TNAU products / technologies on NON- EXCLUSIVE basis only. The TNAU has the right to grant license to other companies for commercial production and marketing of the said technologies for which license is granted under this agreement. The firm may refer as TNAU technology/product in the packets / containers / sachets etc. The firm shall be responsible for maintaining the quality of the produce marketed under this agreement. But TNAU has the full right to check the quality of products / technologies produced and marketed by the company . All the IPR rights of the technology shall rest with TNAU only. At present, MoU has been signed  with private firms for granting license for the production and marketing TNAU products / technologies they are as follows. Sl.No. Name of the product / technology Name of the firm 1. TNAU Patent No.19834 – A device to remove insect eggs from pulse seeds M/s. KSNM Marketing , Teachers Colony, Kurumbapalayam, Vedapatti Post, Coimbatore – 641 007 2. Preparation  of “Ready to cook mix and food from pearl millet” – both  technology and machine  M/s. Dhaniyalakshmi Agro Foods, 563 (Part), Rangai Gowder St., Coimbatore – 641 001 Institute like Rural Innovations Network (RIN) and L-Ramp are recognizing the efforts of rural inventors and are popularizing their technologies. A number of private firms are assisting in patent searches, patent filing and case filing.   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Site Map | Disclaimer | Contact Us © 2014 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.