South Korea Trade Shows,Trade Fairs in South Korea,Business Conferences in South Korea JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? South Korea Trade Shows Classifieds Country South Korea Trade Shows Classifieds Date : 20 Oct - 22 Oct 2015 InterBattery 2015 -  Korea, Republic of Organized by the Korea Battery Industry Association and Coex, InterBattery is Korea’s only trade show for the secondary-cell and rechargeable battery industry. InterBattery aims to expand and develop the global battery industry, encompassing.... Venue : Coex ,Gyeonggi Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 Jun - 14 Jun 2015 CityScape Korea -  Korea, Republic of Cityscape Korea, jointly organized with Korea Economic Daily Media Group (KED) and Incheon City, is East Asia\'s premier event for real estate investment and development. It is the central meeting place for real estate developers, private and.... Venue : Songdo Convensia ,Incheon Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 May - 23 May 2015 Busan International Machinery Fair 2015 -  Korea, Republic of Busan is in the largest concentrated area of the Korean Machinery Industry. The cities of southeastern(Busan, Ulsan, Changwon) manufacture more than 50% of the Korean Machinery Market. Moreover, in 2005, the APEC was held in Busan and then in 2010,.... Venue : BEXCO ,Seoul Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 30 Apr - 03 May 2015 ASIAMANIA! -  Korea, Republic of Discover all Asia has to offer, including K-Pop, cosmetics and beauty, fashion, film, food, technology, and more! Satisfying both B2B and B2C needs, the ASIAMANIA! expo represents true convergence between culture and business, in the heart of the.... Venue : Coex ,Korea Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Apr - 12 Apr 2015 Coffee Expo Seoul 2015 -  Korea, Republic of Korea’s coffee industry has doubled over the past five years, seeing an explosion in both import and consumption and catapulting Korea to its place as 11th largest coffee market in the world. South Koreans are now amongst the top global consumers.... Venue : Coex ,Gyeonggi Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Mar - 28 Mar 2015 Seoul Int\'l Sourcing Fair -  Korea, Republic of Seoul International Sourcing Fair first opened in 1991 as “SIPREMIUM”. In the last 22 years, it has become Korea‟s top exhibition on gifts and sales promotion items. The Seoul International Sourcing Fair‟s strength is that it was among the.... Venue : Coex ,Gyeonggi Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Mar - 20 Mar 2015 Automation World -  Korea, Republic of Automation World is a combination of two shows, ‘aimex’ and ‘Korea Vision Show’ The event is now in its 26th year. Originally launched as KOFA (Korea International Automation System Exhibition), Automation World was the first ever.... Venue : Coex ,Gyeonggi Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 Nov - 15 Nov 2014 Food Week Korea 2014 -  Korea, Republic of Since its opening in 2006, Food Week Korea has grown into one of the biggest food business exhibitions in Korea. Food Week markets itself as not one expo, but various combined fairs. Each fair focuses on a different part of the food industry. This.... Venue : Coex ,Gyeonggi Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 Nov - 08 Nov 2014 KOSIGN - Korea Int\'l Sign and Design Show -  Korea, Republic of Organized by Coex, Korea Outdoor Advertising Association and the KODPA (Korea Digital Printing Equipment and Materials Industry Association), Kosign is one of Korea\'s largest and oldest sign and design show. Sponsor: DGI - Digital Graphics.... Venue : Coex ,Gyeonggi Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration « Prev 1 Next » Trade Shows by Month May 2015 Jun 2015 Jul 2015 Aug 2015 Sep 2015 Oct 2015 Nov 2015 Dec 2015 Jan 2016 Feb 2016 Mar 2016 Apr 2016 Trade Shows by Category Agriculture Apparel & Fashion Automobile Business Services Chemicals Computers and Internet Construction & Real Estate Consumer Electronics Electronics & Electrical Environment Food & Beverage Gifts & Crafts Health & Beauty Industrial Supplies Mineral & Metals Office Supplies Packaging & Paper Printing & Publishing Security & Protection Sports & Entertainment Telecommunications Textiles & Fabrics Toys & Games Transportation and Logistics Home Supplies Energy & Power Tools & Equipment Industrial Machinery Jewelry Ayurvedic & Herbal Products Jute & Jute products Tours & Travels Plastic & Plastic Products Leather & Leather Products Natural Stones Furniture Home Furnishings Hospital & Medical Industry Education Livestock General Links Home Contact Us Sitemap Help About Us Feedback Terms of Use Testimonials Advertise with Us Disclaimer Resources Email this Page Bookmark Page Make EI Home Page Trade Tool Kit Buy Offers Post Buy Requirement Post Products - FREE Services Directory Business Services Real Estate Tours & Travels Employment Services Matrimonials Services Business Directory Manufacturers Exporters Suppliers Service Providers Web Design By WeblinkIndia.NET - ISO 9001:2008 Certified © Copyright 2015. All Rights Reserved. ExportersIndia.com