Travel to Manipur - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Manipur Travel How to Reach Shopping Travel Agents Hotels in Manipur Tourist Places in Manipur Govindajee Temple War Cemetery Khonghampat Orchidarium Loktak Lake Zoological Gardens Langthabal Tourist Destinations in Manipur Imphal Travel Bishnupur About Manipur Geography Home » Manipur » Travel to Manipur Travel to Manipur Manipur Tourism The tine state of Manipur lies in the lush green corner of North East India. The word Manipur in Hindi means "the jewel of a land" which seems to be a deserving epithet for Manipur in all terms. The land of Manipur is shrouded myths. Legend has it that the land of Manipur was discovered as a result of the delight the Gods took in dancing. The concept seems to remain alive in its beauteous folk dances. The erstwhile princely state came under the British rule in after the defeat in Anglo-Manipuri war in 1891. After the Independence in 1947, the state merged in the Indian Union and became a full-fledged state in 1972. The state boasts of an unparalleled beauty. The oval shaped valley, surrounded by smoky hills looks like an exquisite artwork of the almighty. Nature has poured her choicest gifts to create Manipur. Hills and forests combine to craft out an idyllic retreat. The charm of Manipur springs from its off-the-beaten-track image. Manipur as a tourist destination still remains off the limelight. That the people of the world still do not travel to Manipur in large flocks has in turn helped to retain its unspoilt grace. Demographics of the Manipur Location Northeastern part of India Nagaland on the north Myanmar (Burma) on the east Mizoram on the south Assam on the west. Latitude 23.83° to 25.68° North Longitude 93.03° to 94.78° East Area 22,327 sq. km Climate Summer - warm Winter - Very cold Max Temperature 32°C Min Temperature 1°C Average Annual Rainfall 147 cm Capital Imphal Population 22,93,896 Languages Manipuri, Hindi, English, Burmese, Tibeto Religion Vaishnavite Hindu Best Time to Visit October to February Clothing Summer - cottons Winter - Woolens How to Reach Manipur As one of the seven sisters states in the northeastern part of India, Manipur boasts of an unspoiled beauty lying in an oval valley amongst smoky blue hills. The exotic landscape is predominantly hilly terrains full of wooded patches watered by the rivers Imphal, Iril, Thoubal, Irang and Barak. The natural splendor is irresistibly inviting. Manipur is even more reputed for its enchanting dance forms, which has captivated the art lovers of the world. 'How to reach Manipur' helps you easily reach the state by air, road and rail. By Air Manipur has an airport located at its capital city Imphal. The airport at Imphal is well connected with major Indian Cities like Delhi, Kolkata and Guwahati. Indian airlines have regular operation to this city and other important cities in the North-East of India. By Train The state of Manipur has a railway station in Modpur which receives trains from some parts of the country. Besides, other northeastern cities like Guwahati, Dimapur, Silchar which have railway stations and are serviced by important trains to and from the rest of the country. From these cities one can reach Manipur by road. By Road The road network is quite efficient in Manipur. National Highway 39 connects Manipur with major cities like Guwahati, Dimapur, Kohima, Schilchar in the northeastern part on India. Manipur Entry Formalities International Tourists The Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, issues Restricted Area Permit for foreigners intending to visit Manipur. It can also be obtained from Indian Missions abroad, Foreign Regional Registration office (FRRO) in Mumbai, Kolkata, Immigration office in Chennai and the Home Commissioner, Government of Manipur, Imphal. National/Domestic Tourists Inner Line Permit, required for the Indians to visit Manipur, is issued by the Liaison officers of the Government of Nagaland at New Delhi, Kolkata, Guwahati, Shillong and the Sub-Divisional Office (Civil) Dimapur. Deputy Commissioner, Imphal. Shopping in Manipur Shopping in Manipur is undoubtedly a very interesting and exciting experience, especially for those who have a special love for handloom articles. The state of Manipur is world famous for its handloom clothes and other traditional artifacts. There are some particular items, without which, Manipur shopping remains incomplete. These articles are the very famous: Bed covers of Moirangfee Motif Silk Sarees Cotton Sarees Scarves Blankets Shawls Bamboo Articles Papier Mache Ivory Articles Dolls Jewelry Manipur travel agents The Manipur travel agents are mushrooming all over the country to provide attractive tourist packages to the wanderlust driven sightseer. Manipur, northeast India's jewel in the crown, is an upcoming tourist destination. The state is famed for its age-old history, mythological sagas, martial glory, panoramic vistas, cultural extravaganzas as well as its tribal legacy. Consequently, the state is emerging as forerunner of the nation's tourism. From the tourism point of view, Manipur has it all. Be it the primordial temples, museums, war cemeteries, sprawling orchards, quaint tribal villages, cascading waterfalls or sylvan lakes, the virgin terrains of northeast India are endowed with it all. There are several Manipur Tour Operators who offer a plethora of options for tourists to explore the state. The tours usually extend across a span of 15 days and take tourists on a comprehensive sightseeing trip all across Manipur. They take care of the tourist's requirements, make arrangements for their transport and accommodate them in comfortable hotels whose tariffs are priced according to the purchasing power of the tourists. The travel agents chalk out an effective plan that will take tourists across the spectacular locales of Imphal, the capital of Manipur, as well as the picturesque districts of Tamenglong and the tribal villages of Chandel. They also provide tourists the opportunity to participate in adventure sports like polo or indulge in trekking or mountain climbing. Manipur travel agents are committed to provide tourists with an unforgettable holiday over which they can reminisce over the years. For further information on Manipur Travel Agents, contact the following tour guides: Access India Travel Rama Movers West India travel Tours India Wildlife Travel & Tours Buddhist India Luxury India Travel India Travel Forum Indus The Indian Specialist Compass Tours & Travels Places to Visit in Manipur Imphal Govindajee Temple War Cemetery Khonghampat Orchidarium Zoological Gardens Langthabal Bishnupur More on tourist attractions of Manipur Last Updated on : 17/09/2013 Travel to Manipur Travel to Imphal Places to visit in Manipur Places to visit in Imphal Flights to Manipur Flights to Imphal About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule