 Governing Board | Access Agriculture Skip to main content Access Agriculture Login | Register Home About us What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Sponsors Core sponsors Associates Contribute and make a difference Using this site How to use this website Submitting videos Translating videos Radio stations DVD packs information Useful technical information FAQ Contact us Forum Quotes Job Vacancies Awards User facts World map Video use Impact studies User login E-mail * Password * Create new account Request new password Languages English Français Custom FAQ Search All languages Adioukrou Adja Arabic Ateso Attié Bambara Bangla Baoulé Bariba Bassa Berba Bomu Buli Burmese Chichewa Dagaari Dagbani Dendi Dioula Ditammari Ebrié English Ewe Fon Frafra French Gonja Gourmantche Hausa Hindi Idaatcha Ife Indonesian Kabye Kannada Khmer Kikuyu Kiswahili Kpelle Krio Kusaal Lao Lobiri Luganda Lugbara Luo Malagash Mende Moba Mooré Nago Nepali Persian Peulh Fulfuldé Portuguese Runyakitara Sena Sisaala Spanish Temne Thai Twi Vietnamese Wolof Yao Yoruba Zarma Secondary menu What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Home › About us Governing Board Lawrencia Adams is a rural sociologist with an MBA in Entrepreneurial Management from the University of Ghana, Legon. She was the Executive Director of the Pan African Organization for Sustainable Development (POSDEV) Consortium and is team leader for the Ghana Research and Advocacy Programme. She has worked with national and donor organisations for more than 20 years on social accountability and the organisational development of small and medium enterprises, NGOs and civil society organisations. She is a gender specialist with a solid experience in grants management in compliance with donor requirements including USAID, European Union, CIDA, DANIDA and World Bank. Markus Bürli is Deputy Head of the Global Programme Food Security at the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC). In this position he participates in international processes around food security and nutrition as well as in land governance and is responsible for several development projects supporting smallholder farmers. He obtained his MSc in Development Economics at Imperial College London. Before joining SDC in 2007 he worked in the Poverty and Livelihood Analysis Programme of the International Centre for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) in Aleppo, Syria. Kristin Davis has a PhD in international agricultural extension from the University of Florida. In 2004 she moved to Addis Ababa to work with the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), conducting research and strengthening capacities on agricultural extension in sub-Saharan Africa. In January 2010, she was seconded to the Global Forum for Rural Advisory Services (GFRAS) as Executive Secretary, where she promotes: improved investment in rural advisory services; the development of evidence-based approaches and policies for improving the effectiveness of advisory services; and strengthened extension service providers and networks. Dominique Hounkonnou is an agronomist (graduated at Gembloux, Belgium), with a PhD in Social Sciences from Wageningen University. He worked in agricultural extension in Benin for 10 years and at CTA (the ACP-EU Centre for agricultural and rural cooperation) for 12 years. He now works as a consultant in local development, and with the Berceaux d’Afrique foundation, which he created with some friends to support local development groups. He strongly believes that the future of Africa depends, to a large extent, on how efficiently the leaders and support organisations can build from local development dynamics. Janice Jiggins is a social scientist and former Professor of Human Ecology at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala and is currently based at the Knowledge, Technology and Innovations group, Wageningen University. She has worked throughout South Asia and Africa, on extension, farming systems, gender, integrated pest management and watershed management. She has participated in numerous assessments of food security and sustainable farming, including the International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology, and the UK government’s recent Foresight exercise. She is a member of the governing councils of ILEIA, the Netherlands, and ICIPE, Kenya. Phil Malone is a geographer and an ex-BBC radio broadcaster. For well over 25 years, Phil has advised senior government officials on communication throughout the former Soviet Union, the Middle East, Africa and Asia. He has worked with professionals in many industries to help them communicate more effectively. Much of Phil’s expertise includes assisting with the drawing up and implementation of communication strategies for the health, agricultural, food and rural development sectors. Phil supports our overall communication strategy and acts as Vice-chairman. Bob Muchina read Government and Economics at the University of Nairobi, proceeded to the Kenya Institute of Mass Communication and obtained an MA in Communication from the University of Pittsburg. He pioneered the Marketing Society of Kenya and honed his journalistic skills at the global charity, World Vision. He views the promotion of sustainable agriculture premised upon information streaming at three levels: lateral sharing of farm experiences; extending linkages between research and farmers; and collaboration between financial institutions and the entrepreneur farmer. Bob is Executive Secretary of Access Agriculture and Secretary to the Board. David Ngugi studied veterinary medicine at the University of Nairobi. He started his career with the Kenyan Government for seven years where he rose to head a district (now County), after which he has worked for the private sector for more than 25 years. He has helped develop the livestock sector to boost food production, food security and alleviate poverty in rural areas. He is a hands-on professional with a solid knowledge of marketing and management in the agricultural industry throughout East Africa. Josephine Rodgers has an MA in Mass Communications from the University of Leicester in the UK, and a degree in Agricultural Science. Since 1985, Josephine has worked with her company Countrywise Communication for many international organisations and companies throughout the world, creating award-winning information and training videos on agriculture, food and rural development, as well as training local teams to produce programmes to a high standard. With over 30 years’ experience in the financial management of complex international projects as well as four companies and assisting other NGO’s, Josephine has taken up the role of Treasurer within Access Agriculture. Paul Van Mele is an agricultural scientist with a PhD from Wageningen University. Since 1993 he has managed agricultural R&D projects in Africa and Asia dealing with sustainable agriculture and farmer training. Paul has spearheaded farmer-to-farmer video, conducted action research on video-mediated learning and taken it to scale. In 2010 he swapped his senior position as Program leader on Learning and Innovation Systems in the CGIAR to start his own enterprise, Agro-Insight. In 2012, together with Countrywise Communication, he founded the international NGO, Access Agriculture, for which he acts as Chairman .   About us What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Sponsored by