GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL » Central Silk Board Loading... Screen Reader Access Who's who | Contact Us | Intranet Login Central Silk Board Ministry of Textiles - Govt of India Home About Us Vision & Mission Mandate Organization chart Composition of the Board Act & Rules Citizen's charter FAQ Silk-Sericulture Silk Sericulture Silks of India Services R & D Training Seed Production Consultancy Schemes Central Sector Centrally Sponsored MKSP Projects for Tasar MGNREGA with CDP NER Textile Promotion Statistics Silk Flash Silk Bulletin Silk Exports & Imports Publications Indian Silk Books Videos Annual Report Downloads RFD Note on sericulture Training Calendar Evaluation Reports Regd. Stake holders Silk Exporters Minutes of Meetings Gallery   GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL The CSB Grievance Cell set up in the Central Silk Board, Bangalore looks after the grievances received from the employees of the Board as well as from Public. A grievance register has been maintained at Central Silk Board, Bangalore to register the grievances.  As soon as the grievance petitions are received, the same will be referred to the concerned officers who are dealing with the subjects for their comments. After verifying the facts and getting a detailed report, the grievances are redressed based on the merits of each case and individual replies are given to the aggrieved by the Grievance Officer himself. Public Grievance Redressal Officer Details: Name Dr. Amalendu Tikader, Designation Scientist-D  / Grievance Officer Status of Public Grievance Redressal Officer:  Male/ Female Male Address Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiels - Govt. of India B.T.M. Layout, Madivala, Bangalore - 560 068. +91 80 26681509                +91 80 26681511             tikader.csb AT nic.in   If a complainant is not able to get the complaint redressed through CSB Grienvance officer,  he/she can lodge the complaint  at   Public Grievance portal .   If  complaint is pension related, he/she can lodge at Pensioners' Grievance Portal . Govt. of India Resolution on the Public Interest Disclosures & Protection of Informers . Sitemap Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2015 Central Silk Board. All Rights Reserved.   This is the official Website of Central Silk Board, a statutory body of Government of India under the Ministry of Textiles Last updated: 22/05/2015