Aromatic Oil (RRL-CN-5) Project AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Consultancy Services Aromatic Oil (RRL-CN-5) Project Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Aromatic Oil (RRL-CN-5) Project LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 1 Week Ago #1 Pacific herb Premium Member Join Date Sep 2008 Posts 733 Aromatic Oil (RRL-CN-5) Project This article is in the interest of the Farmers those who are badly affected by the Climate (Less rain fall, Excessive rain fall, Untimely rainfall, Storm and Hail storm - (Garpeet/Oley)). Now a days Hailstorm and Untimely rains are the major problem of the farmer and it affects almost all the crop including Horticulture and now it has become a routine pattern at least last three years and it may continue further. This is one Agro Project which is almost not affected by the above problems of the Climate and Help farmer to sustain his Life in better way, kindly have a look on below information, thanks. Indian Air Force Dream High Fly High It is Agro Industry Project- Risk Free Advantage of this Project- 1. Net average Profit from 20 acres- Rs.14,00,000/- yearly. (Rs.70 to 80 Thousand per acre) 2. Plantation once for 5 to 6 years- No Sowing again and again. 3. Only 3 to 4 labor can maintain 15 to 20 acre plot- No problem of labor scarcity. 4. No risk of Wild and Domestic animal - No need of Expensive fencing, Suitable for Farms adjoin/near to Forest area. 5. No risk of Theft - By Inside labor or outsiders as they cannot sale the product in local market or use it. 6. No much effect of Less, Excess/ Heavy, Untimely rains or Hailstorms (Garpeet)- Risk free from Odd Climatic conditions. 7. Money flow every after two month- Need not to wait for long gestation periods. 8. No Pest and Disease- No need of expensive Insecticide/Pesticide and Weedicide. 9. It is Aromatic Oil (RRL-CN-5) Project- Better than Palmarosa and other grasses. 10. High export Potential as it contain Geranyle Acetate and it is the only Natural source. We provide complete Project Consultancy/Information Right from Selection of Land to Marketing of the Product (Oil). For details please Call- 094228 81280 or Write- agrigum@gmail.com Note:- We also deals in Secured Fund Management, Kindly contact for details. Site Survey, Consultancy, Feasibility Report , "Guargum", "Coleus", Planting Material of all herbs and Citrus Saplings , " Contract Farming" & JV FOR Aromatic Oil, Medicinal & Aromatic Plants & Bio-Diesel (Jat) Project. .................................................. .......... Pacific Herbs Agro Farms Pvt. Ltd. Nagpur, Maharashtra, INDIA Call - 094228 81280, 097301 07163, Hyderabad - - 093734 74251, Write- agrigum@gmail.com, herbal_globe@rediffmail.com, Visit - www.aromediherbs.com Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 01:09 AM .