Official Website:: Indian Veterinary Research Institute A+   |   A   |   A- About IVRI Preface Milestone Mandate Past Directors IVRI Administration Research Milestone Organogram Link & Collaboration Honours & Awards Location Map Contact Directory Research Joint Directorate of Research Preface from Joint Director(Research) Mandate Activities Research Projects Patents Technologies Transfered Technologies for Transfer Contact Details Academic IVRI Deemed University Message from Joint Director(Academic) Deemed University Administration Academic Session Cources Offered MVSc PhD National Diploma Admission Procedure For Sponspred Candidate Fellowship Medals & Awards Facilities Available University News IVRI Alumini Divisions Animal Health Divisions Division of Animal Biotechnology Division of Bacteriology & Mycology Division of Biological Products Division of Epidemiology Immunology Section Division of Medicine Division of Parasitology Division of Pathology Divison of Pharmacology & Toxicology Division of Standardization Division of Surgery Division of Veterinary Public Health Division of Virology Animal Production Divisions Animal Genetics Div. Animal Nutrition Div Animal Reproduction Division Livestock Production & Management Section. Division Physiology & Climatology Divison of Temprate Animal Husbandray Basic & Social Sc. Divisions Biochemistry & Food Sc. Section BEMI Section Extension Education Div Liv. Eco., Statistics & IT Div. Liv. Products & Tech. Div Sections ARIS Cell Bioinformatics Centre Centre Data Cell Communication Centre Engineering Section Farm Section Farm Machinery and Power Workshop Institute Technology Management Unit (I.T.M.U.) Laboratory Animal Resources Feed Technology Unit Germ Plasm Centre Humal Hospital National Library for Vety. Science Wildlife Section Games & Sports Section राजभाषा अनुभाग Extension Joint Directorate (EE) Preface Objectives Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Infrastructure/Facilities Research Projects Scientific Staff Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - Single Delivery Window Kisaan Mela 2011 Training Programmes Contact Details Disease Diagnosis Joint Directorate (CADRAD) Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Scientific Staff Training Programme Contact Details Services Biological Products Diagnostics & Examination Vety. Polyclinic Livestock Products Disease Diagnosis Vermi Biocomposting Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - IVRI Single Window ITMU-Technology Transfer IVRI Publications Campuses Regional Campus Bangaluru Regional Station Kolkata Regional Station Mukteswar Regional Station Palampur Loading » Joint Directorate of Research Research at IVRI The research programmes of the institute are pursued mainly in the area of animal health. However, research on livestock production, technology and basic science groups are directed to support animal health programmes. The mandated areas of research activities of the institute are as follows: Animal Health Animal Genetic Resources Livestock Improvement Livestock Products Technology Basic and Social Sciences In order to ensure interdisciplinary approach, the programmes are not demarcated by disciplinary boundaries. The programmes are inter-linked, backed by an essential feed back from scientists and end- users following bottom-up approach. The existing disciplines have been strengthened further for solving the problems of national importance through strategic, adaptive and participatory research in animal health, production and products technology, besides producing quality manpower in veterinary and animal sciences. Animal Health IVRI by tradition is a research institute of higher learning with emphasis on the problems of Animal Health. The Divisions/Centre related to animal health research includes: Bacteriology and Mycology Biological Products Centre for Animal Disease Research and Diagnosis (includes Epidemiology Section; reorganized as per 3rd QRT recommendation) Pharmacology and Toxicology Standardization of Biological Products Animal Biotechnology (includes Immunology Section; reorganized as per 3rd QRT recommendation) Veterinary Medicine Veterinary Parasitology Veterinary Pathology Veterinary Public Health Veterinary Surgery Veterinary Virology Development of newer vaccines and immunodiagnostics, epidemiology of diseases, indigenous drugs and their therapeutic use, solving animal disease problems through immunology and biology, surgical management and treatment of emerging diseases, quality control of veterinary biologicals, development of various animal health models and microbiological and residue analysis for quality assessment of livestock products are some of the major activities of these divisions. Animal Production Adequate emphasis has been laid on various aspects of animal production. The divisions under animal production group are: Animal Genetics Animal Nutrition Animal Reproduction Physiology and Climatology Division of Temperate Animal Husbandry Research activities in the field of animal production started with the major aim of improving/ evolving suitable breeds of domestic animals for better productivity along with other ancillary studies in the fields of genetics and breeding, nutrition, physiology and reproduction. However, with the emergence of species-specific institutes on buffalo, goat, sheep, camel, equine, poultry, yak and mithun under ICAR to take care of production and reproduction aspects, the research at IVRI is mostly confined to health oriented production aspects in livestock. With the establishment of National Institute of Animal Nutrition and Physiology (NIANP) at Bangalore, the role of Animal Nutrition Division at IVRI has been restructured. Animal Nutrition Divi¬sion at IVRI has close linkages with NIANP to implement programmes of common interest avoiding duplication of research activities. Livestock Products Technology The Division of LPT was established during IVth five year plan with the objectives to conduct basic and applied research on various aspects of livestock products and by-products with special emphasis on the development of technical know-how suitable under Indian conditions. The Division of LPT plays a unique role in the development of meat industry in the country. With the emerging new opportunities in the meat sector in the post GATT scenario, the Division of LPT acts as a nodal agency in catalyzing the growth of the processed meat sector. Though the Division deserves to be conferred the status of Centre of Advanced Studies on Meat Science, subsequent to the establishment of the National Research Centre on Meat at Hyderabad, the LPT Division has a major emphasis on post-graduate education for developing human resources besides undertaking research for value addition of meat in selected areas. Basic and Social Sciences The following research divisions are involved in this group: Livestock Economics, Statistics and Information Technology Extension Education Biochemistry To ascertain whether specific livestock production systems represent feasible and beneficial forms of use of land, labour and capital, the research on livestock economics & statistics and extension education was initiated. The post graduate programmes in these areas at IVRI are exclusive. This specialization vis-a-vis the animal husbandry sector has a well defined role in the agrarian economy of the country and considering the vast potential for higher growth rate and contribution to agricultural and national GDP by this sector. The importance of Biochemistry in veterinary research was recognized as far back as 1909 for better animal production and health. A separate Section of Biochemistry was created in 1971 in the Division of Physiology and Pharmacology which later developed into a full fledged Division of Biochemistry to conduct research and P.G. teaching in animal biochemistry, besides establishing broad foundation in biochemical principles. As biochemistry is an intrinsic discipline to biological sciences, the scientists in the Division participate in research on all aspects of animal health and production. All India Co-ordinated Research Projects An AICRP centre on Pigs and Network Programmes on Bluetongue, Haemorrhagic Septicaemia, and Gastrointestinal Parasitism are located at IVRI. In addition to the existing three network projects, three new Outreach Programmes on Ethnoveterinary medicine, Monitoring of drug residues and environmental pollutants, and Zoonotic diseases were sanctioned and initiated during the 11th five year plan. Quick Links Research @ IVRI Research @ IVRI Research Projects Patents @ IVRI Technology Transfered Technologies for Transfer Technologies in the Pipeline Scientific Staff Futuristic Technologies Activities Mandate Preface from Joint Director(Research) Contact details Staff Corner IVRI Mail HRMS Self Service Portal