List of Top 10 Watch Brands in India Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Top-Brands-India         Educational Food Products Kitchen Appliances Life Insurance Mutual Fund Consumer Durables DTH Laptop Retail Matress Brands AC Brands Beer Brands Bi Cycle Brands Biscuit Brands Desktop Computer Brands Basmati Rice Brands Namkeen Brands Shampoo Brands Tea Brands Baby Food Brands Jewelry Brands Perfume Brands Apparel Brands Chocolate Brands Digital Camera Brands Lipstick Brands hotel Brands Shirt Brands Men Clothing Brands Milk Brands Newspaper Brands Restaurant Chain Brands Car Brands Coffee Brands ice Cream Brands Mobile Brands Detergent Brands Face Wash Brands Baby Toy Brands Skin Care Cream Brands Soap Brands Tooth Paste Brands Bathroom Fittings Brands Washing Machine Brands Watch Brands Microwave Oven Brands Shoe Brands TV Brands Ketchup Brands Motor Bike Brands Soft Drink Brands Noodle Brands Scooty Brands Shaving Cream Brands Top Online Retailers You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Top-brands-India » Top Watch Brands in India Top Watch Brands in India Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  26  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 As it is rightly said, “Time and tide wait for no man”, what becomes essential for a man is to keep a track of time himself so that he is not left behind when the human race is proceeding and progressing every second. In today's fast moving world, keeping a 'watch' is essential. Though there are innumerable gadgets available in the market that tell you accurate time, a watch- the original source of keeping track of the time- has not lost its significance. Fifty million wristwatches are sold in India every year. One of the 10 biggest and fastest going economies- India- is still a huge market for wristwatches. A fair number of watch brands flourish in India and share a healthy competition amongst them. List of Top 10 Watch Brands in India Sonata Sonata, by Titan, is the most loved, most admired and most preferred brand of wristwatches in India at the moment. Most Indians feel the beauty and elegance of a Sonata watch on their wrists. Sonata caters to people of all generations. The unique feature for which most Indians love Sonata is that it provides watches for all occasions and festivities with a special touch of thematic grace. The most preferred Sonata variant is the youth-centric Super Fibre Watch. Titan Titan is a major watch company that owns brands like Sonata and Fastrack. Besides that, Titan manufactures models that are very famous and admired across India like Aqura, Diva, Insignia, Raga and Octane among others. Titan Watch Company is a subsidiary of Tata Group of Industries. Fastrack Fastrack is a sub-brand of Titan that was launched in 1998 keeping in mind the Indian youth. Fastrack is the urban youth's fashion watch brand. Fastrack’s unique and affordable designs across various categories and segments ensure that it is going hand-in-hand with the urban youth’s demands and desires. It is one of the fastest growing fashion brands within the country. Timex Digital watches are what Timex is most popular for. Timex is an iconic American heritage watch brand that is renowned for its timeless designs. It is a perfect amalgamation of high-end Italian designs and cutting-edge German engineering. It offers its customers quality products across a large and varied line of watches for everyone. Its Intelligent Quartz collection is primarily made for fashion-minded men who are interested in features like chronographs, fly-back movements and night-light.  Maxima Maxima produces designer formal watches for both men and women. It also has a special couple collection. This is the reason why couples prefer Maxima when it comes to gifting a beautiful present to their beloved. Maxima provides best of its variants between the price slabs of Rs. 300 and Rs. 4,000. Apart from couple watches, Maxima offers affordable watches specifically for men, women and children along with a special series of Uber watches. Rolex Rolex designs, manufactures, distributes and services recherché wristwatches. It is a luxury watch brand that offers a unique combination of class, elegance, perfection, beauty and serenity. It is one of the costliest watch brands in the world. It is a dream watch for most of the Indians and people around the world. Rolex is not the best-selling brand in India for the sole reason that it is not affordable for most of the people. Casio Casio is another watch brand that is widely preferred by Indians. It is one of the most trusted watch brands amongst Indian men and women; however, Casio finds solace in manufacturing more men’s watches as compared to women’s. Casio is very famous for its wristwatches. Casio has incorporated technological advancement while making its watches, for instance, the G-Stock Bluetooth enables the watches to connect with smart phones. Citizen Citizen watch brand is best-known for its wall quartz but has achieved considerable amount of success with its wristwatches as well. Quality is paramount.  Manufacturing Citizen watches incorporates innovative ideas and latest technology. Citizen Eco-drive Satellite f100 can give you satellite time no matter what time zone you are in and it takes merely three seconds to do that. Swatch Swatch is a Swiss watch brand that has garnered praise, earned trust and gained fame in India. A Swatch watch is available at affordable prices in almost every Indian city. People from all classes and sections of Indian society admire Swatch and wear one on their wrists. It is one of the top 10 best-selling watch brands in India. Omega The unique technology used in manufacturing Omega watches and their innovative designs have won the heart of many Indians. Omega’s watches are exquisite, masterpieces. Omega is one of the very few brands that make watches capable of working in zero gravity. The James Bond franchise has used Omega watches in many of its movies and thus, the franchise has earned much of the fame it enjoys today. Last Updated on May 25, 2015 Top-Watch-Brands-in-India Titan Industries Mansukh Securiteis Online Trading Hindustan Machine Tools More Products New Product Launches New Insurance Product Petrochemical Products Leading dairy Product About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED