Automobiles Tips, Car Maintenance Home » Useful Information About Automobile » Automobile Tips Automobile Tips Car Driving Tips vehicle Maintenance is the most important ingredient for a happy journey and a long life of your vehicle. A well maintained car would never desert you when you need it the most. more.. Fasten your seat belts: Buckling up your safety belt may be the single most important step you can take to reduce your health risks. Make sure that everyone in your vehicle is strapped in, and that small children are secured in safety seats before you set off. It can save your life, and it's the law! Don't Mix Drinking and Driving: Alcohol is the major cause of fatal accidents caused by human error. Drunk driving results in hundreds of thousands of injuries including lifetime disability from brain damage, paralysis, blindness, or amputated or deformed limbs. Hot Cars: On a warm day, the temperature inside a car can shoot up in minutes - even if the windows are partially open.. Even if it is not so hot outside, the danger of overheating exists - especially if you have a dark-colored car. Don't leave pets or children unattended. Keep Your Eyes On The Road: Avoid taking your eyes off the road by eliminating any possible distractions ahead of time. Before setting out on a drive, be sure that important items are within easy reach, i.e. directions and maps, sunglasses, etc. Reduce to a minimum possibly dangerous diversion of your attention from the tasks of safe driving such as changing tapes or compact discs and always pull over to a safe place to use your cellular telephone. Be Alert To Signs Of Fatigue: If you start to feel tired when driving pull over in a safe area and let someone else drive. If you are alone, pull into a safe location such as a well-lit rest stop and take a short nap or get out of the car and walk around for a few minutes. Stop as often as necessary. When traveling on long trips, eat light. Large, heavy meals can make you drowsy. Maintain a Steady Speed: Go with the flow. Keep up with traffic if conditions permit. A wide disparity in speeds is dangerous. Be Safe: Avoid cars that drive in formation on the highway so you're not involved in someone else's accident. Keep track of traffic : Look far down the road and keep your eyes moving to spot any problems before you reach them. Check your mirrors frequently. Do not hog the right lane : That is a passing lane, not a "fast" lane. Keep right except when passing. Don't try to block speeders. Use the signal lights: -Signal lane changes as well as turns. Wait to turn right : When you're stopped in traffic, waiting to turn right, keep the wheels aimed straight ahead until the way is clear. If you wait with the wheels cut to the right, someone could hit you from behind and push you into incoming traffic. Brake at the right time : Slow down to a safe speed before you enter a turn. Hard braking in mid-corner can upset the car's balance. Protect your night vision : Don't stare at approaching headlights. If you're being blinded, focus on the right shoulder of the road. Last Updated on 1/3/2012 Useful Information about Automobile Automobile Tips Transmission System Motor policy Know Your Car The Electrical System Modern Suspension System Vehicle Maintenance