Biography: Shang-Jin Wei | Asian Development Bank Jump to navigation Jump to content Asian Development Bank 中文 Careers Contacts e-Alerts Follow ADB E-mail Alerts RSS Twitter Youtube Facebook Flickr Scribd LinkedIn Toggle search Toggle navigation About ADB Organization Overview Key Facts Members Board of Governors Board of Directors President Management Departments and Offices Knowledge Management Policies and Strategies Partners Annual Meetings History FAQs Financing Operations Public Sector (Sovereign) Financing Private Sector (Nonsovereign) Financing Funds and Resources Asian Development Fund ASEAN Infrastructure Fund Investor Information [日本語] Opportunities Careers Business Opportunities Consulting Services ADB-Japan Scholarship Program Transparency Access to Information Accountability Mechanism ADB and Civil Society Anticorruption and Integrity Development Effectiveness and Results Safeguards Independent Evaluation News & Events News News Releases News Briefs Speeches Op-Eds and Opinion Articles Events Calendar of Events Multimedia Videos Photo Essays Infographics Photos ADB Experts Social Media Hub Media Contacts Subscriber Services Asian Development Blog Data & Research Data & Research Overview Economic Research Publications Statistics and Databases Featured Economic Research Initiatives Infographics Chief Economist Contacts Publications Publications Overview Browse by Type Books Reports Papers and Briefs Serials Conference Proceedings Guides Policies, Strategies, Plans Official Records Brochures and Flyers See Also Country Planning Documents Project Documents Evaluation Documents Countries Countries with Operations Afghanistan Armenia Azerbaijan Bangladesh Bhutan Cambodia China, People's Republic of [中文] Cook Islands Fiji Georgia India Indonesia [Bahasa Indonesia] Kazakhstan Kiribati   Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Malaysia Maldives Marshall Islands Micronesia, Federated States of Mongolia Myanmar Nauru Nepal Pakistan Palau Papua New Guinea Philippines   Samoa Solomon Islands Sri Lanka Tajikistan Thailand Timor-Leste Tonga Turkmenistan Tuvalu Uzbekistan Vanuatu Viet Nam Country Planning Documents Subregional Programs Brunei Darussalam-Indonesia-Malaysia-Philippines East ASEAN Growth Area (BIMP-EAGA) Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation (CAREC) Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) Indonesia-Malaysia-Thailand Growth Triangle (IMT-GT) South Asia Subregional Economic Cooperation (SASEC) Other Offices European Representative Office Japanese Representative Office [日本語] North American Representative Office Pacific Liaison and Coordination Office Pacific Subregional Office Projects Projects Overview Show Proposed Projects Show Approved Projects Project Documents Project Cycle Operations Project Results and Case Studies Using ADB Project Data Archive Advanced Search Focus Areas Agriculture and Food Security Education Energy Environment and Climate Change Finance Sector Development Gender and Development Governance and Public Management Health Information and Communications Technology Regional Cooperation and Integration Social Development and Poverty Transport Urban Development Water Toggle navigation Biography: Shang-Jin Wei Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Print Bookmark Download photo in high resolution. Shang-Jin Wei is the Chief Economist of the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Mr. Wei is the chief spokesperson for ADB on economic and development trends, and leads the Economic Research and Regional Cooperation Department, which publishes ADB's flagship knowledge products. Profile News Releases Mr. Wei, born in the People's Republic of China and a national of the United States, has a long and distinguished career in academia and international finance and trade. Before joining ADB he was the N.T. Wang Chair and Director of the Chazen Institute of International Business at Columbia University, Director of the National Bureau of Economic Research's working group on the Chinese economy, and a research fellow at the Center for Economic Policy Research (Europe). Prior to Columbia University, Mr. Wei was an Assistant Director and Chief of Division at the International Monetary Fund (IMF) where he led the Fund's policy research and advised on issues in international trade, investment, globalization, and related topics. He was IMF Chief of Mission to Myanmar in 2004. Mr. Wei served as an advisor on anti-corruption policy and research at the World Bank from 1999 to 2000. He was an assistant and associate professor at Harvard University from 1992 to 1999. Mr. Wei earned a PhD in Economics and a Master's degree in Finance from the University of California, Berkeley; a Master's degree in Economics from Pennsylvania State University; and a Bachelor's degree in World Economy from Fudan University in the People's Republic of China. 24 March 2015 Bold Market-Oriented Reforms Key to Keep High Growth Momentum in PRC Growth in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) will continue its moderate deceleration in 2015 and 2016 as the government targets lower growth and continues its program of structural reforms, says a new ADB report. 24 March 2015 ADB Sees Strong Growth for Developing Asia in 2015 and 2016 Developing Asia will maintain its strong economic growth in 2015 and 2016 supported by soft commodity prices and recovery in the major industrial economies, says a new ADB report. 24 March 2015 Indian Growth to Rise as Structural Reforms Take Hold India’s economy is expected to grow significantly in 2015 as progress in the government’s structural reform agenda and improved external demand lift investor confidence, says a new ADB report.  24 March 2015 Strong Finance Systems, Broad Access Needed for Inclusive Growth Financial systems in developing Asia have improved in the past decade but further deepening of banks and capital markets and greater access to finance is essential to enhance growth and equity in the region, says a new ADB report today. 17 March 2015 Despite Rising Risks Emerging East Asia Bond Markets Appear Healthy—ADB Widening credit spreads, a stronger US dollar, Greece’s debt crisis, and plunging oil prices are growing risks to local currency bonds in emerging East Asia, ADB's latest Asia Bond Monitor shows. Pages 1 2 3 Next Data and Research Main Economic Research Publications Statistics and Databases Featured Economic Research Initiatives Infographics Chief Economist Contacts You are here Data and Research Biography: Shang-Jin Wei Page Top © 2015 Asian Development Bank. Sitemap Terms of Use E-mail Alerts RSS Twitter Youtube Facebook Flickr Scribd LinkedIn Asian Development Bank Headquarters: 6 ADB Avenue, Mandaluyong City 1550, Metro Manila, Philippines + 63 2 632 4444 + 63 2 636 2444 ADB Contacts Access to Information Fraud and Corruption Reporting Hotline (+ 63 2 632 5004) E-mail the Office of Anticorruption and Integrity Resources For Bond Investors Businesses and Consultants Civil Society Job Seekers Journalists Private Sector Project Investors Other ADB Sites ADB Compliance Review Panel ADB Institute (ADBI) Asia Pathways (ADBI Blog) Asia Regional Integration Center Asian Bonds Online Asian Development Blog Open Access Repository Alerts and Mobile Apps Subscriber Services Subscribe to ADB's Newsletter, e-Alerts, RSS feeds and mobile apps. ADB encourages websites and blogs to link to its web pages. Articles may be republished without alteration with the attribution statement “This article was first published by the Asian Development Bank (www.adb.org)" and a clickable link back to adb.org.