Rose water - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Rose water Rose water Buy directly from supplier Request Price Description Product Description Botanical Name :- : Rosa damascene, centifolia. Origin : Bulgaria, France, Itally Mode of Extraction : Hydrosolportion distillate of rose water Main Constituents : Rose essential oil contains citronellol, nonadecane, geraniol and phenyl ethyl alcohol, and also henicosane, 9-nonadecen, eicosane, linalool, citronellyl acetate, methyleugenol,heptadecane, pentadecane, docosane, nerol, disiloxane, octadecane, andpentacosane. The Rose water is like to contains the compounds present in rose oil. Appearence : clear Transparent Liquid Organoleptic properties : rosy Note Solubility: soluble in water Storage : Well air tight closed in small bottles, HDPE drums and GI drums. Rose water is a flavoured water made by steeping rose petals in water. It is the hydrosolportion of the distillate of rose petals, a by-product of the production of rose oil for use inperfume. It is used to flavour food, as a component in some cosmetic and medical preparations, and for religious purposes throughout Europe and Asia. Uses it is also added to tea, ice cream, cookiesand other sweets in small quantities, and in the Arab world, Pakistan and India it is used to flavour milk and dairy-based dishes such as rice pudding. It is also a key ingredient in sweet lassi, a drink made from yogurt, sugar and various fruit juices, and is also used to make jallabi. Cosmetic and medicinal use Rose water is a usual component of perfume. A rose water ointment is occasionally used as an emollient, and rose water is sometimes used in cosmetics such as cold creams. Medicinal use-Ayurveda: In India, rose water is used as eye drops to clear them. Some people in India also use rose water as spray applied directly to the face for natural fragrance and moisturiser, especially during winters. It is also used in Indian sweets and other food preparations (particularly gulab jamun). Rose water is often sprinkled in Indian weddings to welcome guests. Religious uses Rose water is used as a perfume in religious ceremonies (Hindu, Muslim and Zoroastrian). Water used to clean the Kaaba, the Qibla for Muslims located in Mecca, combines Zamzam water with rose water as an additive. In the Indian subcontinent during Muslim burials, rose water is often sprinkled in the dug grave before placing the body inside. Rose water is used in some Hindu rituals as well. Rose water also figures in Christianity, particularly in the Eastern Orthodox Church. Benefits of rose water 1. Since rose oil has anti-inflammatory properties, using rose water can help in reducing the redness from irritated or over-heated skin. 2. It is a great cleanser and aids in removing oil and dirt accumulated in clogged pores. Thus preventing acne and pimples. 3. It has astringent like properties, which is why it is used after facials and clean ups to close open pores. Applying rose water after steaming tightens capillaries, reduces redness and blotchiness. 4. The aroma of roses is said to be a powerful mood enhancer. It rids you of feelings of anxiety and promotes emotional wellbeing, thereby making you look relaxed. Since it is de-stressing, it helps you sleep better which means you will wake up feeling fresh. 5. The best and easiest way to use it is to apply it at night. It helps clear all impurities that your face has collected through the day. Packing size:- 500 ml, 1 lt, 5 lt, 20 lt and 35 lt drum packing. If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: KTCI3 . Category: Extracts . Social share Related Products Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Extracts , Farm Output Shadow dried soursop leaves powder Free Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Extracts , Farm Output Natural Vanilla extract Free Buy directly from supplierr Request Price Quick View Extracts Cumin Seed Oil Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Extracts Palmarosa oil Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics irrigation magazine medicinal plants net pots npk organic fertiliser packaging plant growth promoter plant growth stimulator Potassium Rotavator seeds soil soil nutrients