Shirdi City Map Home » Maps » Maharashtra Map » Shirdi City Map   Cities in Maharashtra Mumbai Ahmednagar Akola Aurangabad Kolhapur Latur Nagpur Nashik Pune Solapur Shirdi                        more.. महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Regions Mumbai Central North Mumbai South Mumbai About Maharashtra History and Geography Maharashtra Climate Maharashtra Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Maharashtra Economy Industrial Map Maharashtra Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Maharashtra Education Universities in Maharashtra Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Shirdi City Map City Map of Shirdi Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Shirdi city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. . Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Maharashtra   Mumbai City Map Pune City Map Nashik City Map Nagpur City Map         Ahmednagar City Map Aurangabad City Map Mahabaleshwar City Map Shirdi City Map       other cities of Maharashtra >>   Travel Map of Maharashtra   Aurangabad Travel Map Mumbai Travel Map Pune Travel Map         Shirdi is a town located in the Ahmednagar district of the state of Maharashtra and is at a distance of 296 kms from Mumbai, the state capital. This town is also famous for being home to the popular 19th century Shirdi Sai Baba who's temple here draws thousands of pilgrims here each year. Sai Baba was a guru, yogi and fakir who is regarded by both Hindus and Muslims as a saint. Many Hindus also consider him a reincarnation of Lord Krishna. Also known as the Land of Sai, Shirdi is very well connected to the rest of the country and only recently got its own railway station in March 2009 which is named Sainagar Shirdi. Shirdi is most famous for the Shirdi Sai Baba Temple which has been constructed on the Samadhi of Shri Sai Baba. It is believed that Sai Baba arrived in the town of Shirdi when he was 16 years old and lived here until his death. It is also believed that Sai Baba took shelter in the Khandoba Temple, where a villager by the name of Mahalsapathi in the temple called him "Sai" or Saint Sai Baba. Sai Baba was born in 1838 and died in 1918. His real name, birthplace and date of birth are not known. Revered equally by both Hindus and Muslims, Sai Baba lived in a mosque and after he died was cremated in a temple. Sai Baba founded the philosophy of "Shraddha" meaning faith and "Saburi" meaning compassion and according to him both of these virtues were very important to reach the state of godliness. Apart from the Sai Baba temple another place near Shirdi which is very famous is the village of Shani Shingnapur which contains a temple dedicated to Lord Shani. The village is also famous for the fact that none of the houses, shops and even banks there have doors; there are door frames but no doors. The villagers never keep anything under lock and key as they believe that Lord Shani will punish anyone who tries to steal. Last Updated on : 21 May 2013 Cities in Maharashtra Akola Alibag Amravati Beed-city Bhiwandi Chandrapur Chiplun Jalna Dombivli Khandala Kolhapur Latur Lavasa Lonavala Malegaon Matheran Mumbai Kalyan Nanded Navi Mumbai Pandharpur Panvel Sangli Satara Vajreshwari Washim Travel to Maharashtra Travel to Ajanta Travel to Aurangabad Travel to Ellora Travel to Khandala Travel to Lonavala Travel to Haji Ali Travel to Mumbai Travel to Nagpur Travel to Nashik Travel to Panchgani Travel to Pune Travel to Shirdi Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Ajanta Places to visit in Aurangabad Places to visit in Khandala Places to visit in Lonavala Places to visit in Mahabaleshwar Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Mumbai Places to visit in Nagpur Places to visit in Nashik Places to visit in Pune Places to visit in Shirdi             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule