Yamuna Expressway Map Home » Maps » Uttar Pradesh » Yamuna Expressway Map   Uttar Pradesh Geography and History उत्तर प्रदेश का नक्शा Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                    (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map Proposed New States Awadh Pradesh Bundelkhand Paschim Pradesh Purvanchal Yamuna Expressway Lucknow Metro Map Noida Metro Map Cities Noida Lucknow Allahabad Kanpur Agra                      more.. Industries Thermal Power Plants Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Travel to Uttar Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Forts and Palaces in Uttar Pradesh Temples and Shrines in Uttar Pradesh Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels             more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Uttar Pradesh Architectural Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Uttar Pradesh Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Uttar   Pradesh       Yamuna Expressway Yamuna Expressway Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Yamuna Expressway Map showing routes from Greater Noida to Agra. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Yamuna Expressway between Noida and Agra is 165 kms long and was built to reduce the traveling time between Delhi and Agra in Uttar Pradesh . This expressway has 6 lanes and will reduce the time of traveling between the two cities by 50%. Slow moving vehicles like push carts and bullock carts will not be allowed at the expressway. Light vehicles can travel at a speed of 100km/h whereas the heavy vehicles can travel at a speed of 60km/h at the expressway. The expressway other than reducing the time of traveling will help in the development and progress of the nearby areas. There is a continuous movement of traffic between Noida which is located in the vicinity of Delhi, the capital city and Agra, Delhi being the national capital city and Agra being the city of the famous Taj Mahal , are frequently visited by tourists. Noida itself is an emerging centre of trade in India. Yamuna expressway will help reduce traffic on National Highway 2 which earlier used to handle all the traffic directed towards Agra from Delhi and NCR (near capital regions including Noida) and areas like Faridabad and Palwal. The Yamuna Expressway is a project of Jaypee Group. The Expressway has been built keeping in view all the safety needs of the travelers. It is fully equipped with CCTV's and mobile radars to keep a track of the traffic movement. The Yamuna Expressway has been operational since May 2012. Yamuna Expressway Toll Rates Vehicle Category Aligarh Mathura Agra Round Trip Two-wheeler 50 100 150 240 Car/Jeep/Van 100 220 320 510 LCV/Mini Bus 150 350 500 800 Bus/Truck 300 700 1050 1680 Multi Axle Vehicle 450 1050 1600 2560 Seven Axle Vehicle 600 1400 2100 3360 Distance from neighboring cities to Yamuna Expressway. Yamuna Expressway Video Delhi 38 km Noida 18 km Gurgaon 67 km Ghaziabad 33 km Hapur 60 km Faridabad 43 km Bulandshar 41 km Palwal 32 km Aligarh 46 km Mathura 12 km Firozabad 31 km Yamuna Expressway Images Last Updated on : 10/06/2013 Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Elevation Map Region Map District Map Railway Map Road Map Tehsil Map River Map Proposed Map of Uttar Pradesh Avadh Pradesh Bundelkhand Paschip Pradesh Purvanchal Thematic Maps of Uttar Pradesh Yamuna Expressway Map Lucknow Metro Map Noida Metro Map Sex Ratio Map Handicrafts Map Industrial Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule