IFPRI Launches Regional Food Security Portal for Central America and the Caribbean | Food Security Portal Food Security Portal About Us Contact Us Join Login Supporters Home Countries Commodities Policy Analysis Tools Data Dashboard Blog Food Security News Latin America Evidence-Based Research Data IFPRI Launches Regional Food Security Portal for Central America and the Caribbean In Focus Improving Food Safety in Kenya Through the Private Sector IFPRI Launches Regional Food Security Portal for Central America and the Caribbean G20 Agriculture Ministers Meet in Istanbul to Discuss Sustainable Food Systems Categories Africa Asia Data Evidence-Based Research FAO Food Price Index FEWS NET Monthly Price Watch G20 G20 Mexico GIEWS Crop Prospects GIEWS Global Food Price Monitor May 14, 2015 by admin Photo Credit: Flickr (J.L. Urrea / CCAFS) BY: Summer Allen This week IFPRI launched a new Spanish-language web portal that focuses on food and nutrition security in Central America, the Food Security Portal for Central America and the Caribbean (CAC-FSP) . The objective of the portal is to provide a set of indicators on food and nutrition security and early warning mechanisms as well as opportunities for dialogue among policymakers, researchers, the private sector and others seeking to increase the resilience of the world’s poor to possible food-related crises, including price and climate shocks. “Despite the increase in global food supply and the increasing use of agricultural technology in key food-exporting countries, today more than ever before policy makers in food net importing countries (like most countries in Central America) are confronted by increasingly complex challenges to food and nutrition security,” said Maximo Torero, director of the Markets, Trade and Institutions Division at IFPRI. The portal is designed to pool data and evidence-based information on the different dimensions of food and nutrition security in structured and timely ways to ensure data quality, timeliness, and relevance to the food and nutrition security policies in the region. It also seeks to be a center of dialogue between the different actors involved in food and nutrition security policies to help inform the design of future policies. One of the feature stories on the portal highlights a geo-spatial tool developed to identify the gaps in public investments needed to reduce poverty, inequality and malnutrition in rural areas of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras using geographic targeting and the prioritization of these investments. This tool demonstrated, for example, that areas of Honduras with low levels of agricultural potential and low efficiency had the highest levels of child migration to the U.S. “This is just one illustration of how rigorous methodology and appropriate data can help governments focus and prioritize public investments given tight budgets,” said Dr. Torero. The relationship between poverty, inequality, and malnutrition in these areas and child migration from Central American countries will also be explored in a virtual dialogue hosted on the site 26-29 May. The dialogue will feature both a live panel discussion with eight experts in the field of food and nutrition security as well as an open online discussion forum. “Food and nutrition security is not only a problem of one sector (e.g., agriculture, public health, or economics), it is a multi-sectorial and multi stakeholder problem, and we need multi-sectorial policies with the participation of all stakeholders-- private, public and civil society,” said Dr. Torero. The CAC-FSP has the goal of supporting the action plans and priorities identified in the international workshop "Advancing the Agenda of the Food and Nutrition Security in the Countries of Central America." This is a joint effort of the Central American Integration System (SICA), the Central American Agricultural Council (CAC), the Secretariat of Central American Economic Integration (SIECA), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI). Summer Allen is a Research Coordinator in the Markets, Trade and Institutions Division at IFPRI . admin's blog Print Post new comment Your name: * E-mail: * The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly. Homepage: Subject: Comment: * Formatting help   IFPRI gratefully acknowledges the European Commission (EC) and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) for their financial support of the Food Security Portal. Facebook Twitter About Us The Food Security Portal, facilitated by IFPRI, aims to provide improved food security for the world's poor and increased resilience of global food systems against food and financial crises. The project brings together international, regional, and country-level data, news, and research aimed at meeting countries' immediate food security needs, as well as building long-term global food security. The open-access project encompasses a global research-based monitoring and capacity-strengthening device for successful identification and implementation of the appropriate policy actions in response to food crises. The Food Security Portal is designed to pool information in structured ways and ensure data quality, timeliness, and relevance, as well as the opportunity for collaboration among policymakers, development professionals, and researchers. Home Countries Commodities Policy Analysis Tools Data Dashboard Blog Food Security News Partners Contact Us Food Security Portal   |   Facilitated by IFPRI   |   2033 K St, NW   |   Washington, DC 20006-1002 USA Copyright ©2012 All Rights Reserved Share Home Countries Commodities Policy Analysis Tools Data Dashboard Blog Food Security News About Us Contact Us Join Login Supporters