Gujarat Weather Home » Gujarat » Geography » Gujarat Weather   Gujarat History Geography Weather गुजरात का नक्शा Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Region Map District Map Road Map Railway Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Port Map Ahmedabad Metro Map Cities Ahmedabad Anand Surat Vadodara Dwarka                        more.. Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Gujarat Places to visit in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Beaches Wildlife Sanctuaries Hotels in Gujarat Ahmedabad Hotels Saputara Hotels Surat Hotels Vadodara Hotels Rajkot Hotels Jamnagar Hotels              more... How to reach Airports Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Schools Universities in Gujarat India Map in Gujarati World Map in Gujarati Gujarat Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Gujarat       Gujarat Weather Gujarat weather, an inevitable part of the geography of Gujarat , has certain characteristics that mark it special among the other western regions of India. Gujarat weather is marked by an arid and dry climate, with a little bit of rain during the monsoons. Gujarat weather shows two distinctive traits. In the northern region, Gujarat weather is marked by a dry and arid climate; whereas in the south, one can find a moist weather owing to the Arabian Sea and the Gulf of Cambay. Normally, the Gujarat weather is divided into four major seasons: The winter season (November - February) The summer season (March - May) The monsoon season (June - September), and The autumn season (October) Winters in Gujarat are mild, pleasant and dry. The day temperature in winter is around 83° F and at night is 53° F. Summers are extremely hot, with the day time temperature being 115° F, and the night temperature being 90° F. In Gujarat, monsoon is generally hot and utterly humid. The temperature at day is 100° F but at night it falls down to 80° F. Sometimes severe flood also occurs in some parts of the region during monsoon. The monsoon is, indeed, a characteristic feature of the Gujarat weather because the other parts of the western India is devoid of any rainfall. Studying the geography of Gujarat, one can find that the rainfall in Gujarat varies from place to place - the average rainfall varies from 33 to 152 centimeters. The northern region receives a rainfall ranging from 51 to 102 centimeters; whereas the southern region receives 76 to 152 centimeters of rainfall. Rainfall in the southern regions of Saurashtra and the Gulf of Cambay is low compared to the other parts of Gujarat. The arid regions around the Rann of Kutch faces an acute scarcity of water, due to lack of rainfall in these areas. Therefore, it is evident that the Gujarat weather has its own distinct characteristics and is unique in its own way! Last Updated on : 30 September 2011 About Gujarat Geography History Weather Area Facts Districts Factsheet Flora and Fauna Topography Textiles People Dresses Food Art and craft Fairs and Festivals Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Outline Map Lat Long Map Elevation Map Mandal Map District Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Industry Map Agriculture Map Railway Map Road Map Tehsil Map River Map Gujarat Thematic Maps Agro Climate Zone Map Fisheries Zone Map Handicrafts Centres Map Geo Environmental Map Map of Ports in Gujarat Forest and Vegetation Map Relative Humidity Map Soil Salinity and Erosion Map Gujarat Minerals Map Oil and Gas Fields Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule