FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman Written by Administrator on 26 May 2014 . Posted in Download Twitter FINER Delegation meets Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman, Hon’ble Union Minister of Commerce and Industry, at Guwahati A high level delegation of Federation of Industry and Commerce of North Eastern Region (FINER), comprising  Chairman Shri R S Joshi, IP Chairman Shri S.C Agarwalla, Directors - Shri Sandeep Khaitan, Shri Sunil Agarwal and Shri Pankaj Jhunjhunwala and DDG, Ms. Indrani Chaudhury had a meeting today with Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman, Hon’ble Union Minister of Commerce and Industry during her visit to Guwahati. The delegation headed by Shri R.S Joshi Chairman, submitted a memorandum to the Hon’ble Minister, on the  issues pertaining to NEIIPP 2007. The memorandum highlighted relevant issues  pertaining to NEIIPP 2007, removal of anomalies,  addition of certain service industries to the list of eligible services,  improvement and widening the scope and extension of policy beyond 2017. The Hon’ble Minister gave a patient hearing to the delegation and appreciated the inputs and suggestions submitted by the same. She also ensured to extend full support from the Ministry for the development of the Industries and Commerce in the North Eastern Region. Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Comments Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS No comments found Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Home About Finer What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com