Uttar Pradesh Forts And Palaces Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Uttar Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Uttar Pradesh Hotels Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Akbar Tomb Triveni Sangam Krishna Janmabhoomi Temple Dwarkadhish Temple Mathura kans Qila Rang Bhoomi Krishna Balram Temple Dudhwa National Park Cities to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Agra Travel Allahabad Travel Ayodhya Travel Jhansi Travel Lucknow Travel Mathura Travel Varanasi Travel Vrindavan Travel Uttar Pradesh Hotels Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels About Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Fair and Festivals Music Quick facts Home » Uttar Pradesh » Forts And Palaces Uttar Pradesh Forts And Palaces Forts & Palaces in Uttar Pradesh Allahabad Fort The Allahabad Fort of Uttar Pradesh is built in 1583 by Emperor Akbar near the banks of the river Yamuna. The majestic Allahabad Fort is one of the largest fort built during Akbar's reign. The Allahabad Fort of Uttar Pradesh is matchless in its architectural design and craftsmanship. You will find three splendid galleries laid by high towers inside the Allahabad Fort, Uttar Pradesh. Today, the Allahabad Fort in Uttar Pradesh is utilized by the Indian army. You need to take permission if you wish to visit the Allahabad Fort but only a limited area is open to visitors. The Allahabad Fort in Uttar Pradesh comprises of heavy walls and three gateways flanked by high towers. You will find a 'Zenana' or harem and Jodhabai Palace inside the Allahabad Fort at Uttar Pradesh. There is an Ashoka pillar belonging to the 3rd centuary B.C, a well called the 'Saraswati Koop', Patalpuri or the underground temple and the very old 'Akshaya Vata' inside the Allahabad Fort. Chunargarh Fort The Chunargarh Fort is situated about 45 kilometers from the Varanasi in the Mirzapur district of Uttar Pradesh. The Chunargarh Fort was said to be constructed by the Maharaja Vikramaditya, the king of Ujjain in the 56 BC. The Chunargarh Fort of Uttar Pradesh is one of the ancient forts of India which still stands erect surviving the ravages of time. The historic Chunargarh Fort of Uttar Pradesh passed in the hands of many kings and emperors ruling India in the past. The Chunargarh Fort was possessed by the Mogul ruler Babur as well as the Afghan Governor Sher Shah Suri. History reveals that Sher Shah Suri possessed the Chunargarh Fort in Uttar Pradesh after marrying Taj Khan's widow, the Governor of Ibrahim Lodhi. In the year 1531, Babur's son Humayun attempted to annex the Chunargarh Fort in Uttar Pradesh from the possession of Sher Shah. But he was badly defeated. Much later, emperor Akbar captured the Chunargarh Fort in 1574 when Sher Shah Suri died. The Chunargarh Fort at Uttar Pradesh was under the possession of the Mughal Emperors till 1772 but later the British East India Company annexed the Chunargarh Fort at Uttar Pradesh from the Mughals. Ramgarh Fort The Ramgarh Fort of Uttar Pradesh is popularly called the fort of Royal Scion of Varanasi. The Ramgarh Fort lies in the leeward side of the holy Ganges in Varanasi. The Ramgarh Fort of Uttar Pradesh is very aesthetically designed, but it is very small comparison to other forts of the state. The Ramgarh Fort is believed to be built by Raja Ram Chander, a notable ruler of the Chandela Rajput dynasty. During that period, the Chandela rulers were believed to be the great patrons of art and architecture. Apart from the Ramgarh Fort in Uttar Pradesh, the king commissioned fro the town of Ramshere. The Ramgarh Fort in Uttar Pradesh functioned as the royal Government of Kutlehar, during the reign of Raja Saheb Bahadur, but later it was shifted to the Charatgarh fort. The Ramgarh Fort at Uttar Pradesh basically served as the residential quarters for the the royal family in the past but later it was handed over to the Indian Government. Last Updated on 02/15/2013 About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule