gariasathi | ngogateway.com Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Latest : Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Posted 1 year ago MARS FOUNDATION Posted 1 year ago St.Theresa’s Educational Society Posted 1 year ago Ray Welfare Society Posted 1 year ago Narain Sewa Sansthan Posted 1 year ago WOMEN ORGANISATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRUST Posted 1 year ago Sewa Bhav Foundation Posted 1 year ago Panrui Swajan Welfare Society Posted 4 years ago Sampark Samaj Kalyan Sansthan Posted 4 years ago The Catholic Health Association of India Posted 4 years ago Home   >   organization   >   gariasathi gariasathi By debaprasad chakraborty on July 9, 2014 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type of the Organization: – Non Profit Social Welfare Organization. 3. Address of the Organization: – 29/3 Brizi Road, Garia, Kolkata – 700084. (W.B) 4. Reg No- S/IL/30069(2005-2006) 5. Recognition u/s52 (2) & (4):- 257/com (2007) (P.W.D Act) 6. Telephone no: – 033 – 64529283 7. Email Address: – sathi.garia@rediffmail.com 8. Web Address: – www.gariasathi.org 9. Project Title: – REHABILITATION OF SPECIAL CHILDREN 10. Date of Establishment: – 20th June 2005. 11. Our Banking Details: Bank : – United Bank of India. Branch : – Garia A/C No: – 270725. M.I.C.R No: – 700027054 12. Name & Address of Contact Persons: – Sumitra Ganguly 9/26 Netaji Nagar, Flat no-6 , Kolkata- 700092(W.B) Ph- 9831610397 Debaprasad Chakraborty 29/3 Brizi Road, Garia Kolkata – 700084. (W.B) Ph- 9830091648. 13. Nature of the Organization:- Garia Sathi is a Registered society under societies Registration Act XXVI of 1961 and also Registered under Government of west Bengal office of the commissioner, for persons with Disabilities U/S 52(2) and (4) Act 95 Reg.No 257/Com (2007), Registered Act under u/s 12AA of the I.T. Act. 1961, Registered Act under u/s 80G(5) (vi) of the I.T. Act, 1961, taken upon its shoulder to work with the challenged children who belong to the villages and Below Poverty Line (BPL) population. They are even unable to have a square meal a day, leave alone pay for their special treatment. 14. General Information about the Organization:- “Garia Sathi” is devoted to the growth, development and rehabilitation of the children of our society with natural negations and various challenges. Operating on a very humble level, we are fortunate to receive some invaluable service from some local experts. For a Govt. registered Organization we are now striving towards mass awareness, social support and corporate patronage for our cause. We intend to drive home in to the minds of the People that these challenges can be made easy to some extent with early detection and proper care and that in no way bad parenting, or evil stars have any influence on these challenged individuals. Our basic premise is to work with and for the under-privileged and the BPL population who constitute the major portion of the rural populace With this awareness mission on hand we are on a fast track to cover whole of Kolkata and aspire to go national down the years. We have been blessed with a world of colors, fragrances and sounds – and most of us are blessed with the sense to feel and experience these shades of life. But, there are a few whose lives are dark and silent – who are unable to see or feel or hear life as we take for granted. These challenged souls are fighting for a ray of hope – a hope to live! The pain, the agony and the helplessness of the mentally or physically challenged people are unbearable. Sometime, we, the privileged ones, take pity on them and utter “How sad! God help them” or such similar words of sympathy. What is really sad is that we fail to understand the challenged – “They need Empathy not Sympathy”. Garia Sathi – Who are we? Garia Sathi, a non-profit organization has taken upon its shoulder to work with the challenged children who belong to the villages and Below Poverty Line (BPL) population. They are even unable to have a square meal a day, leave alone pay for their special treatment. Presently, Garia Sathi has employed a dedicated and efficient of audiologist, speech therapist, psychologists, psychiatrists, physiotherapists and special educators dealing with MR & HI cases. They are treating, training and educating a number of physically challenged children and adults belonging to BPL and under privileged families who require hearing aids, artificial limbs, wheel chairs, crutches, balance-shoes, chairs designed for different kinds of disabilities. Many require aids but do not have the means to buy those instruments while others require treatment, training & education. Garia Sathi- OUR INSPIRATION Human Society comprises Homo Sapiens of Normal, exceptional and abnormal natures. Whoever it is, to simply exist in this jet world of competition it is almost impossible to exist without proper understanding& knowledge, learning efficiency of ones own. These when coupled with the latent potential of individual renders him “SUCCESSFUL IN LIFE’. We intend to strive to extend a square field to these children. The very concept originated in the mind one of our member whose daughter a victim of hearing impairment since birth. Early detection and deployment of suitable assistance sustained natural growth & development of natural facilities. Garia Sathi – Our Mission ? To bring a ray of hope to the lives of Autistic & mentally challenged children ? To guide the challenged people towards a better and meaningful way of live ? We intend to train these children and make them self- sufficient for all walks of life so that they do not need to depend on others and can successfully create a standing of their own. They need our empathy not sympathy. They should be made to inculcate within themselves a sense of self – respect & dignity and create their own worth, when the sun will rise for them alone. Garia Sathi – Our Vission • We aspire to make the challenged children of today facilities of tomorrow so that they can render assistance to somebody else and make them selves sufficient enough to shoulder the responsibilities of making India a super power. • We dream of a nation where the people will be intertwined & interrelated where no one will be a burden or obligation for the other. Garia Sathi – Our Modus Operandi • Registration. • Identification. • Documentation. • Counseling. • Training Initiation. • Deployment of sequential practice with the expert’s advice. • Regular securitizations of equipments & patient suitability & adaptability. • Feedback. • Formal education. • Initiative for mainstream retrieval. Garia Sathi – Areas of Operations ? Children with Autistic challenges ? Children with Hearing impairment Garia Sathi – Where are we? Sathi Garia is located in the southern zone of Kolkata, India, in a rental house with very humble infrastructure. Garia Sathi – Our Technical & non Technical support The society is running with technical experts such as psychologist, psychiatrist, physiotherapist, special educators for H.H, MR & OH, counselors, speech therapist & audiologist. There is also a staff who run the administration of the society efficiently. Garia Sathi – Our Students All our students are mostly young children, belonging to the BPL level. Currently, we are trying to help about 32 + children to overcome their respective challenges and get back to the so-called “Main-stream” of the society. Special Project: Awareness Camps Apart from our work at the institute, Garia Sathi organizes awareness camps in far flung villages to reach out to physically / mentally challenged children & adults who are unable to travel to our institute. These camps also build awareness in the immediate community and help people understand the needs and requirements of their challenged family member or neighbors. Through the awareness camps, Garia Sathi aims to provide guidance and solution for a better life for the challenged people, enabling them to protect their self-esteem. Extra Curricular Activities at Garia Sathi ? Garia Sathi organizes cultural programme every year performed by the students of the institute. Touching songs and dances performance by the children left the audience spellbound. In every programme we get moral cooperation from different type of celebrities who boost the morale of Garia Sathi and encourage the students and staff to continue these initiatives is future. ? We teach our students different type of Vocational training for their self-dependency. ? Garia Sathi took part in different types of fetes, and exhibited and sold articles made by the challenged children ? We celebrate Raksha bandhan utsab with our challenged children by interacting with children of normal schools. ? Every year we celebrate World Disabled day, on 3rd December. By holding rallies and Culture programmes. ? Garia Sathi arranges Excursions and picnics every year with the students and parents. ? For the moral development of the students we use the media of Drama Therapy and our students perform through out the year in different cultural festivals. Garia Sathi – We need YOU to help US help THEM! The founders at Garia Sathi have been digging deep into their personal pockets to help run a special institute for the challenged people – to give them a life full of dignity, filled with happiness and laughter. This cannot be sustained for long without your help and support. And it would be a great injustice on our part to let down those, whom we promised to help. We are in dire need of funds. Our immediate need is a larger place to house our institute, as the present house is unable to accommodate the number of children pouring in for help. Our main objective is to enable the needy and under-privileged children to overcome the disabilities that Mother Nature has thrust upon them. We, at Garia Sathi, need your support to provide that ray of hope and guidance to these children. We would be ever grateful and appreciate your help in support for this noble cause. For Garia Sathi ( Sumitra Ganguly) Principal of the Institution This post was submitted by debaprasad chakraborty . Related Posts: Winner Society Child Help Foundation sharon society of pondicherry Bhartiya Shaikshik Sansthan The Doctors United Charitable Trust Bank Of India Bank United E Mail Hearing Impaired Children Impediments India Branch Kolka Nots Office Staff Physiotherapist Project Proposal Psychiatrist Raipur Registered Organization S52 Sathi Social Welfare Organization Speech Therapist United Bank United Bank Of India About debaprasad chakraborty Related Posts MARS FOUNDATION MARS FOUNDATION SANKALP JYOTI SANKALP JYOTI Social Action and Rural Awareness (SARA)Trust Social Action and Rural Awareness (SARA)Trust LEDARS-Local Environment Development and Agricultural Research Society LEDARS-Local Environment Development and Agricultural Research Society You must be logged in to post a comment Login Latest News pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile: A.... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym) –... Posted 8 months ago 0 Society for Peoples Integrated Development General information: Full Name of organization Society for People’s Integrated... Posted 8 months ago 0 Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Address: At – Bhalunka Po- Ramdaspur (Godisahi) Dist – Cuttack... Posted 8 months ago 0 Shri Durga Mahila Mandal (SDMM) Village & P.O. Ghanauli, District Roopnagar (Punjab) Shri Durga Mahila... Posted 8 months ago 0 Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) 1A, D. L. Khan Road,... Posted 8 months ago 0 Feedback Funding Agencies A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W Search Latest Popular Comments pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile:... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2.... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym)... Posted 8 months ago 0 Funding Agencies in India A M M Foundation “Tiam House” No 28, Rajaji... Posted 5 years ago 213 List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs American Jewish World Service Ananda Foundation Asia Foundation Baxter... Posted 6 years ago 116 Funding Agencies – C CAAC OF PIKE COUNTY 941 Market Street Piketon OH... Posted 6 years ago 91 Blog about human anatomy says: Awesome post.... Paul Ponniah says: Dear Sir, II, for Jeevan Sagar Trust, are w... Paul Ponniah says: Fine work for the Cause.... Recently Added pragati welfare society gariasathi Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Society for Peoples Integrated Development Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Copyright © 2007 - 14 | All Rights Reserved: advertisement advertisement