Manipur Education | Education in Manipur Home » Manipur » Education   Manipur मणिपुर का नक्शा Manipur Map District of Manipur East Imphal West Imphal Churachandpur Ukhrul Tamenglong              more.. Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Capital Imphal City Map Bishnupur City Map Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Agricultural Map Geography Economy Media Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies- Inner Parliamentary Constituencies- Outer Government Education Universities In Manipur History Mineral Map Society and Culture Travel to Manipur Places to visit in Manipur Wildlife Sanctuaries Govindajee Temple War Cemetery Sex Ratio Pincode STD code       Manipur Education The present scenario of education in Manipur has improved much in comparison to past few years. Earlier, education in the state was meant for the elites of the Manipuri society and ongoing issues, like economic blockades, communal clashes, have adversely affected the education system in Manipur for the last decade. The new education system adopted by the state government has indeed changed the face of secondary and higher secondary education in Manipur . The number of students who passed with first division has also increased greatly over the years. The situation has changed today as students find it easier to score above 60 percent marks in the examinations. Now, students can pursue further education in other states where cut off marks are higher as compared to in the North East states. We shouldn't overlook what the institutions are doing and what their roles are behind the high success rates of the students of Manipur. The education system started growing with the arrival of the British missionaries in Manipur brought a change in the educational scenario of the state. Reverend Pattigrew became the first Inspector of Schools of the state in 1903 and brought many reforms strengthening the educational structure of the state. The introduction of a separate education department in 1950 was a step forward towards improved educational conditions in Manipur. Today top of the line schools, colleges, technical institutions, universities and training establishments have made Manipur one of the leading educational hubs of the north east. Some of the schools in Manipur are: Amusana Girls' High School, Keinou Anallon Christian Institute, Charongching Agape Jr. High School, Sangaikot Ajad English School, Meitram Awang Leikai Alice Christian High School, Ukhrul Some of the colleges in Manipur are: Bethany Christian College, Churachandpur Biramangol College, Saombaong Canchipur College, Kyamgei Churachanpur College, Churachanpur Damdei Christan College, Kanglatombi Manipur University The Manipur University was established on 5th June 1980 under the Manipur University Act 1980 as a teaching cum-affiliating University at Imphal. In 2005, it was converted into a Central University. The Manipur University is the ultimate governing board for most of the colleges in Manipur and Manipur Institute of College - MIT. The university has a sprawling campus covering an area of 287 acres in Canchipur near Imphal. The academic officer and the chief executive of the university is the Vice Chancellor who is assisted by the Pro Vice Chancellors and the Deans. There are around 76 University-affiliated colleges in Manipur. Manipur University has eight centers for Studies which focus on a particular stream, they are: Center for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy Centre for Human Rights and Duties Education Computer Centre Education Multimedia Research Center Center for Manipur Studies Center for Myanmar Studies University Museum Center for Gandhian Studies Manipur University has six School of Studies including the School of Medical Science. The existing 27 departments comprise the following five Schools of Studies: School of Humanities School of Human and Environmental Science School of Life Sciences School of Mathematical and Physical Science School of Social Science School of Medical Science The colleges affiliated to the Manipur University provide courses on a number of subjects like: Anthropology, English, Adult Education, Bio-Chemistry, Hindi, Commerce, Chemistry, Linguistics, Economics, Earth Science, Manipuri Dance, History, Geography, Life Science, Mathematics, Statistics, etc. With the help of revamped syllabus and general and unusual subjects, the colleges have earned reputation in the countries educational scenario. List of colleges affiliated to Manipur University: D M College of Science, Imphal D M College of Commerce, Imphal D M College of Arts, Imphal D M College of Teachers' Education, Imphal Kha - Manipur College, Kakching G P Women's College, Imphal C I College, Bishenpur Nambol L.Sanoi College, Nambol Moirang College, Moirang Presidency College, Motbung Manipur College, Singjamei, Imphal Imphal College, Imphal Modern College, Porompat, Imphal Ideal Girls' College, Akampat, Imphal Oriental College, Takyelpat, Imphal M.B.College, Imphal Lilong Haoreibi College, Lilong N.G.College, Imphal Y K College, Wangjing Churachandpur College, Churachandpur Pettigrew College, Ukhrul Thoubal College, Thoubal Hill College, Tadubi Regional Institute of Medical Sciences, Lamphel L M S Law College, Imphal Hindi Teachers' Training College, Imphal United College, Chandel Tamenglong College, Tamenglong Manipur College of Technology, Takyelpat DOEACC, Akampat , Imphal Government Polytechnic, Takyelpat, Imphal Government Dance College, Imphal Institute of Cooperative Management, Lamphelpat Central Agricultural University Manipur The Central Agricultural University was established by the Central Agricultural University Act in 1992 and the university became functional on 13th September 1993.The university's jurisdiction extends to the six North-Eastern Indian states with its headquarters at Imphal in Manipur. The University has a mission to be the centre of excellence in teaching, extension education and research in the field of agriculture and related sectors. The University aspires to develop an extension and effective distribution of advanced agricultural technologies in North-East India. It acts as a vital link for converting agriculture and related profession into profitable endeavors offering food and nutritional security for the people of North-East. Central Agricultural University has established seven colleges and three Krishi Vigyan Kendras in the six states of North-East India. They offer Undergraduate as well as Postgraduate Degree Programmes in agriculture and allied sciences. The Central Agricultural University or CAU has an importance in the overall education in Manipur. Main Campuses of the Central Agricultural University : College of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry, Selesih, Aizawl, Mizoram College of Fisheries, Lembucherra, Agartala, Tripura College of Horticulture and Forestry, Pasighat, Arunachal Pradesh College of Home Science, Tura, West Garo Hills Meghalaya College of Agricultural Engineering and Post-Harvest Technology, Ranipool, Gangtok, Sikkim College of Postgraduate Studies, Barapani Shillong, Meghalaya College of Agriculture, Iroisemba, Imphal, Manipur Apart from the regular courses like B.Sc, B.Tech, M.Sc, M.J and M.Tech for the Indian students, there are courses for foreign students also. The main objective of the Central Agricultural University is to open new avenues in the agricultural research of the country. Colleges and Institutes in Manipur Schools in Manipur The educational needs of the people of the state of Manipur are catered to by the colleges and institutes in Manipur. There are several colleges and institutes in Manipur that specialize in providing the students with technical knowledge in the streams of arts, commerce and science. The courses offered by the colleges and institutes of Manipur are approved by the All-India Council for Technical Education. Most of the educational institute and colleges are affiliated to the Manipur University that has its campus situated in the center of the city of Imphal. Classes on law and computer applications are provided within the campus of the university. Other than the colleges that function under the Manipur University, there are other autonomous colleges and institutes at Manipur that format their own syllabus and conduct their own examination. While some of the academic institutes are private institutes, some of the colleges in the state of Manipur are set up by the government. Most of the medical institutes and engineering colleges of the state of Manipur are located in the capital city of Imphal, which is the hub of education in the state. Some of the colleges and institutes of the state in Imphal are listed below with the courses offered by them: Government Polytechnic Courses: Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electronics & Comm. Engineering, P. D. in Computer Application Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology Courses: P. D. in Plastic Mould Design Manipur University, Canchipur School of Sciences Course: Master of Computer Applications Manipur University Course: LLB Royal Academy of Law Course: LLB Govt. Polytechnic Course: Diploma in Pharmacy Manipur Institute of Management Courses: MBA Government College of Technology Courses: Computer Science and Engineering, Electronics & Comm. Engineering, Civil Engineering. Oinam Ibohal Polytechnic Imphal Situated in the capital city of the state, the Oinam Ibohal Polytechnic Imphal is one of the premier educational colleges and institutes in Manipur. The college is situated at the Keishampat Junction in the city of Imphal. The college provides courses at the founder's level and at the advanced level in programming. The distinguished and trained faculty of the institute has arrived from the different corners of the country to provide thorough technical knowledge to the students affiliated to the institute. The Oinam Ibohal Polytechnic College in Imphal offers a diploma course for 1 year certified as the DOEACC O Level Course. The students with higher secondary education are eligible to apply to the institute. The institute offers the students of this course the certificate of O level polytechnic engineering diploma. The diploma makes the students competent as console operators, junior and assistant programmers. The DOEACC A Level Course conducted for a year is an advanced diploma in polytechnic engineering. The institute is reputed to have produced some of the most proficient programmers, assistants to data base manager, laboratory demonstrators, teachers and EDP officers. The Oinam Ibohal Polytechnic College at Imphal is reputed to provide the students with instructions on the technical aspects of programming. The vocational diploma courses provided in the institute develop the skills of the students making them proficient professionals in the IT sector. Regional Institute of Medical Sciences Imphal Regional Institute of Medical Sciences Imphal heads the list of the eminent colleges and institutes in Manipur. Established on 14th September in the year 1972, the college aims to provide thorough medical knowledge to the students of the institute. The college is also dedicated in ameliorating the health conditions of the state of Manipur and the other North Eastern states. The Regional Institute of Medical Sciences in Imphal was first established in the name of Regional Medical College which was later altered to North Eastern Regional Medical College in the year 1976. It was in the year 1995 when the general body of the medical society of the north eastern states decided to rename the college as the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences, Imphal. The college works under the aegis of the North Eastern Regional Medical College Society which is itself registered under the Manipur Societies Registration Act, 1989. The administrative body of the institute comprises of two boards whose constituent members are the Chief Minister of Manipur, Vice Chancellor of Manipur University, Director General of Health of Govt. of India and the Health Commissioner of the seven beneficiary states of North India. Funded by the Government of India, the institute was earlier under the direct supervision of the Government of Manipur. The college and the hospital comprises of the following departments: Ophthalmology Orthopedics Community Medicine Anesthesiology Anatomy Pathology Pharmacology Surgery Medicine Microbiology Biostatistics Nephrology Neurology Cardiology Clinical Biochemistry The Regional Institute of Medical Sciences at Imphal delivers some of the most eminent doctors who have earned their repute in the country and abroad. Schools in Manipur There are a number of schools in Manipur and all of them operate with the sole intention of enlightening the young minds. There are different kinds of schools in Manipur which include: Montessori Schools Day Schools Residential Schools Convent or Anglo Schools Government Schools Public Schools Most of the secondary level Schools in Manipur follow the curriculum of the CBSE and also abide by the text book lists provided by them. Besides providing textual education, the schools in Manipur provide physical education and aim towards the all round development of the students. The most popular schools in Manipur include: Gurukhul High School, Thangmeiband Bashikhong High School, B.P.O. Kitna Panung Bengali High School, Imphal Jawaharlal Nehru Model High School, Churachandpur H.M. English High School, Keithelmanbi Bethel High School, Behiang, B.P.O. Singngat Hamei English High School, Tamei Jamdal Memorial Model High School, Churachandpur Hanship High School, Churachandpur Bengoon High Madrassa, Mayang Imphal Islamic Baby English School, Lilong Bethany Christian Hr. Sec. School, Churachandpur Don Bosco High School, Imphal Bethany English High School, Senapati Guru Nanak Public School, Imphal Ithai Junior High School, Ithai Last Updated on 15 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule