href Meghna Reddy Biography India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Health & Lifestyle » Meghna Reddy   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Meghna Reddy Biography Meghna Reddy is a former 'Channel V' veejay and a gorgeous Indian model. Meghna has been in the show-biz and entertainment industry for a while now, and has carved quite a niche for herself in the glamour world. Meghna Reddy was born into a traditional South Indian family whose traits she still carries in her. She is the second child of the three Reddy siblings. Her sisters Sameera and Sushma are both famous actresses and Bollyood celebrities. Meghna Reddy is a talented and pretty model. Her stunning looks and interesting hairstyles compliment her bold yet modest and down-to-earth nature. After completing her formal education at Bombay Scottish School, St. Joseph's Convent and Synedham College, Meghna looked forward to an exciting career in modeling. In 1994, Meghna dropped out of the Miss India Contest stating the reason behind it as missing out on other exciting careers if she won. This motivated her to look to the glamorous profession of veejaying. She thus became a VJ for Channel V, anchoring the show 'Mangta Hai'. She enjoyed this new role greatly, however, her modeling career beckoned her again, and she gave up veejaying, moving to the West. Despite her bitter-sweet experiences in London, Meghna Reddy's international modeling career scaled new heights, and there was no turning back again for this svelte model. With confidence and poise, Meghna sashayes down the ramp, setting it on fire. In both India and abroad, Meghna's modeling had won her many accolades and recognition in the modeling circuit. Some of her dazzling assignments include the New York show, modeling for designer Diane von Furstenberg, for which she received rave reviews form celebrities like Julianne Moore, Diane Sawyer and Natasha Richardson. The other finest projects she has done are the Sisley campaign with designer Terry Richardson, Savio label for a Spring Summer 2003 collection, and the sensual Copper advertisement. Meghna has also appeared on the cover of the August edition of National Geographic Magazine, covering an article on 'changes in traditional families' and depicting a clever photo of her mom in a saree and her in a skimpy outfit.   Related Links   Models Diana Hayden Yukta Mookhey Meghna Reddy Protima Bedi Reita Faria Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule