Fresh Passion fruit - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Fresh Passion fruit Fresh Passion fruit Buy directly from supplier Request Price Description Product Description Pleasantly sweet and tangy, passion fruit is brimming with nutrient, mineral, and vitamin content nourishment essentials that prove beneficial to health. Passion fruit has a distinctive taste unlike any other fruit, and for many people that in essence defines the magic of the tropics. Passion fruit is an intriguing and mysterious fruit that has a surprising number of health and medicinal benefits for those fruit lovers who add it to their diet. This beautifulyellow/purple fruit grown in our organic farm is famous for its smooth, thick, pithy rind, filled with sweet, aromatic pulp, juice and seeds. The gooey, slimy membrane surrounding the crunchy, edible seeds tastesdelicious. Our organic passion fruit grown in the sublime weather ensures that the juicy pulp is refreshing with notes of floral and vanilla.These gorgeous fruits are grown with lot of passion; nurturing them with the right supportas they readily and rapidly climb as high as they can. Organic food is the healthiest choice for people and the planet, and we know for a fact as it tastes better too. If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: HF8 . Category: Fresh Produce . Tag: fruit . Social share Related Products Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Fresh Produce , Organic Produce Organic pomegranate Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Fresh Produce , Organic Produce Organic grapes Free Read More Send enquiry Quick View Fresh Produce Grand Naine Bananas Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Fresh Produce Tender coconut Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Farm Output , Fresh Produce Soursop fruits Free http://www.harvestfresh.in./mango.html Request Price Quick View Fresh Produce , Organic Produce Organic Mango Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics irrigation magazine medicinal plants net pots npk organic fertiliser