NERFMTTI Home Page »  Programmes »  Calender »  Facilities »  List of machineries for training »  Application Procedure »  List of selected Candidates »  Application for Utilisation Course (U-Series) »  Application for Other than U-Series Course »  Objectives »  Types of Test »  Application for Testing Machinery »  Testing Charges »  Facilities »  Regulations »  Testing Logistic »  Detail of machine tested »  Trainees Trained Since Inception - Coursewise »   Trainees Trained Year wise - Categorywise »  Machines Tested Year wise - Catgorywise »  About RTI Act »  A.O. Order »  C.P.I.O. Order »  Contact Address »  Obtain Institute's Information from »  P.I.O. Particulars »  Organisational Chart »  Directory of Officers & Staff »  Functions of NERFMT&TI »  Power & duties »  Procedure followed in decision making »  Rules & Regulations »  Remuneration »  Service details »  History »  Location & Climate »  Organisation Chart »  Guest House & Housing for Staff Disclaimer: The content of these websites are owned by the respective organizations and they may be contacted for any further information or suggestion. Maintained & Updated by North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, B.Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam Site Designed & Hosted by: National Informatics Centre   North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute Home हिंदी     History Year of establishment: 1990 The Institute which was established some twenty years back with the noble cause that, the North Eastern States having the high potentiality to become self-sufficient in agricultural production, started in the difficult situation, have now grown up to its adolescent age and spreading appropriate mechanization and technology to almost all type of beneficiaries. In these past twenty years, we have equipped with all sorts of modern equipment needed for effective training methodology and conducting testing as per BIS norms. The Institute have achieved significant target in training, testing and mechanised farming. Administrative Ministry: Government of India, Ministry of Agriculture, Deptt. of Agriculture and Coop., Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi Aim: Appropriate mechanization and technology through training , testing and demonsration. Thrust area: Competent based skill oriented human resource development in all North Eastern States, West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand. Providing good quality Farm Machinery and Equipment to the unlimited users by conducting tests as per BIS norms. Mechanised farming activities for supporting the Training and Testing services in terms of field operations, demonstrations and crop production.