Mumbai City Map Home » Maps » Maharashtra » Mumbai City Map   Cities in Maharashtra Mumbai Ahmednagar Akola Aurangabad Kolhapur Latur Nagpur Nashik Pune Solapur Shirdi                        more.. महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Regions Mumbai Central North Mumbai South Mumbai About Maharashtra History and Geography Maharashtra Climate Maharashtra Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Maharashtra Economy Industrial Map Maharashtra Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Maharashtra Education Universities in Maharashtra Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Mumbai City Map City Map of Mumbai Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Mumbai city map showing major roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Maharashtra   Mumbai City Map Pune City Map Nashik City Map Nagpur City Map         Ahmednagar City Map Aurangabad City Map Mahabaleshwar City Map Shirdi City Map       other cities of Maharashtra >>   Travel Map of Maharashtra   Aurangabad Travel Map Mumbai Travel Map Pune Travel Map         Mumbai city, previously known as Bombay is the capital city of Maharashtra a metropolitan city, Mumbai is the second most populated city in the World. It lies on the west coast and is known for its deep natural harbor. The neighboring urban areas - Navi Mumbai and Thane are part of Mumbai. "Alpha World City" was the title given to Mumbai in the year 2009 as it is the richest city in South and Central Asia with the highest GDP rate. It boasts of busiest port handling major Indian foreign trade and International airport. The Mumbai stock exchange is ranked as the third largest in the world. Introduction to Mumbai is incomplete without mentioning 'Bollywood' - the biggest Indian film industry which produces maximum number is movies in the world annually. History of Mumbai Briefing the historical significance of Mumbai it is known that the name "Mumbai" is derived from Mumba or Maha Amba - the name of Koli goddess Mumbadevi. In 1661, King Charles II received 'Bombay' as dowry which was later undertaken by East India Company in 1668. Soon, Bombay came under rule of British and the foremost railway line in India was built between Thane and Bombay (VT) in 1861. After independence of India in 1947, Bombay was reconstructed into Bombay state and Mumbai emerged into colossal financial and entertainment. Presently, it is the global financial, information, entertainment and industrial hub and had become the largest city of South Asia. Mumbai Geography and Climate Mumbai is segmented into two district regions - Mumbai Suburban district and Mumbai city district. The entire Suburban area comes under Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and remaining areas are take care by Defence, Mumbai Port Trust, Atomic Energy Commission and Borivali National Park. It is enveloped by Arabian Sea to the west and this makes it one of the major trading hubs in the world. The city is affected by tropical climate under the Koppen climate classification. It has seven months of dry weather and heavy rains in July. December to February marks the winters which is followed by summers from March to June. South west monsoon hits from June to September and from October to November is post monsoon season. Economy of Mumbai Mumbai city is the financial and commercial capital of India. It prides in generating 6.16 per cent of country's total GDP. It contributes 10 percent of factory employment, 25 percent of industrial production, 30 percent of Income Tax collection, 60 percent of customs, 20 percent of central excise tax collection and 40 percent of Indian foreign trade. There are many colossal companies based in Mumbai which includes Larsen and Toubro, SBI, LIC, Tata Group, Godrej, Reliance and more than five Fortune Global 500 companies. It is noteworthy that there are many foreign banks and financial institutions which have major branches spread across the city. The World Trade Centre being the prominent one. The Worldwide Centers of Commerce Index 2008 has ranked Mumbai on 48th position. It prides in holding the 7th rank in the list of 'Top Ten Cities for Billionaires' by Forbes magazine. Civic administration in Mumbai Mumbai is one of the largest cities that stretch from Colaba in the south to Mulund in the north. It extends from Mankhurd in the east and is administered by BMC. The Municipal Commissioner is the chief executive officer and heads the Municipal Corporation. The revenue districts of Mumbai are under the jurisdiction of District Collector. The Police Commissioner is in charge of the Mumbai Police. Mumbai is the center of 'Bombay High Court' which exercises its jurisdiction on states of Maharashtra, Goa and the Union Territories of Daman & Diu and Dadra & Nagar Haveli. Attractions in Mumbai (in and around) Banganga Churchgate Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Film City Gateway of India Mumbai University Nariman Point Navi Mumbai Prithvi Theatre Mahalaxmi Racecourse Malabar Hill Rajabai Tower Town Hall Madh Island Beach Versova Beach Chowpatty Beach Juhu Beach Marine Drive Hanging Gardens Horniman Circle Gardens Flora Fountain Kamala Nehru Park Sanjay Gandhi National Park Victoria Gardens Bombay Natural History Society Mani Bhavan National Gallery of Modern Art Nehru Planetarium Prince of Wales Museum Victoria & Albert Museum Powai Lake Tulsi Lake Vihar Lake Haji Ali ISKCON Temple Mahalaxmi Temple Mumba Devi Temple Mount Mary Church Siddhivinayak Temple St Michael's Church St Thomas Cathedral Essel World Fantasy Land Nishiland Water Park Shangrila Waterpark Suraj Water Park Water Kingdom Chor Bazaar Crawford Market Fashion Street Zaveri Bazaar Other tourist's attractions near Mumbai City Ajanta & Ellora Caves Alibag Aurangabad Caves Elephanta Caves Khandala Kanheri Caves Lonavala Mahabaleshwar Matheran Panchgani Pune Shirdi Hotels in Mumbai City Le Meridien Mumbai Grand Hyatt Mumbai Taj Lands End Mumbai Sun-N-Sand Mumbai Leela Kempinski Mumbai Hyatt Regency Mumbai Taj Mahal Mumbai Mumbai City Information Country India State Maharashtra District Mumbai Established Year 1507 Founded by Mumbadevi Area 603 km2 (233 sq mi) Population 13830884 as Census January 2011 Population Density 22,937/km2 (59,410/sq mi) as Census January 2011 Language Marathi, Gujrati, Hindi, Kannad, Telgu, Entlish Official Languages Marathi Literacy Rate 89.21% as Census January 2011 Sex Ratio 832 Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Pin code 400036 Area code 22 Lat Long 18.9750° N, 72.8258° E Religion Hinduism, Muslim, Budhist, Jains, Christian Festivals Banganga (Jan), Elephanta festival (18-19 Feb), Gudhi Padava (Mar-Apr), Nariyal Poornima (Aug), Ganesh Chaturthi (Aug-Sep), Bandra Feast (Sep), Diwali(Oct-Nov) University SNDT Women's University, University Institute of Chemical Technology, Indian Institute of Technology (Bombay) Sister Cities Berlin, London, Los Angeles, Saint Petersburg, Yokohama. Sports Wankhede Stadium (Cricket), Brabourne Stadium (Cricket), Airport Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, Navi Mumbai International Airport to be built in the Kopra-Panvel Railway Station Mumbai Central (BCT) Mumbai Railway Station, Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, Dadar, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Mumbai Central, Bandra Terminus, Andheri and Borivali, Mono Rail(Under Construction), Mumbai Metro (Under Construction) Port Mumbai Port Trust and Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust Tourist Attractions Bassein (Vasai) Fort, Bandra Fort, Basilica of Mount Mary Bandra, Bhuleshwar, Bombay Natural History Museum, Elephanta Caves, Gateway of India, Haji Ali Mosque, The Imperial Towers, Kanheri Caves, Mahalaxmi Temple, Worli Fort, Worli Sea Face Nearby Tourist Attractions Matheran, Khandala, Lonavala, Alibag, Pune, Daman, Mahabaleshwar Popular Things Bollywood, Tellywood, Hotel Taj Mahal, Haji Ali Mosque, Jehangir Art Gallery, Bandra Fort Notable People Amitabh Bacchan, Sachin Tendulkar, Dileep Kumar, Aishwarya Ray, Sushmita Sen, Aamir Khan, Akshay Kumar, Gurudat, Lata Mangeshkar, Kishor Kumar, Dada Sahab Falke. National Highway NH-4,8,3,17 Blogs about Mumbai Which are the Best Cities in India to Live? : The development of cities and increasing urbanisation in India has transformed the Indian society and culture. A change in terms of occupation, living standards, thinking, education, culinary preferences etc is apparent. Cities, which are the hub of trade and commerce, attract everyone as growth rate here is higher as compared to small towns and villages. The wish to live a better life results in internal migration. People migrate from town and villages to cities and… read more... Which is the worst city to live in India? : Defining just one city as the worst city to live in India would not be appropriate. Some score good on one index and low on the other. Take a look at the capital of India. Every year Delhi welcomes hundreds of thousands of people from all across India as it has an edge over other cities in terms of infrastructure and employment opportunities. On the other hand, it also tops the list when crime and… read more... This is Mumbai – Sanjay Gandhi National Park, the lungs of Mumbai! : Sanjay Gandhi National Park is aptly termed as the 'lungs of the city' as it provides most of the oxygen to the pollution-ridden city. This park initially was very small in area but in the early 1960s all the surrounding forests were included and made into one area, thus making it a 104 sq. km wide forest which we see today. The Park is rich in flora and fauna. What I heard from the locals… read more... This is Mumbai – Film City, the magical land of Mumbai : People in India are driven by many things. Things in Bollywood play a very important role in lives of 125 crore people. These films inspire many and give them hope to do things like their favourite film stars. Be it Sharukh Khan swaying his arms to woo the actress working against him, or Hrithik Roshan banging the hell out of bad guys, everything is produced here in the magical land called as Film City. "Goregaon… read more... This is Mumbai – A Paradise for Foodies! :   Haji Ali Juice Centre is one of the most renowned juice centres in Mumbai ( a bit expensive!).This place has variety of juices which you cannot find easily at any other destination. For example, I have never tried custard apple with cream but it was a sheer delight to experience this at Haji Ali Juice Centre.  You have to shed Rs 350 for a bowl but believe me that it is worth spending. Vada Pav.… read more... Last Updated on : November 1, 2014 Cities in Maharashtra Akola Alibag Amravati Beed-city Bhiwandi Chandrapur Chiplun Jalna Dombivli Khandala Kolhapur Latur Lavasa Lonavala Malegaon Matheran Mumbai Kalyan Nanded Navi Mumbai Pandharpur Panvel Sangli Satara Vajreshwari Washim Places to Visit in Mumbai Mumbai Film City Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Essel World Water Kingdom Fantasy Land Suraj Water Park Tikuji-ni-Wadi Chowpatty Beach Juhu Beach Marine Drive Hanging Garden Kamla Nehru Park Sanjay Gandhi National park Balodyan Gardens Jijamata Udyan Zoo Siddhivinayak Temple Mumbadevi Temple Haji Ali Dargah Babulnath Temple Buddhist Temple Jain Temple Mahalaxmi Temple Mount Mary Church Walukeshwar Temple Elephanta Caves Gateway of India Flora Fountain Mumbai High Court Kanheri Caves Rajabai Clock Tower University Building Worli Fort Mumbai Amusement Parks Beaches in Mumbai Gardens in Mumbai Religious Places in Mumbai Monuments in Mumbai Maharashtra Region Map Mumbai Central Map North Mumbai Map South Mumbai Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule