Jewelry Trade Shows,Jewellery Trade Fair,International Jewelry Exhibition,Jewelry Expo JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Jewelry Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry JewelryTrade Shows Date : 16 Aug - 19 Aug 2015 Seattle Gift Show -  United States Worldwide Exhibition of Gift Shops, Furnishing Stores, Jewelry and Stationery Stores Venue : Washington State Convention & Trade Center ,Washington United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Jul - 28 Jul 2015 JA New York -  United States The JA New York jewelry shows are the premier international jewelry events that bring exhibitors and retailers from around the world together in New York City, the jewelry capital of the world. The JA New York show dates back to 1906 when its.... Venue : Jacob K. Javits Convention Center ,Manhattan United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 19 Dec - 22 Dec 2015 Jaipur Jewellery Show 2015 -  India Jaipur Jewellery Show is one of the premium events focused on gems and jewelery industry. Jaipur Jewellery Show 2015 will present an excellent collection of jewelries. JS 2015 will give a superb chance to the buyers to get updated with the latest.... Venue : Jaipur Exhibition & Convention Centre ,Jaipur ,Rajasthan India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 23 Jul - 26 Jul 2015 Bangalore Fashion Week -  India Bangalore Fashion Week (BFW) has been conceived and created with a vision to Showcase Indian Fashion Industry to The Global Fashion World. The objective of BFW will be to create business relationships and to facilitate a dialogue between.... Venue : Mattan Hotel ,Bangalore ,Karnataka India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Dec - 06 Dec 2015 The One of a Kind Show-Chicago -  United States The One of a Kind Show-Chicago show 2015 is an extraordinary holiday shopping show featuring the best in fine art and fine craft which is ideal place to find unique gifts, clothing, jewelry and accessories. Venue : The Merchandise Mart ,IL United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Jun - 07 Jun 2015 American Gem Expo-Birmingham -  United States American Gem Expo-Birmingham 2015 is one of the famous Jewelry, Gift Item, Fashion Accessories show which is providing best platform for the related industries like jewellery prducts manufacturers in the world. Venue : The Pelham Civic Complex ,AL United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Jun - 21 Jun 2015 American Gem Expo-Louisville -  United States American Gem Expo-Louisville 2015 is one of the most comprehensive show of Gem, Natural Gemstone Beads and other Beads for Making Jewelry, Jewelry Craft show will providing an ideal platform for the related industries in world. Venue : Ramada Plaza Louisville Hotel and Conference Center ,KY United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Aug - 09 Aug 2015 Gem Faire-Pleasanton -  United States Gem Faire-Pleasanton 2015 is some of the world’s finest jewelry designers, manufacturers, importers, beading instructors, gemstone cutters and miners,as well as certified graduate gemologists. Venue : Alameda County Fairgrounds ,California United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 May - 17 May 2015 American Gem Expo-Charlotte -  United States American Gem Expo-Charlotte 2015 is one of the international trade event dedicated to fashion jewellery, fashion accessories industry, gift items which is providnig the chances for the vendors, exhibit, exhibitor, person, promotion, activity,.... Venue : Metrolina Expo Center ,NC United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Apr - 20 Apr 2015 Malaysia Jewellery Festival -  Malaysia Malaysia Jewelry Festival (MJF) has been officially accredited as the Biggest Jewellery Event in Malaysia. Malaysia 's largest and most international jewellery show with country.... Venue : Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre Malaysia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 American Gem Expo-Lexington -  United States American Gem Expo-Lexington 2015 is one of the leading Jewelry, Gift Item, Fashion Accessories show which is providing an ideal place for the related industries, related professionals like jewellery exporters, manufactures in the country. Venue : Lexington Center ,KY United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Apr - 02 Apr 2015 Mega Style Souk -  India The Mega Style Souk is an exclusive exhibition cum sale of 14 designers from all over India, at Taj Coromandel venue- organized by Vimonisha gallery with more than 50 successful shows behind them. The event will be taking place between 01-02.... Venue : Hyatt Regency Chennai ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Mar - 30 Mar 2015 GTS Florida Expo-Kissimmee -  United States GTS Florida Expo is a must attend show for the jewelers, designers and people who are fond of designer range of jewels. The show is recognized jewelry show which aims to satisfy the requirements of the global customers and also focuses to fulfill.... Venue : Osceola Heritage Park Exhibition ,FL United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Mar - 22 Mar 2015 Golden Triangle Show-Greensboro -  United States Golden Triangle Show-Greensboro show is one of the famous promoting and sell their products to volume buyers from around the world which is the international trade events of fashion jewellery and accessories industry. Venue : Golden Triangle Show Greensboro ,NC United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Mar - 16 Mar 2015 Manila FAME International -  Philippines Manila FAME International 2015 is refreshing look to a whole new world of innovation and craftsmanship in home and fashion lifestyle daring you to explore and find elegance, sophistication and perfection in the show's.... Venue : SMX Convention Center ,Philippines Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Mar - 07 Mar 2015 The Perfect Wedding Show -  United Arab Emirates The Perfect Wedding Show is the ideal wedding event that throws open to wedding costumes and attire, wedding accessories, wedding planning services, wedding hotel services and all products and services that are involved with this grand event. It.... Venue : Expo Centre Sharjah ,Sharjah United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Feb - 02 Mar 2015 HELLENIC JEWELLERY FAIR -  Greece HELLENIC JEWELLERY FAIR 2015 is the largest exhibition of the jewellery sector in Greece. It is providing the framework for the most important annual meeting of jewellery professionals for the Spring/ Summer season. Participating.... Venue : ATHENS METROPOLITAN EXPO S.A. ,Spata Artemida Greece Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Feb - 24 Feb 2015 Iran Gold Expo -  Iran (Islamic Republic of) • Gold, Platinum, Silver jewellery • Pearl, diamond and gemset jewellery • Diamonds, Pearls, Gemstones, Jade • Watches • Gold bars, gold coins, gold plates, gold watches and other gold products • Machinery and equipment • Tools and.... Venue : Tehran Int\'l Permanent Fairground ,Tehran Iran (Islamic Republic of) Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Feb - 07 Feb 2015 The Whole Bead Show-Tucson -  United States The Whole Bead Show-Tucson 2015 is one of the leading show for various type of beads, jewelley items which is provding best platform for the relaled professionals and related industries like jewellers, jewellery merchants in the country. Venue : The Radisson Suites Tucson Hotel ,AZ United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Jan - 25 Jan 2015 ZAK Salaam India Expo-Singapore -  Singapore ZAK Salaam India Expo-Singapore 2015 is one of the exclusive exhibition & trade fair of indian products & services from multiple industry sectors. One can sell, sell in bulk, identify potential partners, and locate joint venture partners.... Venue : Singapore Expo Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Jan - 24 Jan 2015 IJT - International Jewellery Tokyo 2015 -  Japan IJT is Japan's largest and international jewellery trade show. A wide variety of products in the jewellery industry gathers under one roof in the world trend-setting city, Tokyo. Save the date now for this exciting industry event! ?IJT will.... Venue : Tokyo International Exhibition Center (Tokyo Big Sight) ,Tokyo Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Jan - 18 Jan 2015 Worcester Bridal Show Expo -  United States Worcester Bridal Expo is a 2 day event being held from 17th January to the 18th January 2015 at the DCU Center in Worcester, United States Of America. This event showcases products like Bridal Gowns & Accessories, Henna Dresses, Evening Wear,.... Venue : DCU Center ,Massachusetts United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jan - 11 Jan 2015 13th Annual Eastern Pennsylvania Bridal Expo -  United States Eastern Pennsylvania Bridal Show Expo 2015 is the largest bridal show, With a proven format of combining fashion shows with a huge vendor presence which is offering couples the unique opportunity to shop for every facet of their wedding needs in.... Venue : Rauch Field House - Lehigh University ,PA United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Dec - 28 Dec 2014 Gujarat Gold Jewellery Show -  India Gujarat Gold Jewellery Show 2014 – the 6th edition Show is scheduled during December 26 to 28, 2014 at Gujarat University Convention and Exhibition Centre - the national exhibition for jewellery. • 400+ Stalls • 300+ Exhibitor across.... Venue : Gujarat University Convention & Exhibiiton Centre ,Ahmedabad ,Gujarat India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 Dec - 18 Dec 2014 Expoartesanias - Colombia 2014 -  Colombia Expoartesanias - Colombia 2014 is widely recognized as the most important handicrafts fair in latin america. it is the result of a colombian government strategic program that seeks to promote high quality standards for handicraft products with a.... Venue : Corferias - Centro de Convenciones ,Bogota Colombia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration