Eva Dairy Farm - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Eva Dairy Farm Home Eva Dairy Farm Situated in the Fatehpur Sialba Village on Kurali-Baddi Road is the Eva Dairy Farm, which was established in August 2010 by its owner Mr. Rajveer Singh Rajveer Singh Situated in the Fatehpur Sialba Village on Kurali-Baddi Road is the Eva Dairy Farm, which was established in August 2010 by its owner Mr. Rajveer Singh who is fully motivated by the thought of providing pure and quality milk to people. With 50 acres of land to his name in the Fazailka District, Mr. Rajveer has set aside 11 acres for dairy farming while the rest of the land is used to farm vegetables as well as sustain beri and kinnow orchards. Mr. Rajveer graduated from Punjab University and has been in the farming business for twenty years. His vast knowledge base in agriculture has resulted in frequent invitations to lecture to farmers at Sugarfed Chandigarh. Getting Started Before starting the business, Mr. Rajveer, along with his partner, Mr. Akshay, visited various dairy farms in both Punjab and Haryana in order to learn more about the dairy farm industry. After getting a solid framework on the business through the problems and experiences of other dairy farm owners, they felt confident enough to set off and start their own dairy business. With an investment of 50 lacs, the two partners started the Eva Dairy Farm with much of the groundwork finished before actually beginning to carry out their plans. In the process of setting up the dairy farm, Mr. Rajveer abstained from enlisting the help of dairy consultants. To ensure that he and his partner were fully equipped to manage the dairy farm, Mr. Rajveer and Mr. Akshay both took part in training programs run by the Dairy Development Board at the Mohali District for 15 days. Products Using 11 acres of farmland, the Eva Dairy Farm produces high quality milk with 40 cows, 3 buffaloes and 20 Hoistein Freisen calves. While 2.5 acres of his land is used to house the animals, the rest of the land is utilized for the growing of their own fodder, which has been executed with entirely organic methods.  In addition to dairy farming, Mr. Rajveer also takes part in vegetable farming. A large part of his land is also dedicated to the cultivation of beri and kinnow, both of which are grown on an orchard found within his land. Dairy Farm Practices To maintain a high quality of milk, the Eva Dairy Farm cultivates their own fodder for the livestock. Mr. Rajveer shared, “We grow our own fodder according to seasons. No pesticides are used to grow our fodder. There are different types of feed for calves, milk giving cows and dry cows. Seasons also make the difference when deciding what ingredients to put in the feed and the ratios of ingredients vary according to the age of the animals.” The Eva Dairy Farm uses Desi cows for the production of regular cows milk with the help of milking machines. Despite the general consensus on the difficulty of the Desi breed for milk production, Mr. Rajveer remains happy with his livestock. He said, “I think the breed of cows doesn’t make much of a difference in terms of care. Desi cows demand less care because their immunity is strong but they give less milk as compared to H.F. cows. H.F. cows, however, need more as they fall sick more frequently.” Distributing Produce In the earlier stages of the Eva Dairy Farm, Mr. Rajveer had opted to sell his produce to Verka Cooperative Collection Units. However, he soon realized that the money the farm earned through the buyer was far from enough to cover the actual cost of dairy production. With production costs not being balanced by prices being paid, the farm was far from earning any money. Mr. Rajveer soon turned to retail selling. Mr. Rajveer explained, “In all agricultural activities, only one thing is needed to make it profitable and that is retail marketing. In all farming activities, the farmer has to sell the product as MSP while the actual cost of production is going up day by day. Farmers have to enter into the retail market to earn profit, otherwise only traders will reap the benefits.” With retail marketing as his number one way to reap a profit, Mr. Rajveer started selling most of the Eva Dairy Farm’s milk to consumers in Chandigarh. Despite the numerous hazards involved with selling directly to consumers, the dairy farm was able to meet all of their expenses and start making a worthy profit. Challenges and Future Plans The Eva Dairy Farm has been blessed with little to no major problems in the business. Having solved their initial problems with earning profit, Mr. Rajveer was happy to report that there have been no other big challenges faced since the establishment of his business. “Labor can be trained within a few days. Day to day small problems can be solved with just a little bit of patience,” Mr. Rajveer said after being asked about daily challenges faced at the dairy farm. With operations running smoothly, Mr. Rajveer now looks to the future. He said, “I am planning to set up a chilling plant and a packing unit. In the future, I want to reach more and more people with pure milk.” Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr.Rajveer Singh Brar, House no.-3425 Sai Enclave Sector 49 Chandigarh, India, Emaiil-rajveersing_brar@rediffmail.com Phone-09356217511 Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey   Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Eva Dairy Farm Related – articles, consultants, downloads Satya Sai Dairy Farm Fourseasonz – dairy farm Khurana Dairy Farm Punjab Dairy Farm You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water