Luckow City Map Home » Maps » Uttar Pradesh » Lucknow City Map   Uttar Pradesh Cities Agra Aligarh Allahabad Ghaziabad Gorakhpur Jhansi Kanpur Lucknow Mathura Meerut Noida Varanasi                    more.. उत्तर प्रदेश का नक्शा Uttar Pradesh History of Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                  (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Uttar Pradesh Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map Proposed New States Awadh Pradesh Bundelkhand Paschim Pradesh Purvanchal Yamuna Expressway Lucknow Metro Map Noida Metro Map Industries in UP Thermal Power Plants UP Government Uttar Pradesh Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Travel to Uttar Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Forts and Palaces in Uttar Pradesh Temples and Shrines in Uttar Pradesh Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels             more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Uttar Pradesh Architectural Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Uttar Pradesh Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Uttar   Pradesh       Lucknow City Map Click any Educational Institutes on the map and get the detailed information City Map of Lucknow Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   * Lucknow city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Historical Background Lucknow , the city of Nawabs is the capital of Uttar Pradesh . It is a historic city located on the bank of River Gomti. It is also called the city of culture ("Tehzeeb"). Though Hindi is the official language of the state and the city, the city is considered to be the origin of Urdu language. Historically, Lucknow was the capital of Awadh Pradesh and it was administered by Delhi Sultanate during Mughal Empire. Later on, it was transferred to Nawabs of Awadh. It fell into the hands of East India Company after Lord Clive defeated the combined armies Of Nawab of Awadh, Mughals and Nawab of Bengal . It was included in the British Empire in 1857. The Khilafat movement had a strong base in the city of Lucknow under Maulana Abdul Bari of Firangi Mahal Lucknow. In 1920, Lucknow was made the provincial capital of United Provinces, the name given by British to the state of Uttar Pradesh. Architecture and must see places Lucknow can also be called the city of architecture. Some of the buildings such as Vidhan Sabha, Bada Imam Bada, Ambedkar Park, British Residency, the Khanqah-E- Kakori, The Picture Gallery, the Clock Tower, The Kanshi Ram Memorial, La Martiniere Boys School and Colvin Taluqdar's College are worth visiting. St Joseph's Cathedral in Lucknow is the centre of Roman Catholic faith in North India. Lucknow is also famous for its many beautiful parks such as the National Botanical Garden at SikanderBagh, Neebu Park, Haathi Park, Buddha Park, Globe Park, Begum Hazrat Mahal Park, Dilkusha Park, Aurobindo Park, Swarn Jayanti Park, Lohiya Park, and Ambedkar Memorial. Nature reserves and sanctuaries Some of the natural reserves in the vicinity of Lucknow include Kukrail Reserve forest, which is a picnic spot and habitat of Gharial (a fish eating crocodile). Other famous picnic spots are Moosa Bagh and Utretia. Other tourist attractions in the vicinity of Lucknow are Nawabganj Bird Sanctuary, Samaspur Bird Sanctuary, Katarnia Ghat and Dudhwa National Park. Demographics The majority of Lucknow's population includes immigrants from central and eastern Uttar Pradesh. But Bengalis, Anglo-Indians and Punjabis also form a major part of the population. Hindus and Muslims are 71% and 26% respectively. The total population of Lucknow is more than 46 lakhs. Literacy level is also very high in Lucknow. Industries The city is the headquarters of the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) and Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Corporation (UPSIDC). The city ranks sixth in India for fastest job creation. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, Omax Auto, Tata Motors and Scooters India Limited are the major manufacturing units based in Lucknow. The city has many townships crowded with small and medium scale industrial units. Shopping Malls Lucknow is fast developing in terms of real estate. Gomtinagar and Alam Bagh have seen a rapid development of real estate sector. In some of the areas the rates of properties have increase four times in the previous two years. The Lucknow is also the city of glitzy malls such as the City Mall, Singapore Mall, Gardens Galleria, Felix Square Mall, West End Mall, Phoenix United Mall, River Side Mall, Fun Republic Mall and Sahara Ganj Mall. Handicrafts Lucknow is also famous for truly Indian and stylish embroidery known as "Chikan" and Lucknavi Zardozi. The export of these ethnic wears brings a significant amount of revenues to the city. It also has a huge demand in Bollywood and overseas markets. Lucknow s also known for a rare small scale industry called the kite-making. It is also home to production of "Kivam" a tobacco product and "Attars" the fragrances. Bone carving products, silver and gold foil work and pottery are other handicrafts of Lucknow. The Gandhi Ashrams produce Khadi products, which is a symbol of self-reliance of India. Famous markets and multiplexes Aminabad and Hazratganj are lovely markets and shopping centers. There are many multiplexes in Lucknow, such as PVR Cinemas, Fun Cinemas, Inox, and Wave Cinemas. Lucknow is also known for excellent academic institutions such as Indian institute of Management. It is connected by road transport, railways and air transport to the rest of India. There is an international airport as well as a domestic one in Lucknow. Last Updated on : November 11, 2014 Uttar Pradesh Cities Agra Aligarh Allahabad Ayodhya Azamgarh Badaun Ballia Bareilly Basti Bhadohi Bijnor Chandauli Chandausi Chitrakut Deoria Etah Etawah Faizabad Ferozpur Ghaziabad Gokul Gonda Gorakhpur Greater Noida Hapur Hardoi Jaunpur Jhansi Kanpur Lalitpur Lucknow Mathura Meerut Mirzapur Moradabad Muzaffarnagar Noida Pilibhit Saharanpur Sambhal Sarnath Sitapur Sultanpur Unnao Varanasi Vrindavan Lucknow Localities Aashiana Adarsh Nagar Ahmamau Aishbagh Alambagh Alamnagar Aliganj Amar Shaheed Path Amausi Amber Ganj Anand Nagar AP Sen Marg Arjunganj Arya Nagar Ashiyana Colony Ashok Marg Balaganj Banthra Barha Behta Saboli Bhadrukh Bharat Nagar Bijnaur Chand Ganj Charbagh Chaupatiyan Chinhat Civil Lines Dalibagh Colony Daliganj Darulshafa Deva Road Dilkusha Garden DLF Garden City Faizabad Road Ganesh Ganj Gari Chunauti Ghaila Ghazipur Goila Gokhale Marg Gomti Nagar Gudamba Thaana Road Guramba HAL Hazratganj Husainabad Hussainganj IIM Road Indira Nagar Jal Vayu Vihar Jankipuram Jopling Road Jugor Kalyanpur Kamalabad Barhauli Kanpur Road Kuroni Kursi Road Lalbagh Lucknow Cantonment Madion Mahanagar Mahipatmau Malesemau Manak Nagar Manas Nagar Maunda Miranpur Pinvat Mohan Meking Road Narayan Nagar Natkur Naubasta Naveen Galla Mandi Navi Kot Nandana New Ganeshganj New Hyderabad Nijampur Malhor Nilmatha Nirala Nagar Nirala Nagar Nishatganj Paikaramau Pan Dariba Marg Park Road Pawanpuri Piparsand Prag Narain Road Rae Bareli Road Rahim Nagar Rajajipuram Rajendra Nagar Ram Mohan Rai Marg Rasoolpur Sadat Ruchi Khand-II Saadatganj Sadrauna Sapru Marg Sarai Mali Khan Sarojini Nagar Sarosa Bharosa Sarvodaya Nagar Sector-14 Sector-18 Sector-B Sector-D Shahnajaf Road Sharda Nagar Shyam Vihar Colony Sikrauri Singar Nagar Subhash Marg Sujanpura Sunder Bagh Sushant Golf City Telibagh Thakurganj The Mall Avenue Tilak Marg Triveni Nagar Uattardhona Utrathia vasant kunj Vibhuti Khand Vikas Nagar Vineet Khand VIP Road Vishesh Khand Vivekanand puri Vrindavan Yojana Wazirganj Yahiaganj Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Aligarh Hotels Allahabad Hotels Bahraich Hotels Balrampur Hotels Bareilly Hotels Basti Hotels Bhadohi Hotels Ghaziabad Hotels Gorakhpur Hotels Greater Noida Hotels Jhansi Hotels Kanpur Hotels Kosi Hotels Kosi Kalan Hotels Kushinagar Hotels Lucknow Hotels Mathura Hotels Meerut Hotels Mirzapur Hotels Moradabad Hotels Muzaffarnagar Hotels Noida Hotels Orai Hotels Rampur Hotels Sahibabad Hotels Sravasti Hotels Varanasi Hotels More.. Travel to Uttar Pradesh Travel to Agra Travel to Allahabad Travel to Ayodhya Travel to Ghaziabad Travel to Gorakhpur Travel to Jhansi Travel to Kanpur Travel to khushinagar Travel to Lucknow Travel to Mathura Travel to Noida Travel to Sarnath Travel to Sravasti Travel to Varanasi Travel to Vrindavan Places to visit in Uttar Pradesh Places to visit in Agra Places to visit in Allahabad Places to visit in Ghaziabad Places to visit in Gorakhpur Places to visit in Jhansi Places to visit in Kanpur Places to visit in kushinagar Places to visit in Lucknow Places to visit in Mahura Places to visit in Noida Places to visit in Sarnath Places to visit in Shravasti Places to visit in Varanasi             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule