Tripura Home » Tripura   Tripura त्रिपुरा का नक्शा Tripura Map Districts of Tripura South Tripura Dhalai West Tripura North Tripura Agartala City Map Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Tripura Location Lat Long Map Travel to Tripura Places to visit in Tripura Wildlife Sanctuaries Bhuvaneswari Temple Tripura Sundari Temple Agriculture Map Tripura Forests Parliamentary Constituencies- East Tripura Parliamentary Constituencies- West Tripura Economy Government Geography Society and Culture Hotels in Tripura Attractions History STD Code PIN Code Assemblypolls Sex Ratio Universities In Tripura       Tripura Tripura Location Map Tripura Map Tripura Travel Map About Tripura Tripura is one of the Northeastern seven sister states in India. In fact, it is the 3rd smallest state of India and covers an area of 10,486 square km. The state is surrounded by Bangladesh on its north, west and south. On its eastern side, it is surrounded by the state of Mizoram and Assam. Agartala is the capital of this state. As per the 2011 census, the population of the state is 36,73,032. It constitutes around 0.3% of the total population of the country. The indigenous communities that are known as ST (Scheduled Tribes) in India form 30% of the population in Tripura. The state has 19 tribes, and it is an eco-friendly and pollution-free state. The languages that are mainly spoken in this state are Kokborok and Bengali. This state was ruled by the Tripuri dynasty for many centuries. It was considered as a princely state at the time of the British rule. In the year 1949, it became a part of independent India. The ethnic strife and conflict between the Bengali population and indigenous people have led to scattered violence and tension since the integration of the state in this country. On the other hand, the institution of an independent tribal administrative organisation and various strategies has calmed the situation. National Highway 44 is the only main highway that connects this state with the rest of India. Facts on Tripura Official Website www.tripura.nic.in Date of Formation Jan 21, 1972 Area 10,486 sq km Density 350/Km2 Total Population (2011) 3,673,917 Males Population (2011) 1,874,376 Females Population (2011) 1,799,541 No. of District 8 Capital Agartala Rivers Burima, Gomati, Khowai, Dhalai, Muhuri, Feni, Juri etc. Forests & National Park Clouded Leopard NP, Rowa WS, Bison's NP, Trishna WS Languages Bengali, Kokborok, English, Noyakhali, Chakma Neighbours State Assam, Mizoram State Animal Phayre's Langur State Bird Green Imperial Pigeon State Tree Agar State Flower Nageshwar Net State Domestic Product (2011) 50750 Literacy Rate (2011) 79.63% Females per 1000 males 961 Assembly constituency 60 Parliamentary constituency 2 History of Tripura In Sanskrit, Tripura means 'three cities'. Paleolithic tools that are made from fossil wood are found in Khowai and Haora valleys. The state is mentioned in all the Indian epics like the Mahabharata, the Puranas, and the Edicts of Ashoka. Kirat Desh is the old name of Tripura. But, it is not clear whether Kirat Desh is coterminous with modern Tripura. The entire region of this state was ruled by Twipra kingdom for many centuries. As years passed by, the boundaries of the kingdom have changed. The state is house to various royal palaces and temples that attract tourists and vacationers from across the world. Agartala, the capital city, is a popular sight-seeing location. Tripura became the princely state at the time of British rule in India. Udaipur that was located in the southern part of this state was the capital of Twipra Kingdom. Bir Chandra Manikya modelled and displayed the administration on the British India pattern. He also enacted reforms that include the formation of the Municipal Corporation of Agartala. After India gained independence in the year 1947, the Tippera district became a part of East Pakistan. The Tripura Merger Agreement was signed by the Maharani Regent in the year 1949. In the year 1956, the state became a union territory. An elected ministry was set up in the year 1963. More... Climate and Geography The state of Tripura is one of the smallest states of India after Sikkim and Goa. You can use the national highway in order to reach this place. The highway passes through the Mamit and Karimganj district of Mizoram and Assam respectively. The physiography of the state is characterised by plains, valleys and hill ranges. Tripura has 5 anticlinal hill ranges that run from north to south. They also run through Shakhan, Longtharai, Japui Hills and Athamura in the eastern side and Boromura in the western side. The intervening and prevailing synclines are Agartala-Udaipur, Kamalpur-Ambasa, Khowai-Teliamura, Dharmanagar-Kanchanpur and Kailasahar-Many valleys. The highest point of the state is Betling Shib that is located in Jampui range. The altitude of Betling Shib is 3,081 feet or 939 meters. The isolated hillocks that are scattered throughout this state are called tillas. On the other hand, the narrow alluvial valleys that are located on the western side are known as lungas. There are various rivers that originate from the hillocks and flow in Bangladesh. The Dhalai, Khowai, Juri, Longai and Manu flow to the northern side, Feni and Muhuri in the southwest side and the Gumti in the western side. The winter season is from December to February, monsoon season from May to September, summer or pre-monsoon season from March to April, post-monsoon season from October to November. At the time of the monsoon season, the state witnesses frequent floods due to heavy rains. More... Demographic Changes of Tripura In terms of the population in the Northeastern part of India, Tripura holds the second spot after Assam. As per the census that was conducted in the year 2011, the total population of the state is 36,73,917. The state constitutes 0.3% of the total population of India. The male to female ratio of this state is 1000:961 that is higher as compared to the national sex ratio of 1000:940. The population density of the state is 350 persons/square km. In the year 2011, the rate of literacy was 87.75% that is higher as compared to the national literacy rate of 74.04%. Bengalis represented a major portion of the population of the state. The state has nineteen ethnic groups, as well as sub-groups with different cultures and languages. The largest group in the state was Tripuris that speaks Kokborok. The other groups that are present in this state, along with their population are Reang , Chakma, Jamatia , Mog , Halam , Kuki , Munda and Garo. The language that is mostly spoken is Bengali due to a high percentage of the Bengali population in this state. Kokborok is the language that is prominent among the tribal population. Government and Politics The state of Tripura is ruled by a democratic parliamentary system. The residents of this state are granted universal suffrage. The government of Tripura has 3 branches: judiciary, legislative and executive. The Legislative Assembly of Tripura consists of office bearers and elected members that are chosen by various members. The Speaker controls the assembly meetings and conferences. In the absence of the Speaker, a Deputy Speaker conducts the meetings. The members of the Legislative Assembly are elected for a period of 5 years. The judiciary or magistrate is selected by the High Court of Tripura. In addition, the Indian President appoints the Governor of this state and the Governor appoints the Chief Minister. The governor appoints the committee of ministers after getting the advice and recommendations of the Chief Minister. Tripura sends one and two representatives to Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha respectively. The local body elects panchayats for different villages in this state. The two political parties of this state are INC (Indian National Congress) and the Left Front. More... Education The schools in this state are controlled by private organisations and the state government that includes religious institutions. The medium of instruction in most of the schools is Bengali or English. On the other hand, various regional languages are also used like Kokborok. The schools in this state are mainly affiliated to CBSE, NIOS, TBSE and CISCE. If a student completes the secondary education, he/she then normally enrolls in higher secondary school or junior college for two years. The schools and colleges are affiliated to central boards or the Secondary Education Board of Tripura. A lot of students mainly select any of the 3 streams that include science, commerce and liberal arts. When students pass the H.S (Higher Secondary) exam, he/she will then enroll for the degree programs in science, commerce or arts. A student may also enroll for the professional degree courses like medicine, law or engineering. The schools use new educational techniques and tools to provide modern education. There is a private university and a central university in the state. In addition, there are general colleges and also colleges for engineering, medical, law, art and music. There are also a few polytechnic colleges. Economy The primary sector of the state consists of mining, forestry and agriculture. Secondary sector that includes manufacturing and industrial sector contributes a higher percentage to the GDP of this state. Maximum workers in the state are involved in the retail sector after agriculture. It is followed by the manufacturing sector, public administration and education. In this state, a lot of people are dependent on allied activities and agriculture. The main crop of this state is rice. The other crops that are cultivated in this state are jute, pulses, Mesta, sugarcane and potato. The main horticultural products are pineapple and jackfruit. More... Society and Culture of Tripura The diverse groups of this state have led to a multiple and composite culture. The various ethnic groups of the state are Bengali, Tripuri, Manipuri, Reang, Jamatia, Koloi, Noatia, Chakma, Murasing, Garo, Halam, Mizo, Kuki, Munda, Mogh, Santhal, Uchoi and Oraon. The Bengali population constitutes the largest community of this state. Due to this reason, Bengali culture is considered as the main non-indigenous culture. A lot of tribal families that live in the towns have embraced the Bengali language and culture. Tripuri kings are considered as the greatest patrons and supporters of Bengali culture, particularly literature. The language of Bengali was also the court language. Bengali cuisine, music and literature are widespread, mainly in urban areas. Tripura is famous for cane handicrafts and bamboo. Cane, wood and bamboo, are mainly utilised for making a wide range of utensils, furniture, fans, mats, replicas, baskets, materials for interior decoration and idols. Dance and music are an integral part of the culture in this state. The various local instruments that are quite popular are sumui (a kind of flute), chongpreng and sarinda (string instruments). The indigenous communities have their own collection of dances and songs that are performed at the time of religious occasions, weddings and other events. The 'Goria dance' is performed by Jamatia and Tripuri people at the time of Goria Puja. Some of the dance forms of Tripura are jhum dance, mamita dance, lebang dance, mosak sulmani dance etc. More... Languages The main languages that are widely spoken in this Northeastern state are Kokborok and Bengali. In addition, various minority languages are also spoken in this state. English is also used for official purpose. The widely spoken language is Bengali as the state has a large number of Bengali population. On the other hand, the language of Kokborok is quite prominent among the tribal population. Sabrum and Chakra are the main Bengali languages that are spoken by the tribal population. A number of individuals also speak Rankhal and Halam. It is a language that originates from the Halam language. Tourism If you want to visit this state, then you can explore the various mesmerizing places that are located here. The state has many natural charms. The sightseeing tour of this state will provide a delightful and charming experience for a tourist. There are various architectural wonders in this state like Kunjaban and Neermahal Palace. It is considered as the ideal tourist spot in the Northeast part of India. You can also visit the holy places, such as Kamalasagar Kali and Bhuvaneswari temple. Many pilgrims and tourists visit Tripura in order to see the famous temples of this region. There are various wildlife attractions in Tripura. The wildlife lovers will certainly want to come to this state for visiting the various wildlife destinations. Gumti Wildlife Sanctuary is home to elephants, barking deer and bison. Sepahijala Sanctuary offers shelter to the migratory birds. Trishna and Rowa Wildlife sanctuary are also famous and renowned for wildlife species. The attraction spots of Tripura also cover a number of astounding royal places, such as Neermahal Palace. It is a famous palace that was built by incorporating the styles of Muslim and Hindu. Ujjayanta Palace is another well-known tourist spot in Agartala, Tripura. Kunjaban Palace is also a famous destination for sightseeing. More... Transport National Highway (NH) 44 is the only main road that connects this state to the rest of the country. It starts at Sabroom located in the Southern part of Tripura. It then heads to the northern side of Agartala, the capital city of Tripura. After that, it turns east, northeast and enters Assam. The highway is also called the 'Assam Road', and it is considered as the lifeline of the state. The road quality of the highway is quite poor. Manu is a town in the district of south Tripura that is connected by another highway NH 44A with Aizawl, the capital city of Mizoram. Agartala is well connected by air. The airport is located in the capital city, Agartala that connects it with other Indian cities. In addition, there are also connecting flights to Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Bangalore, Guwahati, Aizawl, Silchar, Delhi, Imphal and Kolkata. The airport in Agartala is the 2nd busiest airport after Guwahati airport in the Northeast. Tripura has the international border of 856 km with Bangladesh. There is also a bus service between Dhaka, the capital city of Bangladesh, and Agartala. EBAKB141114 Last Updated on : December 19, 2014 Places to visit in Tipura Places to visit in Agartala Tripura Wildlife Sanctuary Travel to Agartala Travel to Tripura             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule