Education and Employment: The big push needed for India’s youth | Jobs and Development English Español Français عربي Русский 中文 EN Español Français العربية Русский 中文 Home About Data Research Learning News Projects & Operations Publications Countries Topics Home About Data Research Learning News Projects & Operations Publications Countries Topics Jobs and Development Bloggers Tags Contact Choose Blog All Blogs Africa Can... All About Finance América Latina & Caribe Arab Voices and Views: Middle East and North Africa Development Impact Development in a Changing Climate Development Marketplace East Asia & Pacific on the rise Education for Global Development EduTech End Poverty in South Asia Energy Eurasian Perspectives Future Development Governance for Development Growth and Crisis Information and Communications for Development Investing in Health Jobs & Development Latin America Let's Talk Development Nasikiliza Open Data Opinions People Move People, Spaces, Deliberation Political Risk and Emerging Markets Private Sector Development Blog Prospects for Development Public Private Partnerships Sustainable Cities The Trade Post Transport for Development Voces Voices Water Youthink in English Youthink en français Youthink en español About This Blog Jobs are central to development, helping families to escape poverty, developing skills, empowering women and youth and creating a more stable society. This blog explores various aspects of the jobs challenge and brings together ideas and perspectives from global thought leaders. Originally launched on the  Jobs Knowledge Platform  (JKP), the blog was integrated into the new Jobs Group in October 2014. New contributions from JKP bloggers will continue to be posted here. Featured Bloggers Nigel Twose Senior Director Mary Hallward-Driemeier Senior Principal Specialist David Robalino Manager Adriana Kugler Georgetown University Carmen Pagés IDB Yoko Ishikura Hitotsubashi University Education and Employment: The big push needed for India’s youth Submitted by Raghbendra Jha On Thu, 05/21/2015 Tweet Widget Google Plus One Linkedin Share Button 6 Comments When looking at recent data, it is hard to escape the conclusion that although India has enjoyed high economic growth this has largely been jobless economic growth. It is imperative for there to be a big push in the areas of education and employment in India. This is the most significant policy challenge facing the Indian economy. In 2012, India’s population was 1.23 billion of which 65% was of working age.  India already has a smaller ratio of old people to those of working age population than that of China. Therefore, over time, if India’s youth is productively engaged, the country’s private financial savings and physical capital investment are likely to boom.  In contrast to China, India’s population will continue to grow beyond 2025 and these trends are likely to persist well into the future. By this time, India can be a high-income or high middle-income country.  Arguably, no country currently faces such fortuitous circumstances; indeed very few countries ever have.   Mass education of youth and their gainful employment in productive jobs is central for capitalizing on India’s demographic dividend. But India’s performance with regard to both education and employment has been disappointing. Except for the duration of compulsory education and hours of instruction for pupils aged 9, India’s performance in primary education is lacklustre. Data from WDI2013 reveal that in 1999 only 63% of male students and 60% of female students who had begun grade 1 reached grade 5. This is a lower rate than for lower middle-income countries. The WDI data also indicate low rates of labour participation by youth (particularly women) and high rates of unpaid family work. New policy framework Much of the new job creation must come from areas other than the farm sector. Average farm yields in India are low. In 2012, they were on average 2.3 tonnes per hectare largely because of the small size of farms.  A nuanced policy of creating 115 million non-farm jobs along with large scale investment in agricultural infrastructure could help raise yields to 4 tonnes per hectare by 2022. Most of the new jobs will need to be created in states that have poor initial educational and infrastructural conditions.  This will require large increases in public and private investment, a supportive reform program and be centered on manufacturing and construction.  Here are some suggestions: Design an integrated approach to India’s infrastructure/construction needs as one of the key initiatives of Niti Ayog - the organization that has replaced the Planning Commission.   The plethora of labor and product market regulations (for large and small businesses) must be reduced. They inhibit labor mobility and adaptation to domestic and global market requirements and, more broadly, increase the administrative cost of doing business. One stop clearances for projects and a strong culture of e-governance need to be cultivated. Tax distortions must be reduced and a well harmonized Goods and Services Tax introduced.   Other product market distortions that impede cross-state flow of goods and services must also be reduced. A critical input into such job creation would be the rapid skilling of India’s youth. Apart from a substantial revamping of school level education, this would require sharply redesigned and expanded national apprenticeship programs.  While a large part of these would be established through regular classroom contact, there would be a significant role for remote learning through, for instance, the newly formulated Digital India initiative.  The investment needs for such large scale job creation cannot be fulfilled by the private sector alone.  A program of fiscal prudence would lower the fiscal deficit and - at the margin - switch public expenditure from current subsidies to investment. This would facilitate private investment and FDI so that the investment rate can be edged closer to 40%. This is the rate of investment that is required to sustain high rates of growth and employment creation.  The savings rate must commensurately climb to ensure that there is no instability from a large current account deficit. Perhaps the most significant change required among policymakers is attitudinal – both in the public and private sectors.  The current fixation with growth and poverty is understandable. However, India’s development philosophy must realize that that neither high, medium-term growth, nor sustained poverty reduction, are possible without a paradigm change in India’s approach to the education and employment of youth.  The consequences of failure could be grave.   Professor Raghbendra Jha, is Head of the Arndt-Corden Department of Economics, at the College of Asia and the Pacific, of the Australian National University in Canberra.  Tags: India South Asia Education Jobs and Development Comments I cannot agree more. Literacy Submitted by Rahul Mukherji on Fri, 05/22/2015 - 00:08 I cannot agree more. Literacy, education and skills are major issues. And, India needs to go beyond high gross enrolment ratios to retenstion rates and higher quality education. The state is very important for this purpose. reply Skill India Initiative Submitted by K.N.Jha on Fri, 05/22/2015 - 08:38 Skill India Initiative apprenticeship and internship are two of oldest models of skill training.. industry can extend the much needed support in training of students at college campus. industry and academic institutes can can share a lot In terms of training materials,experience and expertise in developing right skill and attitudes among trainees,which finally will leads to win-win situation for both. reply This is a completly Submitted by govt jobs blog on Sat, 05/23/2015 - 14:14 This is a completly educational website and it is provide to all latest jobs and employment news information http://www.govtjobsblog.in/2014/06/employment-news-today-employment-news.html reply s President of Rotary Club of Submitted by Prof. K.V. Bhanu Murthy on Sun, 05/24/2015 - 00:29 As President of Rotary Club of Delhi Maurya (2015-16) and a member of Rotary International, I wish to point out that Rotary has taken up the challenge of Total Literacy in the world by 2017. The mechanism is to involve youth (Interactors from school and Rotractors from colleges). reply Your facts are absolutely Submitted by Grinati on Tue, 05/26/2015 - 04:05 Your facts are absolutely right, This is already substantiated through the Research Paper 5640 by Mr. Andreas Blom and Mr. Hiroshi Sakei, Education Economist, World Bank Group. Crisply it is a fact that due to Rote learning and Q & A pattern that prevails in the Indian Education system, students just possess Certificates/Grades/Marks which depicts the rote memorization capacity and not the omniscient knowledge. Thus even after obtaining tertiary degree, students are not eligible for Employment/Research/Industry in the recent years. Though the debates proved that there should be a transformation in the school education rather than at the higher education or training at the lateral level. This lead to our Research of the next century teaching and learning for three years and the outcome is successful which has made students have "like" for the disliked subjects, has driven away external triggers like coaching/tuition/language classes but just class room Teaching. On a larger benefit, If chosen to Improvise, Adopt and Migrate then the Global Education Transformation can happen thus creating stronger economy. This piece of information must surely spark your interest and would like to know more, please feel to drop in an email, to share our abstract. reply India's witnessed a huge Submitted by Lokesh Mehra on Tue, 05/26/2015 - 12:26 India's witnessed a huge number of MSME's which fall in the unorganised sector. Even if we get 25% of the student population (higher education) assist these MSME say in areas like ICT, marketing, accounting, etc - not only would it be a good breeding ground for innovation - enhanced productivity of the MSME's will help expedite India to make a global mark. reply Add new comment Your name