Agriculture - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Agriculture From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Cultivate ) This is the latest accepted revision , reviewed on 27 May 2015 . Jump to: navigation , search Agriculture General Agribusiness Agricultural science Agroecology Agroforestry Agronomy Animal husbandry Ecology Extensive farming Farm Free range Agricultural engineering Mechanised agriculture Ministries Intensive farming Intensive animal farming Intensive crop farming Organic farming Permaculture Stock-free agriculture Sustainable agriculture Universities Urban agriculture History History of agriculture History of organic farming British Agricultural Revolution Green Revolution Neolithic Revolution Types Aquaculture Aquaponics Dairy farming Dryland farming Grazing Hydroponics Livestock Natural farming Orchard Pig farming Poultry farming Ranching Sharecropping Sheep husbandry Slash-and-burn Categories Agricultural Agriculture by country Agriculture companies Biotechnology Livestock Meat industry Poultry farming Agriculture / Agronomy portal v t e Fields in Záhorie ( Slovakia ) - a typical Central European agricultural region. Domestic sheep and a cow (heifer) pastured together in South Africa . Agriculture is the cultivation of animals , plants , fungi , and other life forms for food , fiber , biofuel , medicinal and other products used to sustain and enhance human life. [ 1 ] Agriculture was the key development in the rise of sedentary human civilization , whereby farming of domesticated species created food surpluses that nurtured the development of civilization . The study of agriculture is known as agricultural science . The history of agriculture dates back thousands of years, and its development has been driven and defined by greatly different climates , cultures , and technologies. However, all farming generally relies on techniques to expand and maintain the lands that are suitable for raising domesticated species. For plants, this usually requires some form of irrigation , although there are methods of dryland farming . Livestock are raised in a combination of grassland-based and landless systems, in an industry that covers almost one-third of the world's ice- and water-free area. In the developed world, industrial agriculture based on large-scale monoculture has become the dominant system of modern farming, although there is growing support for sustainable agriculture , including permaculture and organic agriculture . Until the Industrial Revolution , the vast majority of the human population labored in agriculture. Pre-industrial agriculture was typically subsistence agriculture / self-sufficiency in which farmers raised most of their crops for their own consumption instead of cash crops for trade. A remarkable shift in agricultural practices has occurred over the past century in response to new technologies, and the development of world markets. This also has led to technological improvements in agricultural techniques, such as the Haber-Bosch method for synthesizing ammonium nitrate which made the traditional practice of recycling nutrients with crop rotation and animal manure less important. Modern agronomy , plant breeding , agrochemicals such as pesticides and fertilizers , and technological improvements have sharply increased yields from cultivation, but at the same time have caused widespread ecological damage and negative human health effects. Selective breeding and modern practices in animal husbandry have similarly increased the output of meat, but have raised concerns about animal welfare and the health effects of the antibiotics , growth hormones , and other chemicals commonly used in industrial meat production. Genetically modified organisms are an increasing component of agriculture, although they are banned in several countries. Agricultural food production and water management are increasingly becoming global issues that are fostering debate on a number of fronts. Significant degradation of land and water resources, including the depletion of aquifers , has been observed in recent decades, and the effects of global warming on agriculture and of agriculture on global warming are still not fully understood. The major agricultural products can be broadly grouped into foods, fibers, fuels , and raw materials . Specific foods include cereals (grains), vegetables , fruits , oils , meats and spices . Fibers include cotton , wool , hemp , silk and flax . Raw materials include lumber and bamboo . Other useful materials are produced by plants, such as resins , dyes , drugs , perfumes , biofuels and ornamental products such as cut flowers and nursery plants . Over one third of the world's workers are employed in agriculture, second only to the services' sector, although the percentages of agricultural workers in developed countries has decreased significantly over the past several centuries. Contents 1 Etymology and terminology 2 History 2.1 Prehistoric origins 2.2 Neolithic 2.3 Bronze and Iron Ages 2.4 Middle Ages 2.5 Global exchange 2.6 Modern developments 2.6.1 Recent 3 Contemporary agriculture 4 Workforce 4.1 Safety 5 Agricultural production systems 5.1 Crop cultivation systems 5.1.1 Crop statistics 5.2 Livestock production systems 6 Production practices 7 Crop alteration and biotechnology 7.1 Genetic engineering 8 Environmental impact 8.1 Livestock issues 8.2 Land and water issues 8.3 Pesticides 8.4 Climate change 8.5 Sustainability 9 Agricultural economics 10 List of countries by agricultural output 11 Energy and agriculture 11.1 Mitigation of effects of petroleum shortages 12 Policy 13 See also 14 References 15 Further reading 16 External links Etymology and terminology [ edit ] The word agriculture is a late Middle English adaptation of Latin agricultūra , from ager , "field", and cultūra , " cultivation " or "growing". [ 2 ] Agriculture usually refers to human activities, although it is also observed in certain species of ant , termite and ambrosia beetle . [ 3 ] To practice agriculture means to use natural resources to "produce commodities which maintain life, including food, fiber, forest products, horticultural crops, and their related services." [ 4 ] This definition includes arable farming or agronomy , and horticulture , all terms for the growing of plants, animal husbandry and forestry . [ 4 ] A distinction is sometimes made between forestry and agriculture, based on the former's longer management rotations, extensive versus intensive management practices and development mainly by nature, rather than by man. Even then, it is acknowledged that there is a large amount of knowledge transfer and overlap between silviculture (the management of forests) and agriculture. [ 5 ] In traditional farming, the two are often combined even on small landholdings, leading to the term agroforestry . [ 6 ] History [ edit ] Main article: History of agriculture See also: Timeline of agriculture and food technology A Sumerian harvester's sickle made from baked clay (ca. 3000 BC). Agricultural practices such as irrigation , crop rotation , application of fertilizers and pesticides , and the domestication of livestock were developed long ago, but have made great progress in the past century. The history of agriculture has played a major role in human history , as agricultural progress has been a crucial factor in worldwide socio-economic change . Division of labour in agricultural societies made commonplace specializations rarely seen in hunter-gatherer cultures, which allowed the growth of towns and cities, and the complex societies we call civilizations . When farmers became capable of producing food beyond the needs of their own families, others in their society were free to devote themselves to projects other than food acquisition. Historians and anthropologists have long argued that the development of agriculture made civilization possible. According to geographer Jared Diamond , the costs of agriculture were: "the average daily number of work hours increased, nutrition deteriorated, infectious disease and body wear increased, and lifespan shortened." [ 7 ] Prehistoric origins [ edit ] Forest gardening , a plant-based food production system, is thought to be the world's oldest agroecosystem . [ 8 ] Forest gardens originated in prehistoric times along jungle-clad river banks and in the wet foothills of monsoon regions. In the gradual process of a family improving their immediate environment, useful tree and vine species were identified, protected and improved whilst undesirable species were eliminated. Eventually superior foreign species were selected and incorporated into the family's garden. [ 9 ] Neolithic [ edit ] Further information: Neolithic Revolution Threshing of grain in ancient Egypt The Fertile Crescent of Western Asia first saw the domestication of animals, starting the Neolithic Revolution. Between 10,000 and 13,000 years ago, the ancestors of modern cattle, sheep, goats and pigs were domesticated in this area. The gradual transition from wild harvesting to deliberate cultivation happened independently in several areas around the globe. [ 10 ] Agriculture allowed for the support of an increased population, leading to larger societies and eventually the development of cities. It also created the need for greater organization of political power (and the creation of social stratification ), as decisions had to be made regarding labor and harvest allocation and access rights to water and land. Agriculture bred immobility, as populations settled down for long periods of time, which led to the accumulation of material goods. [ 11 ] Early Neolithic villages show evidence of the ability to process grain, and the Near East is the ancient home of the ancestors of wheat , barley and peas . There is evidence of the cultivation of figs in the Jordan Valley as long as 11,300 years ago, and cereal (grain) production in Syria approximately 9,000 years ago. During the same period, farmers in China began to farm rice and millet , using man-made floods and fires as part of their cultivation regimen. [ 10 ] Fiber crops were domesticated as early as food crops, with China domesticating hemp , cotton being developed independently in Africa and South America, and the Near East domesticating flax . [ 12 ] The use of soil amendments , including manure , fish, compost and ashes , appears to have begun early, and developed independently in several areas of the world, including Mesopotamia , the Nile Valley and Eastern Asia. [ 13 ] Roman harvesting machine Squash was grown in Mexico nearly 10,000 years ago, while maize -like plants, derived from the wild teosinte , began to be seen at around 9,000 years ago. The derivation of teosinte into modern corn was slow, however, and it took until 5,500 [ 10 ] to 6,000 years ago to turn into what we know today as maize. It then gradually spread across North America and was the major crop of Native Americans at the time of European exploration. [ 14 ] Beans were domesticated around the same time, and together these three plants formed the Three Sisters nutritional foundation of many native populations in North and Central America. Combined with peppers , these crops provided a balanced diet for much of the continent. [ 15 ] Grapes were first grown for wine approximately 8,000 years ago, in the Southern Caucasus , and by 3000 BC had spread to the Fertile Crescent, the Jordan Valley and Egypt. [ 16 ] Agriculture advanced to Europe slightly later, reaching the northeast of the continent from the east around 4000 BC. The idea that agriculture spread to Europe, rather than independently developing there, has led to two main hypotheses. The first is a "wave of advance", which holds that agriculture traveled slowly and steadily across the continent, while the second, "population pulse" theory, holds that it moved in jumps. [ 17 ] Also around 6000 years ago, horses first began to be domesticated in the Eurasian steppes . Initially used for food, it was quickly discovered that they were useful for field work and carrying goods and people. [ 18 ] Around 5,000 years ago, sunflowers were first cultivated in North America, while South America's Andes region was developing the potato . [ 10 ] A minor center of domestication, the indigenous peoples of the eastern United States appear to have domesticated numerous crops, including tobacco . [ 19 ] Bronze and Iron Ages [ edit ] Beginning around 3000 BC, nomadic pastoralism , with societies focused on the care of livestock for subsistence, appeared independently in several areas in Europe and Asia. The main region was the steppes stretching from the Hungarian Plain to Manchuria , where cattle, sheep, horses, and to a lesser extent yaks and bactrian camels provided sustenance. The second was in Arabia , where one-humped camels were the main animal, with sheep, goats and horses also seen. The third area was a band of societies in areas of eastern and central Africa with a tropical savannah climate. Cattle and goats were found most often in this area, with smaller numbers of sheep, horses and camels. A fourth area, more minor than the others, was found in northern Europe and Asia and was focused on reindeer herding. [ 20 ] Between 2500 and 2000 BC, the simplest form of the plough , called the ard , spread throughout Europe, replacing the hoe . This change in equipment significantly increased cultivation ability, and affected the demand for land, as well as ideas about property, inheritance and family rights. [ 21 ] Before this period, simple digging sticks or hoes were used. These tools would have also been easier to transport, which was a benefit as people only stayed until the soil's nutrients were depleted. However, as the continuous cultivating of smaller pieces of land became a sustaining practice throughout the world, ards were much more efficient than digging sticks. [ 22 ] As humanity became more stationary, empires, such as the New Kingdom of Egypt and the Ancient Romans , arose, dependent upon agriculture to feed their growing populations, and slavery, which was used to provide the labor needed for continually intensifying agricultural processes. Agricultural technology continued to improve, allowing the expansion of available crop varieties, including a wide range of fruits, vegetables, oil crops, spices and other products. [ 23 ] [ 24 ] China was also an important center for agricultural technology development during this period. During the Zhou dynasty (1666–221 BC), the first canals were built, and irrigation was used extensively. The later Three Kingdoms and Northern and Southern dynasties (221–581 AD) brought the first biological pest control, extensive writings on agricultural topics and technological innovations such as steel and the wheelbarrow . [ 25 ] In the ancient world, fresh products, such as meats, dairy products and fresh fruits and vegetables, were likely consumed relatively close to where they were produced. Less perishable products, such as grains, preserved foods, olive oil and wine, were often traded over an extensive network of land and sea routes. The ancient trade in agricultural goods was well established, with wine traded in the Mediterranean region in the 6th century BC and Rome receiving extensive shipments of grain as tax payments by the 2nd century BC. Huge amounts of grain were transported, mainly by sea, and it was during this period that the subsidization of grain farming began, for the prevention of famine. Ancient Rome was a major center for agricultural trade. Trade routes stretched from Britain and Scandinavia in the west to India and China in the east, and included major crops, such as grain, wine and olive oil (also a fuel for oil lamps ), as well as additional products, including spices, fabrics and drugs. [ 26 ] In Ancient Greece and Rome , many scholars documented farming techniques, including the use of fertilizers. [ 13 ] Much of what was believed about farming and plant nutrition at this time was later found to be incorrect, but their theories provided the scientific foundation for the development of agricultural theories through the Middle Ages . Ideas about soil fertility and fertilization remained much the same from the time of Greco-Roman scholars until the 19th century, with correspondingly low crop yields. [ 13 ] By the time of Alexander the Great 's conquests (330–323 BC), the role of horses had developed, and they played a huge role in warfare and agriculture. Innovations continued to be developed which allowed them to work longer, harder and more efficiently. By medieval times they became the primary source of power for agriculture, transport and warfare, a position they held until the development of the steam and internal combustion engines. [ 18 ] The Mayan culture developed several innovations in agriculture during its peak, which ranged from 400 BC to 900 AD and was heavily dependent upon agriculture to support its population. The Mayans used extensive canal and raised field systems to farm the large portions of swampland on the Yucatán Peninsula . [ 27 ] [ 28 ] Middle Ages [ edit ] Agricultural calendar from a manuscript of Pietro de Crescenzi . The Middle Ages saw significant improvements in the agricultural techniques and technology. During this time period, monasteries spread throughout Europe and became important centers for the collection of knowledge related to agriculture and forestry. The manorial system , which existed under different names throughout Europe and Asia, allowed large landowners significant control over both their land and its laborers, in the form of peasants or serfs . [ 29 ] During the medieval period, the Arab world was critical in the exchange of crops and technology between the European, Asia and African continents. Besides transporting numerous crops, they introduced the concept of summer irrigation to Europe and developed the beginnings of the plantation system of sugarcane growing through the use of slaves for intensive cultivation. [ 30 ] Population continued to increase along with land use. From 100 BC to 1600 AD, methane emissions, produced by domesticated animals and rice growing, increased substantially. [ 31 ] By 900 AD in Europe, developments in iron smelting allowed for increased production, leading to developments in the production of agricultural implements such as ploughs, hand tools and horse shoes . The plough was significantly improved, developing into the mouldboard plough , capable of turning over the heavy, wet soils of northern Europe. This led to the clearing of forests in that area and a significant increase in agricultural production, which in turn led to an increase in population. [ 32 ] A similar plough, which may have developed independently, was also found in China as early as the 9th century. [ 33 ] At the same time, farmers in Europe moved from a two field crop rotation to a three field crop rotation in which one field of three was left fallow every year. This resulted in increased productivity and nutrition, as the change in rotations led to different crops being planted, including legumes such as peas, lentils and beans. Inventions such as improved horse harnesses and the whippletree also changed methods of cultivation. [ 32 ] Watermills were initially developed by the Romans, but were improved throughout the Middle Ages, along with windmills , and used to grind grains into flour, cut wood and process flax and wool, among other uses. [ 34 ] Ancient methods of planting are still widespread in many countries. Here, two members of the Brao ethnic group plant seeds on their land in Laos Crops included wheat, rye , barley and oats . Peas, beans, and vetches became common from the 13th century onward as a fodder crop for animals and also for their nitrogen-fixation fertilizing properties. Crop yields peaked in the 13th century, and stayed more or less steady until the 18th century. [ 35 ] Though the limitations of medieval farming were once thought to have provided a ceiling for the population growth in the Middle Ages, recent studies [ 36 ] [ 37 ] have shown that the technology of medieval agriculture was always sufficient for the needs of the people under normal circumstances, and that it was only during exceptionally harsh times, such as the terrible weather of 1315–17 , that the needs of the population could not be met. [ 38 ] The Medieval Warm Period , between 900–1300 AD, brought generally warmer global temperatures, leading to increased harvests throughout Europe and a greater northern range for subtropical crops such as figs and olives. Greenland and Iceland were settled by Europeans during this period, and supported agricultural activities. The long-term warming period is generally thought to have occurred mainly in Europe, but other areas of the world experienced shorter warming periods at different times during this period, including China in the 11th and 12th centuries, with similar effects on agriculture. The climate variations found in Europe during the Medieval Warm Period returned to more moderate levels in the 15th century, and terminated in the Little Ice Age of the 16th-mid 19th centuries. [ 39 ] Global exchange [ edit ] The Harvesters . Pieter Bruegel – 1565 After 1492, a