Nuziveedu Seeds - specializes in hybrid seeds - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Nuziveedu Seeds – specializes in hybrid seeds Home Nuziveedu Seeds – specializes in hybrid seeds Seeds company specializes in hybrid seeds S.V.R.Rao Nuziveedu seeds Pvt. Ltd. (NSPL) has its registered office in Gundla Ponchampally, Rangareddy district, Andhra Pradesh. NSPL has a pan India presence with regional offices at Hyderabad, Delhi, Akola, Ahmedabad, Guntur, Davangere, Lucknow and Indore.NSPL also has C&F Agents at Trichy,  Jaipur, Indore, Bhatinda, Hissar and Patna. NSPL’s main R&D division centre is located near Hyderabad. “It is engaged in developing superior hybrids and improved variations of different crops like, cotton, maize, rice, bajra, jowar, sunflower, and vegetables. The R&D facilities is collectively spread over 600 acres. In addition to this, multi-location trial centers have been set up in different agro-climatic zones to evaluate the adaptability of various products and screen them with respect to biotic and abiotic stresses. To ensure consistent quality, NSPL tests its products at reputed national and international research institutes such as IRRI Philippines, ICAR and State Agricultural,”  maintains Mr. S.V.R.Rao, senior vice president, coordination & strategic planning. NSPL has linkages with national and international crop research institutions like ICAR, SAUs, ICRISAT, AVRDC, CYMMYT, TAIWAN and IRRI. [hidepost] He further says, “One of our main strength is our R&D. We are able to maintain leadership position because of our understanding of the farmers’ needs. The key areas are our strong supply chain with good infrastructure and the innovative marketing team which responds faster to the needs of the farmers.”  Adding, “Seed business is R&D led. There is continuous technology upgradation. To sustain the growth momentum it is absolutely essential to invest prudently in R&D. We get reasonable returns from our R&D investment. Agricultural production can be raised only through superior genetics and corresponding optimum cultivation practices.” Cotton Hybrid Seeds Mr. Rao explains hybrid cotton has two components. One is the basic genetic material and other is Bt trait.  “Even before the Bt technology became commercial Nuziveedu was the market leader in hybrid cotton seeds.  Our R&D has developed several hybrids keeping in view the need in each agro-climatic region. The development of hybrids for each market segment using our vast germplasm resource is the technology executed. Adding the Bt trait to these hybrids has helped their growth in the market,” he adds. He adds, “We are also in the business of hybrid or OPV seeds of oilseed crops like mustard and sunflower. We have just laid the platform to grow quickly in vegetable seeds with a strong R&D back-up. We have not yet focused on flower seeds market segment.” Programs to Educate Farmers Naziveedu conducts several programs to educate farmers on latest developments in crop production technologies and agronomy, pest/diseases, weed management and post-harvest management and market dynamics, under the project Subeej Krishi Vignan. “We continuously educate the farmers through demonstrations, field visits and other means. We educate the distributors and dealers also on optimum cultural practices in the meetings. Our frontline team members are specially trained by our scientists to explain the details of technologies to the farmers,” says Mr. Rao. He adds,  “Through these programs we have taken two agronomical innovations to farmers: 1) High density planting in Bt cotton, and 2) 10kg Seed for 1 acre paddy cultivation against traditional 30 kg/acre.These services are offered as a service to the farming community without any commercial objective.” Clientele The company mainly targets farmers. “Our channel partners like distributors, dealers and co-marketers are our clients. We have distribution network in 17 states. The seed moves from our supply chain to distributors (wholesalers) who in turn distribute to the dealers (retailers) located in small towns and villages. We try to see that the farmers need not travel long distances to obtain our seed,” says Mr. Rao. Marketing Speaking about their marketing strategies, Mr. Rao says, “The core of marketing strategy is creating awareness regarding superiority of our products through demonstrations, farmer meetings and field days, supported by advertisements. We are able to attract farmers at our demos and meetings as we do extension work by educating them about the right practices to be followed in cultivation of our hybrids. Another important strategy we adopt is multi-brand marketing to capitalize on the number of good products developed by our R&D.” Adding, “The sales strategy is to keep the distribution channels happy and healthy. Advance booking is nowadays a common practice in seedsindustry to book shelf space at dealers point and also to estimate the demand for specific products.” Further speaking about the challenges faced, while marketing their products, he says, “Communicationwith farmers is difficult and expensive. The challenge is to make it value for money. We do this through extension work where we create not only demand for our products but also gain the goodwill for the company.” Mr. Rao is in favor of government’s seed replacement rate. “The seed replacement rate (SRR) for any crop differs from state to state. For example for rice it is more than 82% in AP while the national average is 33%. So each state has to have their target for achievable SRR. Improvement in SRR will certainly improve productivity.” Measures to Enhance Seeds Industry Suggesting implementation of technological up-gradationto enhance Indian seed industry, Mr. Rao says, “While the R&D in public and private sectors are relentlessly working in making genetic improvement, the GMO are the ones which will give quantum jump in productivity improvement. Hence GM products in all crops should be made available to Indian farming, but only after thorough testing for bio and environment safety.” Our Correspondent For more information, contact :  S.V.R.Rao Senior Vice President, (Coordination & Strategic Planning) Tel : 08418-308836  M : 9581412309 E : svrao@nslindia.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Nuziveedu Seeds – specializes in hybrid seeds Related – articles, consultants, downloads Yaaganti Seeds – hybrid seeds Maharashtra Hybrid Seeds Namdhari Seeds Nirmal Seeds You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water