Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Academic    Academic Prospectus Academic Prospectus Academic Prospectus  2015-16 Preamble The Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT) is a pioneer Research and Development and Educational Institution under the Ministry of Food Processing Industries, Government of India. The institute has its origin way back in 1967 when it was started as an R&D laboratory in the Modern Rice Mill complex of Thanjavur Co-operative Marketing Federation (TCMF) at Tiruvarur. The mandate of the institute at its inception was to seek solutions for preserving high moisture paddy because the paddy harvest season in southern India coincided with the tail end of monsoon. In 1972 the institute was upgraded and named as Paddy Processing Research Centre (PPRC).  At the time of up-gradation the mandates of the institute also changed and the scientists in the institute focused their research in identifying technologies for post harvest processing and preservation of paddy. The Paddy Processing Research Centre moved to its current location at Thanjavur in 1984. The food processing scenario in India is in a nascent stage and at cross roads. Clear definition of goals and right steps in the right direction are essential to achieve the targets. Our targets are sustained food security for all, safe food supply at grass root levels, reduced food losses, increased individual and national income levels, and alleviating rural poverty and hunger.  Economic prosperity of farmers through processing, preservation and value addition of food grains is yet another target we seek to attain.   Considering the vital importance of strengthening R & D efforts in the post harvest processing of foods, for achieving these clear targets, the Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI) strengthened and upgraded the PPRC as a National Level Institute. In February 2008, the institute was upgraded as a national institute and called as Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology. Click to download- Prospectus 2015-16 No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com