IASRI-Sample Survey Your browser does not support script SAMPLE SURVEY Mandate Thrust Area Projects Research Highlight Mandate To evolve sample survey techniques for estimation of various parameters of interest relating                    to crops, livestock, fishery, forestry and allied fields and to develop techniques for analysis of survey data Thrust Area  Remote sensing and geographic information system  Assessment and evaluation studies Production and area estimation  Cost of production studies   Projects Current Projects : Sl. No Title of the Project Likely Year of Completion Project Leader* and Associates  A.  Instititute Funded Projects : 1. Calibration estimators under two stage sampling design when study variable is inversely related to auxiliary variable 2016 Ankur Biswas* Kaustav Aditya   B. Inter-Instititute Funded Projects   : 1. Pilot study for estimation of seed, feed and wastage ratios of major food grains (Funded by National Accounts Division, Central Statistical Office, MOS&PI, Government of India) 2015 AK Gupta* UC Sud Hukum Chandra Tauqueer Ahmad Kaustav Aditya Prachi Misra Sahoo Ankur Biswas 2. Development of Innovative Approaches for Small Area Estimation of Crop Yield, Socio-economic and Food Insecurity Parameters (Funded by ICAR’s Lal Bahadur Shastri Outstanding Young Scientist Award-2012 ) 2016 Hukum Chandra* Kaustav Aditya 3. Study to test the developed alternative methodology for estimation of area and production of horticultural crops. IASRI component of CHAMAN program under under MIDH (Funded by Deptt. of Agri. & Cooperation, Min. of Agri. ) 2016 UC Sud* Tauqueer Ahmad Prachi Misra Sahoo Kaustav Aditya AK Gupta Ankur Biswas 4. Pilot study for developing state level estimates of crop area and production on the basis of sample sizes recommended by professor Vaidyanthan Committee Report (Funded by Directorate of Economics and Statistics, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture 2017 UC Sud* Kaustav Aditya Hukum Chandra AK Gupta Ankur Biswas Vandita Kumari Raju Kumar Anshu Bhardwaj Anil Kumar C.   Collaborative Inter-Institutional Project : 1. Assessment of quantitative harvest and post harvest losses of major crops/ commodities in India (Funded by Ministry of Food Processing Industries, Govt. of India) 2015 Tauqueer Ahmad* UC Sud Anil Rai Prachi Misra Sahoo Completed Projects : Sl. No Title of the Project Year of Completion Project Leader* and Associates 1. Survey methodology to study economics of keeping goats 1996 R L Rustogi* S C Agarwal Shivtar Singh 2. Statistical modeling for projection of bovine populations and prediction of milk availability 1996 S N Arya* S C Aggrawal H P Singh 3. Pilot sample survey for estimation of yield of pepper and study of cultivation practices using successive sampling 1996 S S Shastri* V K Jain P M Ramesan 4. Pilot sample survey for estimating the area under waste-land 1996 S S Gupta* P C Mehrotra 5. Chi-square tests in in survey data 1996 Anil Rai* A K Srivastava H C Gupta 6. Pilot sample survey to study the economics of Angora rabbits 1996 K P S Nirman* Shivtar Singh Bhagwan Dass 7. Pilot sample survey for evolving a sampling methodology for estimation of area and yield of cultivated fodder crops other than berseem and jowar crop, cost of production and cultivation practices thereof 1996 Anand Prakash* B C Saxena K K Tyagi 8. Sample survey for estimation of cashewnut and cashew apple yield and study of its cultivation practices 1996 S S Shastri* V K Jain P M Ramesan 9. Sample survey for study of constraints in transfer of new agricultural technology under field conditions 1996 P C Mehrotra* S S Gupta N K Ohri G S Bassi R C Gola S S Shastri M S Narang 10. Studies on feed in take by bovines through stall feeding and grazing 1998 B C Saxena* K K Tyagi 11. Small area estimation of milk production 1998 D K Bhatia* S N Arya H C Gupta 12. Estimation of regression coefficients from sample survey data 1998 U C Sud* Anil Rai I C Sethi V P N Singh 13. Development of database relating to basic and current agricultural and allied statistics over time and space 1998 N K Ohri* Bal B P S Goel M S Narang 14. An analysis of yield gap for buffaloes milk 1998 Satya Pal* R M Sood T Rai 15. To study the effect of various input components on the yield of important vegetable crops 1999   A K Gupta* 16. A study of variance estimation in complex surveys 1999 V P N Singh* Anil Rai V K Jain 17. Use of remote sensing technology in crop yield estimation surveys 1999 Randhir Singh* R C Goyal 18. Study for estimation of area and production of important vegetable crops on the basis of partial harvest 2000 A K Srivastava* D L Ahuja D C Mathur K Chugh 19. Sample Survey to evolve methodology for estimation of fish catch from rivers or streams specially of the hilly areas 2000 H V L Bathla* K K Kher A K Gupta 20. Estimation of flow and changes in dynamic population 2000 Jagbir Singh* 21. Use of remote sensing satellite data in crop surveys (A.P. Cess funding) 2000 Randhir Singh* R C Goyal 22. Pilot sample survey to develop a sampling methodology for estimation of poultry meat production 2001 Mahender Singh* 23. Pilot Sample Survey for estimating the area and yield rates of ginger and potato in hilly areas 2001 M S Narang* S S Gupta R C Gola 24. Crop yield estimation of smaller area level using farmers' estimates (a small study taken in district Karnal) 2001 U C Sud* D C Mathur A K Srivastava H V L Bathla G K Jha 25. Sampling procedure for selection of representative samples of fertiliser from ships (A.P. Cess funding) 2001 U C Sud* H V L Bathla Anil Rai 26. Development of GIS based technique for identification of potential agro-forestry area 2002 Tauqueer Ahamed* Randhir Singh Anil Rai 27. Study of land use statistics through integrated modelling using Geographic Information System (A.P. Cess funding) 2003 Anil Rai* A K Srivastava Randhir Singh V K Jain 28. A pilot study on cost of production of Coconut in Kerala (Funding from Coconut Development Board) 2004 U C Sud* H V L Bathla Jagbir Singh D C Mathur K K Kher G K Jha K Murlidharan (From CPCRI) 29. Assessment of harvest and post-harvest losses (Mission Mode Project under NATP) 2004 H V L Bathla* Anil Rai R S Khatri Jagbir Singh Tauqueer Ahmad G K Jha Vipin K Dubey 30. Crop yield estimation at small area level using farmers' estimates (Funded by Central Statistical Organisation, Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, New Delhi ) 2004 U C Sud* D C Mathur G K Jha S C Sethi R M Bhasin 31. Sample survey to develop sampling methodology for estimation of area, production and productivity of important flowers on the basis of market arrivals (Funded by Central Statistical Organisation, Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, New Delhi) 2004 A K Gupta* V K Jain M S Narang K K Tyagi U C Sud 32. A study relating to formulating long term mechanisation strategy for each agro- climatic zone/state (Funding from Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Ministry of  Agriculture) 2004 K K Tyagi* H V L Bathla M S Narang Satya Pal R M Sood Bhagwan Dass S C Agarwal A K Gupta K K Kher D C Mathur Man Singh 33. Estimation of wool production- emerging data needs and a methodological reappraisal (A. P. Cess funding) 2005 R S Khatri* J P Goyal J Jayasankar V Geethalakshmi (CSWRI, Avikanagar) 34. Study for assessment of survey capabilities of private sector (Funded by CSO, MOS & PI, GOI, New Delhi )  2007 S D Sharma* U C Sud H V L Bathla R C Goyal M S Narag D C Mathur A K Gupta Satyapal V K Jain Bhagwan Dass Alka Arora 35. Pilot study to develop an alternative methodology for estimation of area and production of horticultural crops (Funded by CSO, MOS & PI, GOI, New Delhi ) 2007 Tauqueer Ahmad* H V L Bathla Anil Rai D C Mathur R M Sood 36. Developing Remote sensing methodology for collecting agricultural statistics in Meghalaya 2008 Prachi Misra Sahoo* Anil Rai Randhir Singh 37. Pilot study on small area crop estimation approach for crop yield estimates at the Gram Panchayat level (SACEM) - (Funded by Ministry of Agriculture) 2009 U C Sud* H V L Bathla R S Khatri V K Mahajan D C Mathur Hukum Chandra 38. Study to investigate the causes of variation between official and trade estimates of cotton production (Funded by DES, MOA, GOI, New Delhi ) 2009 Tauqueer Ahmad* H V L Bathla Anil Rai Prachi Misra Sahoo A K Gupta V K Jain D V Mhadgut  (CIRCOT, Mumbai) 39. Pilot study to develop sampling methodology for estimation of production of mushroom crop 2009 A K Gupta* U C Sud D C Mathur 40. Small Area Estimation for Zero-Inflated Data 2009 Hukum Chandra* H V L Bathla U C Sud 41. Evaluation of Rationalization of Minor Irrigation Statistics (RMIS) Scheme 2009 V K Bhatia U C Sud* D C Mathur Hukum Chandra S B Lal 42 Estimation of extent of farming practices, resources and activities with energy use   2010 Jagbir Singh* K K Tyagi K K Kher A K Gupta V K Jain 43. Developing Remote Sensing based methodology for collection of agricultural statistics in North-East region. (Space Application Centre) 2010 Prachi Misra Sahoo* Anil Rai Tauqueer Ahmad Samir Farooqi 44. Study on status and projection estimates of agricultural implements and machinery 2010 K K Tyagi* Jagbir Singh K K Kher V K Jain Surendra Singh (CIAE, Bhopal) 45. District level poverty incidence estimation from NSSO data using small area estimation technique 2011 U C Sud* Tauqueer Ahmad V K Jain 46. Sampling Methodology for Estimation of Meat Production in Meghalaya (Funded by Department of Animal Husbandry Dairying & Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India) 2011 Hukum Chandra* U C Sud A K Gupta D C Mathur 47. Consultancy Project on “Determination of optimum sample size for crop yield estimation at the gram panchayat level” (Funded by Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India) 2011 V K Bhatia U C Sud* V K Gupta 48. National Initiative on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA)-Agroforestry Component (Funded by Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India) 2012 Tauqueer Ahmad* Prachi Misra Sahoo 49. Consultancy Project on “Evaluation of Agricultural Census Scheme” (Funded by Department of Agriculture and Co-operation, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India) 2012 U C Sud* V K Bhatia K K Tyagi Tauqueer Ahmad Hukum Chandra 50. Spatial Non-stationarity in Small Area Estimation under Area Level Model 2013 Hukum Chandra* U C Sud Yogita Gharde (Upto 31-3-2012) 51. On Small Area Inference Using Survey Weights (Directorate of Weed Research, Jabalpur , Madhya Pradesh) 2013 Hukum Chandra* V K Jain Yogita Gharde (DWR, Jabalpur) 52. Consultancy project on “Study to develop an alternative methodology for estimation of Cotton production” (Funded by Directorate of Economics and Statistics (DES), Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India) 2013 Tauqueer Ahmad* V K Bhatia U C Sud Anil Rai Prachi Misra Sahoo 53. Consultancy project on “Impact assessment of agroforestry model in Vaishali district of Bihar State” (Funded by Institute of Forest Productivity (ICFRE), Ranchi ) 2013 Tauqueer Ahmad* V K Bhatia U C Sud Anil Rai Prachi Misra Sahoo 54. Study to develop methodology for crop acreage estimation under cloud cover in the satellite imageries 2014 Prachi Misra Sahoo* Tauqueer Ahmad K N Singh A K Gupta 55. Study of Sample Sizes for Estimation of Area and Production of Food Grain Crops 2014 K K Tyagi* A K Gupta V K Jain Kaustav Aditya 56. A study on calibration estimators of finite population total for two stage sampling design 2014 Kaustav Aditya* U C Sud Hukum Chandra V K Jain 57. Small Area Estimation for Skewed Data 2014 Hukum Chandra* U C Sud Kaustav Aditya 58. Farm power machinery use protocol and management for sustainable crop production 2014 Tauqueer Ahmad* From :Agri. Engg., IARI: Indra Mani Dipankar De M S Kalra J K Singh Adrash Kumar P K Sahoo P K Sharma Alka Singh Research Highlights (a) Applied Research Development of suitable sample survey methodologies for estimation of various parameters in crops, livestock, fisheries production and allied fields have always been one of the most important activities of the Institute from the very beginning. The Institute was instrumental in the development of sample survey methodology for : Crop production estimation through crop cutting approach which formed a sound objective method of estimating crop production in the country Estimation of livestock numbers, products and attendant practices Extent of cultivation and production of fruits and vegetables Estimation of plantation crops like arecanut, coconut, cashewnut Estimation of fish catch both from marine and inland resources Estimation of cost of production of crops as well as livestock products Evaluation studies such as assessment of development programmes like IADP, HYVP, dairy improvement programmes, etc. were other important contributions of the Institute Most of the methodologies evolved are being adopted for estimation of respective commodities by the concerned departments in the various states and this work is being coordinated by the Directorate of Economics and Statistics and other concerned Wings of the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India.Some of these methodologies have been internationally used (b)Basic Research The Institute has made significant contributions in many areas of sampling techniques such as successive sampling, systematic sampling, cluster sampling, component sampling, sampling with varying probabilities, controlled selection, non-sampling errors, various methods of estimation such as ratio and regression methods, analysis of survey data, etc. The use of combinatorics (or experimental designs) in sample surveys has also led to some useful contributions particularly for variance estimation in large scale complex surveys and varying probability selection procedures. Useful contributions have also been made in the categorical data analysis and variance estimation using re-sampling techniques like Jackknife technique and Balanced Repeated Replications. Studies on small area estimation for local level planning and regression analysis of survey data have also been taken up.  