mKisan:USSD Application Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access हिंदी में Follow us on Twitter USSD About USSD USSD Application Register for USSD Pull SMS About Pull SMS Structure & Codes IVRS About IVRS IVRS Dashboard Agent Rating Call Response Push SMS About Push SMS Search SMS Database Ksewa About KSEWA Register for KSEWA Login for KSEWA List of Services KCC About KCC KCC Locations Features of KCC KCC Nodal Officers Query Escalation Process Implementation of Escalation Process Involvement of States KCC Dashboard Buyer Seller About Buyer Seller Platform Buyers Login New Buyer Registration Mobile Apps About Mobile Apps Downloads Reach Us Queries on Portal Feedback/Grievance You are here : Home > USSD Application Search About mKisan Dashboard Registration for SMS Accolades RSS Twitter USSD Application Unstructured Supplementary Services Data (USSD) Applications This technology enables access to databases and information on the Web and also to carry out data entry in web based applications in databases on the Internet by simple interactive messaging without having any Internet on the handset. For instance, the farmers can access information about input dealers, farm machinery along with its prices, where all extension related activities are being run in his/her area, list of beneficiaries etc. Similarly, persons from APMCs/Mandis, fertilizer and other dealers would be able to enter price and sales/stock details even from the areas where internet availability is still not available. A typical illustration of USSD Session has been given in the following slide in which a farmer selects appropriate kind of machine for the crop sown by him / her and gets contact details of dealers and product prices. This service is currently available on BSNL, Vodafone, Airtel, Idea and Tata Docomo GSM service. However, USSD is not supported on CDMA technology phones. Farmers can register for this service by submitting their details at http://mkisan.gov.in/wbreg.aspx either directly on the web or through the nearest Common Services Centre. There are user charges of Rs. 6 per month for unlimited USSD sessions. To start with, first 10 lac farmers (with appropriate State-wise distribution) over a period of next 6 months will be registered free of cost and the Government of India will pay for their USSD charges for the next 2 years. After expiry of this time limit and ceiling of 10 lac farmers, the farmers may need to pay a small sum of Rs. 6 per month for unlimited sessions of interactive messaging. The farmers can be registered through Common Services Centres by paying one time registration fee of Rs. 5 in addition to monthly charges. In order to be among the free registrants, farmers already registered for SMS Portal (with their District, Block and priorities of crop / agricultural practices) can simply send a text message Kisaan USSD Yes to 51969 or 7738299899 . Operational USSD Services Service Code Service *491*105# Data Entry of Mandi Prices and Arrivals Markets act as a driver for Agricultural Growth. Agricultural Marketing Information System Network (AGMARKNET) has been established for linking all important APMCS (Agricultural Produce Market Committees), State Agricultural marketing Boards and Directorates for effective information exchange on market prices. This information is used by farmers and all other stakeholders extensively. Click Here For more Information However out of the 7114 regulated markets (i.e. Mandis) in the country only 3397 have proper infrastructure and internet connectivity and are currently functioning as Agmarknet nodes. Due to problems in the IT infrastructure and internet connectivity, this data entry for prices takes place on an average only from 800 – 900 Mandis on any given day. The figures are still lesser for arrivals data in the markets. In order to overcome this problem, interactive text messaging (without any internet connectivity or USSD) using basic level mobile phones is now being introduced for doing data entry of prices and arrivals. Every Mandi is identified by registered mobile number(s) of the person(s) who are responsible for doing the data entry. Mandi is identified by the Cell Number (with PIN Code security) and commodities transacted in the past are displayed for ease of use otherwise more commodities can be added. The interface is very intuitive and easy to use. On dialing the *491*105# code from his/her mobile number, subsequent self-explanatory instructions keep appearing on the screen to guide through different menus. Data relevant to that Mandi (as per historical trends) is shown first and the user is able to enter complete information as required. Download User Guide *491*106# Fertilizer Daily Sale Entry The objective of this USSD module is to enable data entry so as to monitor the sale and stock availability of the fertilizers with retailers.The system will also act as a tool for Government Bodies to track and ensure timely distribution of fertilizers to the farmers. Click Here For more Information Department of Fertilizers, Government of India has launched a very ambitious project “mFMS” to monitor the movement of the fertilizer from the Manufacturer to Warehouse and from Wholesalers to Retailers. Data can be entered through web or mobile based applications through internet. However, as internet penetration, especially in remote and rural areas, is still very low, the project is not able to achieve its full potential. With the help of this USSD module, over 1.5 lac dealers and retailers will be able to enter their stock and sale positions once a week. This data will be accessible to the farmers for knowing fertilizer dealers in their area and stock availability of different products with them. Only the data related to specific dealers is displayed by backend integration with mFMS which captures information up to specific products and sales by wholesalers (linked to a mobile and PIN). Acknowledgement by dealers is re-verified. *491*103# Farmer Centric Services Farmers’ location is captured from the database of mKisan / SMS Portal and options for that Block only are shown. Option1 Farm School Location Farm School is an excellent mechanism for farmer-to-farmer-extension. These Farm Schools are set up at the fields of progressive/ awardee Farmers. Click Here For more Information The scheme was introduced with effect from the fourth quarter of 2007-08 under ATMA. A total of 78684 Farm Schools have been set up so far with about 18000 being added every year. Besides this, there are Farmer Field Schools (rechristened now) under National Food Security Mission, Plant Protection etc. These Farm Schools serve as a mechanism for farmer-to-farmer extension at 3 or more locations in every Block. Complete information about these schools and farmers being trained on various critical stages of the subject are uploaded in the Electronic Monitoring System (EMS) developed by the Department of Electronics & Cooperation (DAC). With the help of this simple and very intuitive USSD application, a farmer can easily extract details about various Farm Schools being run in his/her block. This will help him in planning his other activities. Option 2 Farmer Friend Contact Information The extension reforms have traditionally leveraged upon the skills and knowledge of progressive farmers to take the extension machinery to the grassroots. Click Here For more Information More than 1,22,851 Farmer Friends (FF) have been identified by the States so far and this number is expected to touch 2.24 lacs by end of XII Plan. These FFs are involved in mobilizing farmers’ groups and facilitating dissemination of information to these groups, individual farmers and farm women through one to one interaction. Each farmer friend is assigned more than one village. With the help of this USSD application farmers can find out details of Farmer Friend designated for their village. Option 3 Fertilizer Sales to Dealer Fertilizers constitute an important input for increasing farm productivity. Click Here For more Information Timely availability of correct fertilizer from the nearest dealer helps farmers in terms of time and cost savings. mFMS project of Department of Fertilizers, Government of India, aims to monitor the availability of fertilizers at various echelons from manufacturers to wholesalers and retailers.With the help of this USSD application farmers can find out details of various Fertilizer Dealers in their area, stock position of different products / Manufacturers and even prices. After dialing the requisite USSD service code, a farmer can easily drill down the easily comprehensible menu to the required information. Option 4 Demonstration Plots Front Line demonstrations (FLDs) is a unique approach to provide an direct interface between researcher and farmers Click Here For more Information as the scientists are directly involved in planning, execution and monitoring of the demonstrations for the technologies developed by them and get direct feedback from the farmers’ field about the crops production in general and technology being demonstrated in particular. This enables the scientists to improvise upon the research programme accordingly. In FLDs, the subject matter scientists provide technological inputs to extension scientists to organize the demonstrations. Thus, FLDs provide an opportunity to researchers and extension personnel for understanding the farmer’s resources and requirement to fine tune and/or modify the technologies for easy adaptability at farmers’ fields. The FLDs are conducted by the ICAR/SAUs system but mainly by the Extension Machinery under ATMA. Individual beneficiaries of demonstration plots within a Panchayat area and all farmer group beneficiaries are to be generally selected by the respective Gram Sabhas or Gram Panchayats in consultation with FIGs and FOs working in the area. Complete details including location, size, type of activity and availability dates of experts etc. about these Demonstration Plots are captured and uploaded in the Electronic Monitoring System (EMS) developed by DAC. With the help of this USSD application, a farmer can easily find out details about FLDs being run in his area and benefit from the learnings being brought out. Option 5 NFSM Beneficiaries A Centrally Sponsored Scheme, 'National Food Security Mission' (NFSM), was launched in October 2007. Click Here For more Information The Mission is being continued during 12th Five Year Plan with new targets of additional production of 25 million tons of food grains. In addition the mission also aims at restoring soil fertility and productivity at the individual farm level and enhancing farm level economy to restore farmers’ confidence levels. NFSM has five components (i) NFSM- Rice; (ii) NFSM-Wheat; (iii) NFSM-Pulses, (iv) NFSM-Coarse cereals and (v) NFSM-Commercial Crops. Elaborate guidelines have been issued for identifying States, districts and beneficiaries especially, small & marginal, women and SC/ST category farmers under the scheme. All targeted beneficiaries receive assistance under the scheme. Details of all these beneficiaries is being captured regularly and are available on NFSM website & Farmers Portal to enhance transparency. However this information can be accessed by people having access to internet. With the help of USSD application, farmers and all other stakeholders can access the list of beneficiaries in their area. Option 6 NHM Beneficiaries National Horticulture Mission was launched in 2005-06 as a Centrally Sponsored Scheme to promote holistic growth of the horticulture sector through an area based regionally differentiated strategies. The scheme has been subsumed as a part of Mission for Integration Development of Horticulture (MIDH) during 2014-15. Click Here For more Information The objective of the mission is to promote holistic growth of horticulture sector, skill development, enhance horticulture production and encourage aggregation of farmers into farmer groups like FIGs/FPOs and FPCs to bring economy of scale and scope. Detailed guidelines have been issued for granting assistance to the beneficiaries under the scheme. Details of all these beneficiaries are being captured regularly and is available on NHM website & Farmers Portal to enhance transparency. However, this information can be accessed only by people having access to internet. With the help of USSD application, farmers and all other stakeholders can access the list of beneficiaries in their area. Option 7 Farm Machinery Information Farm mechanization is an important element of modernization of agriculture. Farm Productivity is positively correlated with the availability of farm power coupled with efficient farm implements and their judicious utilization. Click Here For more Information Agricultural mechanization not only enables efficient utilization of various inputs such as seeds, fertilizers, plant protection chemicals and water for irrigation but also it helps in poverty alleviation by making farming an attractive enterprise. The Department of Agriculture and Cooperation is following multi – pronged strategy for promoting Farm Mechanization. It aims at increasing the reach of farm mechanization to small and marginal farmers and to the regions where availability of farm power is low. In this direction availability of right type of machines at a reasonable price assumes high importance. Data about variety of manufactures/dealers along with their products and price details is being captured regularly. This has been available to the users having regular access to the internet. With the help of this USSD based application, farmers will be able to know details about different types of machines (according to the choice of crop and stage of cropping cycle) along with contact information of dealers selling these in and around their area. Farmers will then be able to make informed decisions about its purchase. Option 8 Seed Dealer Seed constitute an important input for increasing farm productivity. Click Here For more Information Timely availability of correct Seed from the nearest dealer helps farmers in terms of time and cost savings.With the help of this USSD application farmers can find out details of various Seed Dealers in their area. After dialing the requisite USSD service code, a farmer can easily drill down the easily comprehensible menu to the required information. Home About Us Help RTI Terms and Conditions Copyright Policy Hyperlinking Policy Privacy Policy Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation,Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India Page Last Updated on : 10 October, 2014