--------------------     (¯`·.¸(¯`·.¸ Aavin ¸.·´¯)¸.·´¯)      ------------------------------             History   Organisation   Products   Recipes   Unions   R & D   Dairies   Dealers   Tender   Contact   Home   Ice creams       Aavin Ice creams are very popular in the metro city Chennai and sub urban. There are 25 flavours moderately priced available in all milk parlours and Franchise Retail outlets which are more than 150 in number.  Aavin  introducing sugar free ice cream in cups for health conscious consumers. It is calorie conscious product. Aavin ice cream is very well accepted by all segment people due to its high quality. The calorific value of Aavin ice cream is 116 Kcal per 100 ml and it contains 5g Fat, 3.1g Protein, 5.4 gm Carbohydrate, 0.6 g minerals and 8 g added sugar. Due to high content of sugar, diabetic and calorie conscious people are deprived of taking ice cream and hence it is highly essential to develop alternate product to cater the need of all the people. Hence Aavin has proposed to introduce Sugar- free ice cream. It contains unique Sucralose at 320 ppm level which is an artificial sweetner, derived from cane sugar. It does not affect the blood sugar level. CHARACTERISTICS: It is safe for children and pregnant women. It is non toxic, non-carcinogenic. The majority of ingested sucralose is excreted unchanged. It is approved by United States Food and Drug Administration and also approved by Prevention of Food Adulteration Act – 1955 (allowed maximum 750 ppm level for Milk Product based sweets) It is highly stable even at 230 oC  unlike other artificial sweeteners. ENERGY VALUE: The Calorific value of the sugar free ice – cream is only 80.0 Kcal per 100 ml. It contains all the ingredients as in ice cream but only 16 mg of Sucralose is available instead of 8000 mg sugar to get the same sweet taste. It is important that Sucralose content is 500 times lesser than sugar. Since it is less calorific value and also no sugar in the product, it is so safe for diabetics and calorie conscious people. | Butter | Ghee | Milk Powder | Cheese | Flavoured milk | Tetra Milk | Milk Sweet | Butter Milk | Mango Drink | Milk Khoa | | Home | Back | Next |  