Infrastructure of Andaman and Nicobar Islands Home » Andaman & Nicobar Islands » Infrastructure   Andaman and Nicobar Island अंडमान और निकोबार का नक्शा Andaman and Nicobar Island Map Portblair City Districts Location Map How to reach Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar Travel to Andaman and Nicobar Wildlife Sanctuaries Beaches in Andaman & Nicobar Andaman & Nicobar Monuments Museums in Andaman & Nicobar Hotels in Andaman and    Nicobar Portblair Hotels Havelock Hotels Culture Geography and History Government and Politics Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Infrastructure Language Education Facts Lat Long Pin Code Std code       Infrastructure of Andaman and Nicobar Islands Infrastructure of Andaman and Nicobar Islands might not be state of the art in comparison to other states and Union Territories but still it has got the required infrastructure to support the existing industries. The main elements of infrastructure of any place are its industries, transport, communication, etc. The main component of infrastructure at Andaman and Nicobar Islands is its transport system. In this regard, it can be said that the transport system of the islands group have improved a lot and is moving towards more betterment. The Motor Transport Department of Andaman and Nicobar Islands have extended their services to ten other islands apart from Port Blair while the State Transport Services is plying 143 buses on 75 routes. Though the transport network in the southern islands were hit badly by the tsunami that came on 26th December 2004, some of them have been restored while some of them are in the process of re-storage because transport is the main mode by which all the island groups are connected. Another significant element of Andaman and Nicobar Islands infrastructure are the different industries that contribute to the economy of the Union territory. All total there are 1763 small scale village and handicrafts industries operating in the island group. Out of these only 2 are into exports. These are fish or prawn processing units. Then there is a public sector unit namely Andaman and Nicobar Islands Integrated Development Corporation which operates in various fields including Fisheries, Industrial financing and Tourism. Infrastructure around Andaman and Nicobar Islands also relies on agriculture. Out of the total land area (comprising all the islands) of 51694.35 hectares, 5891.01 hectares of land is used for plantations and 2177.70 hectares of land for paddy and field crops thereby making the total area of land under cultivation 8068.71 hectares. The main money making crops for the island groups are Areca nut and Coconut which are grown in the Nicobar Islands. Since Andaman and Nicobar Islands are one of the largest tourist spots in India, the need for development of infrastructure of Andaman and Nicobar Islands has risen due to the growing tourism. More means of transport that including airways, seaways and roadways need to be developed. Last Updated on: 2 nd April 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule