Department of Water Resources : Official Website of Government of Jharkhand Click for Archive Website Skip to Main Content Skip to Navigation Sign In A A A- A A+ Department of Water Resources Government of Jharkhand Home About Directory Photo Gallery e Services You are here : Home State Department and Agencies Water Resources About The Department Approximately 75 - 80% of the population is dependent on agriculture sector for their livelihood. Existing irrigation coverage as per 3rd M.I. Census is merely 22% of the available arable land (as against the national coverage of over 40%). Irrigation is, therefore, the critical factor for increasing agricultural production & productivity.                                                                                                                         View More Press Release Acts & Rules Policies Notifications Circulars Publications Citizen Charter View More... News & Headlines Sorry, no result available under provided search criteria View more Schemes & Tenders   Mission Vision   Downloads Who's Who Featured Links Useful Links Supreme Court Of India High Court Of Jharkhand Govt. Of India Govt. Of Jharkhand wrdjharkhand.nic.in Photo in News Photo Gallery is temporarily unavailable. State Department and Agencies Agriculture Animal Husbandry Art & Culture Board of Revenue Disaster Management Forest & Environment Department of Excise Finance Food & Public Distribution Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Human Resources Industries Information & Public Relations Information Technology Labour & Employment Law (Justice) Power & Energy Rural Development Science & Technology Social Development Transport Tourism Department Water Resources Know More... Know Your District Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka East Singhbhum Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan About Us About the Portal Terms of use Policies & Disclaimer Contact us Site Map Accessibility Statement Help Feedback Screen Reader Access FAQ's Weather For Jharkhand --Select-- Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka Jamshedpur Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan Supported By External website that opens in a new window. External website that opens in a new window. This page was last modified on:Thu Apr 16 06:59:07 UTC 2015 All Rights Reserved by Government of Jharkhand, India. Designed & Maintained by TCSL   in cooperation with NIC and JAPIT Validation HTML5 , CSS3   Back to Top