Holy Places in Assam Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Assam Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Asaam Places to Visit in Assam National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Kamakhya Temple Temples in Assam Kamakhya Temple Nabagraha Temple Rudreswar Temple Monuments and Museums Rang Ghar The planetarium Gargaon Palace Namdang Stone Bridge Charaideo Majuli Island Tourist Destinations in Assam Travel to Manas Travel to Haflong Travel to Dispur Travel to Guwahati Assam Hotels Hotels in Guwahati Hotels in Dibrugarh Hotels in Tezpur Hotels in Jorhat Hotels in Kaziranga About Assam Geography History Home » Assam » Assam Tourism » Assam Holy Places Assam Holy Places Assam is a hilly state situated in the north eastern part of India. There are a number of tour places in Assam. Among them Assam holy places are most commonly visited by the tourists. The devotees also come to these places. During any festivals, the temples of Assam are crowded with devotees. The holy places of Assam includes religious centers built by people of every religion. The population of Assam is very heterogeneous as people from every part of the country come to settle in this part. The architectural work of the Assam holy places should not be missed out. Most of the sites have become important tourist centers of Assam. These religious places in Assam are associated with ancient legends and myths. Many of the structures are very old and have historical significance. Many of them are built by the kings and rulers of Assam. Some of the religious sites have become pilgrim centers in Assam. Every year the devotees visit these places and they pay homage to the respective gods and goddess of the temple. Many of the Hindu temples are built in honor of a particular god or goddess. The serene and peaceful atmosphere of the holy places in Assam purifies the soul and mind of the visitors. The holy places of Assam are a meeting ground of all the religion and cultures of India. These religious places can be accessed by reaching Assam by rail, road or air. The tourists can avail bus services or rent cars to visit these places in Assam. List of Assam holy Places Kamakhya Temple Nabagraha Temple Umananda Temple Mahabhairab Temple Sukreswar Temple Rudreswar Temple Madan Kamdev Satra Poa-Mecca Lankeshwar Temple Nauka Mandir Digheswari Temple Jaysagar Tank and Temples Gaurisagar Tank and Temples Ugra Tara Temple Lankeshwar Temple Hajo Kamakhya Temple Kamakhya Temple is one of the very popular temple of India. The temple of Kamakhya is situated on the hills of Neelachala Parvat near Guwahati in the north eastern state of Assam. The Neelachala Parvat is also known as the Kamagiri hill and thus the goddess residing on this hill is known as the Kamakhya. She is known to grant the wishes of her devotees. The traditional name of Assam had been Kamarupa and this region is known for worship of Shakti. The Kamakhya Temple is considered to be one of the Shakti peeths in India. According to the Hindu mythologies, Sati to avenge the humiliation of her husband, Lord Shiva, she sacrificed her life in the fire of a yagna. Hearing the news of the death of his wife Sati, he started the Tandava dance to destroy the earth. To pacify the anger Lord Shiva, many of the gods tried to console him. In the mean time, Lord Vishnu cut the corpse of Sati into fifty one pieces. Wherever the pieces of her body fell on earth came to be known as one of the Shakti peeths. It is said that Sati's reproductive organ fell in this place, where the Kamakhya Temple is been temple. In sixteen century, the temple of Kamakhya was destroyed by invaders but it was rebuilt by King Nara Narayan in the seventeenth century. The sculptures in the Kamakhya Temple are worth seeing. The images of Hindu gods and goddesses are etched out inside the temple. The atmosphere in the temple is very peaceful and serene. Nabagraha Temple Assam is a north eastern state of India. Besides the scenic beauty of the hilly region and the lush green landscape, there are a number of tourist destinations in the state. The temples in Assam are occasionally visited by the devotees. These temples in Assam are also important as tourist spots. Nabagraha Temple is a popular temple in Assam. Among the temples in India, the Nabagraha Temple is an important one, as it is associated with the ancient studies in India. The Nabagraha Temple is built near the capital city of Assam, Guwahati. The distance of the temple from the railway station is only three kilometers. The temple is located on the Chitrachal hills in Assam. The word Nabagraha refers to the nine planets of the solar system. There are nine lingas inside the Nabagraha Temple that represent the nine planets or grahas of Venus, Jupiter, Mars, Saturn and other planets. The two other planets of Ketu and Rahu were added later to this group of planet. The temple is thus also known as a temple of the nine planets. In ancient India Astronomy and Astrology was studied in this center. The city of Guwahati is often called by the name of Pragjyotishpur. The name means a city that is associated with Astrology. The Nabagraha Temple in Assam, can be reached by road, rail and air. The tourists coming to this part of the state, never miss to pay a visit to this ancient temple Umananda Temple The Umananda Temple is built in Guwahati in 1594, by the Ahom King of Assam. Among the temples in Assam, this temple is one of the mostly visited one. The devotees as well as the tourists coming to Assam, takes a visit to this temple. Umananda Temple is devoted to Lord Shiva. Umananda Temple is built on a riverine island called Peacock island. It is an island of River Brahmaputra. To reach the temple, one has to cross the river in a boat. These boat service is available from the Kachari ghat. There is also a ferry service that is available from 7 am in the morning to 5 pm in the evening. During the Hindu festival of Shivaratri, every year the devotees from all parts of Assam and other parts of India come to this place to pay homage to Lord Shiva. The temple of Shiva in Guwahati can be visited to pay homage to the god or to see the splendid sculpture on the walls of the temple. The figures of Hindu gods and goddesses are engraved on the rock walls. These sculptures represent the craftsmanship of the Assamese artisans. There are numerous other temples built in Assam which are located near the famous Umananda Temple. These include Kamakhya Temple, Bhubaneshwari Temple, Shiva Temple, Navagraha Temple (the Temple of nine planets) among others. Tourists from different parts of India or abroad visit these temples to have a deep spiritual experience. Hajo A tour to Assam will be incomplete without a visit to the beautiful city of Hajo. The city is located at a distance of Twenty-eight Kilometers from Guwahati and spread across the banks of the River Brahmaputra. Hajo in Assam is seen as a religious city with a secular outlook. One can find religious places of Hindus, Muslims and Buddhists in the city nestled beside each other for years. The Hajo City has mythological importance attached to it. It is said that the Pandavas were in this city during their Agyatvas. Hajo is very well connected through all means of transportation. The Guwahati Airport is the nearest one with regular bus services from there. In fact the nearest railway station is also Guwahati and frequent bus services and other road transports to and fro Hajo keep the city well connected. Lankeshwar Temple Very near the Guwahati University Campus stands the imposing Lankeshwar Temple. Located in the western part of the vibrant city of Guwahati, the Lankeshwar Temple of Assam is an ancient temple dedicated to Lord Shiva. The temple is placed atop a hill amidst a picturesque location. Lankeshwar is one of the many forms of Lord Shiva. The followers of Lord Shiva considered the temple as one of the most sacred one. Devotees all around the year visit this temple and seek divine blessings. The Lankeshwar Temple in Guwahati is not only popular with the religiously inclined people but with the general tourists also. The wonderful location of the temple is a major reason for this. Since it is situated in a convenient location in the city, it is very easily accessible. This is an added advantage for the place and one of the reasons behind its popularity. Ugra Tara Ugra Tara Temple is a famous temple in Uzan Bazaar, a place in the eastern zone of Guwahati, Assam. It forms a great landmark in the state of Assam. The temple attracts many tourists and of course a large number of pilgrims. The Ugra Tara temple is considered to be a very sacred place. The temple of Ugra Tara in the state of Assam dates back to the eighteenth century. It falls in the long list of ancient temples in India. Built about in the year seventeen hundred and twenty-five, the Assam Ugra Tara temple was established by King Siva Singh, the ruler of that region. Goddess Ugra Tara is the deity to whom the temple of Ugra Tara is dedicated. Ugra Tara is another form of Goddess Parvati. Ugra Tara is connected to Buddhism. It is also well known as a Sakta shrine and the deity is associated with Eka-Jata and Tiksna-Kanta. There is a tank that is positioned to the eastern part of the Ugra Tara temple in the state of Assam. It is a famous tank and it is known as Jorepukhuri. The temple was built by the king of the region. The temple of Ugra Tara at Guwahati in Assam has gone through some renovation and redecoration in the recent years because the old temple had been a victim of a destroying and destructive earthquake. In the Indian festival of Navaratri, the temple of Ugra Tara is specially adorned and bedecked, as it is the most important festival that is celebrated in the temple. On Fridays the crowd of devotees are more in the Ugra Tara temple as there are held special prayers. Doul Govinda Mandir Assam is blessed with numerous wonderful religious sites. These temples are not only religiously significant but they also have immense historical value. Every year thousand of pilgrims visit these temples and seek blessings. Located amidst a picturesque natural backdrop, the temples are very popular among the tourists also. One such popular temple is the Doul Govinda Temple. The Doul Govinda Mandir in Assam is famous for its Holi celebrations in the month of February - March. The daily activities of the Doul Govinda Temple start early, with the opening of the doors at seven in the morning. The priest bathes the idol and then performs the Archana. The worshipers start coming in from an hour after this, which continues till the end of the day. In between that, the temple remains closed during the afternoon. In the evening the Arati is performed by singing devotional songs. Situated at the Rajaduar area of North Guwahati, the Doul Govinda Temple is flocked by thousands of people everyday and the crowd reaches its maximum during the Holi. Lord Krishna is the main deity in the Doul Govinda Temple. There are a lot of legendary stories surrounding the Assam's Doul Govinda Temple. It is said that Ganga Ram Barua brought the idol from Sandhyasar - a secluded place near Nalbari. The first structure of Doul Govinda Temple was erected more than one hundred and fifty years ago but it was again renovated in 1966. The Doul Govinda Temple we see today is an excellent example of fantastic architectural brilliance. Poa-Mecca Poa - Mecca stands witness to the religious harmony that exists between the people of various religions in the state of Assam. It is located in Hajo that has shrines of Hindus, Muslims and Buddhists, all in one place near each other. The Muslim shrine was built by Pir Giasuddin Aulia and is known as Poa - Mecca because it is supposed to be one fourth in sanctity to Mecca. Such interesting name of Poa - Mecca comes from the popular belief that visiting this shrine brings one fourth of the spiritual enhancement and blessings that one might have been bestowed with on a single visit to Mecca. The word 'Poa' literally translates to one fourth. The shrine of Poa - Mecca is looked upon as a holy pilgrimage for the people following Islam. It is located at a distance of 32 kms from Guwahati on the northern bank of the mighty river Brahmaputra. Sukreswar Temple Sukreswar Temple is perched on top of the Itakhuri hills at Guwahati in the state of Assam. Legend has it that, that Sage Sukra had his hermitage on this hillock and he used to worship his Lord Shiva in this temple. Originally dating back to the 18th century, the temple is believed to have the largest Shiva lingam or phallic emblem in India. The Kalika Purana identifies the hillock as Hastigiri hills due to its shape like the hump of an elephant. Constructed by the Ahom ruler Pramatta Singha in 1744 AD, the Sukreswar temple is located on the southern bank of the mighty Brahmaputra. The adjacent embankment is used for holy bathing and performing rituals. It is believed that the dead gain peaces if the post - death rituals are performed here. A flight of steps lead down from the temple complex to the river. Saraighat Bridge forms the backdrop and the river provides a magnificent view of sun set. Last Updated on 10 May 2011 Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule