Economy of Madhya Pradesh Home » Madhya Pradesh »Economy   Economy of Madhya Pradesh Industries मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Economy of Madhya Pradesh Economy of Madhya Pradesh comprises of agriculture and industries of Madhya Pradesh. In fact, industries and agriculture form the backbone of economy of Madhya Pradesh, whereas the supporting bones are mining, tourism and banking. Precisely speaking, the economy of Madhya Pradeshis divided into five different heads, namely: Agriculture Industries Mining Tourism Banking and Finance Agriculture Talking about the first aspect of the economy of Madhya Pradesh, we can mention that Madhya Pradesh is an agricultural state where the main occupation of the people is agriculture. In spite of the growth of industries, agriculture is moving steadily in the economic backdrop of the state. Some of the important crops that are vital to agriculture in Madhya Pradesh are follows, along with a study of their average production (in kilogram per hectare): Rice - 1,058 Wheat - 1,867 Javar - 1,342 Gram - 932 Soybean - 1,132 Sugarcane - 4,215 Cotton - 557 In Madhya Pradesh, about 74.73% of people come from villages who are far from the influence of industrialization. True, that Madhya Pradesh is unhinged by industrialization - mechanization has indeed seeped in, but the rustic feel is still there with the prevalence of agriculture. In Madhya Pradesh, about 49% of the land is cultivable, i.e. majority of the land surface is favorable for cultivation. The following data would further sort all queries regarding utilization of land in Madhya Pradesh for agriculture (according to a 2003-2004 survey): Net Area Sown - 15,048 hectares Gross Cropped Area - 19,891 hectares Double Cropped Area - 4,843 Net Irrigated Area - 5,631 Gross Irrigated Area - 5,776 Talking about agricultural production in Madhya Pradesh, we can get an estimate of the agricultural production (in lac metric ton) of Madhya Pradesh through the following study (2003-2004): Food Grains - 158.72 . Soybean - 47.09. Total Oil Seeds (including Soybean) - 55.86. Sugarcane - 2.18. Cotton - 6.58. Mining The Government of Madhya Pradesh first formulated a Madhya Pradesh Mineral Policy in 1995. Mining and mineral wealth considerably contributes to the development of the state and thus, the nation. The Government of India announced a National Mineral Policy in respect of non-fuel and non-atomic minerals in 1993. Pre-bifurcation Madhya Pradesh contained vast mineral deposits and the scope of mining was immense. However when the state was divided in 2002, deposits of minerals like Iron ore, Tin ore, Corundum, Coal, Limestone, Dolomite and Bauxite passed over to Chhattisgarh. So it became imperative to introduce a new mining policy to mark formerly unidentified mineral deposits and ensure mining takes place scientifically to maintain environmental balance. Mining in Madhya Pradesh seeks : to unearth new mineral deposits by current techniques. to modify rules so that minor mineral quarries are distributed without auction to co-operative societies of members of Scheduled    Castes, Scheduled Tribes and traditional miners. to conduct systematic, scientific exploitation of minerals. to prioritize minerals with minimum ill effects on environment and forest resources. to promote research and development of minerals. to develop mineral based industries. to promote export of minerals. to enhance employment opportunities in the mining sector. to create a mining advisory board. General mining surveys are conducted by the Geological Survey of India while elaborate surveys are undertaken by the State Directorate of Geology and Mining. The survey of minerals valuable in the market and having export potential are conducted on priority basis. Private individual organizations with excellent financial status and technical skills are inspired to take up prospecting projects for diamond, gold and other precious minerals. Some of the integral minerals mined in Madhya Pradesh are: diamonds coal bauxite copper manganese limestone iron ore dolomite rock phosphate etc. Tourism Madhya Pradesh tourism offers some very popular tourist spots. The main attractions of Madhya Pradesh tourism are Khajuraho temples in the northern part and Bandavgarh and Kanha in the eastern region. The latter two are included in India's finest game sanctuaries. Buddhist stupa of Sanchi and 15th-16th century citadels of Mandu in the southwestern part of Madhya Pradesh are worth visiting.Madhya Pradesh tourism offers a lineage of cultural heritage of Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, and Islam. Spectacular monuments, temples, stupas, forts and palaces are spread all over the state. Madhya Pradesh has enormous mountain ranges, meandering rivers and stretches of dense forests which offer a variety of wildlife in sylvan surroundings. Monuments of Madhya Pradesh Tourism: The stoneworks of the place bear the history of empires, warriors, and philosophers. The giant fort of Gwalior evokes memories of a momentous past. The series of temples and forts of Orchha has a medieval touch. Mandu bears testimony of the time when the Afghans marched in and crafted its stones. At Khajuraho, poetry is created on stone by the warrior race of Chandella Rajputs. The oldest Buddhist shrines at Sanchi reflect the glory of Ashokan times. Holy Places of Madhya Pradesh Tourism: Exquisite temples, mosques, bathing ghats and shrines are sanctified with faith. Pilgrims venerate the gods in the temples of Ujjain, Omkareshwar, and Maheshwar, and the mosque of Bhopal . Wildlife of Madhya Pradesh Tourism: Wildlife like tigers, spotted deer, wild boar, gaur and hundreds of species of birds roam free in the bamboo and sal forests of Kanha, Shivpuri, Panna and Bandhavgarh. Festivals of Madhya Pradesh Tourism: Dusshera at Bastar, Simhastha at Ujjain, Ramnaumi at Chitrakoot, Bhagoriya at Jhabua, and the annual dance festival at Khajuraho are popular throughout the country. Besides, these ,industry and banking sectors are also working wonders in the economy of Madhya Pradesh. All the industries put together help the economy of Madhya Pradesh soar upwards. Last Updated on : 14 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule