Top 20 Brands in India and the kind of products they make Business Plans Format BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Advertising Agency Travel Agency Restaurant India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Multinational Company Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Medical Agriculture Business Leaders Dhirubhai Ambani Azim Premji Mukesh Ambani Anil Ambani Anand Mahindra Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Mergers Acquisitions Refinance Top 10 Financial Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India SBI Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank HDFC Bank Vijaya Bank Allahabad Bank UCO Bank Top Brands in India Red Wine Shoe Vodka Beer Headphones Handbags Chocolate Rum Laptop Cosmetic Bag Watch B-Schools Top B Schools in India Online Business School IIM website IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi IIPM Pune S.P. Jain institute Top-Brands-India         Educational Food Products Kitchen Appliances Life Insurance Mutual Fund Consumer Durables DTH Laptop Retail Matress Brands AC Brands Beer Brands Bi Cycle Brands Biscuit Brands Desktop Computer Brands Basmati Rice Brands Namkeen Brands Shampoo Brands Tea Brands Baby Food Brands Jewelry Brands Perfume Brands Apparel Brands Chocolate Brands Digital Camera Brands Lipstick Brands hotel Brands Shirt Brands Men Clothing Brands Milk Brands Newspaper Brands Restaurant Chain Brands Car Brands Coffee Brands ice Cream Brands Mobile Brands Detergent Brands Face Wash Brands Baby Toy Brands Skin Care Cream Brands Soap Brands Tooth Paste Brands Bathroom Fittings Brands Washing Machine Brands Watch Brands Microwave Oven Brands Shoe Brands TV Brands Ketchup Brands Motor Bike Brands Soft Drink Brands Noodle Brands Scooty Brands Shaving Cream Brands Top Online Retailers You would like to see India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Top-brands-India » Top 20 Brands in India Top 20 Brands in India Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  78  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 Top Brands India Latest News And Updates Bajaj Auto commercial vehicle sales up 58 percent in April 2015 May 04, 2015 05:40 PM Two- and three-wheeler major Bajaj Auto said on Monday that it achieved its best ever sales figure in commercial vehicles for the month of April this year but its two-wheeler sales declined by five percent during the month. Unit sales of commercial vehicles rose steeply by 58 percent to 50,483 units during April 2015 compared to 31,893 in April 2014 which the company termed as "highest ever sales for any April". In a regulatory filing with the National Stock Exchange, the company's secretary J. Sridhar said that while the sales of motorcycles for the month under review declined by five percent at 2,85,791 units against 2,99,636 units during April 2014, its exports registered record performance for the month. Source: IANS The top brands in India are ones that have a fairly long history of operation in India and a record of doing so with a commendable amount of success. These companies are also the brand leaders in their respective segments. Companies like Tata and Samsung Group have been established names in the Indian market as well as the psyche of the Indian consumers thanks to the overall quality of their services and other aspects of their business operations. List of Top 20 Brands in India Samsung Samsung is right now one of the market leaders when it comes to mobile devices. It deals in a diverse array of mobile devices and incorporates the following aspects in its products to make it a better experience for its users: Music Imaging Navigation Games Video Business mobility Television Tata Group Tata Group is one of the leading India based multinational conglomerates. Its head offices are at Mumbai. In terms of revenue and market capitalization it is one of the leading names in India’s business scenario. It operates in various domains such as the following: Communications technology Services Information technology Energy Engineering Consumer products Materials Chemicals In all the group has 31 listed companies and the major among these are: Tata Steel Tata Global Beverages Tata Motors Tata Teleservices Tata Consultancy Services Titan Tata Power Tata Communications Tata Chemicals Taj Hotels Tata group's total revenue grew by 18.5 per cent in 2013-14 at Rs Rs 6,24,757 crore (US $ 103.27 billion). Colgate Colgate was established during 1937 and at that time hand carts were employed to hand out the cream. Colgate-Palmolive (India) is at present equipped with one of the best distribution networks in the country. It has 4.5 million retail outlets and 1.5 million of these are serviced directly by the company itself. The company now deals in several verticals: Household products Health care and industrial supplies Personal care products Leisure and sports equipment Food products Lux In India, Lux soap was introduced during 1929 and in the very first advertisement it featured Leela Chitnis. The organization has built up its brand value over the years by having actresses like the following as their brand ambassadors: Madhubala Rani Mukerji Mala Sinha Aishwarya Rai Hema Malini Amisha Patel Sridevi Kareena Kapoor Madhuri Dixit Tabu Juhi Chawla Priyanka Chopra Karisma Kapoor Deepika Padukone Katrina Kaif In its initial years the company portrayed Lux as the choice of the movie stars. In addition to India, Lux is also a market leader in several other countries like: Pakistan Thailand Brazil South Africa Amul Amul, a leading brand in the milk and milk products segment, is owned and operated by Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF). In addition to butter, and loose and packaged milk the company also deals in the following: Cheese Yogurt Ice cream Desserts such as shrikhand Lifebuoy Lifebuoy has been one of the most popular brands in India as well as the US where it has been in operation for at least 100 years. The soaps hold a penetration level of 98 percent in the urban areas whereas in rural areas the figure stands at 70 percent. In the soap category its overall penetration rate is 91 percent. In the personal wash sector it enjoys a market share between 18 and 21 percent. The talcum powder enjoys a market share of 2 percent. Horlicks Horlicks is one of the top health drinks in India and holds approximately 50 percent share of the market. Its owner is GlaxoSmithKline. Apart from India, Horlicks also enjoys leadership positions in markets across Malaysia and the UK. Dettol India Dettol India is the moving force behind Dettol which is one of the top products when it comes to killing germs and is highly recommended by healthcare professionals and medical experts for its success in that area. It is one of the leading names in the liquid soap segment with an 80 percent market share. In the health segment it owns 8 percent of the market. On an average the brand experiences a growth of 25 percent on a yearly basis. Pepsodent Pepsodent is one of the top dental care brands in several Asian countries such as Philippines apart from India. It is supported by FDI, which is the biggest dental association in the world. It has also been rated as being among the most trusted brands in India by Economic Times, and Brand Equity. Britannia Britannia is presently looking to increase its footprints in the snacks segment with the introduction of Snackuits. The 50:50 biscuits have already reached the INR 480 crore mark. Its Saffola Oats product already enjoys a market share of 12%. Reliance Communications Reliance Communications is one of the leading providers of mobile services in India and is also a flagship organization of its parent body, the Reliance Group. It has been listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange and National Stock Exchange. It enjoys a customer base of at least 150 million people which makes it one of the leading telecommunications companies in the country. The organization deals with various services such as the following: broadband international long distance services national long distance services data services Close Up Close Up is regarded as the first ever youth brand of India and its marketing is handled by Unilever. It was introduced during 1967 and is also credited to have brought out the first gel based toothpaste in the world. It holds approximately 18 percent of the Indian market for toothpastes. Airtel Airtel is one of the leading providers of various mobile based services, some of which may be mentioned as below: prepaid mobile blackberry postpaid mobile services home phone broadband internet connection calling cards direct to home prepaid tariff plans landline postpaid tariff plans Bharti Airtel is the biggest mobile operator in India in terms of sales and customer base. State Bank of India State Bank of India (SBI) is the biggest provider of banking and financial services in India in terms of revenue, market capitalization, and assets held. Till March 2012 its assets have been valued at 360 billion US dollars and it has 14,119 branches, which is inclusive of 173 international offices in 37 countries. Clinic Plus Clinic Plus is one of the top names in the hair care brands in India. It was introduced in India during 1971 and since then has been the biggest seller among shampoos. It also enjoys the maximum amount of distribution among the various shampoos available in the country. It has also been able to construct a positive image for itself with its celebrity associations and advertising campaigns. Pond’s Pond’s has been one of the leading skincare brands for women in not only India but also the world for the last 150 years. The company has its research and development facilities at Bangkok, New York, Mumbai, and Tokyo. It is held by Unilever, a leading multinational company. Life Insurance Corporation of India Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) is the biggest provider of investment and insurance services in India and is wholly owned by the Union Government of India. It provides approximately 24 percent of the total expenses incurred by the national government. At present it has 113 divisional offices and 8 zonal offices along with almost 3500 servicing offices across India. It also has 1,33,7064 individual agents, 98 brokers, 242 corporate agents, 42 banks, and 79 referral agents. The total worth of its assets is approximately INR 13.25 trillion. Fair & Lovely Fair & Lovely was conceived during 1975 and marketed all over India from 1978 onwards and since then it has been one of the leading fairness creams for Indian women. In 2011 the company generated sales amounting to INR 1675.1 crore, which was 10% more than 2010 when the similar figure stood at INR 1521.7 crores. It also owns approximately 60% of the market for fairness creams. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) is the biggest and oldest provider of communication services in India. It has a customer base of approximately 90 million people. BSNL and MTNL together own approximately 14.42% of the market. In the wireless segment both the companies hold almost 11.44% of the market. In the rural areas its market share at present is close to 11.02%. For the 2011-12 fiscal its revenue stands at INR 27,933 crore and its total assets have been valued at INR 117,632 crore. LG LG Electronics India is one of the top names in the segment in India. It offers a whole range of products such as the following: LCD TVs Desktops Plasma screen TVs Laptops Flat panel televisions Refrigerators Full HD TVs Washing machines Home theatre systems DVD players GSM mobile phones Microwave ovens Monitors At present LG is in the second position after Voltas in the room air conditioner segment and its market share in sales at multi brand outlets stands at 17.7%. Top Brands in India Top 10 Handbag Brands Top Brands of Red Wine Top 10 Headphones Brands In India Top 10 Orange Juice Brands in India Top 10 Nail Polish Brands In India Top Yogurt Brands Top Whisky Brands Top 10 Rum Brands In India Top 10 Cosmetic Brands In India Top 10 Vodka Brands In India Last Updated on April 27, 2015 More Products New Product Launches New Insurance Product Petrochemical Products Leading dairy Product About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED