BTISNet site About BTISNet Overview Contributors Structure Objectives Task force BTIS Centres Centre of Excellence Distributed Informtion Centres Sub - Distributed Informtion Centres Bioinformatics Facility North-Eastern State BIF Programmes Bioinformatics & Education Interactive Graphic Facility R & D Projects Consortium Projects BTISNet Projects Fellowships Fellowship B I N C Resources BTISNet-Databases Popular Resources Software DBT Library Consortium Bioinformatics Tool Box Online Lectures Others Training Short-term training Long-term training Meetings Coordinators Meeting Conference Related Links Home Workshop on "Trends in the Evolutionary Systems Biology & Comutational Structure Dynamics" On 23-24 March, 2015 at IHBT, Palampur 25 th Co-ordinators meeting will be held at CSIR - NIO, GOA on 27 and 28 February, 2014 National Symposium on Bioinformatics was held at University of Jammu on February 2, 2012 Compendium on Bioinformatics publications released during 23 rd Co-ordinators meeting Bioinfromatics Training Calendar 2014-2015             Recognizing the importance of information technology for pursuing advanced research in modern biology and biotechnology, a bioinformatics programme, envisaged as a distributed database and network organisation, was launched during 1986-87. The programme has become a very successful vehicle for transfer and exchange of information, scientific knowledge, technology packages, and references in the country involving 10-12 thousand scientific personnel. At present, under this programme 168 Bioinformatics Centres were established in various Universities and Research Institutions spread across the country. The network centres are in various levels viz Centres of Excellence (CoEs), Distributed Information Centres (DICs), Distributed Information Sub-Centres (Sub-DICs) and Bioinformatics Infrastructure Facilities (BIFs). The entire network has emerged as a very sophisticated scientific infrastructure for bioinformatics involving state-of-the-art computational and communication facilities. The computer communication network, linking all the bioinformatics centres, is playing a vital role in the success of the bioinformatics programme. Database development, R&D activities in bioinformatics, human resource development and a variety of services in support of biotechnology R&D programmes and projects, has made this programme very popular and useful to the scientific community.  More...     Human Resource Development     BTISNET is offering M.Sc., M. Tech, Advanced P.G Diploma and Ph.D. Courses in Bioinformatics. Advanced P.G Diploma course has been conducting in five BTISNET Centres viz University of Pune, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Calcutta University, Madurai Kamaraj University and Pondicherry University. Ph.D. programmes are going on in all CoEs, DISc and majority of Sub-DICs. All BTISNET Centres are offering six months studentships and traineeships courses. In addition, all centres are offering short term training courses. The schedule of training courses in various centres is published as BTISNET training Calendar in every year. Over 300 such training courses have been conducting in every year. Bioinformatics National Certification Examination (BINC) is conducting since 2005 to certify professionals in the area of Bioinformatics and providing fellowships for the qualified candidates to pursue in research.     All DBT Institutes and 18 NER Institutes are part of DeLCON and they have access to over 900 high impact e-journals. More ... Research Projects online submission     Since 1999 the BTISNET has been providing financial support for research projects. Over hundred research projects have been supported. Of these fifty of them are ongoing projects. The proposals can be submitted online. More ... Coordinators meeting   To review the BTISNET activities and formulating viable strategy to reach the facilities to the beneficiaries Coordinators meeting is organising every year.   Database and Tools Access to more than 100 databases and software tools on various aspects of biology and biotechnology developed by BTISnet Centers. Provides links to open access popular databases and tools. More ... Super Computing Facilty Established in IIT New Delhi in view of developing personalised medicine using Gene-to-Drug pathway. The facility can be accessed by researchers in all over the country More ...   Interactive Graphics Established in six CoEs for interactive graphics based molecular modelling and other biocomputational needs. Access to researchers all over India   North-Eastern Bioinformatics Network Under the special drive to strengthen the North Eastern States of the Country the North-Eastern Bioinformatics Network (NEBInet) was established. The NEBInet consists of 29 Bioinformatics Centres, one DIC at NEHU, two DICs at IBSD, and Sikkim State Council of Science and Technology and 26 BIFs in various Universities/Research Institutions across eight States. . NEBInet programmes are coordinated by NEHU. Contact us Site map Archive   Last updated on: 29 May 2015 © 2012 BTISNet Inc. All rights reserved                                     Created and maintained jointly by JNTBGRI, Apex Centre and NIC Cell, DBT