Punjab National Bank (PNB) - Banking Services, Home Loans, Contact Address and more Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Banks in India Axis Allahabad American Express Andhra Arab Bangladesh Bank Muscat (S A O G) Bank Of America Bank Of India Bank Of Baroda India Bank of Maharashtra Bank of Punjab Bank of Rajasthan Bharat Overseas Barclays Bank PLC Canara Bank India Centurion Citibank Corporation Cosmos Co-operative Bank Ceylon Catholic Syrian DBS Dena Dhanlakshmi Deutsche Bank India Development Credit Export-Import Bank Of India Federal Bank India Global Trust HDFC Hongkong Shanghai Banking ICICI IDBI Indian Overseas IndusInd Bank Industrial Development ING Vysya Ind Bank Housing Jammu and Kashmir JP Morgan Chase Karnataka Karur vysya Kotak Mahindra Lakshmi Vilas Lord Krishna Mizuho Corporate North Knara G.S.B. Co-op. Oriental Bank of Commerce Punjab and Sind Punjab National Reserve Bank Of India Royal Bank of Scotland Ratnakar Standard Chartered State Bank Of India State Bank Of Indore State Bank of Hyderabad State Bank of Patiala State Bank of Mysore State Bank of Travancore State Bank Of Bikaner & Jaipur Syndicate SBI Commercial Shamrao Vithal Co-operative South Indian Tamilnad Mercantile The Nainital Bank Ltd. Union Bank Of India United Bank of India UCO Vijaya YES BANK India Bank Account Portability Home  » Banks-in-india » Punjab National bank (PNB) Punjab National Bank Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  19  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 Banks In India Latest News And Updates Punjab National Bank net profit down May 09, 2015 01:49 PM Government-owned Punjab National Bank on Friday said that it closed last fiscal with a net profit of Rs.3,061.58 crore down from Rs.3,342.57 crore posted during the previous year.. In a regulatory filing in BSE, the bank also said that total income has however increased from Rs. 47,799.96 crore for the year ended on March 31, 2014 to Rs. 52,206.09 crore for the year ended March 31, 2015. The bank board has recommended a dividend of Rs.3.30 per equity share of Rs.2 each. Source: IANS About Punjab National Bank (PNB) Punjab National Bank, popularly called P. N. B., initially started its business on 12th April of the year 1895. With their mission to provide banking services to the un-banked, they aim to be the leading player in global banking. Over the time, they have become a known name, especially in the Indo-Gangetic plains. The huge network of this bank includes over 5, 100 offices, which include 5 overseas branches and more than 60 million customers. This bank has continued to maintain their leadership position for its strong fundamentals, superior brand image as well as huge franchise value. Products and Services of Punjab National Bank This bank in India offers various financial services in numerous segments. Some of them are mentioned below along with their individual products : Agricultural Banking Farmers Welfare Central Sector Schemes Credit Schemes Trust P. N. B. Krishi Corporate Banking Cash Management Exim Finance Exporters’ Gold Card Scheme Loan backed by Future Lease Rentals Financial Services Life Insurance Merchant Banking Mutual Fund Non-life Insurance Online Trading Real Estate Investments Retirement Planning Scheme Tax Planning Scheme International or NRI Banking Gold Loan Scheme F. C. N. R. (B) Account Foreign Inward Transfers Letter of Guarantee Non-resident Deposit Schemes (Ordinary, external and foreign currency) N. R. E. Account N. R. O. Account P. N. B. – N. R. I. Remit Scheme R. F. C. Account Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Banking Artisan Credit Card Scheme Garrage Yogana Gramin Chikitsak Scheme Kushal Udyami Laghu Udyami Credit Card Pragati Udyami Scheme Sahayog Scheme Sarthak Udyami Scheme Vikas Udyami Scheme Personal Banking T. M. Card Balika Shiksha Bal Vikas Current Account (Smart banking) Combo Deposit Scheme Credit Card (Global) Debit Card Dugna Deposit Scheme    Fixed Deposits (For 555 days, 777 days, 1000 days, 1111 days and victims of road accidents) Loan (Car, education, housing, personal, professional, two wheeler, against property mortgage and for pensioners) Mitra S. F. Account Pensioners’ Overdraft Facility Scheme Prudent Sweep Rakshak Scheme  Recurring Deposit Salary Account (Total freedom) Shikshak Overdraft Scheme Shikshak Sweep Scheme Term Deposits Vidyarthi S. F. Account World Travel Card Social Banking Special Schemes (For women and weaker section) Other Online Services A. S. B. A. (Application Supported by Blocked Amount) Bill Payments E-Tax Payments Internet Banking Mobile Banking Money Transfer P. N. B. Credit Card (Global) Security Alerts Share Trading PNB Home Loan Punjab national bank home loan offers complete home loan solutions at competitive rates. These home loan solutions of PNB are structured as per the needs of the Indian customers. Punjab National Bank (PNB), the leading Indian public sector bank has been a pioneer in facilitating home loans to the burgeoning middle class Indians. Punjab national bank home loan solutions are tailor made to suit the needs of the Indians. The home loans offered by Punjab National Bank are easy to avail and are offered at competitive rate of interest. Further, these Home Loan Solutions of PNB offer easy repayment schemes over predetermined repayment tenure, as fixed during the agreement. Furthermore, these home loans of PNB come with life insurance cover for the buyer. Security by a way of mortgage is being charged amounting to 125% of the loan applied for. Punjab national bank home loan are offered for the following purposes: Construction or purchase of residential flat or house. Repairing, extending, renovating and even modification of existing residential flat or house. Some features of Punjab National Bank home loan Up to 75% of the cost of construction of house or purchase of flat or house is being provided. Up to 75% or ` 20 lakh of the cost of repairing, extending, renovating and modification of flat or house is being provided. Up to ` 20 lakh is being facilitated for purchase of land meant for the purpose of construction of house. Up to ` 20 lakh is being facilitated for the purpose of furnishing. Punjab National Bank IPO Punjab National Bank, the leading public sector bank of India launched its second Initial Public Offering in 2005. After the success of the first IPO launched in 2002, Punjab National Bank. The second Punjab national bank IPO was opened on 7th March 2005 and closed on 11th March 2005. The price band of Punjab national bank IPO was fixed at ` 350 - ` 390 per share. This price band of Punjab national bank IPO was fixed through a 100% book building process. The issue offered 80,000,000 equity shares of Punjab National Bank of ` 10/- each for cash. Further, 8,000,000 equity shares of ` 10/ each, at the issue price were reserved for the existing share holders. The upper end of the price band of Punjab national bank IPO targeted to raise ` 3,120 crores and the lower end targeted to raise ` 2,800 crores. With this issue of Punjab national bank the government of India ownership was reduced to 57% from the last IPO. Past Financial Status of Punjab National Bank According to the financial result of the latest quarter ending or half yearly ending of the current financial year on September 30th, the net profit of this Indian bank was INR. 120, 503 lakhs. After the half yearly closing of the last financial year 2010 – 2011, the bank’s net profit was INR. 107, 454 lakhs though. PNB Head Office Address and Contact Details 7, Bhikhaiji Cama Place New Delhi – 110 066, India. Tel.: + 91 – 011 – 26196487/ 26102303 E-mail: hosd@pnb.co.in PNB Bank Website : https://www.pnbindia.in/ Punjab National Bank Customer Care No. : 1800 180 2222 Last Updated on 4/18/2015 List of Bank Branches in India Abhyudaya Co Op Bank Ltd Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank Allahabad Bank Andhra Bank Axis Bank Bank Of America Bank Of Bahrain And Kuwait Bank Of Baroda Bank Of Ceylon Bank Of India Bank Of Maharashtra Bank Of Tokyo Mitsubishi Ufj Ltd Barclays Bank Plc Bassein Catholic Co Op Bank Ltd Bnp Paribas Canara Bank Catholic Syrian Bank Ltd Central Bank Of India Chinatrust Commercial Bank Citibank Citizen Credit Co Op Bank Ltd City Union Bank Ltd Corporation Bank Credit Agricole Corp N Invsmnt Bank Dbs Bank Ltd Dena Bank Deutsche Bank Ag Development Credit Bank Limited Dhanlaxmi Bank Ltd Dicgc Dombivli Nagari Sahakari Bank Limited Firstrand Bank Limited Hdfc Bank Ltd Hsbc Bank Ltd Icici Bank Ltd Idbi Bank Ltd Indian Bank Indian Overseas Bank Indusind Bank Ltd Janakalyan Sahakari Bank Ltd Janata Sahakari Bank Ltd Jp Morgan Chase Bank Kapol Co Op Bank Karnataka Bank Ltd Karur Vysya Bank Kotak Mahindra Bank Mahanagar Co Op Bank Ltd Maharashtra State Co Operative Bank Mashreq Bank Psc Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd New India Co Operative Bank Ltd Nkgsb Co Op Bank Ltd Nutan Nagarik Sahakari Bank Ltd Oman International Bank Saog Oriental Bank Of Commerce Parsik Janata Sahakari Bank Ltd Punjab And Maharashtra Co Op Bank Ltd Punjab And Sind Bank Punjab National Bank Rajkot Nagarik Sahakari Bank Ltd Reserve Bank Of India Standard Chartered Bank State Bank Of Bikaner And Jaipur State Bank Of Hyderabad State Bank Of India State Bank Of Mysore State Bank Of Travancore The Ahmedabad Mercantile Co Operative Bank Ltd The Bank Of Nova Scotia The Bharat Co Operative Bank Mumbai Ltd The Cosmos Co Operative Bank Ltd The Federal Bank Ltd The Jammu And Kashmir Bank Ltd The Kalupur Commercial Co Op Bank Ltd The Kalyan Janata Sahakari Bank Ltd The Karad Urban Co Op Bank Ltd The Karnataka State Co Operative Apex Bank Ltd Ba The Lakshmi Vilas Bank Ltd The Mehsana Urban Co Operative Bank Ltd The Mumbai Sub Urban Co Op Bank Ltd The Nainital Bank Limited The Nashik Merchants Co Op Bank Ltd The Ratnakar Bank Ltd The Royal Bank Of Scotland More Banks Top 10 Banking Companies Nationalised Banks Commercial Bank Loans Punjab Net Banking Punjab Bank Branches Income Tax Calculator EMI Calculator Currency Convertor Online Net Banking Tips Bank Jobs In India Bank Exams In India Bank Branches Locator Bank ATM Locator Export-Import Bank Of India India Banking Industry Investment Banks Mortgage Banking Banking Glossary & Terms About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism