Food and Agriculture Organization - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Food and Agriculture Organization From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search "FAO" redirects here. For other uses, see FAO (disambiguation) . Food and Agriculture Organization Food and Agriculture Organization FAO emblem with its Latin motto, Fiat panis ("Let there be bread") Abbreviation FAO, ONUAA Formation 16 October 1945, in Quebec City , Canada Type Specialized Agency Legal status Active Headquarters Palazzo FAO , Rome , Italy Head José Graziano da Silva (current) Parent organization UN Economic and Social Council Website www .fao .org The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ( FAO ; French : Organisation des Nations unies pour l'alimentation et l'agriculture , Italian : Organizzazione delle Nazioni Unite per l'Alimentazione e l'Agricoltura ) is an agency of the United Nations that leads international efforts to defeat hunger. Serving both developed and developing countries , FAO acts as a neutral forum where all nations meet as equals to negotiate agreements and debate policy. FAO is also a source of knowledge and information, and helps developing countries and countries in transition modernize and improve agriculture , forestry and fisheries practices, ensuring good nutrition and food security for all. Its Latin motto, fiat panis , translates as "let there be bread". As of 8 August 2013 [update] , FAO has 194 member states, along with the European Union (a "member organization"), and the Faroe Islands and Tokelau , which are associate members. [ 1 ] Contents 1 History 2 Structure and finance 2.1 Budget 2.2 Directors-General 2.3 Deputy Directors-General 3 Offices 3.1 World headquarters 3.2 Regional offices 3.3 Sub-regional offices 3.4 Liaison offices 4 Priority work areas 5 Programmes and achievements 5.1 Food 5.1.1 Codex Alimentarius 5.1.2 World Food Summit 5.1.3 TeleFood 5.1.4 FAO Goodwill Ambassadors 5.1.5 Right to Food Guidelines 5.1.6 Response to food crisis 5.1.7 FAO–EU partnership 5.1.8 Food security programmes 5.1.9 Online campaign against hunger 5.2 Agriculture 5.2.1 International Plant Protection Convention 5.2.2 Alliance Against Hunger and Malnutrition 5.2.3 Integrated pest management 5.2.4 Transboundary pests and diseases 5.2.5 Global Partnership Initiative for Plant Breeding Capacity Building 5.2.6 Investment in agriculture 5.3 Forestry 5.4 Fisheries 5.5 Statistics 6 Membership 7 Criticism 7.1 1970s, 80s, 90s 7.2 2000s 7.3 World food crisis 8 FAO renewal 9 See also 10 References 11 External links History [ edit ] The idea of an international organization for food and agriculture emerged in the late 19th and early 20th century, advanced primarily by the US agriculturalist and activist David Lubin . In May–June 1905, an international conference was held in Rome, Italy , which led to the creation of the International Institute of Agriculture . [ 2 ] Later in 1943, the United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt called a United Nations Conference on Food and Agriculture. Representatives from forty four governments gathered at The Homestead Resort in Hot Springs, Virginia from 18 May to 3 June. They committed themselves to founding a permanent organization for food and agriculture, which happened in Quebec City, Canada on 16 October 1945 with the conclusion of the Constitution of the Food and Agriculture Organization . [ 3 ] The First Session of the FAO Conference was held in the Chateau Frontenac at Quebec, Canada, from 16 October to 1 November 1945 The Second World War effectively ended the International Agricultural Institute, though it was only officially dissolved by resolution of its Permanent Committee on 27 February 1948. Its functions were then transferred to the recently established FAO. [ 4 ] Structure and finance [ edit ] Lester Bowles Pearson presiding at a plenary session of the founding conference of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. October 1945 FAO headquarters in Rome . FAO was established on 16 October 1945, in Quebec City , Quebec , Canada. In 1951, its headquarters were moved from Washington, D.C. , United States , to Rome , Italy. The agency is directed by the Conference of Member Nations, which meets every two years to review the work carried out by the organization and to approve a Programme of Work and Budget for the next two-year period. The Conference elects a council of 49 member states (serve three-year rotating terms) that acts as an interim governing body, and the Director-General, that heads the agency. FAO is composed of seven departments: Administration and Finance, Agriculture and Consumer Protection, Economic and Social Development, Fisheries and Aquaculture, Forestry, Natural Resource Management and Environment, and Technical Cooperation. [ 5 ] Beginning in 1994, FAO underwent the most significant restructuring since its founding, to decentralize operations, streamline procedures and reduce costs. As a result, savings of about US$50 million, €35 million a year were realized. [ citation needed ] Budget [ edit ] FAO's Regular Programme budget is funded by its members, through contributions set at the FAO Conference. This budget covers core technical work, cooperation and partnerships including the Technical Cooperation Programme, knowledge exchange, policy and advocacy, direction and administration, governance and security. The FAO regular budget for 2012–2013 biennium is US$1,005.6 million. The voluntary contributions provided by members and other partners support mechanical and emergency (including rehabilitation) assistance to governments for clearly defined purposes linked to the results framework, as well as direct support to FAO's core work. The voluntary contributions are expected to reach approximately US$1.4 billion in 2012–2013. This overall budget covers core technical work, cooperation and partnerships, leading to Food and Agriculture Outcomes at 71%; Core Functions at 11%; the Country Office Network – 5%; Capital and Security Expenditure – 2%; Administration – 6%; and Technical and Cooperation Program – 5%. Directors-General [ edit ] José Graziano da Silva , FAO Director General Nr Director Country Term 10 9 José Graziano da Silva   Brazil January 2012 – July 2015 8 Jacques Diouf   Senegal January 1994 – December 2011 7 Edouard Saouma   Lebanon January 1976 – December 1993 6 Addeke Hendrik Boerma   Netherlands January 1968 – December 1975 5 Binay Ranjan Sen   India November 1956 – December 1967 4 Sir Herbert Broadley   United Kingdom acting April 1956 – November 1956 3 Philip V. Cardon   United States January 1954 – April 1956 2 Norris E. Dodd   United States April 1948 – December 1953 1 John Boyd Orr   United Kingdom October 1945 – April 1948 Deputy Directors-General [ edit ] William Nobel Clark (US): 1948 Sir Herbert Broadley (UK): 1948–1958 Friedrich Traugott Wahlen (Switzerland): 1958–1959 Norman C. Wright (UK): 1959–1963 Oris V. Wells (US): 1963–1971 Roy I. Jackson (US): 1971–1978 Ralph W. Phillips (US): 1978–1981 Edward M. West (UK): 1981–1985 Declan J. Walton (Ireland): 1986–1987 Howard Hjort (US): 1992–1997 Vikram J. Shah (ad personam) (UK): 1992–1995 David A. Harcharik (US): 1998–2007 James G. Butler (US): 2008–2010 Changchui He (China) (Operations): 2009–2011 Ann Tutwiler (US) (Knowledge): 2011–2012 Manoj Juneja (India) (Operations): 2011–2012 Dan Gustafson (US) (Operations): 2012–2013 Maria Helena M.Q. Semedo (Cape Verde) (Natural Resources): 2013–present Offices [ edit ] World headquarters [ edit ] The world headquarters are located in Rome, in the former seat of the Department of Italian East Africa . One of the most notable features of the building was the Axum Obelisk which stood in front of the agency seat, although just outside the territory allocated to FAO by the Italian Government. It was taken from Ethiopia by Benito Mussolini 's troops in 1937 as a war chest, and returned on 18 April 2005. Regional offices [ edit ] Regional Office for Africa , in Accra , Ghana Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific , in Bangkok , Thailand Regional Office for Europe and Central Asia , in Budapest , Hungary Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean , in Santiago , Chile Regional Office for the Near East , in Cairo , Egypt Sub-regional offices [ edit ] Liaison Office for North America in Washington, D.C. Sub-regional Office for Central Africa (SFC), in Libreville , Gabon Sub-regional Office for Central America (SLM), in Panama City , Panama Sub-regional Office for Central and Eastern Europe , in Budapest, Hungary Sub-regional Office for Central Asia , in Ankara , Turkey Sub-regional Office for Eastern Africa (SFE), in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia Sub-regional Office for North Africa , in Tunis , Tunisia Sub-regional Office for Southern Africa and East Africa , in Harare , Zimbabwe Sub-regional Office for the Caribbean , in Bridgetown , Barbados Sub-regional Office for the Pacific Islands , in Apia , Samoa Sub-regional Office for Western Africa (SFW), in Accra, Ghana Liaison offices [ edit ] Liaison Office for North America , in Washington, D.C. Liaison Office with Japan , in Yokohama Liaison Office with the European Union and Belgium , in Brussels Liaison Office with the United Nations , in Geneva Liaison Office with the United Nations, in New York Priority work areas [ edit ] For the coming biennium, 2014–2015, FAO has outlined the following priorities in its fight against hunger. [ 6 ] Help eliminate hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition – contribute to the eradication of hunger by facilitating policies and political commitments to support food security and by making sure that up-to-date information about hunger and nutrition challenges and solutions is available and accessible. Make agriculture, forestry and fisheries more productive and sustainable – promote evidence-based policies and practices to support highly productive agricultural sectors (crops, livestock, forestry and fisheries), while ensuring that the natural resource base does not suffer in the process. Reduce rural poverty – help the rural poor gain access to the resources and services they need – including rural employment and social protection – to forge a path out of poverty. Enable inclusive and efficient agricultural and food systems – help to build safe and efficient food systems that support smallholder agriculture and reduce poverty and hunger in rural areas. Increase the resilience of livelihoods from disasters – help countries to prepare for natural and human-caused disasters by reducing their risk and enhancing the resilience of their food and agricultural systems. Programmes and achievements [ edit ] Food [ edit ] Codex Alimentarius [ edit ] FAO and the World Health Organization created the Codex Alimentarius Commission in 1961 to develop food standards, guidelines and texts such as codes of practice under the Joint FAO/ WHO Food Standards Programme. The main aims of the programme are protecting consumer health, ensuring fair trade and promoting coordination of all food standards work undertaken by intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations. World Food Summit [ edit ] Main article: World Food Summit In 1996, FAO organised the World Food Summit , attended by 112 Heads or Deputy Heads of State and Government. The Summit concluded with the signing of the Rome Declaration , which established the goal of halving the number of people who suffer from hunger by the year 2015. [ 7 ] At the same time, 1,200 Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) from 80 countries participated in an NGO forum. The forum was critical of the growing industrialisation of agriculture and called upon governments – and FAO – to do more to protect the 'Right to Food' of the poor. [ 8 ] TeleFood [ edit ] Raising awareness about the problem of hunger mobilizes energy to find a solution [ citation needed ] . In 1997, FAO launched TeleFood, a campaign of concerts, sporting events and other activities to harness the power of media, celebrities and concerned citizens to help fight hunger. Since its start, the campaign has generated close to US$28 million, €15 million in donations. Money raised through TeleFood pays for small, sustainable projects that help small-scale farmers produce more food for their families and communities. [ citation needed ] The projects provide tangible resources, such as fishing equipment, seeds and agricultural implements. They vary enormously, from helping families raise pigs in Venezuela, through creating school gardens in Cape Verde and Mauritania or providing school lunches in Uganda and teaching children to grow food, to raising fish in a leper community in India. FAO Goodwill Ambassadors [ edit ] The FAO Goodwill Ambassadors Programme was initiated in 1999. The main purpose of the programme is to attract public and media attention to the unacceptable situation that some 1 billion people continue to suffer from chronic hunger and malnutrition in a time of unprecedented plenty. These people lead a life of misery and are denied the most basic of human rights: the right to food. Governments alone cannot end hunger and undernourishment. Mobilization of the public and private sectors, the involvement of civil society and the pooling of collective and individual resources are all needed if people are to break out of the vicious circle of chronic hunger and undernourishment. Each of FAO's Goodwill Ambassadors – celebrities from the arts, entertainment, sport and academia such as Nobel Prize winner Rita Levi Montalcini , actress Gong Li , the late singer Miriam Makeba , International Singers Ronan Keating , [ 9 ] and Anggun . [ 10 ] And soccer players Roberto Baggio and Raúl , to name a few – has made a personal and professional commitment to FAO's vision: a food-secure world for present and future generations. Using their talents and influence, the Goodwill Ambassadors draw the old and the young, the rich and the poor into the campaign against world hunger. They aim to make Food for All a reality in the 21st century and beyond. [ citation needed ] Right to Food Guidelines [ edit ] In 2004 the Right to Food Guidelines were adopted, offering guidance to states on how to implement their obligations on the right to food . [ 11 ] Response to food crisis [ edit ] In December 2007, FAO launched its Initiative on Soaring Food Prices to help small producers raise their output and earn more. Under the initiative, FAO contributed to the work of the UN High-Level Task Force on the Global Food Crisis, which produced the Comprehensive Framework for Action. FAO has carried out projects in over 25 countries and inter-agency missions in nearly 60, scaled up its monitoring through the Global Information and Early Warning System on Food and Agriculture, provided policy advice to governments while supporting their efforts to increase food production, and advocated for more investment in agriculture. It has also worked hand-in-hand with the European Union. One example of its work is a US$10.2 million, €7.5 billion scheme to distribute and multiply quality seeds in Haiti, [ 12 ] which has significantly increased food production, thereby providing cheaper food and boosting farmers' incomes. FAO–EU partnership [ edit ] In May 2009, FAO and the European Union signed an initial aid package worth €125 million to support small farmers in countries hit hard by rising food prices. The aid package falls under the EU's €1 billion Food Facility, set up with the UN Secretary-General's High-Level Task Force on the Global Food Crisis and FAO to focus on programmes that will have a quick but lasting impact on food security. [ 13 ] FAO is receiving a total of around €200 million for work in 25 countries, of which €15.4 million goes to Zimbabwe. [ 14 ] Food security programmes [ edit ] The Special Programme for Food Security is FAO's flagship initiative for reaching the goal of halving the number of hungry in the world by 2015 (currently estimated at close to 1 billion people), as part of its commitment to the Millennium Development Goals . Through projects in over 100 countries worldwide, the programme promotes effective, tangible solutions to the elimination of hunger, undernourishment and poverty. Currently 102 countries are engaged in the programme and of these approximately 30 have begun shifting from pilot to national programmes. To maximize the impact of its work, FAO strongly promotes national ownership and local empowerment in the countries in which it operates. [ citation needed ] Online campaign against hunger [ edit ] The 1billionhungry project became the EndingHunger campaign in April 2011. Spearheaded by FAO in partnership with other UN agencies and private nonprofit groups, the EndingHunger movement pushes the boundaries of conventional public advocacy. It builds on the success in 2010 of The 1billonhungry project and the subsequent chain of public events that led to the collection of over three million signatures on a global petition to end hunger (www.EndingHunger.org). The petition was originally presented to representatives of world governments at a ceremony in Rome on 30 November 2010. [ 15 ] The web and partnerships are two pivotal and dynamic aspects of EndingHunger. The campaign relies on the assistance of organizations and institutions that can facilitate the project's diffusion, by placing banners on their own websites or organizing events aimed to raise awareness of the project. In its 2011 season, the campaign expanded its multimedia content, pursued mutual visibility arrangements with partner organizations, and sharpened its focus on 14–25 year olds, who were encouraged to understand their potential as a social movement to push for the end of hunger. Moreover, the EndingHunger project is a viral communication campaign, renewing and expanding its efforts to build the movement through Facebook, Twitter and other social networks. Those who sign the petition can spread the link of the EndingHunger website to their friends, via social media or mail, in order to gain awareness and signatures for the petition. The next interim objective is to grow the EndingHunger movement's Facebook community to 1 million members. As with the petition, the more people who get involved, the more powerful the message to governments: "We are no longer willing to accept the fact that hundreds of millions live in chronic hunger." [ 16 ] Groups and individuals can also decide on their own to organize an event about the project, simply by gathering friends, whistles, T-shirts and banners (whistles and T-shirts can be ordered, and petition sign sheets downloaded, on the endinghunger.org website) and thereby alert people about chronic hunger by using the yellow whistle. The original 1billionhungry campaign borrowed as its slogan the line "I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore!", used by Peter Finch in the 1976 film, Network . [ 17 ] Meanwhile, the yellow whistle has been the campaign symbol from the start, from 1billionhungry to Ending Hunger. (The creative concept was provided by the McCann Erickson Italy Communication Agency.) It symbolizes the fact that we are "blowing the whistle" on the silent disaster of hunger. It is both a symbol and – at many live events taking place around the world – a physical means of expressing frustration and making some noise about the hunger situation. [ 18 ] Both The 1billionhungry and the EndingHunger campaigns have continued to attract UN Goodwill Ambassadors from the worlds of music and cinema, literature, sport, activism and government. Some of the well known individuals who have become involved include former Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, former presidents of Chile Ricardo Lagos and Michelle Bachelet, actress Susan Sarandon, actors Jeremy Irons and Raul Bova, singers Céline Dion and Anggun , authors Isabelle Allende and Andrea Camilleri, musician Chucho Valdés and Olymp