Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Centres >> DHAN People Academy DHAN People Academy DHAN Foundation’s community organising strategies are centred on building capacities of leaders, members and staff, and hence invests substantial resources to promote leadership in the people's organisations. Dhan People Academy (DPA) was, thus, initiated to provide learning environment for the people's leaders and staff. With the well furnished training infrastructure, the Academy devises appropriate pedagogy to facilitate learning, building on the experience available, and participant–centered education. The Academy also works in partnership with academic and training institutes on common interests. The DPA organises exposure visits to encourage cross learning of best practices across the locations and context. Workshops and seminars help the people’s leaders to share their experiences and build their perspective. DPA also offers certificate programmes on distance learning mode in partnership with institutions like IGNOU. Training of Trainers (ToT) are organized on various themes. Customized and need based trainings are also offered to other NGOs and people's organisations on demand. The DPA facilitated the setting up of community college, 'Livelihood Initiative with Functional Education (LIFE)', to provide a variety of location specific and tailor–made livelihood skill building programmes for the youths from the poor families. Read more on DHAN People Academy ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved