Jharkhand Politics Home » Jharkhand » Politics   Jharkhand झारखंड का नक्शा Jharkhand Map Capital of Jharkhand Jharkhand Cities Jamshedpur Ranchi Bokaro Dhanbad Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Reach by Train About Jharkhand Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Travel to Jharkhand Places to visit in Jharkhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Daasam Falls Sun Temple Population Sex Ratio Map Fact sheet education Universities In Jharkhand Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Lok Sabha Constituencies Business and Economy Ministers and MPs Government Agricultural Map Geography and History Mineral Map District Map in Hindi Hotels in Jharkhand Bokaro Hotels Deoghar Hotels Dhanbad Hotels Jamshedpur Hotels Kumardhubi Hotels Ranchi Hotels Language Jharkhand by Road Ranchi Airport Map Information Media People,Culture and Festivals Pin code STD code       Jharkhand Politics Jharkhand politics has been at the center of interest right from early days of the state's creation, following its breakaway form Bihar in 2000. Politics in Jharkhand has an old history. It has been the site of many tribal revolutions right from the British days and it was a similar kind of insurgence that led to the creation of the independent state of Jharkhand . However, modern day Jharkhand politics feature an electoral system, divided between the assembly and parliamentary constituencies of the state, where many political parties compete for power. In fact, Jharkhand politics feature a number of political parties virtually unmatched by any other state in India. Jharkhand Constituencies Jharkhand has 14 parliamentary constituencies and as many as 81 assembly constituencies, distributed over the 12 districts of the state. The winners from the parliamentary constituencies go on to represent the state in the lower house of India's bicameral legislative structure and the winners form the assembly constituencies and become member of the state legislative assembly. The 2005 assembly elections saw a wing by the BJP led NDA coalition, defeating the UPA coalition, led by the INC. The result was seen to be consistent with the results of the 2004 general elections in India. The results of the general elections in Jharkhand were not concurrent with the large scale anti-incumbency felt across India that brought the UPA to power. The success was accorded to a large degree of popularity of the JMM, the state party in the politics of Jharkhand. Political Parties in Jharkhand Jharkand elections see the participation of many national, state and registered political parties. Almost all national level parties take interest in Jharkhand politics. Indian National Congress (INC), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Communist Party of India (CPI) are some of the most prominent presence of national parties in Jharkhand politics. Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) is the largest of the state level political parties. Many of the regional parties, which are registered but with minimum political impact as of now, also take a keen interest in the politics at Jharkhand. Last Updated on : 1 July 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule