About Finer The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Home About Finer Profile Written by Administrator on 01 May 2014 . Posted in About Finer We would like to introduce ourselves as the Federation of Industry & Commerce of North Eastern Region (FINER), formed for the creation and sustenance of an environment conducive to the growth of Industry, Trade and Commerce in the North Eastern States of India. FINER has also established fruitful connection with Chambers of Commerce across various regions and promoted its relationship with Governments; Semi-Governments; Industrial and Commercial organizations and enterprises both at home and abroad. Needles to mention, FINER is the most vibrant Apex Industrial body of the N.E. Region. FINER has found representation in practically all-advisory committees of the State and Central Governments pertaining to industry, trade and commerce of the region. FINER’s views are frequently sought by the Government and media. FINER’s sole aim is to industrially develop the region and bring about an economic resurgence. The twenty-one years since inception has put FINER in a position of credibility where its voice is heard and heeded. FINER Chairman, Shri R.S. Joshi , is also a Member of the Special Task Force of the Prime Minister on MSME at New Delhi.  FINER has also signed an MOU with The North East Members of Parliament Forum and meetings have been regularly held with them in Delhi. Read More Comment (0) Hits: 1344 Aims Written by Administrator on 02 May 2014 . Posted in About Finer To act as a catalyst in developing sustainable economy, trade, industry, commerce and the socio-economic conditions of North Eastern States and nation at large. For the creation and sustenance of an environment conducive to the growth of the industry, trade and commerce in the north-eastern states of India To guide its members to participate actively in the national economic construction and promote the stepwise perfection of the market economy system, so as to accelerate the process of comprehensive social progress To enhance the cultural construction of enterprises, and to guide its members to be the erectors of the National Economy. Read More Comment (1) Hits: 848 Objectives Written by Administrator on 03 May 2014 . Posted in About Finer To bring Trade, Industry & Commerce of the region under one umbrella Enhance the flow of investments into Trade, Industry and Infrastructure of the region Generate additional employment opportunities in the region Identify and deploy the State resources of the region for productive use Special focus on promoting the traditional industries through the cluster approach with private sector participation with a view to ensure the economic development of the remote and hill areas of the North Eastern States Read More Comment (0) Hits: 742 More Articles... Governing Board Working Committees E-Brochure Working Commitee List 1 2 3 » End Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Twitter Feeds Tweets by @fineroffice Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com