Panaji City Map Home » Maps » Goa » Panaji City Map   Cities in Goa Panaji Calangute Vasco da Gama Margao Mapusa गोवा का नक्शा About Goa Weather History Culture Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Panaji City Map City Map of Panaji Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Goa   Vasco da Gama City Map Panaji City Map Margao City Map Mapusa City Map   Calangute City Map The official name for the capital of Goa is Panaji, though in Konkani it is often pronounced as 'Ponnji'. The Portuguese name for it was 'Pongim', from which originated the other name by which it is known - Panjim. The name Panjim is used mostly by English speaking people. The capital of Goa lies on the banks of the Mandovi estuary, in the district of North Goa. Panaji means 'the land that does not flood'. Panaji, the capital of Goa, is built around a church facing a prominent square. Panaji has some beautiful Portuguese Baroque style buildings. The riverside too offers a fine view. Panaji has a population of around 65,000. Panaji is Goa's third largest city after Vasco and Madgaon. The capital of Goa, Panaji, was earlier a small village on the riverfront. In 1843 the city was renamed Nova Goa (Portuguese for 'New Goa') when it officially replaced the city of Goa - which is now Old Goa - as the administrative seat of Portuguese India. The viceroy, though, had already moved to Panaji in 1759. Panaji became a state capital on Goa's elevation to statehood in May 1987. The capital of Goa was once little more than a minor landing stage and customs house - protected by a hilltop fort, and surrounded by stagnant swampland. In 1843 it became the capital after the port at Old Goa had silted up, and its rulers and impoverished inhabitants had fled the plague. Last Updated on: 24/09/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule