Swami Vivekananda Quotes, Famous Thoughts Of Swami Vivekananda | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Society / Swami Vivekananda’s thoughts on mind control Swami Vivekananda’s thoughts on mind control March 4, 2013 by Ramandeep Kaur Swami Vivekananda   Swami Vivekananda is a name to reckon with, not just for introducing Indian philosophies of Vedanta and Yoga to the Western world but also for his belief that noblest ideas can be brought “to the doorstep of even the poorest and the meanest”.The world remembers him for his stellar speech at the Parliament of the World’s Religions in Chicago in 1893, where he represented India. A philosopher, an orator, an artist, and a widely-travelled monk, it is often said about Swami Vivekananda that “In him everything is positive and nothing negative”. He espoused the idea of ‘focused thought’ and recommended his disciples to “Take up one idea. Make that one idea your life – think of it, dream of it, live on that idea. Let the brain, muscles, nerves, every part of your body, be full of that idea, and just leave every other idea alone.” Vivekananda’s Observations on Benefits of Mind Control For Swami Vivekananda, an uncontrolled mind leads to negativity in life and a controlled mind saves us and frees us from such thoughts. He propagated the idea that ‘Self-awareness’ is the best way to control one’s mind.  Will power and determination can also stop mind from wandering. However, his advice comes with a caveat: To keep the mind under control one has to practice and repeat the same thought over and over again. Practice of controlling one’s mind should be done twice a day especially in the morning and evening as those are the calmest times of the day. This, he believed, would decrease vagaries of the mind. When it comes to mind control, Vivekananda observed that it is  the concentration that separates men from animals and it is the difference in concentration  that makes one man different from another. Morality and Control of Mind in Vivekananda’s Discourse The common string that connects all his philosophical discourse is the message of oneness with God and the development of the mass. For him, morality is directly related to the control of mind. A mind which is strong and controlled is altruistic, pure and brave. Vivekananda’s Multi-faceted Contributions Vivekananda was born on 12 January 1863 in Kolkata, India. Each year his birth anniversary is celebrated as the ‘National Youth Day’. The worthy disciple of Saint Ramakrishna tried to disseminate a profound yet simple fact:“Each soul is potentially divine. The goal is to manifest this Divinity within by controlling nature, external and internal.” His poignant words inspired generations of freedom fighters including Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Aurobindo Ghose and Bal Gangadhar Tilak. Vivekananda’s Words of Wisdom on How to Control Mind Controlling mind is not a one day’s job but it needs a regular and systematic practice. It comes under control when there is a feeling of oneness with God. Your body is a weapon and consider it very strong. Consider your mind to be very strong as only with strong mind and body you will be able to cross the ocean of life. Have a strong faith in yourself, your body and mind. Be religious. This will make you happy and your mind will be under control. Get hold of the mind. The mind is like a lake, and every stone that drops into it raises waves. These waves do not let us see what we are. Sit quietly and let the mind wander where it wants to go. Keep a strong faith that you are watching your mind drifting in all random directions. The mind is not you or I. Now try connecting with God but not with any worldly thing or relationship. After some time you will see that your mind is calming down like a serene lake. This will slow down the wandering of mind. Each day practice this and identify yourself. With time your mind will be under your control. Let the mind be cheerful but calm. Never let it run into excesses, because every excess will be followed by a reaction. Meditation means the mind is turned back upon itself. The mind stops all the thought-waves and the world stops. Your consciousness expands. Every time you meditate you will keep your growth. We have to seize this unstable mind and drag it from its wanderings and fix it on one idea. Over and over again this must be done. By power of will we must get hold of the mind and make it stop and reflect upon the glory of God. The flow of this continuous control of the mind becomes steady when practiced day after day, and the mind obtains the faculty of constant concentration. All these senses, external and internal, must be under the disciple’s control. By hard practice he has to arrive at the stage where he can assert his mind against the senses, against the commands of nature. He should be able to say to his mind, “You are mine; I order you, do not see or hear anything”, and the mind will not see or hear anything — no form or sound will react on the mind.   Related Information: About Swami Vivekanand Educational thoughts of Swami Vivekananda Swami Vivekananda thoughts on youth Swami Vivekananda on meditation Swami Vivekananda on nationalism Swami Vivekananda teachings   Swami Vivekananda Ramandeep Kaur I am a mother. A wife. And daughter of my loving parents by heart with passion for creativity, zeal to achieve something big in life but want to live life to its fullest. More articles from Ramandeep Kaur : Enjoy Your Day out at Splash – The Water Park The Importance of Summer Classes 15 Vastu Tips for the Success of Your Business Vehicular Pollution in Delhi and Its Impact on Lotus Temple Which are the Best Cities in India to Live? Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Comments Showing 44 Comments : T.Umasankar Rao May 14, 2015 at 12:13 pm I proud that I am hindu Reply arun kumar May 6, 2015 at 12:07 am I am easily refresh own mind through swamivivekanand thoughts . Reply raju May 1, 2015 at 2:33 pm i love swami vivekanad jago Bharat Reply EveresteBook April 29, 2015 at 5:07 pm Very useful article for young generation. Thank you for sharing. Reply Pratik Makade January 29, 2015 at 12:57 pm I love swami vivekananda i m biggest fan of vivekananda Reply Pratik Makade January 29, 2015 at 12:56 pm I love swami vivekananda Reply Amit kumar(Asr) December 21, 2014 at 1:06 pm I love vivekanand thoughts . Thanks to creat it Reply Deepak patel October 31, 2014 at 12:03 am ””agar zindgi ma khus rehna ha to kuch aisa react kro logo ka samnae ki uneh lagae ki hm unkae km ka ni ha– Reply Anantha September 30, 2014 at 1:14 am Vivekananda is the man of wisdom, purity, unselfishness etc. He is the man of all goodness. No one is great as vivekananda in india and the world.I love him very much. Thanks god for producing a great man like vivekananda in our country. Reply akshay kamble August 20, 2014 at 9:47 pm I love vivekananda…..!!!! Reply sathvik August 2, 2014 at 10:57 pm swami vivekananda is a inspiring person.we should follow his teachings to change the world. Reply Pragyan Pandey July 9, 2014 at 4:44 pm Swami Vivekananad wasn’t any special Man he was like us only but his view to see the life was different thats why he became different. P3 Reply Nayan Paul June 15, 2014 at 4:17 pm Really, Swami ji z Vry inspiring for Human Life!] Reply Sujit Kumar Pradhan April 14, 2014 at 3:21 pm Really Swami Viveka Nanda is a Real Hero of this world, who insipres pople about control our spiritual Mind, Increase our spritual life. He is a man who sacrifice his life for people. His all Thoughts get a various type of knowledge. most of time i like to follow his thought. Reply VINAY KUMAR April 5, 2014 at 1:06 pm swamiji was such a great man of INDIA Reply ROHAN RAJ SINGH March 27, 2014 at 9:49 pm IT FEEL REALLY VERY PROUD THAT I BORN ON THIS PART OF GLOBE. VIVEKANANDA IS REALLY A PERSON TO BE SALUTED ….. “Be religious. This will make you happy and your mind will be under control.” THIS STATEMENT I LIKE MOST. THUMPS UP FOR IT. Reply Manjeet kaur. March 23, 2014 at 7:50 pm swami vivekanand gve us d different thought .which make our life successful..his thought is lyk the stairs of success ..thnx swami ji..for giving us the different way to achieve our aim n being a gd prsn.. Reply ROHAN RAJ SINGH March 27, 2014 at 9:51 pm REALLY MANJEET JI……HIS THOUGHTS ARE REALLY LYK THE STAIRS OF SUCCESS. Reply Manjeet kaur. March 23, 2014 at 7:37 pm swami vivekanand such a…grt prsn.his simplicity..teaching inspired everyone.I appreciate the thought of swami vivekanand…his thought give the moral value ..n make me happy ..good thought are maintain our mind n also my happiness ..hat s off respected swami ji ..n m proud of myself bcz,I m Indian…thnku agn …swami g Reply Tushar Akhade March 22, 2014 at 12:53 pm His thoughts always have inspiried the youth and its wonderful that this all thoughts are made avilable here i am realy thankful to the people working behind this. Reply Chetan Beglee Naraj February 18, 2014 at 10:13 am Even my comment reached victory(see the time of posting) after studying Vivekananda…☺♥☺ Hat s off to swami the great Saint… Reply Chetan Beglee Naraj February 18, 2014 at 10:10 am Luxuriant Thoughts… Every Human Being in this world must study Vivekananda to reach the god… Reply ROHAN RAJ SINGH March 27, 2014 at 9:59 pm BILKUL SAHI CHETAN JI…. Reply pradip rathod January 1, 2014 at 3:18 pm swami vivekananda ji was great parsonality, i have once visited kanyakumari were he has meditated Reply anita joshi December 5, 2013 at 9:52 pm good thoughts are maintain our mind and body both . Reply Binita Singha October 31, 2013 at 7:22 am he was a good person in life Reply saurabh November 22, 2013 at 5:59 pm we should never think of becoming like vivekananda.think becoming of more than that ,he have an infinite faith on us. Reply Abhisake Chowdhury October 10, 2013 at 9:31 pm As earth is luke earth (geore),Swami Vivekananda is like Vivekananda. Thete is no one like vive kanada. But if we try to follow Swamiji’s biography. I am sure thay we can live him in us.so come to try to be Vivekanand. Reply