Dry Rose Petals Manufacturer in Ajmer Rajasthan India by Shuddhaj Extracts | ID - 130786 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Shuddhaj Extracts Member Since : 2008 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Rose Water, Natural Rose Water, Gulkand, Dry Rose Petals, Awala, Face Wash Home » Product » Dry Rose Petals Dry Rose Petals We are offering dry rose petals.dry rose petals, manufactured by us, are in high demand as they are totally pure and are dried properly by using suitable techniques. We also supply the natural pink dry petals that are manufactured from rose centifolia and are of genuine quality. We keep our roses in highly sophisticated condition so that they do not fade and consequently the customers get the maximum natural benefit of them. Our freeze dry rose petals are highly resistant to the adverse effects of germs and fungus. This has made us a highly trusted dried rose petals manufacturer. We are well known in terms of providing our rose petals at authentic prices and as a result we are counted amongst the highly reputed organic dry rose petals suppliers in rajasthan, india. we use the best seasons rose centifolia to prepare the dry rose petals. The many uses of rose petals fresh rose petals steeped in boiling water (to make a tea) have been used to treat the following conditions : constipationsinus troubleeye irritationsthe symptoms of colds and hay feverthe emotional symptoms of pms and menopausereducing pitta, heat in the body and problems caused by excess heat. SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mr. Avinash Pandey Primary Number : 08042782741 Telephone : +91-145-2773006 Mobile Phone : +91-9414666523 » More detail Hot Products » Dry Amla (01) » Dry Amla (02) » Dry Rose Petals (01) » Dry Rose Petals (02) » Dry Rose Petals (03) » Dry Rose Petals (04) » Rose Jam (01) » Rose Jam (02) » Rose Jam (Okhli) » Rose Sharbat » Rose Water Other Products » Dry Amla » Dry Amla » Dry Rose Petals » Dry Rose Petals » Dry Rose Petals » Dry Rose Petals » Rose Jam » Rose Jam Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com