Flora Fountain in Mumbai: An Aesthetic Marvel | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Travel / The Flora Fountain in Mumbai: An Aesthetic Marvel The Flora Fountain in Mumbai: An Aesthetic Marvel February 17, 2014 by Manisha The Flora Fountains, Mumbai In the middle of the mega city, amidst the modern skyscrapers of Mumbai lies an architectural masterpiece. The Flora Fountain, with an aesthetically sculpted monument on the top, is situated on the Dadabhai Naoroji Road at the Fort business district in South Mumbai. The iconic fountain has the Roman goddess of spring and beauty, Flora as the central figure. There are four other figures adding to the charm of this royal masterwork. It has been erected in white Portland stone following the neo-Classical and the neo-Gothic styles of architecture. The Agri-Horticultural society of Western India constructed it using the funds given by the Cursetjee Fardoonjee Parekh. The fountain, also called the Hutatma Chowk, was designed by Richard Norman Shaw at the cost of 47,000 rupees. Although the fountain is under the maintenance of the Government of Maharashtra, the authorities seem to have failed in maintaining the distinctive identity of the structure. The marble is losing its lustre with the passage of time. The sight of the fountain that stands in the middle of a busy junction can be enjoyed the best during evening time, when the lights are turned on. In close proximity, the visitors can find a good shopping zone to buy artifacts and other products. As one walks along the lanes surrounding the monument, one finds historic colonial buildings in the area. One may visit the nearby tourist attractions like St. Thomas Cathedral, Rajabai Clock Tower, etc. The Flora Fountain is regarded as one of the ‘zero miles of Mumbai’. The site is just a little distance away from the Shivaji Terminus and the Church Gate Railway Station. Those interested in having a look at the aesthetic site can hire a taxi, auto rickshaw or a local train. Moreover, tourists can have an aerial view from the open-air buses arranged by the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC).   For more information visit : Manori Beach in Mumbai Babulnath Temple in Mumbai Elephanta Caves Siddhivinayak Temple in Mumbai ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens in Mumbai Mumbai Manisha Success is a journey, not a destination. The doing is often more important than the outcome. More articles from Manisha : The White Marvel by the Beautiful Lake: The Ujjayanta Palace An Unexplored Paradise: The Khoudong Waterfalls in Tamenglong, Manipur Prithviraj Smarak, Ajmer: An Icon of Royal Valour Relish the Exotic Waterfalls in Munnar Explore Exquisite Performing Arts at the Kerala Kathakali Centre Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Weekly Business Roundup: Markets Gain for Third Consecutive Week By: Sujatha Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? parmindersingh on Time to feel the heat of Delhi University Admission for session 2015-16 Dheerendra yadav on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd pardeep singh on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits suchithra p s on Human Trafficking in India must end Nimesh Vyas on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012