Top Ten Flood Prone Areas In India Home » Top Ten » Geography » Top Ten Flood Prone Areas In India   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views About India India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels Current Events India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       Top Ten Flood Prone Areas In India Latest Updates on Flood Affected Areas in Uttarakhand Map of Top Ten Flood Prone Areas In India Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing Top Ten Flood Prone Areas In India. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. About floods in India India, being a peninsular country and surrounded by the Arabian Sea, Indian Ocean and the Bay of Bengal, is quite prone to flood. As per the Geological Survey of India (GSI), the major flood prone areas of India cover almost 12.5% area of the country. Every year, flood, the most common disaster in India causes immense loss to the country's property and lives. India Flood Prone Areas The states falling within the periphery of "India Flood Prone Areas" are West Bengal , Orissa , Andhra Pradesh , Kerala, Assam , Bihar, Gujrat, Uttar Pradesh , Haryana and Punjab. The intense monsoon rains from southwest causes rivers like Brahmaputra, Ganga, Yamuna etc. to swell their banks, which in turn floods the adjacent areas. Over the past few decades, central India has become familiar with precipitation events like torrential rains and flash floods. The major flood prone areas in India are the river banks and deltas of Ravi, Yamuna-Sahibi, Gandak, Sutlej, Ganga, Ghaggar, Kosi, Teesta, Brahmaputra, Mahanadi, Mahananda, Damodar, Godavari, Mayurakshi, Sabarmati and their tributaries. An over-view about state-wise flood prone areas can be gained by checking the following table   state-wise Flood Prone Areas   State Area liable to Floods (million Ha.) Uttar Pradesh 7.336 Bihar 4.26 Punjab 3.7 Rajasthan 3.26 Assam 3.15 West Bengal 2.65 Haryana 2.35 Orissa 1.4 Andhra Pradesh 1.39 Gujarat 1.39 Kerala 0.87 Tamil Nadu 0.45 Tripura 0.33 Madhya Pradesh 0.26 Himachal Pradesh 0.23 Maharashtra 0.23 Jammu & Kashmir 0.08 Manipur 0.08 Delhi 0.05 Karnataka 0.02 Meghalaya 0.02 Pondichery 0.01 Total 33.516 Highest flood prone areas in India Though the north-Indian plains prone to flood more, the "India flood prone areas" can be broadly categorized in three divisions: Ganga Basin : The Ganga Basin gets flooded mostly in the northern part by its northern tributaries. The badly affected states of the Ganga basin are West Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Besides the Ganga, rivers like Sarada, Rapti, Gandak and Ghagra causes flood in eastern part of Uttar Pradesh. The Yamuna is famous for flooding Haryana and Delhi. Bihar experiences massive dangerous flood every year. River Burhi, Bagmati, Gandak, Kamla along with many small rivers contribute to that. In West Bengal, rivers like Mahananda, Bhagirathi, Damodar, Ajay etc. causes floods because of tidal effects and insufficient river channels. Brahmaputra and Barak Basins : The river banks of Brahmaputra and Barak gets flooded due to the Surplus water found in the Brahmaputra basin and the Barak basin. These rivers along with their tributaries flood the northeastern states like West Bengal, Assam and Sikkim . Jaldakha, Teesta and Torsa in northern West Bengal and rivers in Manipur often overflow their banks. Central India and Deccan Rivers Basin : In Orissa, spilling over of river banks by Mahanadi, Baitarni and Brahmani causes havoc. The deltaic area formed by these three rivers is thickly populated. Even some small rivers of Kerala and mud stream from the nearby hills add on to the destruction. Southern and central India observes floods caused by Narmada, Godavari, Tapi, Krishna and Mahanadi due to heavy rainfall. Cyclonic storms in the deltaic regions of Godavari, Mahanadi and Krishna even floods the coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh, Orissa and Tamil Nadu occasionally. Refer to the table given below to get an idea about the damage caused in the India flood prone areas:   Average Annual Flood Damage (1953 - 1999)   State Area liable to Floods (million Ha.) Total Damage Rs.13,400 million Area Affected 8.11 million hectare Crop Area Affected 3.57 million hectare Human Lives Lost 1579 Nos. Cattle Lost 95,000 Nos. Last Updated on : 20/06/2013               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule