Aquacide — Aquatic Weed Control | Aquatic Weed Killer for Lake and Pond Weed Control About Us Lake Weeds Our Products Reference Charts Contact Us FAQs Request a Brochure View Cart Call us today! 1-800-328-9350 0 Items Cart With Aquacide, you're in the clear. Your waterfront, refreshed. With Aquacide, you're in the clear. Everything you need for a clean lake shore Your waterfront, refreshed. Previous Next Pages About Us Lake Weeds Our Products Reference Charts Contact Us FAQs Request a Brochure View Cart Identify Your Weed A comprehensive list of common (and uncommon) lake weeds with images. Find out which weed you're dealing with in order to select the appropriate Aquacide product! Go to Weed ID Page Shop Products No matter what weed you're dealing with, Aquacide can help. We offer a broad selection of pellet, granular and liquid-based herbicides that are tailored to your property's needs. Browse Our Store Why Aquacide? Why eliminate lake weeds? Read our list of the top 5 reasons people choose Aquacide to clear up their lake water. Learn About Us FAQs Do these products harm fish? Which product works the best? When is the best time for use? These and more frequent questions answered here. Visit FAQ Page Pages About Us Lake Weeds Our Products Reference Charts Contact Us FAQs Request a Brochure View Cart Identify Your Weed A comprehensive list of common (and uncommon) lake weeds with images. Find out which weed you're dealing with in order to select the appropriate Aquacide product! Go to Weed ID Page Shop Products No matter what weed you're dealing with, Aquacide can help. We offer a broad selection of pellet, granular and liquid-based herbicides that are tailored to your property's needs. Browse Our Store Why Aquacide? Why eliminate lake weeds? Read our list of the top 5 reasons people choose Aquacide to clear up their lake water. Learn About Us FAQs Do these products harm fish? Which product works the best? When is the best time for use? These and more frequent questions answered here. Visit FAQ Page 1627 9th Street, P.O. Box 10748, White Bear Lake, MN 55110 1-800-328-9350 info@killlakeweeds.com Visit our blog Facebook Twitter © 2015 Aquacide. Ecommerce Software by Shopify . Policies. Sign up for our Newsletter