History of Andhra Pradesh Home » Andhra Pradesh » Geography & History » History of Andhra Pradesh   Andhra Pradesh History Geography Climate आंध्र प्रदेश का नक्शा Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Hyderabad Metro Stations Map Cities Amaravati: Andhra's New Capital Hyderabad Tirupati Vishakhapatnam Vijayawada Warangal                    more.. Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Andhra Pradesh Places to visit in Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels         more... How to reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education in Andhra Pradesh Universities in Andhra Pradesh       Andhra Pradesh History Andhra Pradesh is one of the state of the country, which takes pride in its rich historical and cultural heritage. A peek into the History of Andhra Pradesh can give an idea of the glorious past the state has witnessed. The brief history of Andhra Pradesh can be classified into four prime periods. The origin Historians believe that the original people of Andhra Pradesh were Aryans. They migrated to the south of Vindhyas and there they mixed up with other races. A major part of Emperor Ashoka's kingdom, Andhra Pradesh was an important Buddhist center of that time. Several places in the state still bears the traces of the Buddhist culture and influence. The earlier period The Satavahana dynasty is perhaps the earliest dynasty that ruled in Andhra Pradesh. This was during the second century B.C and they were also known as the Andhras. Amravati, on the banks of river Krishna was their capital. They promoted national and international trade and were great followers of Buddhism. After the end of the Satavahana reign, the state was ruled by the Pallavas, the Chalukyas, the Cholas and the Kakaityas respectively. The period of Muslim expansion The Kakatiya dynasty was uprooted in 1323, following the capture of their ruler by Tughlak Sultan of Delhi. After the end of the Kakatiya dynasty, few local kingdoms rose to power in different parts of the kingdom. Among these, the Vijaynagar kingdom was the most powerful one. The great king Krishnadeva Raya belonged to that kingdom. After failing time and again against the Vijayanagar empire, the kingdom was finally captured by the Muslim invaders. In the middle of the 16th century, the state saw the emergence of the Qutb Shahi dynaty. They were defeated by the Mughals, to be precise by Aurangazeb's son. In 1707, Hyderabad was declared independent and went under the rule of the Nizams. The Nizams were great allies of the British and they helped the Europeans to defeat Tipu Sultan of Mysore. The post independence period After the Indian independence, Andhra Pradesh became the first state to be formed on the basis of language. The Telegu speaking people were given twenty one districts, out of which nine were in the Nizam's Dominions and the rest in the Madras Presidency. However following an agitation in 1953, eleven districts of the Madras state were taken to form a new Andhra state with Kurnool as its capital. Nine districts under the Nizam were later added to form the enlarged state of Andhra Pradesh in 1956. Hyderabad became the capital of the state, which is one of the most technologically advanced cities of the modern India. Last Updated on 20 June 2013 Andhra Pradesh About Climate History Geography Languages Population Districts Factsheet Distance Chart Pin code STD code             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule