Karnataka Population Home »» Karnataka »» Quick Facts   Karnataka कर्नाटक का नक्शा Karnataka Map Cities in Karnataka Bangalore Manipal Hubli Mangalore Gulbarga Davangere Mysore                    more... Districts of Karnataka Karnataka Railways Karnataka Roads Rivers of Karnataka Tehsils of Karnataka Travel to Karnataka Bangalore Travel Coorg Travel Mysore Travel Mangalore Travel Hampi Travel Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Coorg Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Mysore Wildlife Sanctuaries in Karnataka Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Hotels in Karnataka Hotels in Bangalore Hotels in Mysore Hotels in Coorg Hotels in Mangalore Hotels in Udup Hotels in Belgaum              more... Physical Map Where is Karnataka Forests in Karnataka Karnataka Agriculture Sex Ratio Minerals in Karnataka Latitude and Longitude Industrial Map Karnataka Air Network Karnataka Pin Code Karnataka STD Code How to Reach Karnataka Karnataka Facts Education in Karnataka Universities in Karnataka Geography and History People Culture and Festivals Karnataka Government and    Politics Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Constituencies Population of Karnataka Karnataka Handicrafts Karnataka Economy Bangalore Fort Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka       Karnataka Population The Karnataka population includes people from different ethnic backgrounds and religious group. As per the census of 2001, the industrially progressive state of Karnataka, encompasses a total population of 52,733,958. The state of Karnataka ranks ninth in the population chart of our country. Karnataka has a sex ratio of 964 females to 1000 males, according to the census data of 2001. Being an important South Indian state, majority of the population belong to the Dravidian group, which is marked by the dark but bright skin color, tall and stout structure, and sharp facial features. Karnataka comprises of 67.04% of the literate population, among which 76.29% are males and 57.45% are females. The state is blessed with many technically educated individuals who have contributed to the development of the state. The number of educated population has tremendously risen during the last few years. The state of Karnataka has 12.94% of the people below six years old, where 13.04% are males and 12.85% are females. Karnataka has followed a consistent growth in the population of the state. The increase in the education level has helped in the further progress of Karnataka. Karnataka has experienced a significant growth of population in the last few years. However the number of persons in the age group of 0-6 years has experienced a deterioration according to the census of 2001 as compared to the census data of the year of 1991. Last Updated on 27 June 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule