Indian Agricultural Research Journals Indian Agricultural Research Journals Open Journal Systems Journal Help User Username Password Remember me Journal Content Search Search Scope All Authors Title Abstract Index terms Full Text Font Size Home About Login Register Search Home > Indian Agricultural Research Journals Indian Agricultural Research Journals An online Journal publishing system for Research Journals in Indian Council of Agricultural Research A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences A journal devoted to experimental agriculture and abstracted by all the major abstracting services. It includes articles on cytology, genetics, breeding, agronomy, soil science, horticulture, water use, microbiology, plant diseases and pest, agricultural engineering, economics and statistics with emphasis on original articles, from India and countries having similar agricultural conditions. EDITORIAL BOARD Subscription Information for Print Version View Journal | Current Issue | Register The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences This journal caters to a wide clientele comprising veterinarians, researchers and students.Articles are included on animal breeding and genetics, immunology, biotechnology, diseases, medicine and pharmacology, anatomy and histology, surgery, pathology, physiology, nutrition, milk, meat and other animal products, housing and fisheries from India and internationally. EDITORIAL BOARD Subscription Information for Print Version View Journal | Current Issue | Register Indian Journal of Fisheries The Indian Journal of Fisheries is published quarterly by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). Original contributions in the field of fish and fisheries science will be considered for publication in the Journal. The material submitted must be unpublished and not under consideration for publication elsewhere. Papers based on research which kills or damages any species, regarded as threatened/ endangered as per IUCN criteria or is as such listed in the Red Data Book appropriate to the geographic area concerned, will not be accepted by the Journal, unless the work has clear conservation objectives Editorial Board Editors View Journal | Current Issue | Register Fishery Technology The journal publishes original peer reviewed research papers and reviews on fishery technology and peripheral areas. It is managed and published by Society of Fisheries Technologists (India) located at Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Matsyapuri P.O., Cochin-682 029, Kerala, India. Corresponding author or any one author of articles submitted should be a bonafide member of the Society of Fisheries Technologists (India). The Society of Fisheries Technologists (India) has instituted the Best Paper Award for the best scientific paper appearing in the journal every year. The Award carries a citation and a cash component of Rs. 5000/- Editorial Board Subscription Details (Print Journal) View Journal | Current Issue | Register Potato Journal It is one of the recognized journals of several international institutions and societies including International Potato Center, Lima. Researchers from several countries contribute the papers to the journal and it has wide circulation throughout the Sub-tropics. View Journal | Current Issue | Register Journal of the Indian Society of Agricultural Statistics The Society publishes an International Peer Reviewed Journal called “Journal of the Indian Society of Agricultural Statistics” with ISSN 0019-6363. Three issues of the Journal (April, August and December) are published annually. The first volume of the Journal was released in 1948. The Journal devoted to the publication of original research papers on all aspects of Statistics and Computer Applications preferably with innovative applications in Agricultural Sciences or that have a potential application in Agricultural Sciences. The review articles of the topics of current interest are welcome. The Journal also accepts books, monographs and periodicals for review. Special issues on thematic areas of both national and international importance are also brought out. View Journal | Current Issue | Register Indian Farming This magazine is for people interested-in-farming. The aim is to present scientific information in a popular style to the progressive farmers and people interested in application of science to day-to-day problems to Indian farming. It has articles, book reviews, photo features, interviews, success stories and an editorial page. Two special issues are also brought every year. One in October on ‘World Food Day’ and another on any special occasion; accent issues are also brought out on subject of topical issues. It is most authoritative and popular farming magazine in India published since 1940. Note: This Journal is not open access. Readers will have to subscribe for Print as well as Digital Version View Journal | Current Issue | Register Indian Horticulture A semi technical magazine devoted to publishing articles on new techniques of raising vegetables, fruits and flowers from India and countries having similar agricultural conditions. Special issues are also brought out on topical issues. It is bimonthly. Note: This Journal is not open access. Readers will have to subscribe for Print as well as Digital Version View Journal | Current Issue | Register Indian Phytopathology Indian Phytopathology a leading plant pathology research journal deals with the disciplines of Mycology, Fungal Pathology, Bacteriology, Virology, Phytopathology and Nematology. The journal is published quarterly in March, June, September, and December. The society has published the journal for over 64 years. The journal has national as well as global reach. ISSN : 0367-973X (Print version) ISSN : 2248-9800 (Electronic version )   Abstracting/Indexed in: CAB Abstracts, Indian Science Abstracts, RUNNERS, Indian Citation Index (ICI), Google Scholar, AGRIS (International Information System for the Agricultural Sciences and Technology),Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS), AGRICOLA, Directory of Open Access Journal (DOAJ), WorldCat, PASCAL database, RefDoc   Indian Phytopathology offers online first publication upon acceptance Indian Phytopathology has instituted a feature called Online First Look. Within a few days of acceptance, papers by authors who choose to participate will be posted online. The papers have been peer reviewed and then revised as necessary by the authors but have not been copyedited, formatted, or assigned to an issue. The date on which each paper is posted is considered the publication date. This paper has been peer reviewed and accepted for publication but has not yet been copyedited or proofread. The final published version may differ   Editorial Board View Journal | Current Issue | Register Open Access Journal of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Welcome to Open Access Journal of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants ( OAJMAP ) the only Open Access journal dedicated to the field of medicinal and aromatic plants. It is managed and published by the Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Association of India ( MAPAI ) hosted by the Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research ( DMAPR ), formerly, National Research Centre for Medicinal and Aromatic Plants , Boriavi, Anand 387310, Gujarat, India. This Journal is indexed and abstracted by Bielefeld Academic Search Engine ( BASE ), CABI , Chemical Abstracts Service ( CAS ), DOAJ , Google Scholar , Open J-Gate , Scopus , Scirus and SCImago Journal Rank ( SJR ). And is a proud partner of the CIARD RING and GODAN . EDITORIAL BOARD View Journal | Current Issue | Register Journal of Agricultural Engineering View Journal | Current Issue | Register Journal of the Indian Society of Soil Science Journal of the Indian Society of Soil Science is the periodical brought out quarterly since 1953 (March, June, September and December) and it covers all aspects of soil study. The Society organizes seminars, symposia, conferences, meeting etc. enables members of ISSS and others to interact and disseminate knowledge on soil and land. Annual Convention of the Society is held regularly. This Society has celebrated its Golden Jubilee in 1984, Diamond Jubilee in 1994 and Platinum Jubilee in 2009. EDITORIAL BOARD Subscription Information for Print Version View Journal | Current Issue | Register Journal of Horticultural Sciences Journal of Horticultural Sciences , an international journal, is the official publication of Society for Promotion of Horticulture (SPH). It covers basic and applied aspect of original research on all branches of horticulture and other cognate disciplines, which promotes horticulture in its broadest sense. Its goals are to apprise horticultural scientists and others interested in horticulture of scientific and industrial developments and extension findings. Editorial Board Subscription Information View Journal | Current Issue | Register Indian Journal of Dairy Science IJDS is a scientific and technical journal imparting scientific knowledge how to act as a tool for disseminating research finding. The journal is published bimonthly covering research article, abstracts, reviews, short communications and other congnate metters pertainig to the industry. View Journal | Current Issue | Register Indian Journal of Veterinary Anatomy Indian Journal of Veterinary Anatomy is a scientific journal of Indian Association of Veterinary Anatomists. The first issue of first volume of the journal was published in 1989. The journal is published six monthly (two issues per volume, June & December). EDITORIAL BOARD Subscription Information for Print Version View Journal | Current Issue | Register Indian Journal of Veterinary Medicine Indian Journal of veterinary journal publishes review article(invited), original /applied research, clinical reports short communications on all area of animal health including diagnosis treatment and control. Editorial Board Subscription Details View Journal | Current Issue | Register Annals of Agricultural Research A Journal published by Indian Society of Agricultural Sciences, IARI, New Delhi an umbrella society for Agricultural sciences. NAAS Rating: 3.02 View Journal | Current Issue | Register Journal of Wheat Research The Journal of Wheat Research (JWR) serves as an official organ of Society for Advancement of Wheat Research (SAWR) for the Publication of reviews, research papers, short communications on wheat and barley as per Article 14.1 of the constitution and by laws of the society. The Journal is sent free to its members.