Centrally Sponsored National Scheme on Welfare of Fishermen Skip to main contents | Accessibility Options | Screen Reader Access मुख्य सामग्री पर जाएं | अभिगम्यता के विकल्प Home About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Guidelines Dairy Development Fishery Fodder Large Ruminants(Bovine) Livestock Extension Livestock Insurance Livestock Health Piggery Development Poultry Small Ruminants Threatened Breeds Trade Bovine Breeding Trade Conferences Statistics Animal Husbandry Statistics Livestock Census Fisheries Poultry Reports Forms Grievances Public Grievances Contact Us Sunabeda Suratgarh Andeshnagar Breeds Chiplima breeds Dhamrod breeds Hessarghatta breeds Sunabeda breeds CHRS-centre names Suratgarh Breeds Tenders English हिन्दी में Welcome to Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries पशुपालन, डेयरी और मत्स्य पालन विभाग में आपका स्वागत है Search : खोजें : Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Home / Division / Fisheries / Centrally Sponsored National Scheme on Welfare of Fishermen Centrally Sponsored National Scheme on Welfare of Fishermen Name of the Scheme National Scheme of Welfare of Fishermen Type Centrally Sponsored Scheme Year of commencement 1991-92 by amalgamating two schemes – Janta Personal Accident Policy (Started in 1983) and National Welfare Fund for Fishermen (started in 1986-87).A new programme called Saving-cum-Relief. Training and Extension scheme( started in 1994-95 after modification of the scheme, namely, Training / Seminar/ Workshop) which was operated as a separate scheme till 2006-07 has been merged with the National Scheme of Welfare of Fisherman as a component of the Scheme. Objectives The main objective of the scheme are: a)to provide basic amenities like housing, drinking water, community hall etc. for fishers b)to facilitate better living standards for fishers and their families c)to uplift social and economic securities for active fishers and their dependents and d)to update knowledge and improving skills of fishers in regard to modern fishing technology. Salient features The scheme would enhance the basic civic amentities such as housing, drinking water and other essential requirements and would uplift the socio economic status of the fishers.  The fishermen village would be provided with tube wells at the rate of one tube well for every 20 houses and common working place. Structure of the scheme The scheme will be operated with the following four components: 1) Development of Model Fishermen Villages 2) Group Accident Insurance for Active Fishermen 3) Saving-cum-Relief; and 4) Training & Extention Funding pattern In case of 1 st three component of Scheme (Development of Model Fishermen Villages, Group Accident Insurance for Active Fishermen; and Saving-cum-Relief), the assistance is shared on 50:50 basis by the Government of India and State Government and in case of UT Admn., 100% Assistance is born by the Government of India.  In case of North Eastern States, the assistance is shared on 75:25 basis between the Government of India and the State Government.  The assistance for Training & Extension is shared on 80:20 basis by the Government of India and the State Government and in case of UT Administrations/ FISHCOPFED 100% assistance is given by the Government of India. Eligibility Assistance under the scheme is provided to all fishermen and fishing villages. Target Group/Beneficiaries Fish Farmers/ fishers including both fishermen and fisherwomen. Area of operation Marine, Inland, and brackish water area of all the States and UnionTerritories. Implementing agency State Governments/UT Administrations, FISHCOPFED. Procedure for applying Beneficiaries are required to submit viable proposals through the concerned States/UTs to the Ministry for availing the funds. BE outlay and spending year-wise 2005-06 to 2010-11 (` in crores) Year 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 BE 25.00 20.10 18.38 25.00 33.00 34.20 Actual Expn 33.00 23.80 21.38 25.15 36.23 Help | Terms of Use | Site Map | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer | Hyperlinking Policy | Privacy Policy | Archives | Contact Us This website belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ©  2014 All rights reserved. Designed,Developed & Hosted by NIC