Cities in Tamil Nadu, Tamil Nadu Cities Map Home » Tamil Nadu » Cities » Tamilnadu Cities   Cities in Tamilnadu Chennai Coimbatore Ooty Tiruchchirapalli Madurai Salem Thanjavur Kanyakumari Vellore                    more... तमिलनाडु का नक्शा Tamilnadu Location Tamilnadu Map Districts of Tamilnadu Roads Tamilnadu Railways Rivers of Tamilnadu Tehsils of Tamilnadu Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Tamilnadu Facts History of Tamilnadu Festivals in Tamilnadu Government and Politics Nilgiri Mountain Railway Ooty Hill Stations Places to visit in Tamilnadu Travel to Tamilnadu Beaches in Tamilnadu Wildlife Sanctuaries Temples in Tamilnadu Victory War Memorial Ooty Botanical Garden Ooty Lake Hotels in Tamil Nadu Chennai Hotels Ooty Hotels Salem Hotels Kodaikanal Hotels Coimbatore Hotels Madurai Hotels             more... Tamilnadu Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Pincode of Tamilnadu Tamilnadu Std Code Art and Crafts Economy of Tamilnadu Tamilnadu Ministries How to Reach Local Government Music and Dance Road Transport People of Tamilnadu Tamilnadu Thematic Map Factsheet Universities in Tamil Nadu Shore Temple Government Museum in Chennai Vivekananda House       Cities in Tamil Nadu Cities in Tamilnadu Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing Major cities in Tamilnadu. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Coimbatore City Map Kanyakumari City Map Madurai City Map Ooty City Map         Pudukkottai City Map Shiva Ganga City Map Tiruchchirappalli City Map Vellore City Map         Thiruvannamalai City Map Chennai City Map Erode City Map Kodaikanal City Map         Mahabalipuram City Map Nagercoil City Map Pollachi City Map Rameshwaram City Map         Thanjavur City Map Tirunelveli City Map Tiruppur City Map Chidambaram City Map         Karaikudi City Map Kanchipuram City Map Kumbakonam City Map Namakkal City Map         Porur City Map Salem City Map Theni City Map Annasalai City Map         Hosur City Map Tamil Nadu is situated on the south of India. It is bordered by Pondicherry, Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. It is on the sixth position among the most populated states of India. Most of the districts and cities of Tamil Nadu are urbanized. The state is said to have the highest accumulation of urban population. The main cities of Tamil Nadu are Chennai, Coimbatore, Coonoor, Kanchipuram, Kanyakumari, Madurai, Mamallapuram, Rameswaram, Thanjavur, Tiruchirappalli Udhagamandalam or Ooty and Vellore. These cities are known for their rapid industrialization, economic development, rich cultural heritage and architectural excellence. Chennai is the state capital and the fourth largest Indian city. The popular educational institutions like Presidency College and Madras Medical College and Research Institute are established here. The infrastructure of the districts and cities of Tamil Nadu are well developed. They have very good communication facilities, both inter-city and interstate connections are excellent. Southeastern railways connect the major districts and cities of Tamil Nadu. The education and the health facilities are also excellent. There is a wide scope for career opportunities as the industries are growing at a fast pace in the districts and cities of Tamil Nadu. The state of Tamil Nadu is divided into thirty districts namely Chennai, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Dindigul, Erode, Kanchipuram, Kanyakumari, Karur, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Namakkal, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Ramanathapuram, Salem, Sivaganga, Thanjavur, The Nilgiris, Theni, Thoothukudi, Tiruchirapalli, Tirunelveli, Tiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruvarur, Vellore, Viluppuram, and Virudhunagar. Last Updated on 02/13/2013               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule