Company Infrastructure Business Plans Format BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Advertising Agency Travel Agency Restaurant India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Multinational Company Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Medical Agriculture Business Leaders Dhirubhai Ambani Azim Premji Mukesh Ambani Anil Ambani Anand Mahindra Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Mergers Acquisitions Refinance Top 10 Financial Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India SBI Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank HDFC Bank Vijaya Bank Allahabad Bank UCO Bank Top Brands in India Red Wine Shoe Vodka Beer Headphones Handbags Chocolate Rum Laptop Cosmetic Bag Watch B-Schools Top B Schools in India Online Business School IIM website IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi IIPM Pune S.P. Jain institute Infrastructure in India 2010 Tax Saving Eligibility Under 80ccF How to Buy Infrastructure Bonds Comparison Available Infrastructure Bonds Infrastructure Bonds by IDFC Infrastructure Bonds By LIC Infrastructure Bonds by SBI Tax Saving on Infrastructure Agriculture Infrastructure Bangalore Infrastructure Infrastructure Bonds India Infrastructure Bonds India BPO Infrastructure Business Infrastructure Company Infrastructure India Energy Infrastructure India Infrastructure Finance GE Infrastructure India Infrastructure Government India Infrastructure Growth India China Infrastructure Rural Infrastructure Report Industrial Infrastructure Infrastructure Industry India Infrastructure Investment IT Infrastructure Ministry of Infrastructure Mumbai Infrastructure India Infrastructure News India Infrastructure Projects India Rural Infrastructure Infrastructure Companies Infrastructure in India India Infrastructure Report Limited Infrastructure Marketing Infrastructure Chennai Infrastructure Finance Company Limited Indian Air Transport India Telecom Infrastructure Offshore Infrastructure Infrastructure Technology Tourism Infrastructure Statistics Infrastructure Gujarat Infrastructure India Infrastructure Fund India Infrastructure Needs Infrastructure Problems Pune Infrastructure Punjab Infrastructure TATA Infrastructure IBM Infrastructure Tax Infrastructure Home » India-budget » Infrastructure » Company Infrastructure Company Infrastructure Overall Rating:  [ 0 / 5 ]Total Votes [   ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 Company Infrastructure: Iqura's excellent offshore development center is located at the hub of technology in Bangalore , India. Iqura possesses one of the best Company Infrastructure. Bangalore is home to 40% of India's software businesses and has an excellent resource base with good Company Infrastructure and connectivity. The development center is located in the heart of the software district in Bangalore in an independent office building with 7500 sq. ft. of A-Grade office space to house 80 people. The center is open 24-hours, has dedicated security, multiple redundant communications, Internet and power facilities ensuring uninterrupted operations and the highest uptime. Staff facilities at their center include recreational activities, canteen, meeting, conference and training areas again proving the excellent Company Infrastructure that Iqura possesses. The office has a 100-mbit Fast Ethernet switch-based network as well as a secured Wi-Fi network. Development workstations of Pentium IV class and above with minimum 512MB / 1 GB RAM ensure high productivity levels. Data and Information is protected through a Firewall, Active-Directory group policies and selective network access. They also have client-specific secure VPN connections where access to their infrastructure requires such a setup. The development center is connected to their Internet servers hosted in a world-class server farm in Dallas, Texas from where we run our email servers and other hosted applications. Their internal management Intranet ensures that all processes are automated and all employees follow a process-driven approach with regard to aspects like time sheets, defect management, etc. Their project management system is hosted and accessible to clients for continuous review and monitoring of status. Quintegra has three state-of-the art offshore development centers in Bangalore and Chennai, each capable of executing large and mission critical assignments. Quintegra's facilities provide an ideal and exclusive environment for creative and skilled professionals engaged in software development activities. Scientifically designed and fully networked, the workspace is complete with all support services and amenities. With the best software and hardware environments coupled with state-of-the-art communication facilities, the centers are fully equipped to work as virtual extensions of clients' environment, providing 24x7 services. Infrastructure enables the delivery of business value: Becoming an On Demand Business-a business capable of sustained, continuous innovation-requires change across multiple areas. A company must be able to transform its business model and processes in order to create an environment where innovation becomes the norm. At the same time, a company must be able to develop, evolve and maintain an infrastructure that meets the needs of the new business model, but has the flexibility to support the continuing business evolution in response to customer needs. In other words, the Company Infrastructure must enable the delivery of business value, now and in the future. Last updated On: 7 th May 2011 Infrastructure Bonds India Tax Saving Tax Saving Bonds Tax Saving Options Tax Saving Bonds in India Tax Saver Benefit Plan Tax Exemption Tax Exemption Rules Investment Industry Bond Market >> More about India Budget About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED