TNAU Agritech Portal :: Nutition Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact TNAU Agritech Portal :: Summer Foods Eat light, healthy food to stay cool this summer :: With summers in full swing and the mercury heading north, doctors and dietitians advise that apart from drinking lots of water, a special summer diet consisting of light and healthy food would ensure a cool mind and body Some of the most beneficial food items during summer: Tender coconut water: TCW is perfect to fight our relentless summer heat and it has nutritional value. Remember to scoop out the tender coconut and eat it before you discard its organic shell. It contains vitamins, minerals and precious potassium. Gooseberry (Amla): A great refresher and reverses the ageing effects caused by strong sun rays while providing extra stamina for gym sessions. It specially benefits heart and hair. Apricot: They can be of great help for people who develop acne in summers as they provide the body with iron, vitamin C, potassium and fibre. They can be a great pre or post-workout snack. Tomatoes: These veggies might be seen as a salad item, but tomatoes act as a natural sunscreen - protecting you against sunburn. Watermelon: Amongst the favourite fruits in the summer season is the watermelon, which contains 92 per cent water and helps one keep hydrated. It also protects the skin against harmful sun rays. Cherries: These tiny fruits can help in inducing better sleep for people who have insomnia problems in the heat. They are also beneficial for people on a diet as they can help one get lean by decreasing the fat storage in one's body. Cardamom: A cup of cardamom tea can do wonders for those who have been in the hot sun for long because of its detoxifying properties Corn: A good source of pantothenic acid, which provides vitamin B to lower stress levels, corn in any form whether it is roasted or boiled is a healthy snack as it lowers cholesterol levels. Mango : Unripe mangoes can be steamed, pealed and mixed with cumin seeds and salt to make an effective remedy for heat strokes and exhaustion in summers. Butter milk: A glass everyday to avoid dehydration and indigestion. Curd and Yoghurt: They are a great and healthy alternative to ice-cream as they are packed with nutrients, vitamins and calcium which help to soothe ulcers, allergies and heat boils during the season . Juices: Fresh fruit juices, including lemonade, help replenish the body of its lost fluids. Foods to restrict : Ready-made iced tea and aerated drinks contains way too much sugar. They are also packed with preservatives, artificial flavouring, colours and a lot more that’s no good. During the hot months, meat and heavy food take longer to digest. So eat light. Nuts and spices take longer to digest and are traditionally eaten in winter because they generate heat in the body.   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved. TNAU-2015.