Infrastructure Bonds India BUSINESS PLAN Format For BPO For Consultancy For Event Management For Financial Services For Advertising Agency For Travel Agency see all... COMPANIES INDIA COMPANY Top Companies India Multinational BPO Software Companies India Cement Companies Automobile Companies COMPANY IN INDIA Automobile Showrooms Top Aviation Companies Top 10 Financial Services Top 10 Brokerage Firms Top Construction Advertising Companies see all... INDIA INSURANCE INDIA INSURANCE Life General Aviation Health Medical Property Auto 2 Wheeler Travel Home Insurance Top Insurance Companies see all... INDIA STOCKS INDIA STOCKS Mangalore Stock Exchange Meerut Stock Exchange OTC Exchange Of India Pune Stock Exchange Saurashtra Kutch Stock see all... FINANCE Credit Cards Mergers Acquisitions Refinance Top 10 Financial Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary see all... BANKS IN INDIA State Bank of India Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank HDFC Bank Vijaya Bank Allahabad Bank Syndicate Bank see all... TOP BRANDS INDIA Shoe Brands Beer Brands Coffee Brands Shampoo Brands Biscuit Brands Matress Brands Chocolate Brands Shirt Brands see all... B-SCHOOLS Top B Schools in India Online Business School IIM website IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi IIPM Pune S.P. Jain institute see all... Infrastructure in India 2010 Tax Saving Eligibility Under 80ccF How to Buy Infrastructure Bonds Comparison Available Infrastructure Bonds Infrastructure Bonds by IDFC Infrastructure Bonds By LIC Infrastructure Bonds by SBI Tax Saving on Infrastructure Agriculture Infrastructure Bangalore Infrastructure Infrastructure Bonds India Infrastructure Bonds India BPO Infrastructure Business Infrastructure Company Infrastructure India Energy Infrastructure India Infrastructure Finance GE Infrastructure India Infrastructure Government India Infrastructure Growth India China Infrastructure Rural Infrastructure Report Industrial Infrastructure Infrastructure Industry India Infrastructure Investment IT Infrastructure Ministry of Infrastructure Mumbai Infrastructure India Infrastructure News India Infrastructure Projects India Rural Infrastructure Infrastructure Companies Infrastructure in India India Infrastructure Report Limited Infrastructure Marketing Infrastructure Chennai Infrastructure Finance Company Limited Indian Air Transport India Telecom Infrastructure Offshore Infrastructure Infrastructure Technology Tourism Infrastructure Statistics Infrastructure Gujarat Infrastructure India Infrastructure Fund India Infrastructure Needs Infrastructure Problems Pune Infrastructure Punjab Infrastructure TATA Infrastructure IBM Infrastructure Tax Infrastructure Home » India-budget » Infrastructure » Infrastructure Bonds India Infrastructure Bonds India Overall Rating:  [ 4 / 5 ]Total Votes [  3  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 In 2013-14, the government allowed 13 public sector institutions to raise Rs 48,000 crore through tax-free bonds to meet their investment needs. Recently, the RBI has allowed banks to float infrastructure bonds up to seven years, if they extend home loans for affordable housing, that is, to individuals up to Rs 50 lakh (for houses of value up to Rs 65 lakh) in metros and loans up to Rs 40 lakh (home value Rs 50 lakh) As per the new order long term bonds will now be exempted by the RBI from mandatory reserve requirements like CRR and SLR if the money raised is used for funding of such projects. Thus, banks can sell long-term bonds to boost funding for infrastructure and affordable housing. The rupee-denominated bonds will have a minimum maturity of seven years and will be free from cash reserve and statutory liquidity ratio requirements and also so-called priority sector lending targets. Bond sales can be done through public issuance or private placement, the central bank added. Under current rules, banks must keep a portion of bonds sold with the RBI as reserves. Infra bond details The money generated through these bonds is used to create important structures like roads, ports, airports, and power plants. The long term nature of investment means that they are available in maturity periods of 10 and 15 years. However, an investor cannot ask for tax exemption if he or she has not invested for a period of at least 5 years. Normally, the public sector organizations offer better interest rates compared to the governmental entities. As per laws, interest earned from these bonds will be subjected to taxes just like the fixed deposits that offer tax benefits. This means that their actual return varies from anywhere between 5 and 8 percent. This means it is slightly less advantageous than other investment options such as PPFs, NSCs, and fixed deposits in that regard. The fact that infra bond investors are not secured against inflation accounts for the variable returns as well. This is also a major reason why various tax payers have different earnings from the same infra bonds. These bonds are normally issued at different times in a year. Liquidity can often been a thorn in the investors side but experts say that since they are issued several times a year they can avail these opportunities at their convenience. The analysts say that it is safe to put in not more than 20,000 in these bonds for the same reason. Investors can sell back their infra bonds or sell it in the financial markets once the starting period of 5 years is over. Top Infrastructure Bonds Following are the best infra bonds in India: IDFC Infrastructure Bonds L&T Infrastructure Bonds IDBI Flexibonds IIFCL Long Term Infrastructure Bonds IFCI Infrastructure Bonds ICICI Safety Bonds REC Tax Saving Infrastructure Bonds Right now, IFCI is providing the best in terms of interest rates with 9.09% for its 10 years bonds and 9.16% for the 15 year infra bonds. REC investors can expect a rate of 8.95% for the 10 year bonds, PTC India Financial investors will receive 8.93% for the same bonds, and for the SREI Infra Finance investors the rate is 8.90%. The rate for 15 year bonds for the three companies is 9.15%. REC enjoys a credit rating of AAA, which implies that it offers the most security for its investors especially in factors such as timely repayment of principal and interest. Following are the ratings details of some other infra bond issuing organizations: IFCI - AA- (from Brickwork Ratings), CARE A+ (from CARE), LA (from ICRA) PTC India Financial Services - A+ (from both CARE and ICRA) SREI - AA (from CARE) Experts think that investors get the maximum security from REC and IFCI as they are government owned. IDFC Infra Bonds Interest rate - 8.70% Eligible for maximum tax benefit of INR 20,000 AAA rating by ICRA and Fitch Lock in period - 5 years Can be sold at both NSE and BSE after lock in period How to choose infra bonds An investor needs to compare the returns being provided by various companies issuing the infrastructure bonds and check out their credit rating. Experts opine that an investor should also keep in mind the latest financial performance of a company before buying its investment instruments. How to invest in infra bonds Investors looking to make the most of their money in infra bonds are often asked to put 50% of the deductible money in the 10 year bonds and the rest in the 15 year bonds. But experts opine that since 20,000 is a small amount it is better to not split it as it may not be tracked properly. Last updated On: July 17, 2014 Infrastructure Bonds India Tax Saving Tax Saving Bonds Tax Saving Options Tax Saving Bonds in India Tax Saver Benefit Plan Tax Exemption Tax Exemption Rules Investment Industry Bond Market >> More about India Budget