Haryana Map Home » Maps » Haryana Map   Haryana Haryana Map Cities in Haryana Gurgaon Faridabad Mohali Panchkula Karnal Palwal Ambala Cantt Narnaul हरियाणा का नक्शा Haryana Haryana Map Cities in Haryana Districts of Haryana Haryana Roads Haryana Railways Rivers in Haryana Physical Map Haryana Location Lat Long Map Mineral Map Haryana Agriculture Map Forests of Haryana Haryana Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Haryana Government Hotels in Haryana Ambala Hotels Faridabad Hotels Gurgaon Hotels Karnal Hotels Morni Hills Hotels Panchkula Hotels Panipat Hotels Rewari Hotels Yamuna Nagar Hotels Culture of Haryana Gurgaon Rapid Metro Rail Gurgaon Metro Pin Code of Haryana Haryana STD Code Travel to Haryana Places to Visit in Haryana Wildlife Sanctuaries Forts in Haryana Museums in Haryana Kingdom of Dreams Gurgaon Jurassic Park Inn Sex Ratio Map Haryana Handicrafts Surajkund Location District Map in Hindi Universities in Haryana       Haryana Map हरियाणा का नक्शा Map of Haryana Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing major roads, railways, rivers, national highways, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Haryana Location Map Haryana District Map Haryana River Map Haryana Roads Map Haryana Railway Map Haryana is a state in Northern India. The state shares its boundaries with Rajasthan in the south and west, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab in the north, and the territory of Delhi in the east. The capital of Haryana is Chandigarh and it is also the capital of the neighboring state of Punjab. However, the biggest city of the state is Faridabad. The state was formed on November 1, 1966. Area and population of Haryana The total area of the state is 17,070 sq miles or 44,212 km2 which makes it the 20th biggest state in India by area. As laid down by the census performed in 2011, the population of the state is 25,353,081, making it the 16th most populated state in India. The density of population in Haryana is 1,485.212/sq miles or 573.443/km2. Geographical features of Haryana Haryana is a non-coastal, interior state. It is located at an altitude of 200 meters to 1200 meters or 700-3600 feet over sea surface. Geographically, the state can be divided into the following regions: The Shivalik mountain range in the northeast The Yamuna-Ghaggar basin, creating the biggest portion of the state The Aravalli mountain range to the south Semi-arid sandy plateaus in the southwest Rivers of Haryana The major rivers of the state are as follows: Yamuna, Sarasvati, Ghaggar, Markanda, and the Tangri river. Flora and fauna of Haryana Woodlands cover a total area of 1,553 km2 of the state. The variety of flora in the state includes eucalyptus, mulberry, kikar, pine, babul and shisham. A wide variety of fauna is seen in Haryana comprising nilgai, blackbuck, fox, panther, jackal, mongoose, and wild dog. Over 300 varieties of birds are seen in the state. Demographic features of Haryana The literacy rate of the state is 71.4% and the state occupies the 17th position in India in terms of literacy. About 90% of the population of the state are Hindus, 6.2% are Sikhs, 0.10% Christians, and 4.05% are Muslims. In addition, there are a small number of Jains living in the state. The official language of the state is Hindi. Other languages spoken in the state include Haryanvi, Sanskrit, English, Punjabi and Ahirwati. Economy of Haryana Industries like business process outsourcing (BPO), manufacturing, retail and agriculture are the backbone of the state's economy. Service industries also make a significant contribution to the economic development of the state. Districts in Haryana There are 21 districts that make up the state of Haryana and they are as follows: Gurgaon Division Palwal District, Faridabad District, Mahendragarh District, Gurgaon District, Mewat District, and Rewari District Ambala Division Kaithal District, Ambala District, Panchkula District, Kurukshetra District, and Yamuna Nagar District Rohtak Division Karnal District, Jhajjar District, Rohtak District, Panipat District, and Sonipat District Hisar Division Fatehabad District, Bhiwani District, Jind District, Hisar District, and Sirsa District. Educational institutes in Haryana Given below are the names of the well-known educational institutes in the state: Haryana Agricultural University, Hissar, YMCA University of Science and Technology, NIT Kurukshetra, University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Kurukshetra University, Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology, Manav Rachna College of Engineering, The Technological Institute of Textile & Sciences, Bhiwani, Maharishi Dayanand University at Rohtak University Institute of Engineering & Technology, University Campus (UIET, Rohtak), ITM University at Gurgaon, Manav Rachna International University at Faridabad, Kurukshetra University at Kurukshetra, Chaudhary Devi Lal University at Sirsa, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology at Hisar, Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Maharishi Markandeshwar University, Mullana, National Dairy Research Institute, Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma PGIMS (Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences ) Rohtak, and Management Development Institute (MDI) in Gurgaon. Tourist attractions in Haryana The state of Haryana is famous for housing the following tourist attractions: Kurukshetra, Chandigarh, Sultanpur National Park, Panchkula, Dumdama Lake, Taliyar, Surajkund, Panipat, Badhkal Lake, Rohtak, Bahadurgarh, Jyotisar, Thanesar, Mahendragarh, Panipat, Sonepat, Hissar, Bhiwani, Banwasa, Jhajjar, and Morni Hills. Haryana State Information Capital Chandigarh Date of formation 1. Nov. 1966 Governor Kaptan Singh Solanki Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar Tourist attractions Sultanpur NP, Rock Gardens Festivals Gugga Naumi, Lohri Basant Panchmi Major dance and music forms Sarangi/Ras Leela, Phag Dance Arts and crafts Shoes called tilla or kasuri juttis are made from buffalo and goat hide; panja dhurries Languages Hindi, Punjabi, Urdu Size 44,212 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 25,351,462 Rivers Yamuna, Ghaggar Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Sultanpur NP, Kalesar NP, Simbalawara WS State animal Blackbuck State bird Black francolin State flower Lotus State tree Peepal Major crops Sugarcane, groundnut, paddy, maize Factoids Many invaders like the Huns and Alexander's army swept through Haryana. Gugga Naumi is a festival that is observed by both Hindus and Muslims. It honours Gugga Pit who could cure snake bites. No. of District 21 Last Updated on : April 10, 2015   General Maps of Haryana   Location Of Haryana Within India District Map Of Haryana, India Districts Of Haryana, India Gurgaon Rapid Metro Rail Map Gurgaon Metro Map Haryana Forest Map Mineral Maps Of Haryana, India Haryana Rivers Map Physical Map Of Haryana, India Road Network Of Haryana, India Clickable Road Map Of Haryana, India Railway Network Of Haryana, India Clickable Railway Map Of Haryana, India Haryana River Map Haryana Agriculture Map Surajkund Location Map   City Maps of Haryana   Kurukshetra City Map Jhajjar City Map Sonipat City Map Narnaul City Map Mohali City Map Bahadurgarh City Map Jagadhri City Map Karnal City Map Panipat City Map Rewari City Map Faridabad City Map, Haryana Yamunanagar City Map Gurgaon City Map, Haryana Manesar Map Panchkula City Map, Haryana Bhiwani City Map Ambala City Map Pinjaur city   Travel Maps of Haryana   Hotels Map Of Haryana, India Tourist Map Of Haryana, India Travel to Haryana Hotels in Haryana KMP Expressway Map Haryana Thermal Power Plants Map Tehsil Maps of Haryana Ambala Tehsil Map Bhiwani Tehsil Map Faridabad Tehsil Map Fatehabad Tehsil Map Gurgaon Tehsil Map Hisar Tehsil Map Jhajjar Tehsil Map Jind Tehsil Map Kaithal Tehsil Map Karnal Tehsil Map Kurukshetra Tehsil Map Mahendragarh Tehsil Map Mewat Tehsil Map Palwal Tehsil Map Panchkula Tehsil Map Panipat Tehsil Map Rewari Tehsil Map Rohtak Tehsil Map Sirsa Tehsil Map Sonipat Tehsil Map Yamunanagar Tehsil Map Travel to Haryana Travel to Gurgaon Travel to Kurukshetra Travel to Faridabad Places to visit in Haryana Places to visit in Haryana Places to visit in Gurgaon             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar