Chemical Trade Show,Chemical & Dyes Trade Shows,Chemical Industry Fairs,Industrial Chemical Trade Events JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Chemicals Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry ChemicalsTrade Shows Date : 01 Mar - 03 Mar 2016 Plastics & Rubber Vietnam -  Viet Nam Plastics & Rubber Vietnam 2016 is the 6th international plastics & rubber technologies and materials exhibition, show will is showcase threr quality plastics & rubber products, which is providing best place. Venue : The Saigon Exhibition & Convention Center (SECC) ,Vietnam Viet Nam Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Jun - 04 Jun 2015 Oil & Gas Asia -  Malaysia The 15th Asian Oil, Gas & Petrochemical Engineering Exhibition will be held from 2 - 4 June, 2015 at the Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre. The OGA series, The Region's No 1 Oil and Gas Event is the biggest and most comprehensive event in.... Venue : Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre (KLCC) ,Kuala Lumpur Malaysia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 24 Jun - 25 Jun 2015 Chemspec Europe -  Germany Chemspec Europe the must attend fine and speciality chemicals event. Still unrivalled as Europe's, only dedicated fine and speciality chemicals event focussed on providing its attendees access and networking opportunities to Blue Chip and SME.... Venue : koelnmesse cologne Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Jul - 24 Jul 2015 Mine Entra -  Zimbabwe Mine-Entra is a specialised, international exhibition which caters for the mutually compatible sectors of mining, engineering and transport and their associated industries. Mid-year timing is for maximum convenience and corresponds to the.... Venue : Zimbabwe International Exhibition Centre (ZIEC) ,Famona Zimbabwe Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Sep - 03 Oct 2015 Chemical Industry-Bulgaria -  Bulgaria Chemical Industry-Bulgaria 2015 is attracts the business interests of the bulgarian and international producers and distributors of chemical products. this traditional forum outlines the trends in the sector, creates new business contacts and.... Venue : International Fair Plovdiv ,Plovdiv Bulgaria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Jun - 19 Jun 2015 ACHEMA 2015 -  Germany 31th International Exhibition-Congress on Chemical Engineering, Environmental Protection and Biotechnology. Worldwide the leading event for chemical engineering and the process industries. Venue : Exhibition Centre Frankfurt Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Jun - 04 Jun 2015 IFEX - International Exhibition on Foundry Technology -  India IFEX - International Exhibition on Foundry Technology 2013 is 7th international exhibition, which is the excellent platform for the indian as well as overseas companies to showcase their state-of-the art technologies and services being offered to.... Venue : Parade Grounds India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 11 Jun 2015 Global Petrochemicals -  Germany The Global Map Of The Petrochemical Industry Is As Never Seen Before. European Petrochemical Producers Have Been Enjoying A Peak Of Profitability, Driven By Strong Demand, Tight Supply And Pricing Power, Backed By The Surge In The Oil Price. Venue : Coming soon ,Coming soon Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Jan - 23 Jan 2016 Clean India Pulire -  India Clean India Pulire is a leading event dedicated to cleaning sector. The exhibition will showcase the latest technology in cleaning & hygiene and help spread awareness among the Indian Industries. Venue : Bombay Exhibition Centre ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Aug - 28 Aug 2015 China International Offshore Oil & Gas Technology and Equipment Exhibition -  China China International Offshore Oil & Gas Technology and Equipment Exhibition 2015 is one of the leading show and The show will share mega data and quality resources with cippe for the purpose of growing the largest offshore oil show. Venue : Shanghai New International Expo center ,P.R.C China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Sep - 12 Sep 2015 Oil & Gas Indonesia -  Indonesia Oil & Gas Indonesia (OGI) is an exhibition focused on Oil and Gas Exploration, Production and Refining and will be held at the Jakarta International Expo on 9 – 12 September 2015, hosting worldwide representatives from all areas of the.... Venue : Jakarta International Expo (JIExpo) ,KEMAYORAN Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Nov - 21 Nov 2015 Plastics & Rubber Indonesia -  Indonesia Plastics & Rubber Indonesia is now the only dedicated plastics and rubber event in Indonesia with the sole focus of serving the needs of those industries. Now in its 28th edition Plastics & Rubber Indonesia is well known and.... Venue : Jakarta International Expo Kemayoran ,Jakarta Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Sep - 12 Sep 2015 Indonesia Oil and Gas Expo-Jakarta -  Indonesia Oil & Gas Indonesia (OGI) is an exhibition focused on Oil and Gas Exploration, Production and Refining and will be held at the Jakarta International Expo on 9 - 12 September 2015, hosting worldwide representatives from all areas of the Oil.... Venue : Jakarta International Expo ,Jakarta Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jul - 12 Jul 2015 Plastpack East Africa -  Kenya Plastpack East Africa 2015 is the specialized industry trade show for plastics and rubber industry promises to be an excellent platform to forge business alliances, showcase your products and services and interact with east african traders with.... Venue : Kenyatta International Conference Centre ( KICC ) ,Kenya Kenya Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Aug - 29 Aug 2015 OIL & GAS AFRICA -  Tanzania, United Republic of The first Oil & Gas Africa - Int'l Trade Exhibition, will be held from the 27th to the 29th of August 2015. This event will be the hub for key players in the Oil and Gas industry, attracting leading oil, gas and petroleum companies from.... Venue : Mlimani Conference Centre, ,DAR-ES- SALAAM Tanzania, United Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Dec - 17 Dec 2015 PVPCEXPO Middle East Exhibition 2015 -  United Arab Emirates PVPC Expo Middle East 2015 is a top quality professional exhibition, which will run between 15th to 17th, December, 2015 at DUBAI WORLD TRADE CENTER,DUBAI,UAE. Middle East. It is organized by Global Fair International, Sharjah.... Venue : DUBAI WORLD TRADE CENTER ,dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Nov - 06 Nov 2015 TIM Expo Shanghai 2015 - the 13th Shanghai thermal insulation materials expo. -  China Shanghai Thermal Insulation Material and Energy-saving Technology Expo (TIM Expo Shanghai) is the most authoritative and influential trading expo in Asia-Pacific area. It attracts attentions of global thermal insulation industry. From real estate.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Oct - 29 Oct 2015 2015 10th China Exhibition on Paper, Paper Chemicals and Paper Machinery -  China As one of the most specialized exhibitions, the annual China International Exhibition on Paper-making Chemicals which is co-sponsored by the China Paper Chemical Industry Association, is becoming a key event for entering china paper market. The.... Venue : Shanghai World Expo Exhibition & Convention Center ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jun - 12 Jun 2015 Paper Vietnam 2015 -  Viet Nam Paper Vietnam 2015 is a paperchemtech, Paper Machinery and Paper Product exhibition. Venue : Saigon Exhibition and Convention Center ,Hồ Chí Minh Viet Nam Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 May - 13 May 2015 VIETNAM COATING EXHIBITION 2015 -  Viet Nam Despite the global economic recession for few years, Vietnam\'s coating industry has continued to experience growth. Also, Vietnam is South-East Asia boom zone for coating sector. The industry is reaping the rewards for its investment in the past.... Venue : Saigon Exhibition and Convention Center ,Hồ Chí Minh Viet Nam Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Apr - 29 Apr 2015 4TH OIL & GAS 2015 -  Kenya The 4th Oil & Gas Africa - Int\'l Trade Exhibition, 27th to 29th April 2015, is a hub for key players in the oil and gas community, attracting leading oil, gas and petroleum companies from around the world. This regional trade event serves the.... Venue : Kenyatta International Conference Centre ,NAIROBI Kenya Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Apr - 24 Apr 2015 The 16th International Exhibition on Surfactant & Detergent -  China  Interpretation of the latest academic developments and innovations Sole professional fair of surfactants and detergents ? Exhibit Latest products and technology of surfactants and detergents Organizers: China Research Institute of Daily.... Venue : Shanghai Convention & Exhibition Center of International Sourcing, China ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Mar - 11 Mar 2015 MEOS-Bahrain -  Bahrain MEOS-Bahrain 2015 is the most established showcase of oil and gas products and services in the middle east, attracting nocs, iocs and major operating companies. regular high profile international exhibitors. Venue : Bahrain International Exhibition & Convention Centre ,Sanabis Bahrain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Mar - 03 Mar 2015 Saudi Plastics & Petrochem - Jeddah -  Saudi Arabia The 12th International Plastics & Petrochemicals Trade Fair. Saudi Petrochem 2015 is the 6th international exhibition for chemicals and chemical technology industry, perfect platform for their cutting-edge technologies.... Venue : Riyadh International Convention & Exhibition Center ,SA Saudi Arabia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Feb - 19 Feb 2015 Expo Coating Moscow -  Russian Federation Expo Coating Moscow is an International Exhibition and Conference Coatings and Surface Treatment is held with support from the Russian Union of Manufacturers and Entrepreneurs and the Union of Oil and Gas Equipment Manufacturers.Number of.... Venue : Crocus-Expo IEC ,Krasnogorsk Russian Federation Book Your Stall General Inquiry