Chhattisgarh at a glance Home » Chhattisgarh » at a Glance   Chhattisgarh छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Chhattisgarh Map Cities in Chhattisgarh Naya Raipur Surajpur Kondagaon Baloda Bazar Ambikapur Pendra Kirandul Baikunthpur                      more... Districts of Chhattisgarh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Chhattisgarh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Chitrakoot Waterfall Haat Bazaars Indravati National Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Chhattisgarh Forests Parliamentary Constituencies Economy History Government Politics How to Reach Geography People Culture Festivals Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Area Chhattisgarh at a Glance Capital City Chief Minister Governor Pincode Population Telephone Code Chhattisgarh Factsheet District Map in Hindi Universities in Chhattisgarh       Chhattisgarh at a Glance India's pride, the state of Chhattisgarh was carved out of Madhya Pradesh on 1st November 2000. The epicenter of India's industrial enterprises is rich in future prospects. It is indeed advisable for tourists, researchers and scholars to go through the profile of Chhattisgarh at a glance. The mineral rich state encompasses an area of 1,35,000 sq. km. Chhattisgarh spans between the latitudinal expanse of 17?46' North to 24?05'North on one hand to the longitudinal meridian of 80?15' East to 84?20' East on the other. The state is covered by dense forests and is a repository of minerals and a storehouse of power. Chhattisgarh's claim to fame lies in the fact that the state has the largest deposits of the rare and dazzling diamonds. As a consequence, large cement, aluminum and iron and steel plants have mushroomed in all parts of the state. The state is also the center of academic excellence and the brilliant minds of the state gain admission in the various distinguished colleges and universities in the country without fail. The state's capital Raipur houses an excellent airport endowed with all modern infrastructures. Another eminent city, Bhilai is noted for its urban lifestyle, steel plants and academic institutes. The Bilaspur Railway Division accounts for over 17% of the country's revenue and is responsible for the excellent rail connectivity of the state. The state that is aptly nicknamed the "rice bowl" of India has a population of 20,795,956 as per the 2001 census. The populace however mainly comprises of tribals. Last Updated on: 10/6/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule