R & D » Central Silk Board Loading... Screen Reader Access Who's who | Contact Us | Intranet Login Central Silk Board Ministry of Textiles - Govt of India Home About Us Vision & Mission Mandate Organization chart Composition of the Board Act & Rules Citizen's charter FAQ Silk-Sericulture Silk Sericulture Silks of India Services R & D Training Seed Production Consultancy Schemes Central Sector Centrally Sponsored MKSP Projects for Tasar MGNREGA with CDP NER Textile Promotion Statistics Silk Flash Silk Bulletin Silk Exports & Imports Publications Indian Silk Books Videos Annual Report Downloads RFD Note on sericulture Training Calendar Evaluation Reports Regd. Stake holders Silk Exporters Minutes of Meetings Gallery Services R & D Research Monitoring Impact of R&D R & D - XI PLAN R & D Centers Technologies Patended Frontier Areas DBT Projects Training Seed Production Consultancy   R & D RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Sericulture involves growing of host plants, rearing of silkworms, reeling, twisting, weaving and marketing of various value added products and services.  In order to meet this new varieties of mulberry silkworm, to suit various agro climatic conditions and to increase productivity, quality and profitability of sericulture, number of products, methodologies, package of practices, etc., have to be developed and released. In this context, Central Silk Board has established  Central Sericultural Research & Training Institutes, each at Mysore, Berhampore and Pampore, Silkworm Seed Technology Laboratory at Bangalore, Seri-biotech Research Laboratory at Bangalore, Central Sericultural Germplasm Resources Centre at Hosur for mulberry sericulture research. National Silkworm Seed Organization Head Quarters is located in Bangalore. For non-mulberry sericulture research, two institutes namely, Central Tasar Research & Training Institute at Ranchi and Central Muga Eri Research & Training Institute at Ladoigarh are functioning. The post-cocoon related research is carried out at Central Silk Technological Research Institute at Bangalore.  Sitemap Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2015 Central Silk Board. All Rights Reserved.   This is the official Website of Central Silk Board, a statutory body of Government of India under the Ministry of Textiles Last updated: 21/03/2013