Farmer Portal : Pests And Diseases of Jute Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access हिंदी में Insurance Storage CWC Cold Stores Grameen Bhandaran Credit Branch Locator Debt Relief Short Term Credit Med./Long Term Loans Agricultural Banking Agricultural Credit Crops Wheat General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Maize General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Rice General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Diagnostic Tool Pulses General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Jute General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Sugarcane General Info Pest & Diseases Seed Varieties Other Crops Pest & Diseases Extension Activities Demonstrations Farmer Friend Farm School Beneficiary List NHM NFSM MSP MSP Determination Questionnaire Kharif Rabi Sugarcane Copra Jute Palm Oil Notified MSP Current Archives Animal Husbandry Schemes Guidelines Report Disease Login Booklets and Fliers Agromet AFMU Met Center Regional Center IMD HQ State Seed Dealer Fertilizer/Pesticide Dealer POP Storage MSP Booklets and Fliers District Seed Dealer Fertilizer Dealer Pesticide Dealer Farm Machinery Manufacturer/Trader New Registration Registered Authentication Authority Association & FMTTI State Dealer M & T Division Seed Avalibility NeGP-A Feedback Admin Status Home » Pests And Diseases of Jute Agriculture Corner Home Page About Us Seeds Dealers Availability Central Varieties Adaptable Varieties Quality Testing Certification Pesticide Dealers Crop Pest Database Precautions(Press Ad) IPM Best IPM Practices State Wise Best Practices Producers Registration Farm Machinery Video Clips Farmer Guide Find A Machine Manufacturers Dealers Fertiliser Dealers Availability Information Soil Test Report Soil Fertility Maps Agromet Advisory English Regional Language Farmer Friendly Material Booklets & Flyers Handbooks Success Stories Video Films Audio Clips Market Price Other Agri Commodities Minor Forest Produce Exports & Imports Agri Export Zones Benefit of Agri Export Zones Drought Management Economics & Statistics Package of Practices Programmes and Schemes Pests And Diseases of Jute Stem girdling beetle Nupserha bicolor postbrunnea Dutt (Lamiidae:Coleoptera) Distribution: Corchorus olitorius and C. capsularis are the two species of Jute cultivated in Assam, West Bengal, Orissa, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh which are attacked by this pest. It is particularly serious on C. olitorius. Nature of damage: The adult beetle girdles the stem at two levels before it starts oviposition. This causes withering, drooping and death of the portion above the lower girdle to a length varying from 5 - 50 cm thus resulting in loss of fibre yield. Management strategies Spray application of phosalone 0.07% or endosulfan 0.07 % at fortnightly interval. Removal and destruction of drooping stem portions and stem casings containing the larvae in diapause. Growing of C. capsularis jute which is not preferred by the insect. Jute weevil Apion corchori Mshll. (Apionidae: Coleoptera) Distribution: The insect occurs in a serious form on jute in Bihar and U.P. Nature of damage: The adult weevil excavates a small hole on the stem and oviposits. The grubs tunnel into the pith. Due to damage a gall-like swelling is formed. C. capsularis is more susceptible to attack than C. olitorius. Life history: The weevil is dull black or dark brown in colour and a female is capable of laying up to 675 eggs during an oviposition period of about 4 months. The egg, larval and pupal periods last for 3 – 5, 8 – 18 and 4 days respectively. Management strategies: Spray application of phosalone 0.07% or endosulfan 0.07 or cypermethrin 0.005%. Spodoptera exigua (Noctuidae: Lepidoptera) Distribution: Has worldwide distribution which includes Europe, South Africa, America and the oriental region. In India, it is quite widespread, found attacking jute, indigo, Lucerne, lentil, cabbage, maize, cotton and gram. Nature of damage: The caterpillars, on hatching, gather on the leaf surface, the epidermis of which they eat. At this young stage, they are also in the habit of webbing together either several leaflets or the margin of the same large leaf. At times, these webs give a shabby look to the crop. Within these webs the young larvae live gregariously only for two or three days and thereafter they separate and spread out.The feeding activity of grown up larva is generally confined to a few morning hours i.e. 9 to 11 a.m. and then again after 4 p.m. or so. They are very voracious and quite large patches of foliages are quickly stripped. Management strategies: Collection and destruction of egg masses. Spray application of phosalone 0.07% or endosulfan 0.07% or cypermethrin 0.005%. Source : http://nsdl.niscair.res.in/bitstream/123456789/493/1/revised+insect+pest+and+their+management.pdf Home About Us Help Weather Forecast Feedback RTI Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India