ISKCON Temple in Mumbai - Timings, Address, Key Attractions | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Travel / ISKCON Temple in Mumbai ISKCON Temple in Mumbai May 21, 2013 by Priyanka Radha Ras Bihari Temple, Juhu, Mumbai Spread over four acres of land, Radha Ras Bihari Temple (or commonly known as ISKCON temple) in Mumbai is among the most beautiful temples in the city. Located near the Juhu beach with over a hundred-feet high marble domes, the ISKCON temple cannot be ruled out while visiting the Mumbai nagari . Shree Radha Ras Bihari Ashta Sakhi Temple (the complete name of the temple) is dedicated to Radha-Krishna and the eight companions of Radha. It was opened in 1978 and houses the main temple, an auditorium, a seven-storeyed guest house, a restaurant and a bakery. “ Hare Rama Hare Rama Rama Rama Hare Hare Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare” The melodious chants of this supreme mantra will surround your soul once you are in the abode of this serene temple. It has the power to ward off evil and destruction. You will find devotees swaying with there arms up in the air, lost in the holy rhythm, spiritually connected and cherishing their emotional bond with Lord Krishna during the arti . Location : Harekrishna Land, near Chandan Cinema, Juhu, Mumbai, Maharashtra Closed at : 1:00 pm to 4.30 pm, 9:00 pm to 4.30 am Key attractions : Special programmes are conducted for cultural, spiritual and educational enlightenment. One can always be a part of special workshops, seminars and lectures and contribute towards the development and upliftment of society. Prabhupada Quarters – It houses several items and memorabilia of Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada who was the Founder-Acharya of ISKCON. (Note: Visiting hours for the quarters are from 5:30 pm to 8:30 pm.) Center of Vedic Education – It offers special courses based on the teachings of the Bhagwad Gita and Srimad Bhagavatam, stress management programmes, yoga sessions and Vedic education. Library – It has a wide collection of spiritual books as well as a multimedia section where one can hear recorded lectures and bhajans (devotional songs and prayers). There is sufficient place for accommodation, i.e.a guest house and guest rooms for those who are interested in staying in the pious atmosphere and participating in the temple programs. Vedic Samskara Hall – This hall is available for marriage yagna (special prayers and hawans ) and auspicious celebrations. Besides this, there are other halls namely Mandapam, Gauranga, Shankha and Vrindavan with variable capacities that can be hired to host ceremonies and functions. Govinda’s Restaurant – It serves pure vegetarian meals in all varieties – Indian, Chinese, Thai, Mexican and Italian. Govinda’s Bakery – Delicious cakes, mousse, donuts, burgers, pizzas and other baked delicacies are served here. You can also shop for religious books, VCDs and DVDs, traditional outfits, puja items from the Spiritual Boutique. Quick Tips : Try attending the Sunday Feast Program also called the Priti Vardhanam held at the Heaven on Earth building in the temple complex from 1:00 pm to 2:30 pm. Special kirtans and Vedic philosophy sessions are held that are later followed by a delicious Krishna prasadam offering. Special celebrations take place on festivals including Janmashtami, Radhastami, Govardhan Puja, Ramnavami and Jaganath Rath Yatra. There is sufficient space for car parking. Dress up conservatively. Reserve a room in advance if you are planning to stay there. Address:  Hare Krishna Land, Juhu Church Road, Juhu, Mumbai – 400049, Maharashtra Related information : Manori Beach in Mumbai Flora Fountain in Mumbai Babulnath Temple in Mumbai Elephanta Caves Siddhivinayak Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens in Mumbai Mumbai Temple Temples in Mumbai Priyanka I am an independent person who respects the virtues of patience, versatility and creativity. I like to travel around and if by chance I cannot, my dreams help me explore the world! More articles from Priyanka : Khusro Bagh – A tranquil garden surrounding Mughal structures Ocean Park in Hyderabad An Architectural Wonder called the Shore Temple at Mahabalipuram Teli Ka Mandir in the Gwalior Fort: Stunning Blend of North and South Indian Architecture Historical Treasures of Gujari Mahal Archaeological Museum Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Comments Showing 1 Comments : ASISH SABAT September 28, 2014 at 2:13 am Honestly Saying ur article helped me a lot to understand & get the address & timings. & ur article is really awesome which helps other to understand abt MUMBAI ISCKON. Reply Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? parmindersingh on Time to feel the heat of Delhi University Admission for session 2015-16 Dheerendra yadav on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd pardeep singh on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits suchithra p s on Human Trafficking in India must end Nimesh Vyas on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012