Drip Irrigation System - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Drip Irrigation System Drip Irrigation System Request Price Description Product Description Drip irrigation is one of the methods of irrigation that saves water and fertilizer. In drip irrigation method, water drips slowly to the roots of the plants either onto the soil surface or directly onto the root zone through a network of valves, pipes, tubing and emitters. The process is completed in narrow tubes so that water is given directly to the root of the plant. Drip irrigation is also termed as localized irrigation or micro irrigation. Advantages of Drip Irrigation 1. Water is used at maximum level. 2. As water is applied locally and leaching is reduced, fertilizer/nutrient loss is minimized. 3. Weeds can not absorb water as no water is available for them. 4. Yield of crops are maximum. 5. Fertilizers can be used with high efficiency. 6. Weed are grown in less number. 7. Operational cost is low. 8. Soil erosion is not taken place. 9. Soil infiltration capacity is increased. 10. Fertilizers and ground water is not mixed. 11. Seed germination is improved. 12. We can use recycled water safely. 13. It is not necessary to level the fields. 14. We can irrigate water in irregular shaped lands. 15. Waste of fertilizers are lessen. 16. Energy cost is reduced as it is operated in lower pressure than other irrigation methods. DRIP IRRIGATION AUTOMATIC SYSTEM CURVE If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: BI1 . Category: Irrigation . Tag: drip irrigation . Social share Related Products Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Equipment Drip irrigation valve controller Rs.18,000.00 Free Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Equipment , Irrigation Seedling trays/Proy tray Free Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Equipment , Irrigation Inline laterals Free Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Equipment , Irrigation Filters Free Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Irrigation Integrated dripline Free Buy directly from suplier Request Price Quick View Irrigation , Solar Solar Water Pumping system- Go green with Eminent devices & Technologies Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment