Tamil Nadu People Home » Tamil Nadu » People » Tamil Nadu People   Tamilnadu People Tamilnadu Dresses Tamilnadu Food तमिलनाडु का नक्शा Tamilnadu Location Tamilnadu Map Districts of Tamilnadu Cities in Tamilnadu Chennai Coimbatore Ooty Tiruchchirapalli Madurai Salem Thanjavur Kanyakumari Vellore Roads Tamilnadu Railways Rivers of Tamilnadu Tehsils of Tamilnadu Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Tamilnadu Facts History of Tamilnadu Festivals in Tamilnadu Government and Politics Places to visit in Tamilnadu Travel to Tamilnadu Beaches in Tamilnadu Wildlife Sanctuaries Temples in Tamilnadu Victory War Memorial Ooty Botanical Garden Ooty Lake Hotels in Tamil Nadu Chennai Hotels Ooty Hotels Salem Hotels Kodaikanal Hotels Coimbatore Hotels Madurai Hotels             more... Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Pincode Std Code Art and Crafts Economy Govt. Ministries How to Reach Local Government Music and Dance Road Transport People Thematic Map Factsheet Universities In Tamil Nadu       Tamil Nadu People Tamil Nadu People, with their strong base of Ethnicity and Religion, showcases one of the most versatile yet united human communities which have vowed to bring in an era outstanding success. With peaceful existence of Jains, Christians, Hindus and Islamist groups, the region moves towards further development. Owing their origin to the ancient Dravidian community, the People of Tamil Nadu today boasts of a flourishing socio-economic scenario. Known as an urban part of India, Tamil Nadu still holds a major portion of its population in the rural corners. The rural people of Tamil Nadu are divided in different castes and creeds. However, with the beginning of globalization, the social structure of the villages is changing for better reasons. Being agriculture based region, Tamil Nadu offers employment opportunities to its People through farming, animal husbandry and other allied activities. Handicraft and handloom industry is yet another source of livelihood for the People of Tamil Nadu. Delicate metal works also engages a number of the People of the region. While Tamil is the common language of communication in the region, communities found in Tamil Nadu are of diverse nature. While the Vellalas community is mostly concentrated in the remote parts of the region, Shanaars are spread over the entire landscape of Tamil Nadu and are mostly involve in mercantile trade. While the cities of Tamil Nadu resemble any other major city of India, the villages of the region are recognized through their unique traits. One such feature is the location of the villages. Almost all the villages of Tamil Nadu are near or around a sacred temple that is governed and controlled by top most class of the region – the Brahmins. Enriched and enhanced by the valuable contributions of various Ethnic groups and Religious sects, the Tamil Nadu promises a vibrant blend of primeval elegance and contemporary splendor. Last Updated on 1/17/2011             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule