Pune City Map Home » Maps » Maharashtra Map » Pune City Map   Cities in Maharashtra Mumbai Ahmednagar Akola Aurangabad Kolhapur Latur Nagpur Nashik Pune Solapur Shirdi                        more.. महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Regions Mumbai Central North Mumbai South Mumbai About Maharashtra History and Geography Maharashtra Climate Maharashtra Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Maharashtra Economy Industrial Map Maharashtra Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Maharashtra Education Universities in Maharashtra Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Pune City Map City Map of Pune Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * The Map showing Roads, Railway, Hotels, Hospitals, Cinemas, Religious Places, School, Colleges and Important Landmarks of Pune, Maharashtra. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Maharashtra   Mumbai City Map Pune City Map Nashik City Map Nagpur City Map         Ahmednagar City Map Aurangabad City Map Mahabaleshwar City Map Shirdi City Map       other cities of Maharashtra >>   Travel Map of Maharashtra   Aurangabad Travel Map Mumbai Travel Map Pune Travel Map         Pune is a city located in the western part of India and is a part of the state of Maharashtra . Known as "Punyanagari" in the olden days, it was once a centre of the Maratha Empire. Considered as the 'Queen of the Deccan' and the 'Oxford of the East', it is also known as the cultural capital of Maharashtra. Situated 1,837 feet above sea level on the Deccan Plateau at the banks of the River Mutha, it is also the district headquarters of the southern command of the Indian Army. A mix of spirituality, capitalism, history and modernity, it is an epitome of a 'New India'. Currently, Pune is a flourishing centre for business and academia. It gained pride due to the legendary Raja Shivaji, the founder of the Maratha Empire. As the city had been a bastion of the Marathas, the magnificent forts and other monuments are testimonies of its glorious past. Globalisation entered the city in the 1990s and at present, it is one of the largest metropolitan economies in India. With many colleges and universities, it is a prime location for manufacturing and IT sectors. The Automotive Research Association of India, which is the authority that grants homologation of all the vehicles available in the country, is also located in Pune. It is also home to the Osho International Meditation Resort, which is one of the largest spiritual centres in the world. Places to Visit The city is known for its architecture. From temples to historical attractions and from forts to museums, the city houses many places of interest. The 'Garden City' movement layout, which was developed in the early 20th century, has made the architecture of the city unique and quite urban. Charles Correa, B V Doshi, Achyut Kanvinde and Christopher Charles Benninger are some of the renowned architects who have worked in the city. For tourists, the city has a lot to offer including several temples, monuments and museums. Bhuleshwar Temple, Neelkantheshwar Temple and Pataleshwar Cave Temple are some of the popular temples in the city. There are some popular museums in the city as well like Mahatma Phule Museum, Raja Dinkar Kelkar Museum and Pune Tribal Museum. There is a celebrity WAX museum about 40 km away from the main city, which exhibits renowned personalities of India like Bollywood stars, freedom fighters, social activists, etc. More... There are many hotels and accommodation facilities available in the city. From five star hotels to budgetary accommodation, you can rent rooms as per your convenience and budget. There are also many entertainment zones and shopping outlets where tourists can spend quality time and enjoy. How to reach? The Pune International Airport in Lohegaon is the main airport in the city. Like other international airports in the country, it is operated by the Airports Authority of India. Along with domestic flights, it also serves direct flights to Dubai. The city is well-connected to many other cities via rail. Pune Junction, Ghorpuri, Shivajinagar, Dapodi and Hadapsar are the railway junctions in the city. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation runs buses from Pune to other major cities of the country. Pune is well-connected to other cities in India via a channel of national and state highways. A metro rail project is proposed in the city, which is likely to be operational by 2021. The above map includes major places of the Pune city. The map shows the major roads and other roads off the city and the water bodies that pass through it. In the map, hotels, hospitals, religious places and education institutions are also represented with different symbols as per their locations in the city. Pune City Information Country India State Maharashtra District Pune Area 450.69 km2 (174.01 sq mi) Population 50, 49,968 as per Census 2011 Population Density 11,000/km sq (29,000/sq mi) as Census 2011 Languages Marathi, Hindi, Gujarati and English Official Languages Marathi Literacy Rate 86.15% as per Census 2011 Sex Ratio 915/1000 Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Pin code 411001 Area code 20 Lat Long 18.5203° N, 73.8567° E Religion Hinduism, Islam, Buddhist, Jainism and Christianity Festivals Ganesh Festival, Pune Festival, Shivaji Maharaj Jayanti and Bhaubeej Education Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), University of Pune and Film and Television Institute Sister Cities Fairbanks, San Jose (United States), Bremen (Germany), Troms (Norway) and Vacoas-Phoenix (Mauritius) Sports Athletics, cricket, basketball, badminton, field hockey, football, tennis, kabaddi, paragliding, kho-kho, rowing and chess, Pune International Marathon and Pune Football Club Airport Pune International Airport Railway Station PUNE/Pune Junction (6 PFs) Railway Station Tourist Attractions Shaniwar Wada, Dagadusheth Halwai Ganapati Temple, Raja Dinkar Kelkar Museum, Saras Baug, Parvati Hill, Osho Ashram, Vishrambaug Wada and Bund Garden Nearby Tourist Attractions Mahabaleshwar, Diveagar, Matheran, Kashid Beach, Lonavala, Alibaug and Panchgani Notable People Mahatma Jyotiba Phule, Shantanurao Laxmanrao Kirloskar, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Dhanraj Pillay, Prabha Atre and Raghunath Mashelkar National Highway NH-4,9,50 WBST280415 WBVDA Last Updated on : May 7, 2015 Cities in Maharashtra Akola Alibag Amravati Beed-city Bhiwandi Chandrapur Chiplun Jalna Dombivli Khandala Kolhapur Latur Lavasa Lonavala Malegaon Matheran Mumbai Kalyan Nanded Navi Mumbai Pandharpur Panvel Sangli Satara Vajreshwari Washim Places to Visit in Pune Amusement Parks in Pune Gardens in Pune Religious Places in Pune Monuments in Pune Wildlife in Pune Museums in Pune Splash Mountain Saras Bagh Empress garden Peshwa Udyan Omkareshwar Temple Chaturshringi Temple Pataleshwar Cave Ganpati temple Parvati Hill and Temple Aga Khan Palace Osho Commune International Kasturba Samadhi Shivneri Fort Lal Mahal Shaniwar Wada Katraj Snake National Film Archive museum             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule