Travel to Madhya Pradesh - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Madhya Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Madhya Pradesh About Madhya Pradesh Places to Visit in Madhya Pradesh Sunder Mahal Phool Bagh Chaturbhuj Temple Sanchi Stupa Scindia Museum Bhimbetka Caves Upper Lake Lower Lake Birla Museum Crescent Water Park Cities to Visit in Madhya Pradesh Gwalior Travel Bhopal Travel Indore Travel Orchha Travel Sanchi Travel Ujjain Travel Mandu Travel Khajuraho Travel Madhya Pradesh Hotels Bhopal Hotels Gwalior Hotels Indore Hotels Khajuraho Hotels Orchha Hotels Ujjain Hotels Khandwa Hotels Home » Maps » Madhya Pradesh » Travel to Madhya Pradesh Travel to Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh Travel Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map Showing Tourist/Travel Locations in Madhya Pradesh. * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Madhya Pradesh Tourism Madhya Pradesh is the largest state in India, covering an area of nearly 120,000 sq. km. Because of its an extensive forest area, Madhya Pradesh is not as densely populated as some of the other major states of India. The total population is a notch above 60,000, and Hindi is the most widely spoken language in the state. Madhya Pradesh travel provides the visitors to experience the very quintessence of India's natural splendor, and rich artistic and cultural heritage. The state of Madhya Pradesh in the central region of India is an absolutely dream-come-true for traveling enthusiasts. There are a number of fabulous wildlife sanctuaries that house some of the rarest and the most sought after specimens of flora and fauna found in the Indian subcontinent. Madhya Pradesh is also the home to the breathtaking Khajuraho temples and has a number of old and historic cities. The wide range of handicrafts produced by the tribal population of the state make shopping in Madhya Pradesh a highly delightful activity. The state of Madhya Pradesh lies in the central part of India for what it is often referred to as the heart of the country. Until the end of 2000, when Chhattisgarh was carved out of Madhya Pradesh, it was the largest state in India. Madhya Pradesh has a rich history dating back to the period of the Maurya dynasty. But even earlier than that, Paleolithic men had painted the caves of Bhimbetka (near Bhopal) in prehistoric times. The city of Ujjain, the capital of the Guptas, reached the peak of its glory in its heydays and its fame spread all over the world. Many empires ruled over the region and left their sign of glory and wealth in the shape of forts, temples and palaces dotted all over Madhya Pradesh. As you travel to Madhya Pradesh, the land would invariably bowl you over with its archaeological splendour. You may end up romancing the crumbling stones where master craftsmen etched the moments of valor and passion. Location Central part of India Borderd by states like: Uttar Pradesh , Chhattisgarh , Maharashtra , Gujarat and Rajasthan Latitude 23.17° North Longitude 77.21° East Area 308,000Sqkms Climate Summer - hot Winter - mildly cold Max Temperature 37°C Min Temperature 10°C Average Annual Rainfall 118 cm Capital Bhopal Population 6,03,85,118 Languages Hindi, English Religion Hinduism, Islam, Buddhism, Jainism, Christianity and others Best Time to Visit September to February Clothing Summer - Cottons Winter - Woolens How to Reach Madhya Pradesh Owing to the strategic location, Madhya Pradesh has an easy access with the rest of the country. You can approach Madhya Pradesh from any city in India by any means of conveyance- air, rail or road. How to Reach Madhya Pradesh helps you with information to reach the state with convenience. By Air : Several airports are located within the state of Madhya Pradesh. Gwalior, Khajuraho, Indore, Jabalpur and Bhopal are some of the cities that have airports. All public and private airlines operate regular flights to these airports. By Train : Bhopal is the key railway station in Madhya Pradesh, which is served by important trains connecting it to the rest of the country. By Road : A strategic network of National Highways and State Highways interlink the cities of Madhya Pradesh to several other cities and states of India. NH 3, NH 7, NH 12, NH 12 A, NH 25, NH 26, NH 26 A, NH 27, NH 59, NH 69, NH 75, NH 76, NH 78, NH 79, NH 86, NH 92 connect the state of Madhya Pradesh with other Indian cities and states. Shopping in Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh promises a wonderful shopping experience. In fact as you travel to Madhya Pradesh, you can't return without doing a little bit shopping in Madhya Pradesh so much is the attraction of its traditional handicrafts. Madhya Pradesh is renowned for its textile products. Once upon a time the craftsmen of Madhya Pradesh used to weave the finest muslins. The tradition still seems to be alive in exquisite Chanderi and Maheshwari saris. Zari work of Madhya Pradesh is also quite famous. Apart from that, there are few more specialty handicrafts of Madhya Pradesh, which may arrest your eyes while shopping in Madhya Pradesh. Travel.mapsofindia lists up only a few you can check out: You may know the handicrafts of Bastar are acclaimed globally. Now the region is in Chhattisgarh but once, it was a part of Madhya Pradesh. So it is quite common to spot in Madhya Pradesh the crafts sourced from Bastar. A large number of government Emporia, which are named as Mriganayani are available throughout Madhya Pradesh. You can also head for the bustling Galis or Chowks for shopping in Madhya Pradesh. They still retain a sort of medieval ambience and shopping would be quite an experience. Cities in Madhya Pradesh Ujjain Mandu Bhimbetka Bhopal Khajuraho Gwalior Orchha Kanha Sanchi Indore Shivpuri Maheshwar Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Ujjain Mandu Bhimbetka Shivpuri Sunder Mahal Phool Bagh Chaturbhuj Temple Sanchi Stupa Scindia Museum Bhimbetka Caves Upper Lake Lower Lake Wildlife Sanctuaries Birla Museum Last Updated on : September 14, 2013 Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Bandhavgarh Hotels Bhopal Hotels Bina Hotels Gwalior Hotels Indore Hotels Itarsi Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Kanha Hotels Katni Hotels Khajuraho Hotels Khandwa Hotels Kisli Hotels Mandu Hotels Orchha Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Satna Hotels Shivpuri Hotels Ujjain Hotels Travel to Madhya Pradesh Travel to Bhopal Travel to Gwalior Travel to Indore Travel to Jabalpur Travel to Khajuraho Travel to Mandu Travel to Orchha Travel to Sanchi Travel to Ujjain Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Bhopal Places to visit in Gwalior Places to visit in indore Places to visit in jabalpur Places to Visit in Mandu Places to visit in Orchha Places to visit in Sanchi Places to visit in Ujjain About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule