... Facilitating the growth of small enterprises : National Small Industries Corporation Limited          About us Chairman`s Message Corporate Info Useful Links Schemes & Services Marketing NSIC Exhibition Complex Marketing Intelligence Cell Domestic Exhibitions International Exhibitions Defence Defence Technology MSME Defence Suppliers OEM Database Registered MSME Database FAQs   First Indigenous Aircraft Carrier to Operate by 2018 India expects to bring into service its first domestically made aircraft carrier by 2018 as it looks to counter China’s expanding military capabilities in the region. Mission BrahMos: How India got the world’s most powerful cruise missile The BrahMos project should be the benchmark for all future joint ventures in defence as it leverages the excellent rapport between India and Russia – at the scientific, academic, military and political levels. HAL eyes export potential of light attack Hawk Hindustan Aeronautics (HAL) has conducted weapons tests with its license-built BAE Systems Hawk 132 advanced jet trainer (AJT), and is confident of the project’s export potential. HAL to supply 20 Cheetal choppers to Indian Army State-run defence behemoth Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) Friday said it will supply 20 multirole Cheetal helicopters to the Indian Army at an estimated value of Rs.418 crore. BrahMos can't be intercepted in next 20 years: Scientist BrahMos, the world's only supersonic cruise missile and a symbol of the India's military prowess has been billed to be "uninterceptable" for the "next 20 years", by none other than the "Father of BrahMos" himself. Rafale deal is progressing, not bogged down : Indian Minister The $12 billion contract for 126 multi-role medium range combat aircraft that India has awarded to French aircraft maker Dassault for its Rafale aircraft has not got bogged down in any controversy nor were certain issues holding it up, Minister of State for Defence Jitendra Singh has said. India-made trucks may push Tatra out Considered as the 'backbone' of the Indian Army's rapid response to any attack along the western front for long, the Czech-built Tatra trucks may not be purchased from now on. Become a member e-Procurement Others Virtual Techmart Websites of NSIC National Portal       Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Hyperlinking Policy | Terms of Use | Help | Feedback   Last updated date - Friday, May 29, 2015 | Best Resolution - 1024X768 Copyright 2013 NSIC. All right reserved.  