Places to Visit in Mysore, Tourist Destinations near Mysore Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Mysore Travel About Mysore Tourist Map How to Reach Shopping Hotels in Mysore Airport Map Flights to Mysore Weather Places to Visit in Mysore Jaganmohan Art Gallery Kukkarahali Lake St. Philomena's Church Brindavan Gardens Karanji Lake Krishna Raja Sagara Chamundi Hills Mysore Zoo Mysore Palace Datta Peetham Jayalakshmi Vilas Lalitha Mahal Places of Interest in Karnataka Museums Private Residential Oriental Research Institute Folk Lore Regional Museum of Natural History Railway Museum Temples in Mysore Excursions from Mysore Tourist Destinations Near Mysore Belur Travel Hampi Travel Halebid Travel Coorg Travel Bangalore Travel Mangalore Travel Karnataka Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Karnataka Places to Visit Home » Mysore » tourist attractions » Places to Visit in Mysore Places to Visit in Mysore Known as the 'Sandalwood City of India', the city of Mysore presents a host of spectacular tourists attractions that can be visited by the tourists during their vacation in the old city of the state of Karnataka. Once the administrative capital of the Wodeyar dynasty, the city of Mysore still retains the old world charm in the shadowed alleys and thoroughfares. The temples, magnificent palaces and luxuriant gardens are the chief Mysore tourist attractions that are frequently visited by the tourists. Places to See in Mysore The Mysore Palace The Mysore Palace is an exponent of the Indo Saracenic style of architecture. Once the residence of the royal family of the Wodayars, the palace still retains the regal air with which the royal family reigned in the Durbar Hall, Kalyana Mantap and the Golden Royal Elephant Throne. The Jaganmohan Palace is another royal palace in Mysore that has been converted into an art gallery and house the paintings and the miniatures of the 19th century. Read More... The Brindavan Gardens The Brindavan Gardens is situated at a distance of 19 kilometers from the center of the city. The garden is elaborated with fountains that dance to the sound of music in the evenings. The garden is placed close to the famous KRS Dam that was designed and engineered by Sir M. Vishvesvariah. Read More... Chamundi Hills Three kilometers to the south east of the fort in Mysore, lays the Chamundi Hills that rises to a height of 1050 meters above sea level. Atop the hill is the temple dedicated to the ancestral Goddess of the Mysore royal family, Goddess Kali who is also referred to as the Goddess Chamundi. The Mahabaleswara temple stands close to the Chamundi Temple atop the hill. The Mahabaleswara temple is believed to be the oldest temple of the region constructed in the 13th century. Read More... Datta Peetham Spread over a total area of 35 acre, Datta Peetham is a religious and spiritual dwelling of Sri Ganapati Sachchidananda. One of the revered religious gurus of Mysore, Sri Ganapati Sachchidananda is known for unique concept of treating patients with serious ailments through the harmonious blend of music and meditation. Read More... Jaganmohan Art Gallery Upholding the traditional heritage and old grandeur of Mysore, the Jaganmohan Art Gallery is a vast reserve of exquisite paintings and artifacts of the bygone golden era. Situated within the luxuriant Mysore Palace, the Jaganmohan Art Gallery bears testimony to the enriched traditional art and craft of the ancient times. Read More... Jayalakshmi Vilas Constructed by the mighty ruler of Mysore, Maharaja Chamaraja Wodeyar for the royal comforts of his eldest daughter, Jayalakshmi Vilas reflects the rich architectural splendor of the ancient times. The magnificent building of Jayalakshmi Vilas was erected in the year of 1905 at a huge price of rupees seven lakhs that portrays the parental affection of a father towards his daughter. Read More... Karanji Lake There are a number of interesting tourist destinations in and around the Indian city of Mysore and the Karanji Lake is definitely one of them. The Karanji Lake is located at the foot hills of the Chamundi mountains which is just behind the Mysore Zoo. The Karanji Lake is very near to the center of the Mysore city and therefore visited by tourists and locals alike. Read More... Krishna Raja Sagara Located at a distance of about 12 Kilometers from Mysore, the Krishna Raja Sagara dam was built in the year 1932. This marathon project was conceptualized and designed by Sir Mokshagundam Vishweswaraiah and the construction work took place during the times of Krishnaraja Wodeyar IV. The Krishna Raja Sagara dam is about 130 feet in height and 8600 feet long. The Krishna Raja Sagara dam is an excellent example of hi- tech engineering, in fact it is the first dam in the world to use sluice gates which work automatically. Read More... Kukkarahali Lake Mysore is one of the most beautiful cities of India and in dotted with a number of Lakes and Park and the Kukkarahali Lake is one of them. The Kukkaranahali Lake is located within the Manasa Gangothri which is the campus of the Mysore University. A home to a number of birds, the Kukkarahali Lake is also a retreat for many migratory birds who fly in from the different parts of the world. Read More... Lalitha Mahal The regal mysticism of the city of Mysore lies in the majestic Lalitha Mahal that stands at the summit point of the city presenting a spectacular and panoramic view of the city that lies beneath. The Lalitha Mahal at Mysore was once the residence of the guests who visited the royal family of the Wodeyars in Mysore. It is presently one of the most reputed five star hotels of the city that still retains the heritage and the royalty of the yesteryears. Read More... Namma Mysore Representing the rich traditional art and craft of the ancient times, Namma Mysore is a plethora of cultural programmes that are presented by the members of the charitable trust of Divya Deepa. Formed on the lines of social service and with a noble aim in mind, the charitable trust offers the underprivileged children with education, monetary help and selfless love and attention. Read More... St. Philomena's Church Built in the gothic form of architecture, St. Philomena's Church is one of the largest churches of the continent of Asia. The church stands on the grounds where the older church built by Maharaja Krishnaraja Wodeyar III stood. The new church was constructed in the year 1933 by the grandson of the earlier king, Maharaja Krishnaraja Wodeyar IV. The church retains the heritage that is more than 200 years old. Read More... Mysore Zoo Mysore Zoo was established in the year of 1892 by Sri Chamarajendra Wodeyar. He is considered to be one of the architects of the modern Mysore city as well. To honor the famed founder the zoo was named after him as 'Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens'. Read More... Last Updated on : 19/09/2013 Travel to Karnataka Travel to Bangalore Travel to Belagavi Travel to Belur Travel to Coorg Travel to Halebid Travel to Hampi Travel to Mangalore Travel to Mysore Travel to Sringeri Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Belur Places to visit in Coorg Places to visit in Halebid Places to visit in Hampi Places to visit in Mangalore Places to visit in Mysore About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule