Travel to Chhattisgarh - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Travel Chhattisgarh Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Tribal Villages Haat Bazaars Ghotuls Indravati National Park Waterfalls Chitrakoot Teerathgarh Mandra Chitradhara Tamda Temples in Chhattisgarh Laxman Temple Gandheswar Temple Shivani Temple Mahamaya Temple Vishnu Mandir Turridham Shiva Temple Museums Anthropological Museum Raipur Open-Air Museum Human Science Museum Mahant Ghasi Memorial Museum Tourist Destinations in Chhattisgarh Bilaspur Travel Bhilai Travel Raipur Travel Bastar Travel Jagdalpur Travel Dongargarh Travel Hotels in Chhattisgarh Hotels in Korba Hotels in Bhilai Hotels in Jagdalpur Hotels in Raipur Hotels in Raigarh About Chhattisgarh History Geography Home » Maps » Chhattisgarh Map » Chhattisgarh Travel Map Chhattisgarh Travel Map Travel Map of Chhattisgarh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Chhattisgarh Tourism The state of Chhattisgarh came into being only in the beginning of this millennium. In November 2000, Chhattisgarh has been carved out of Madhya Pradesh to form the 26th state of the Indian Union. Chhattisgarh welcomes you with a veritable green carpet as you travel to Chhattisgarh. Chhattisgarh is exceptionally endowed with a huge 12% share of India's forestland and a plethora of mineral resources including diamond. Historians say the ancient Dandakaranya, which is today a part of Chhattisgarh was peopled by the earliest inhabitants of India. The place finds mention in the ancient epics like the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. A powerful Rajput family, known as the Kalchuri dynasty, had ruled this region between 10th to 16th centuries. There were 18 Garhs (Forts) to the north of river Shivnath and another 18 forts to the south of the river all of which belonged the Kalchuris. Hence, the total of 36 (Chhattis in Hindi) Garhs (Forts) formed the basis of naming this region as Chhattisgarh. How to Reach Chhattisgarh The state of Chhattisgarh sounds inviting with its lure of virgin forests, meandering rivers, waterfalls, ancient caves and temples and rich tribal population. Worried about how to reach Chhattisgarh? Located in the central part of India, the state of Chhattisgarh is completely land-locked, which has provided the state with easy means of communication from any part of the country. So the question how to reach Chhattisgarh should bother you the least. By Air Chhattisgarh has a domestic airport, which is linked, to almost all major airports in the country. Indian Airlines operates regular flights to and from Raipur. By Rail Two major railway stations in Chhattisgarh- Raipur and Bilaspur- connect the major railway stations in India. Since Raipur comes almost in the middle point between Mumbai and Howrah, two most important railway stations in west and east India respectively, it is served by important trains regularly. By Road Road-network in Chhattisgarh is excellent. The NH 6, NH 16 and NH 43 are the national highways that connect all the major cities and towns of Chhattisgarh to other parts of the country. Shopping in Chhattisgarh Shopping in Chhattisgarh is a delightful experience. The tribes of Chhattisgarh are amazingly skilled in making a wide variety of handicrafts. Such handicrafts have already earned worldwide acclaim and make wonderful showpiece, gift or utility item. So great is the attraction of these handicrafts, shopping in Chhattisgarh is almost an irresistible activity for the tourists who come to visit Chhattisgarh. Popular shopping items in Chhattisgarh are: Woodcrafts and bamboo crafts Bell metal items Wrought iron items Terracotta Stone-sculpting Cotton fabrics Such variety and degree of craftsmanship is not a common sight else where in India and possibly the world too. You might be spoilt for choice while shopping in Chhattisgarh. To facilitate your shopping in Chhattisgarh, there are countless Government Emporia and private shops dotted in all over Chhattisgarh. Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Kawardha Chitrakote Falls Kanker Bhoramdeo Champaran Bastar Seorinarayan Indravati National Park More on tourist attractions of Chhattisgarh Last Updated on : September 6, 2014 Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Places to visit in chhattisgarh Places to visit in chhattisgarh Flights to Raipur Flights to Raipur About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule