Goa Mineral Map, Mineral Resources of Goa Home » Maps » Goa » Goa Mineral Map   Goa Weather History Culture गोवा का नक्शा Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Cities Panaji Calangute Vasco da Gama Margao Mapusa Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Goa Mineral Map Goa Mineral Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Download   Buy Now   * Map showing Iron ore, manganese, bauxite, high magnesia, limestone and clay are the chief minerals of economic importance found in Goa. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Mining in Goa started during the Portuguese period. However, the process underwent modernization only after independence. Most of the mines are in private hands. They were leased out by the Portuguese authority in pre-liberation days, and inherited by the present owners. Iron ore, manganese, bauxite, high magnesia, limestone and clay are the chief minerals of economic importance found in Goa . The mining industry in Goa provides employment to about 11,000 persons directly and about 10,000 persons indirectly. The land away from the coast is rich in minerals and ores and mining in Goa forms the second largest industry. Mining in Goa focuses on ores of iron, bauxite, manganese, clays, limestone and silica. The iron ore industry is the main industry of mining in Goa. It also forms the backbone of Goan economy. In 1996-97 the total mineral ore produced in Goa was 137.37 lakh tonnes, of which iron ore consists 136.43 lakh tonnes. The iron ore deposits of Goa are essentially of hematite and are associated with the ferrogenous quartzite and phylites. The deposits containing an average Fe content of 63% by and large are concentrated in North-North West, South-South East directions from North to the South - occupying nearly 1/5th area of the total territory. Mining is both manual and mechanical employing open-cast method. The annual production of iron ore is around 15 million tonnes. The ore is mainly exported to Japan, European countries, China and South Korea through the Mormugao Harbour. The main rivers Mandovi and Zuari both flowing into the Arabian Sea are navigable by barges used for transporting the ore. The export of iron ore during 97-98 was to the tune of 18.44 million tonnes and foreign exchange earning was Rs.906.09 crores. The main iron ore bearing zone is divided into four separate areas by major faults. These areas are: Bicholim - Pale area Sancordem area Shigao - Kalay area Sanguem - Quepem area. Last Updated on : 8/06/2013 Statewise Mineral Maps of India Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chhattisgarh Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu & Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Nagaland Orissa Punjab Rajasthan Tamil Nadu Uttar Pradesh Uttaranchal West Bengal Goa Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Tehsil Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map About Goa Weather History Area Pincode STD code Facts Liberation of Goa Languages Culture Dance Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival Goa Travel Map Wildlife Map Beaches Map Forest Map Shopping Centres   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule