Mandi online by Rajasthan Agriculture Marketing Board   NIT/Tenders      Important Links Download Hindi Font समायोजन/विलिनीकरण आदेश निजी उप मण्डी यार्ड के संचालन के लिये निर्धारित प्रक्रिया एवं दिशा निर्देश चतुर्थ श्रेणी कर्मचारी की भर्ती हेतु साक्षात्कार की सूचना पम्पलेट्स / योजनाएँ सडक निर्माण स्वीकृति मापदण्ड विज्ञापन दिशा निर्देश RSAMB Pension/Family Pension Orders RSAMB Promotion Order/Sr. List RSAMB Transfer Orders DAM Sr. List / Promotion Order DAM Transfer Orders राजीव गांधी कृषक साथी योजना 2009 (संशोधित आदेश) Rules / Notifications Right to Information Immovable Property Return RSFAC Guidelines Contact us         Smt. Vasundhara Raje Hon'ble Chief Minister Shri Prabhu Lal Saini Hon'ble Minister Agriculture (Inculding Agricultural Marketing) Animal Husbandary, Fisheries, Dairy Policy   The Rajasthan State Agricultural Marketing Board has devoted itself whole heartly to the development of Agricultural Marketing since its inception in 1974. The activities of the Marketing Board are now not limited to construction of market yards-godowns, but cover the entire gamut of Post harvest management and Agricultural Marketing developmental activities in the wake of the liberalization of the economic policy of the country. Rajasthan State Agricultural Marketing Board has also taken up the task to export Fruit and Vegetables of the state. Contact Information Telephone : 91 (0141) 2227914, 2227336 FAX : (0141) 2227096 Email: rsamb@rajasthan.gov.in Administrator Rajasthan State Agricultural Marketing Board Pant Krishi Bhawan Jaipur (Rajasthan) - 302005 India You are our visitor No. 818989 Site last updated on : 28.05.2015 Nodal Officer :   N arendra Kumar Bansal (RAS), General Manager (Admn.),  R.S.A.M.B  (Phone : 0141 - 2227336)   Disclaimer : The information in this website has been prepared solely for the purpose of providing information about Agricultural Marketing Rajasthan to interested parties and is not in any way binding on RSAMB. Site designed and hosted by RajCOMP . Contents provided by RSAMB and Directorate of Agriculture Marketing, Raj. Jaipur.