Dispur City Map Home » Maps » Assam Map » Dispur City Map   Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Silchar Jorhat Haflong Nagoan Guwahati Tezpur Dispur Sibsagar                          more... असम का नक्शा Districts of Assam Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel Map Sex Ratio Map Wildlife Sanctuaries National Parks of Assam Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Assam Economy Society Travel to Assam Kamakhya Temple National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Kamakhya Temple Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Education in Assam Universities in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info       Dispur City Map City Map of Dispur Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Dispur city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Assam   Silchar City Map Tezpur City Map Dispur City Map Guwahati City Map   Haflong City Map Jorhat City Map Nagaon City Map Sibsagar City Map         more cities of Assam >> The capital of Assam, Dispur lies in Guwahati. In 1973 when Meghalaya was carved out from Assam, Shillong was moved and made the capital of the newly formed state. Therefore, Dispur was made the capital of Assam. The city is popular for tea auctions. Crush, Tear and Curl (CTC) tea is auctioned on every Tuesday and Wednesday. The city experiences warm summers and cold winters just like Guwahati. Dispur is a well-planned city. As the capital of Assam, Dispur houses the Secretariat of Assam Government, the Assam Assembly House, the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) Regional Office and the Guwahati Tea Auction Centre (GTAC). Dispur is a city with historical and mythological importance. It is culturally rich and known for its natural hubs and cultural places. Dispur showcases a cultural assimilation of its inhabitants who have come from different ethnicities and history. The city also has its unusual culture. An example of it is the two unique dance forms: Bihunas and Husari that are so popular among the masses that people from far flung areas come to the city to watch these folk dances. The traditional folk music is also an integral part of the city that has been popularised by some of the renowned musicians of Assam like Bhupen Hazarika. Places to Visit Shilpagram: It is an emporium run by the North East Zone Cultural Centre (NEZCC). It is the storehouse of the cultural and handicraft heritage of Assam and other north-eastern states. Traditional jewellery, ethnic costumes, silk saris, hand-woven carpets and metal and wooden handicraft items are some of the products available at the emporium. Basistha Ashram: It is a Shiva Temple that is located at a distance of six kilometres from Dispur. It is named so as it is located on the mountain banks of a river known as Basistha. It is believed that it was the home of the famous sage Basistha, also known as Vashistha. It is spread over an area of 135 hectares. This ashram also has a waterfall. Just a few kilometres away is the Garbhanga Reserve Forest, where you can catch the glimpse of elephants and different species of butterflies. Srimanta Sankaradeva Kalakshetra: It is a museum that preserves and exhibits the yesteryears handicrafts of Assam. It has articles, statues, inscriptions, jewellery, etc. of Assam and other north-eastern states. Bamboo and cane products are available in abundance in Dispur. It also hosts cultural programs, such as traditional dance and drama performances, in its open-air theatre. It also has the Artists' Village, which replicates the village society of Assam. The Sahitya Bhavan is the library within its premises that has a huge collection of rare books and manuscripts. Along with the heritage park, the Lalit-Kala Bhavan is the centre used for exhibitions and workshops on art and culture. Ganeshguri Bazaar: It is a local bazaar in the city that sells handloom products. Although the city is the capital of Assam, it does not offer entertainment opportunities. Guwahati, which is hardly 7-10 km away from the city, is considered as an entertainment zone with shopping malls, theatres and other similar places. Dispur Law College and Dispur College are two important education institutions in the city. These two colleges fulfill the need for the higher education in the city. There are many government and private schools in the city as well. How to reach? Guwahati Airport is the nearest airport to the city that is located at a distance of few kilometres from Dispur. Guwahati Railway Station is the headquarters of the North-East Frontier Railways. Auto rickshaws, taxis and cabs regularly ply from the railway station to the main city. A national highway connects Dispur to other major cities. Government-aided buses run by the Assam government and many other privately owned buses connect Dispur to the other cities in the northeast. WBST230415 WBVDA Last Updated on : May 11, 2015             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule