Mr. Amrik Singh Deol - Senior Manager in Central Bank of India, Batala, Punjab - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Mr. Amrik Singh Deol – Senior Manager in Central Bank of India, Batala, Punjab Home Mr. Amrik Singh Deol – Senior Manager in Central Bank of India, Batala, Punjab Easy bank loans for farmers from Central Bank of India “Farmer just needs to share his requirements, be it farming or house construction or buying farm implements, Central Bank of India would promptly give the loan,” says Mr. Amrik Singh Deol working as Senior Manager in Central Bank of India at Punjab, “We believe honest men reside in village. They are impoverished yet they try to get off their financial obligations as soon as possible. Hence we at Central Bank of India offer best possible help to farmers.” The documents required by the bank for giving agricultural loan is mainly the registration papers of farmer’s land. “We give loan upto Rs. 1 lakh at 4% interest with no guarantee asked. When the loan amount is more than a lakh rupee then we follow the ‘Scale of Finance’ given by NABARD. It has details about the crop and amount we can lend to the farmers for one acre of land and so on. For example, for one acre rice farm we have the details on money we can lend to farmers and it increases with the farming acreage,” he shares. Commonly for one acre farmers can get loan upto Rs. 60 thousand easily rest it varies with kind of farming that is floriculture, dairy and horticulture etc. “In horticulture we have different clauses. For example for fruit orchard we give term loan as fruits are harvested after 2 years where as for cash crops harvesting is done within 6 months so we issue Kissan Credit Card. The limit to the credit card depends of the farm acreage,” he adds. Across the nation rate of interest charged is 4% on Rs. 3 lakh. “We actually charge 7% interest upto Rs. 3 lakh but farmers pay only 4% interest rest 3% we get as subsidy from Government of India,” he informs. When asked about the notion that farmers do no pay back the loan Mr. Deol says, “If farmer is using the agricultural loan amount in farming he will surely earn and pay back but in case of diversion of funds in some other thing like marriage then he shall not be able to pay back. Things are improving now as farmers take the responsibility to return back loan amount.” Mr. Deol had been proactive to support farmers during his tenure at Central Bank of India’s Chodan Branch where he was working as Bank Manager in 2009. He took extra efforts to learn about agriculture and farming practices in island of Chorao, Goa through informal interactions with farmers. “It is a small village with only 6000 people residing in 1250 houses in total. I used to visit farmers’ residence after bank working hours to know about their problem. If they were having financial issues I used to explain them about bank agricultural loans and how it can be aid to solve their problem. Even during the informal discussion faulty assumptions and hesitation of opening a normal savings account were cleared. In this way within few months every house had passbook of Central Bank of India,” he reminisces and adds, “I observed in Goa farmers are in state where it is difficult for them to make the ends meet but they take efforts to return back loan amount promptly.” Coordination between NABARD and Central Bank is boon for farmers in Goa views Mr. Deol, “NABARD officials regularly visited the village to conduct meetings on farming practices like when seed to be sown, harvesting etc. We at the bank were informed well in advance about the agricultural related schemes and subsidies through NABARD. It is well-defined system but problem comes as farmers are not aware about many things but change is taking place with collective efforts.” Mr. Deol gives a special mention of MBA college in Goa, “40 students used to come every Thursday at my branch. We used to share the details about the agricultural loan with them. Later these students used to visit every house in the village and interact with the people mainly the women (farmer’s wife). They used to explain them the loan details and encourage them to work. We gave loan to many such women to make them financially stable.” Talking about the difference observed in agriculture and farmers in Punjab and Goa he states that in Goa as farmers have less land holding the loan amount is less and almost negligible when compared with agricultural loans given in Punjab which tends to more than 50 lakh and sometimes crosses a crore. In his words, “In Punjab farmers have huge land holding hence the bank limit and loan value is much higher.” Punjab state has more than 65% of its branches in rural locations. Mr. Deol says, “More than 90 branches of Central Bank are in rural Punjab while Goa has approximately 40 rural branches.” Graduation is the minimum qualification of people working in all the branches. When asked officials posted in rural branches should have degree in agriculture, he clarifies, “Central bank appoints ‘Agriculture Finance Officers (AFO) for looking after the loans related decision and other agricultural issues. He needs to have minimum qualification of BSc Agriculture. Entire agriculture related monitoring is done by him and other officials at the respective rural branch extend the necessary support.” Mr. Deol started his career in 1986 in Central Bank of India, Chandigarh Branch. Primarily he has been serving all through in Punjab state at various urban locations. His tenure at Central Bank of India’s Chodan Branch had been most memorable so far as here he bagged the award of ‘Best Branch Manager’ under the Farmers Club Program. He concludes, “I got the opportunity to work in rural sector when posted at Chodan branch. Initially I took it as a challenge in rural India but it became a learning and memorable experience. At first only 22 people had taken loan in the village but later approximately 150 people took loan from Cental Bank and have improved their livelihood. Consequently, Chodan branch which was non-CBS branch got converted into CBS branch. Now, I shall be again working in rural sector as I am soon going to join District headquarter Gurudaspur, Punjab and I am looking forward for same.” Contact details- Amrik Singh Deol 27,Roshan Vihar ,Near Bauli Inderjit, Batala 143505 Punjab Mobile – 09011178261 Email – amriksingh3260@gmail.com Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Mr. Amrik Singh Deol – Senior Manager in Central Bank of India, Batala, Punjab Related – articles, consultants, downloads Bank Officials Become Organic Farmers! Edge India Agrotech – supplies Green houses, Planting materials, Seeds Organic India Sprout Natural India You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water