Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> About Us >> Our Partners our partners DHAN Foundation is glad to have a number of friends - individuals, institutions and corporates, supporting us in our venture to create a poverty-free, fair and just society. This has helped creating opportunities for institutions, philanthropist, foundations and corporate within India and abroad to meaningfully involve and contribute to development works. The experience has also been highly encouraging for us, as well – in enabling poverty reduction and empowering the poor communities. We thank our friends’ endearing support and partnership. Institutions Friends of DHAN Our friends abroad – in Netherlands, Sweden, Canada and New Zealand had come together in their own unique way to extend a helping hand to support various activities of DHAN Foundation. They have formed, what is called, Friends of DHAN, with regional chapters in the respective country. The Friends of DHAN Foundation supports the work of the DHAN Foundation, in the following areas of: Education of disadvantaged children Promoting activities for poverty reduction Improving living conditions and health situation Promoting understanding of the relationship between sustainable development, health, welfare, education and peace among the poor and marginal communities. Friends of DHAN had been helping us to mobilise financial contribution to support our work; organize sales of products manufactured by the people from the Self-help groups; promoting endogenous tourism and rural/cultural immersion programmes organised by DHAN’s Tourism programme. Read more... Karunai Illam Trust, New Zealand We are glad to partner with The Karunai Illam Trust-New Zealand founded under the aegis of Jean Watson. The trust support us in running a children home at Nilakottai in Dindigul district of Tamil Nadu – now called as DHAN Karunai Illam. The Trust support us the Illam for the maintenance and education of these children from destitute families; DHAN manages the running of the home. Read more Visit: Karuani Illaim Trust’s website Genesis of DHAN Karunai Illam - a home for distressed children by Jean Watson An autobiographical account of Jean’s involvement with the founding of the Illam: Karunai Illam: The Story of an Orphanage (1992) Huguenin Rallapalli Foundation We are glad to partner with Huguenin Rallapalli Foundation (HRF), in renovating ooranis in the drought prone districts of South India – Ramnad, Tuticorin and Madurai. HRF is a US-based non-profit organization founded by Mr.Krishna Rallapalli, NRI scientist in US and his wife Phillipine Rallapalli to promote development work in India. Formally, HRF Foundation has exchanged a Memorandum of Co-operation with DHAN in working together to solve the drinking water problems of rural India by renovating ooranis. Both HRF and DHAN believe that local solutions like renovating ooranis will be sustainable implemented with the involvement and ownership of the community. Seventy-five percent of the renovation cost was and is being funded by the HRF, while the remaining 25 percent is shared by the local community. Read more NRI foundation to renovate ‘ooranis', The Hindu, July 4, 2010 More about the involvement of the HRF Corporates ITC Limited Building a golden tomorrow with ITC We are glad to partner with ITC under its Corporate Social Responsibility’s Mission Sunehara kal, meaning ‘the golden tomorrow’. Under this Mission-MSK, ITC was generous enough to provide financial assistance for the implementation of Tank-based watershed development project at Singampunari block of Sivagangai district, Tamil Nadu. MSK’s objective is to enhance socio-economic condition of the poor marginal farmers through participatory rehabilitation and management of traditional small-scale water bodies like tanks, ooranis (drinking water ponds) and improving agriculture. The project is being implemented in 34 villages of Singampunari block in three years. Read more Facilitating ITC's corporate social responsibility Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) HUL Celebrating 75 years of service We are glad to partner with Hindustan Unilever Limited, as part of celebrating its 75 years in India in 2008, to enhance the livelihoods of 75,000 poor women. This initiative of poverty reduction was in line with HUL’s commitment to the United Nations Millennium Development Goals that call for partnership for sharing resources and expertise. The partnership through local community mobilisers helped to identify 75,000 poor women from 75 self help groups (SHG) and federations promoted by DHAN Foundation on specific themes such as microfinance, water and rainfed farming. These women were from local communities living in rural, urban, tribal and coastal regions in three states: Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The mobilisers helped the women to pool from their own savings or access resources from banks and also helped them identify activities based on skills and the local market potential. Read more Livelihood of 75,000 women enhanced - The New Indian Express, September 24, 2009   Conserving traditional water bodies in drought-prone Gundar basin We have also partnered with HUL launching a water conservation project in drought prone Gundar Basin. Along with National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), this unique corporate-NGO-institutional partnership aims to renovate over 250 irrigation tanks with farmers’ participation in the drought prone Gundar Basin covering Madurai, Sivagangai, Virudunagar and Ramanathapuram districts of Tamil Nadu. The project will directly benefit over 20,000 small and marginal farm families and thus contribute towards both environment as well as enhancing livelihoods. This project is based on a unique ‘Partnership model’. HUL will invest about Rs.5 crore of the project cost with equal contribution from NABARD. Other unique features of this project is that it would be implemented by organising farmers, landless labourers and women into an association at each tank level, who will also be contributing 10% of the renovation cost. Read more HUL, Nabard-assisted tank renovation project launched - The Hindu, English, April 17, 2010 A development project to renovate tanks in Gundar basin - Dinamani, Tamil, April 16, 2010 A plan to renovate 250 tanks in Gundar basin - Dinakaran, Tamil, 16-Apr-2010 Linking of tanks in Gundar Basin - The New Indian Express, English, 16-Apr-2010 250 tanks, supply channels in Gundar basin to be renovated - The Hindu, English, 16-Apr-2010 Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) Mitigating drought with BP We are glad to partner with Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited to rehabilitate Govarnergiri chain of tanks in Ottapidaram Block of Tuticorin District. With the objective to mitigate drought in one of the driest districts of South India, DHAN received financial assistance from Oil Industry Development Board - Drought Relief Trust (OIDB-DRT). The project encompasses rehabilitation and maintenance of traditional water harvesting structures like tanks, ponds and ooranis for their sustainable use, watershed development, promoting safe drinking water, and agricultural productivity enhancement in tankfed and rainfed crop lands. ﻿ news & events Inviting Applications from qualified Post Graduates and Professionals to pursue 2 years Post graduated in Development Management (MBA) Development Management programme in Community Radio, June 5-7, 2015 SBI Youth for India fellowship applications now open : DHAN Foundation is a partner of the SBI Youth for India fellowship program 2015-16. The program aims at providing opportunity for the young professionals to enjoy a life with grassroots. It would help them to unleash their skills and knowledge on various development activities for the betterment of the rural communities. To find out more about the programme please click.. DHAN Foundation has been chosen as one of the top 20 for the RISK AWARD announced by United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Reduction (UNISDR), Global Risk Forum (GRF Davos), and Munich Re Foundation. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 Walkathon 2015 Photos of DHAN Collectives More News >> support us Development of Humane Action (DHAN) stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved Back to Top