Videos | Asian Development Bank Jump to navigation Jump to content Asian Development Bank 中文 Careers Contacts e-Alerts Follow ADB E-mail Alerts RSS Twitter Youtube Facebook Flickr Scribd LinkedIn Toggle search Toggle navigation About ADB Organization Overview Key Facts Members Board of Governors Board of Directors President Management Departments and Offices Knowledge Management Policies and Strategies Partners Annual Meetings History FAQs Financing Operations Public Sector (Sovereign) Financing Private Sector (Nonsovereign) Financing Funds and Resources Asian Development Fund ASEAN Infrastructure Fund Investor Information [日本語] Opportunities Careers Business Opportunities Consulting Services ADB-Japan Scholarship Program Transparency Access to Information Accountability Mechanism ADB and Civil Society Anticorruption and Integrity Development Effectiveness and Results Safeguards Independent Evaluation News & Events News News Releases News Briefs Speeches Op-Eds and Opinion Articles Events Calendar of Events Multimedia Videos Photo Essays Infographics Photos ADB Experts Social Media Hub Media Contacts Subscriber Services Asian Development Blog Data & Research Data & Research Overview Economic Research Publications Statistics and Databases Featured Economic Research Initiatives Infographics Chief Economist Contacts Publications Publications Overview Browse by Type Books Reports Papers and Briefs Serials Conference Proceedings Guides Policies, Strategies, Plans Official Records Brochures and Flyers See Also Country Planning Documents Project Documents Evaluation Documents Countries Countries with Operations Afghanistan Armenia Azerbaijan Bangladesh Bhutan Cambodia China, People's Republic of [中文] Cook Islands Fiji Georgia India Indonesia [Bahasa Indonesia] Kazakhstan Kiribati   Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Malaysia Maldives Marshall Islands Micronesia, Federated States of Mongolia Myanmar Nauru Nepal Pakistan Palau Papua New Guinea Philippines   Samoa Solomon Islands Sri Lanka Tajikistan Thailand Timor-Leste Tonga Turkmenistan Tuvalu Uzbekistan Vanuatu Viet Nam Country Planning Documents Subregional Programs Brunei Darussalam-Indonesia-Malaysia-Philippines East ASEAN Growth Area (BIMP-EAGA) Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation (CAREC) Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) Indonesia-Malaysia-Thailand Growth Triangle (IMT-GT) South Asia Subregional Economic Cooperation (SASEC) Other Offices European Representative Office Japanese Representative Office [日本語] North American Representative Office Pacific Liaison and Coordination Office Pacific Subregional Office Projects Projects Overview Show Proposed Projects Show Approved Projects Project Documents Project Cycle Operations Project Results and Case Studies Using ADB Project Data Archive Advanced Search Focus Areas Agriculture and Food Security Education Energy Environment and Climate Change Finance Sector Development Gender and Development Governance and Public Management Health Information and Communications Technology Regional Cooperation and Integration Social Development and Poverty Transport Urban Development Water Toggle navigation Videos In the Spotlight How Does ADB Reduce Poverty in Asia and the Pacific? Have you ever stopped to think about how a development bank works? The Asian Development Bank has been around for nearly 50 years now, but how does it go about reducing poverty and promoting prosperity in the Asia Pacific region? Making Cities Climate Change Resilient ADB's Green Cities Initiative is helping cities in Asia and the Pacific better prepare for extreme and uncertain weather brought about by climate change. ADB President Takehiko Nakao's Closing Press Conference At a press conference held on the last day of the 48th ADB Annual Meeting in Baku, Azerbaijan, President Takehiko Nakao thanked the Government of Azerbaijan for hosting the meeting, reaffirmed support for Nepal in the wake of April's earthquake, and gave an overview of ADB's reform agenda. President Nakao then answered questions from journalists. ADB Assistance Works: Just Ask Thai Businessman Sanguan Sonklinsakul More than 68 million tons of cargo crossed Asian borders between 2011 and 2014 thanks to better regional connectivity. Sanguan Sonklinsakul of Thailand&rsquo;s Chiang Rai Chamber of Commerce says trade with neighboring countries has increased markedly due to the many news roads in the Greater Mekong Subregion. Did You Know? Asia and the Pacific Did you know that while Asia and the Pacific has 1/3 of the world's GDP, about 1.4 billion people in the region still live on less than $2 a day? It doesn't have to be this way. Together, we can end abject poverty in the region in our children's lifetime. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Print Bookmark Corporate Video This video is an introduction to ADB's work and its impact. It highlights continuing challenges faced in the Asia and Pacific region, and Strategy 2020: ADB's efforts to address these challenges. Changing Asia Interviews on issues that matter to developing Asia with thought leaders, innovators, visionaries, and pioneers. Great Expectations "Great expectations" explores development challenges in different ADB member-countries through the hopes and aspirations of their children. Advanced Search   Latest Videos May 2015 More than a Seawall: Building Resilience through Community-Driven Development in the Philippines In the village of Mangoroco in Iloilo Province, Philippines, a community-driven development approach has had wider benefits beyond the infrastructure produced: working together fostered a resilience that saved local people from the wrath of Typhoon Haiyan. May 2015 Did You Know? Asian Development Bank Have you ever stopped to think about how a development bank works? The Asian Development Bank has been around for nearly 50 years now, but how does it go about reducing poverty and promoting prosperity in the Asia Pacific region? May 2015 ADB President Takehiko Nakao's Closing Statement at the 48th Annual Meeting The 48th ADB Annual Meeting held in Baku, Azerbaijan, was rich in content, with frank and constructive discussions on many important topics that will help member countries, stakeholders and management build a stronger, better and faster ADB. May 2015 Mobile Medical Teams Extend Care to Rural Viet Nam Doctors on motorbikes travel to a remote clinic in Viet Nam's mountainous Quang Tri province to provide services to those who have difficultly accessing health care. May 2015 Making Cities Climate Change Resilient ADB's Green Cities Initiative is helping cities in Asia and the Pacific better prepare for extreme and uncertain weather brought about by climate change. May 2015 ADB President Takehiko Nakao's Closing Press Conference At a press conference held on the last day of the 48th ADB Annual Meeting in Baku, Azerbaijan, President Takehiko Nakao thanked the Government of Azerbaijan for hosting the meeting, reaffirmed support for Nepal in the wake of April's earthquake, and gave an overview of ADB's reform agenda. President Nakao then answered questions from journalists. May 2015 ADB President Takehiko Nakao's Opening Address at the 48th Annual Meeting ADB will continue to promote sustainable development and scale-up support for infrastructure, education and health, climate change and other areas, said President Takehiko Nakao in his opening address at the 48th Annual Meeting held in Baku, Azerbaijan. May 2015 Asian Cities as Livable Homes for All Maintaining vital economic growth while creating livable cities for all is the biggest challenge in Asia and Pacific, say delegates attending an ADB seminar. May 2015 New Paradigms of Growth for Asia Many economies in Asia and the Pacific are reconsidering growth models to respond to changing internal and external environments. View a recording of the Governors' Seminar at the held on the third day of the 48th ADB Annual Meeting. May 2015 Joint ADB-Government of Germany Seminar on Asian Cities The quality and efficiency of Asian cities will determine the region’s long-term productivity and overall stability. View a recording of the joint ADB-Government of Germany seminar held on the second day of the 48th Annual Meeting of the ADB Board of Governors. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 … Next News and Events Main News Releases News Briefs Speeches Op-Eds and Opinion Articles Calendar of Events Photo Essays Videos Infographics Photos for Download ADB Experts Social Media Hub Media Contacts Subscriber Services You are here News and Events Videos Page Top © 2015 Asian Development Bank. Sitemap Terms of Use E-mail Alerts RSS Twitter Youtube Facebook Flickr Scribd LinkedIn Asian Development Bank Headquarters: 6 ADB Avenue, Mandaluyong City 1550, Metro Manila, Philippines + 63 2 632 4444 + 63 2 636 2444 ADB Contacts Access to Information Fraud and Corruption Reporting Hotline (+ 63 2 632 5004) E-mail the Office of Anticorruption and Integrity Resources For Bond Investors Businesses and Consultants Civil Society Job Seekers Journalists Private Sector Project Investors Other ADB Sites ADB Compliance Review Panel ADB Institute (ADBI) Asia Pathways (ADBI Blog) Asia Regional Integration Center Asian Bonds Online Asian Development Blog Open Access Repository Alerts and Mobile Apps Subscriber Services Subscribe to ADB's Newsletter, e-Alerts, RSS feeds and mobile apps. ADB encourages websites and blogs to link to its web pages. Articles may be republished without alteration with the attribution statement “This article was first published by the Asian Development Bank (www.adb.org)" and a clickable link back to adb.org.