India Location Map, Location of India, Where is India Home » India location Map   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views About India India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan Chhattisgarh Arunachal Pradesh more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       India location Map Click India on the Map and Get the Detailed India Map Location Map of India Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map Showing the location of India in the World. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. Geographical location of India India is geographically located at 28° 36.8' N and 77° 12.5' E in the northern hemisphere of the globe. Which continent is India in? India is located in south Asia and is bordered by other countries like Pakistan in the west, China and Nepal in the north to north eastern part, Bhutan in the north east and Burma in the west. How to locate India in the maps of the world? In the world map, the sub-continent of India can be easily located as the peninsula surrounded by the three major water bodies of the Arabian Sea to the west, Indian Ocean to the south and the Bay of Bengal to the east. The world famous tourist destination Andaman and Nicobar Islands in the Bay of Bengal and Lakshadweep Islands in Arabian Sea, which are part of the Republic of India, increases the prominence of India's location on the world map. How big is India? Stretched over an area of 3, 287, 263 sq. km., the peninsular India is world's 7th largest country. 3214 kms of the mainland between the farthest latitudes is covered by north India to south India, whereas, 2933 kms of the farthest longitudes is covered from eastern to western India. This vast area of 1, 269, 219 sq miles make the country highly prominent on the maps of the world. Where is Where is Arunachal Pradesh Where is Goa Where is Himachal Pradesh Where is Kerala Where is Manipur Where is Punjab Where is Tamil Nadu Where is Uttaranchal Where is Kolkata Where is Assam Where is Gujarat Where is Jammu & Kashmir Where is Madhya Pradesh Where is Meghalaya Where is Rajasthan Where is Tripura Where is West Bengal Where is Bihar Where is Haryana Where is Karnataka Where is Maharashtra Where is Mizoram Where is Sikkim Where is Uttar Pradesh Where is Chennai Maps and Information on Locations of India Agra Map Ahmedabad Map Ajmer Map Amritsar Map Aurangabad Map Bangalore Map Bhavnagar Map Bhopal Map Calangute Map Chandigarh Map Chennai Map Kolkata Map Kota Map Kottayam Map Lucknow Map Ludhiana Map Madurai Map Manali Map Margoa Map Mathura Map Mount Abu Map Coimbatore Map Cuttack Map Dalhousie Map Dehradun Map Delhi Map Diu Island Map Ernakulam Map Faridabad Map Gandhinagar Map Ghaziabad Map Gurgaon Map Guwahati Map Gwalior Map Haridwar Map Hyderabad Map Imphal Map Indore Map Jaipur Map Jaisalmer Map Jalandhar Map Jamshedpur Map Junagadh Map Kanpur Map Kanyakumari Map Khajuraho Map Khandala Map Kochi Map Kodaikanal Map Mumbai Map Nagpur Map Nainital Map Noida Map Ooty Map Orchha Map Panaji Map Patna Map Portblair Map Pune Map Puri Map Pushkar Map Rajkot Map Rameswaram Map Ranchi Map Rishikesh Map Sanchi Map Shillong Map Surat Map Thanjavur Map Thiruchchirapalli Map Thiruvananthapuram Map Tirumala Map Udaipur Map Vadodra Map Varanasi Map Vasco da Gama Map Vijayawada Map Last Updated on 26 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule