West Bengal Judiciary Home » West Bengal » Judiciary   West Bengal पश्चिम बंगाल का नक्शा West Bengal Map পশ্চিমবঙ্গ মানচিত্র Cities in West Bengal পশ্চিমবঙ্গের শহরসমুহ Kolkata Darjeeling Siliguri Barrackpore Haldia Bankura Suri                    more... West Bengal Districts পশ্চিমবঙ্গ জেলা মানচিত্র West Bengal Roads West Bengal Railways West Bengal Rivers Tehsils of West Bengal Physical Map West Bengal Location Lat Long Map Mineral Map Industry Map Agriculture Map West Bengal Forests West Bengal Assembly Polls West Bengal Lok Sabha Elections West Bengal Economy West Bengal Government Places to Visit in West Bengal Travel to West Bengal Wildlife Sanctuaries Travel to Kolkata Travel to Siliguri Travel to Darjeeling Places to visit in Kolkata Places to visit in Darjeeling Victoria Memorial Hotels in West Bengal Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Kalimpong Hotels in Howrah Hotels in Durgapur            more... Society and Culture West Bengal Geography West Bengal History West Bengal Airport Map Kolkata Metro Map Siliguri Location Map Road Companion West Bengal Information West Bengal Media West Bengal Emergency numbers West Bengal Pin Code West Bengal STD Code পশ্চিমবঙ্গ পর্যটন Sex Ratio Map Salt Lake Map Location of Nakhoda Masjid Varanasi Darjeeling Route Map Delhi Darjeeling Route Map Patna Darjeeling Route Map Power Network Map West Bengal Judiciary West Bengal Handicrafts Growth Centers Kolkata Siliguri Route Map Varanasi Siliguri Route Map Patna Siliguri Route Map Universities in West Bengal       West Bengal Judiciary The state of West Bengal is blessed with a systematic and organized Judiciary that helps in the quick delivery of justices. Unlike United States of America, India does not follow a Federal system of Government. India adheres to the Unitary System of governance under which the Supreme Court is the highest Judicial authority that is supported by the High Courts of each state. At the top of the State Judiciary system stands the High Court of Kolkata, which is headed by Chief Justice, Shri Surinder Singh Nijjar. The High Court of the state boasts of being one of the oldest High Courts of India. Constructed in the Gothic Architectural style, the High Court stands tall with its over imposing structures amidst the busy and crowded streets of Kolkata. There are two types of Courts under the High Court of Kolkata. One is the Criminal Court that deals with criminal matters and the other is the Civil Court that deals with civil issues. The highest Court in the district to try the criminal cases is the Session Judges Court. In the metropolitan areas like Kolkata, criminal cases are tried by the Metropolitan Magistrates. The civil cases are tried by the City Civil Courts by experienced Judicial Officers. The Labor Court and the Industrial Tribunals deal with cases pertaining to the laborers and industrial disputes of the state of West Bengal. The Judiciary in West Bengal is arranged in a pyramidal order. There are two parallel pyramids of Courts- the Civil Courts and the Criminal Courts. The peaks of the two pyramids meet at the High Court of West Bengal. All the other Courts fall under the strict supervision of the High Court of Kolkata. Chief Justice West Bengal One of the most revered position, Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar is the newly appointed Chief Justice of West Bengal. A man of principles, Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar was born in the year 1949 on 7th of June. At a tender age of twelve, the Chief Justice went to England to pursue his studies and did his graduation in Law from the University of London in 1972. Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar started his career as a advocate in the Bar Council of London. However, his attachment to his mother land brought him back to India and he was appointed as the advocate of Punjab and Haryana Court from 28th of April, 1977. Thereafter, Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar never looked back in his career. He served as a advocate in the District Courts, the Departmental Authorities, and Central Administrative Tribunals of Chandigarh. The eminent Justice also worked as a Standing Counsel to the several nationalizes banks, Universities and Governmental Organizations and acquired vast expanse of knowledge and experience. In 1989 Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar was promoted to the post of the Senior Advocate. The eminent Jurist served in the High Courts of Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Punjab as Additional Judge where he is known to have delivered landmark judgments on various important issues. Realizing his vast potentialities, Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar was elevated to the post of acting Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana Court. However all his hard work was crowned with glory when Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar was awarded the post of the Chief Justice of West Bengal on the 7th of March in the year 2007. As the Chief Justice of West Bengal, Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar took several landmark decisions that exposed his true potentialities and helped in the restoration of peace in the state as well City Civil Court West Bengal The City Civil Court of Kolkata deals with all the important civil matters and helps in the quick delivery of justices to the petitioners. Located in the Kiran Shankar Roy Road of Kolkata, the City Civil Court boasts of being one of the ancient Civil Courts of India. The City Civil Court of Kolkata is known for its transparency and the effectiveness with which the eminent Judicial Officers deal with the cases. The City Civil Court of Kolkata has a rich judicial history. The Court has given landmark decisions on various issues affecting the interest of the petitioners. At present the City Civil Court is led by the eminent personalities from the field of Judiciary. The Judges of the Court are known for the transparency of the cases. Under the strict supervision of the High Court of the state of West Bengal, the City Civil Court of Kolkata deals with all the civil matters with exceptional clarity and precision. The advocates and the Lawyers prepare their cases according to the strict rules and regulations. High Court West Bengal One of the oldest High Court of India, the Calcutta High Court was established by the Letters Patent of 14th of May in 1862. Justice P. Chakravartti was the first Indian Judge to preside over the various proceedings of the Court. The Calcutta High Court has a rich judicial history which is known to deliver famous landmark judgments. The High Court of Calcutta is known to deliver quick decisions on the numerous pending cases. Any citizen of the state can apply in the High Court if the petitioner is not satisfied with the decision of the Lower Courts of the state. Recently the High Court of West Bengal gave several important decisions regarding the issue of industrialization of the state. The significant decisions of the High Court helped to restore the peace and decorum in the state of West Bengal Labour Court and Tribunal West Bengal The Labour Court and Tribunal of West Bengal helps in the quick delivery of justices in any matters related to the industrial or labour disputes. The state of West Bengal is blessed with a systematic and organized Labour Court and Tribunal that solves the various judicial problems related to the labour Unions, Industrial Processes or anything that hurts the sentiments of the work force of the state. The Labour Courts and the Industrial Tribunals are set up under the Industrial Disputes Act of 1947. The West Bengal State Government has led to the establishment of Labour Courts and Industrial Tribunals. The labour Courts are empowered to decide on important issues pertaining to the suspension of labourers from work, the legal dimensions of the strikes and many other issues related to the welfare of the individual labourers of the state. The Industrial Tribunals are empowered to decide on the wages, duration of duty hours, and any other issues related to the collective problems of the labourers in general. The Labour Court is presided by a officer who has served one of the Judicial Office for a minimum term of seven years or has been a Presiding Officer in one of the labour Court under the State Act for a minimum of five years. In addition to this, the Presiding Officer should have been a District Judge or Additional District Judge for a continuous period of three years or a Judge of the High Court. Last Updated on 20 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule