Directorate of Agriculture - Govt. of Goa, India - Development of Agriculture Extension   Sitemap          Help Skip to navigation | Skip to main content   HOME ABOUT US MAJOR CROPS FAQ DOWNLOADS NEWS & EVENTS PUBLICATIONS ACTS & RULES GALLERY CONTACT US   DIRECTORS NOTE ORGANISATION CHART SCHEMES State Schemes Central Schemes STATISTICS AWARDS RTI BUDGET 2010-2011 TENDERS DEALERS SUCCESS STORIES NEWSPAPER CLIPS USEFUL LINKS TERMS OF USE VACANCIES Development of Agriculture Extension Particulars Description Name of the Scheme Development of Agriculture Extension Sponsored by State Government Ministry/Department  Directorate of Agriculture Description Agriculture and Home Science Demonstration Camps/ Courses. Conducting 3 days Institutional courses, Exhibition and Shows, Best Farmer, Support for Higher Education in Agriculture, Conducting Krishi Melas, Publicity and Publication of technical literature. Supporting Biogas installation and promotion of balanced use of fertilizer and organic manure. Beneficiaries Individual, Community, Farmers group. Benefits   Eligibility criteria Farmers. How to Avail Contact respective Zonal Agriculture Officer for details.   1)  TRAININGS/Workshops EXPOSURE VISITS DEMONSTRATIONS AND   TECHNICAL LITERATURE and publicity :  (i) TRAININGS/Workshops: a) Skill Development Training in Machinery: During the year two Skill Development Trainings will be conducted of 2 months duration. Training in skills in driving, operating and maintenance of various Agricultural Machineries like tractor, power tillers, weed cutter, etc. Training in skill of various Agriculture Operations. The training on machinery will be open to any individual interested in operation of agriculture machinery and having LMV licence and the other training will be conducted for school dropouts, unemployed rural youths having marginal land or family land or belonging to family of agriculture labourer. Each trainee shall be paid stipend of Rs. 4,000/- per month. b)  Organization of Off Campus Training:   Agricultural Training Camps for Farmers, NGO’s, Youth, School and Colleges will be organized at various places (Off campus) for interested people in Agriculture and those who cannot attend regular training programmes conducted by this Directorate. The programme will be of one day duration on Agriculture  and Home Science  related topics like Nutritional garden, Bee keeping, Soil sampling, Nursery and landscaping, composting, Post Harvest Technologies, value addition and other related topics. c)  Organization of on Campus Training at F.T.C. Trainings will be conducted on various subjects like vermi composting, raising nursery, plant propagation and value addition in fruits and vegetables at Farmers Training Centre, Ela for students of school and colleges, farmers, NGO’s and  those having interest in Agriculture. 2)  Study Tours: a) Tours within the State : One day duration study tour will be conducted to Centres for excellence in agriculture in Goa at   Farmers Training Centre, Ela, Old Goa and ICAR Research Complex, Ela, Old Goa or to the State awardee farmer’s field who has adopted new technologies.  b)  Krishi  Mahotsav   To attract bring young generation in Agriculture, it is necessary   to take the agriculture developmental programme to the public in villages. Therefore,   it   is proposed to organize Krishi Mahotsav in all Zones. This   would   include method demonstration, exhibition, technical literature and technical lectures.  3)  MANURES AND FERTILIZERS i)   Soil Sample collection and analysis : Soil samples collected from the farmers fields are analyzed in the Soil Testing Laboratories at Ela and Margao for major and micronutrients. This would guide the farmers on the type & quantity of plant nutrient required to be added to the soil to achieve optimum yields. ii)   Assistance for use of Rock Phosphate :- Soils of the state being acidic in nature have to be conditioned at least once in 3 years, based on the soil health cards issued by the Soil Testing Laboratory. The department assists the farmers in the use of soil conditioner viz Rock Phosphate which contain Phosphate in addition to calcium. 75% subsidy is provided to maximum 4 ha per farmer with a maximum subsidy of Rs. 2000/- per ha on purchase and use of Rock Phosphate. iii)  Assistance for use of Micronutrients : As Zinc, Boron, Magnesium have been found deficient   in Goan soils, department promotes use of straight micro nutrient fertilizer viz. Zinc Sulphate, Boron and Magnesium Sulphate and notified micronutrient mixture  in crops like paddy, sugarcane, groundnut, arecanut , coconut, Oil Palm etc. A subsidy @ 75% of the cost with a maximum subsidy of Rs. 4500/- per hectare for maximum 4 ha. is provided. iv) Assistance for construction of Biogas : Much of the energy needs of the rural households comes from biomass. However direct burning of biomass not only results in poor utilization of heat energy but cause pollution problems. Energy generated from biogas plants at site from wastes and residues of crop and animal production system can greatly help in meeting local energy for cooking, heating, lighting and running of small Agro Industries units, reduces smoke related diseases and improve quality of life. The organic manure generated is rich in nutrients. The State implements National Project on Biogas and Manure Management Programme a centrally sponsored scheme in the State of Goa with State assistance. The department provides 90% assistance for construction of Biogas plants.  v) Assistance for Production of Organic Manure Units. Organic Manure improves the quality and water holding capacity of the soil. It is prepared by recycling of biodegradable waste like crop residues, weeds, human and animal waste. The organic manure can ideally be produced by construction of organic manure pits of different sizes and filling the pit with green matter & other material in layers and by addition of decomposing micro-organism for fast decomposition. In order to promote the production of organic manure, the department provides subsidy for construction of pucca compost pits @ 50% of the cost limited to Rs. 1000/- cu. mts. 70% subsidy is provided to SC/ST farmers. VI) Additional Assistance for Vermicompost Units : The department provides assistance @ 25% of the cost limited to Rs. 500/- cu. mts.  in addition to 50% subsidy provided for construction of Vermicompost units under NHM/CDB/Organic Manure Unit scheme. The unit should be covered with wooden logs and thatched roof. Earthworm of specified species shall be incorporated alongwith the feeding material. The unit will necessarily have cement concrete floor with plastered walls internally. A masonry channel of size 20 cms. X 10 cms(width X depth) should be provided around the base of the chamber for ant proofing. Water channel and drainage pipe should also be provided for periodic drainage of water to avoid mosquito breeding. Wire mesh mounted on M.S. angle frame should be provided to cover the chamber to prevent birds, lizards and rodents from feeding on the earthworms. Back to Listing This is the official website of Directorate of Agriculture, Government of Goa, India. Last Reviewed / Updated on: 09th May, 2014. Copyright © 2015 Directorate of Agriculture - Govt. of Goa, India. All Rights Reserved.