Major Functions of Pension Reforms Division : Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance, Government of India Skip to Main Content | Skip to Navigation Text Size A A A A A A A Hindi Home Functions New Initiatives Financial Inclusion Documents & Publications RTI Who's Who Contact Us Dept. of Financial Services Ministry of Finance, Government of India Finance Minister Minister for State Allocation of Business Citizen's Charter Acts & Rules Work Allocation Banking Insurance Pension Reforms Notifications Circulars Appointments Press Releases Data & Statistics Vacancy Circulars Tenders/Auctions The National Portal of India National E-Governance Plan Public Grievances Invest India Tenders You are here : Home Pension Reforms Major Functions What the Pension Reforms Section Does The Pension Reforms Section of the Department of Financial Services is concerned with the issues and policy matters relating to pension reforms including the New Pension System (NPS). The Pension Reforms Section is responsible for formulating legislative proposals concerning the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA). The Pension Reforms Section is also responsible for administrative issues concerning the Interim Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Interim PFDRA). Contact Persons Dr. Anup Wadhawan Joint Secretary (BA &PI ) Ministry of Finance Department of Financial Services Room No. 35, Jeevan Deep Building Parliament Street New Delhi - 110 001 Tel.No.011 -23748701 Email:wadhawan[at]nic[dot]in Ms Anna Roy Director (Vig & PR) Ministry of Finance Department of Financial Services Room No. 12,Jeevan Deep Building Parliament Street New Delhi - 110 001 Tel.No. 011 / 23340673 Email: annaroy [at]nic[dot]in Ms. Surinder Kaur Under Secretary (PR) Ministry of Finance Department of Financial Services Jeevan Deep Building, Parliament Street, New Delhi 110 001 Tel. No.23748760 Email: uspr-dfs[at]nic[dot]in Home Sitemap Accessibility Options Terms of Use Policies Disclaimer Accessibilty Statement EBook Feedback Site is designed and hosted by National Informatics Centre Contents on this website is published and managed by The Department of Financial Services, Govt. of India.