NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION MANAGEMENT (MANAGE) Home About Us Our Organization Our Mandate Our Infrastructure Our Director General Our Faculty (List) Our Faculty (Center-wise) Our Officers/Staff Our Citizen's Charter Grievance Redressal Officer Training Annual Calendar English Hindi Research Ongoing Completed Consultancy Ongoing Completed Schemes Extension Reforms ACABC Kisan Call Center Education PGDAEM DAESI PGDM (ABM) Publications Publications Databases Contact Us Home >>Databases Databases MANAGE Library gives access to the following databases: PROWESS Prowess is a database of the financial performance of over 27,000 companies. It includes companies traded on the National Stock Exchange and the Bombay Stock Exchange, unlisted public limited companies and private limited companies. The database is built from Annual Reports, quarterly financial statements, Stock Exchange feeds and other sources. There are over 3,500 data fields per company in Prowess. The database is normalised to enable inter-company and inter-temporal comparisons. Commodities(earlier India harvest) http://commodities.cmie.com Commodities combines spot prices and market intelligence, historical fundamental data and forecasts for agricultural crops. Commodities delivers price data on 200 varieties of 70 commodities from 150 markets. Commodities provides time-series data on area, production, yield, value of output of agricultural crops and weekly updates on progress of sowing. Besides historical data, Commodities provides forecasts for area, production and yield of crops. These forecasts are generated by researchers at CMIE and are based on quantitative analysis and monitoring of prices, sowing and the weather. ProQuest Management Collection (E-JOURNALS) http://search.proquest.com ProQuest Management Collection coverage of over 3,771 publications. Users can find out about business conditions, management techniques, business trends, management practice and theory, corporate strategy and tactics, and competitive landscape. Major publishers in the product include Springer, Emerald, American Economic Association, MIT, Palgrave MacMillan, Cambridge University Press, SIAM, Wall Street Journal, Financial Times, Euromoney, and The Economist etc. It also offers more than 50 titles from India. http://www.indiastat.com Compilation of secondary level socio-economic statistical data about India and its States, Region and Sector on over 35 variables and is available online FOR ACCESS TO THE ABOVE DATABASES PLEASE CONTACT LIBRARY