 Management Team | NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India Jump to navigation NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India HOME CONTACT US Search Search form Search ABOUT US Overview History Vision/Mission Board Members Management Team OUR WORK Our Approach Where We Work Our Programmes Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness & Response GET INVOLVED Careers Internship Campaigns Volunteer Partnerships Power to Empower NEWS National International CARE India in Media Media Contact DONATE NOW You are here Home » management team The Management Team of CARE India are a group of committed individuals, who help strategize, formulate decisions, and provide guidance in an effective manner. The team is pro- active, and put in consistent efforts to achieve our goals of overcoming poverty and empowering women. Donate Now Management Team Submitted by Anonymous on Tue, 2014-04-29 18:59 Meet the dedicated group of people that forms Management Team Dr. Muhammad Musa Dr. Muhammad Musa is the CEO of CARE India since January 2010. With his leadership and vision he has been successfully managing the organisation. He has a vast global experience of thirty years in humanitarian, social development and public health programs with, CARE International in Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Uganda, Sudan, Tanzania, and the Asia Region. He is a strategic leader and macro-level manager with... more Senthil Kumar Senthil Kumar is the Executive Director for Program Quality and Learning in CARE India. Senthil has more than 16 years of rich experience in social research and programming, spanning humanitarian and long term social development in diverse socio-cultural settings. Being part of CARE India since 2006, his work spanned areas of research, strategic planning, program design, and project management. Before CARE India... more Kamal Sharma Kamal Sharma is the Executive Director for Operations and Finance of CARE India. Kamal has a rich experience of over 20 years in the payment domain, with extensive global experience with organizations like GE, Western Union and American Express. Prior to joining CARE India, Kamal headed CUTS Institute for Regulation and Competition, a research based capacity building institution focused in the area of Economic... more Pages 1 2 next › last » CARE Initiatives CARE works with more than 200 districts, in a total of 13 states and union terriotories across India Engage educate empower Assurance of a secure life Livelihood Initiative Tsunami Power to Empower Cyclone Hudhud Horlicks Ahaar Abhiyan GiveAssure Help Shanti JK Flood crisis Join my village VIEW ALL Latest Publications Pages from booklet 1 pages from booklet hindi-7-2.pdf READ MORE Case Studies Education Health Livelihood Emergency Blog Resources © 2014 CARE India. All Rights Reserved