People, Culture and Festivals of Bihar Home » Bihar » People Culture Festivals   People, Culture and Festivals Fairs of Bihar Festivals of Bihar Handicrafts Music Painting People of Bihar Dance Food बिहार का नक्शा Bihar Bihar Map Bihar at a Glance Bihar Cities Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Education Universities In Bihar Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Government and Politics Travel to Bihar Places to Visit in Bihar Wildlife Sanctuaries Nalanda Archaeological Museum Ashokan Pillar Buddha Stupa Hotels in Bihar Bhagalpur Hotels Bodhgaya Hotels Gaya Hotels Forbesganj Hotels Katihar Hotels Patna Hotels Purnia Hotels Rajgir Hotels People, Culture and Festivals Handicrafts Agricultural Map Geography and history New Course of Kosi river District Map in Hindi STD code Pin code       People, Culture and Festivals People, culture and festivals in Bihar has a strong bearing upon its past. The kingdoms that ruled over Bihar has left a strong impression on the people, culture and festivals of Bihar. Talking about the people, culture and festivals of Bihar, we can say that Bihar presents an admixture of the cultural traits of the Muslims kings and the Hindu emperors. In Bihar , we find a mixture of various castes. Some of the dominant castes in Bihar are: Brahmans Bhumihar Rajput Banias and Kayasthas. Beside these castes, we also come across other castes, viz.: Ahirs Kurmis and Koiris. Although these are few of the dominant castes in Bihar, but with the growth of modernism, the line that demarcates the different castes is growing fainter. Talking about the language of Bihar, an integral part of people, culture and festival of Bihar, it can be said that every region in Bihar speaks its own dialect. Some of the important languages that are found in Bihar are: Hindi Santhali Magahi Kberwari, etc. It is noteworthy, that the Dravidian language spoken by the aborigines of Bihar is akin to the Tamil and Telegu of South India. Furthermore, the festivals also form a major part of the Bihar's people, culture and festivals study. Some of the important festivals of Bihar are: Chhattha Dussera Naga Panchami Navaratri Holi Diwali Makar Sankranti Maha-Shivaratri Sarhul Soharai Karma festivals, etc. This was a brief estimate of the people, culture and festivals of Bihar. Last Updated on 14 june 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule