FrontalRain Technologies - agri IT company - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop FrontalRain Technologies – agri IT company Home FrontalRain Technologies – agri IT company Facilitates smooth operations in agribusiness supply chain with mobile and cloud based software solutions Three ex-SAP professionals felt the need to serve agribusiness and food processing sector from technology aspect hence incorporated FrontalRain Technologies in 2010. Bangalore, Karnataka based company develops customized mobile and cloud based software solutions that work in offline mode without internet connectivity. Mr. Jayaram Srinivasan, Mr. Ravi Mandayam and Mr. Sreeram P are the founder-directors of FrontalRain Technologies. Drive for the 3 founders to set up the company was, “Agriculture and food processing is an industry plagued with supply chain issues world-over. It is a very fragmented industry with a lot of small and medium sized businesses and in general under-served from a technology point of view. Microsoft, SAP, and Oracle are focused to work with big companies in agribusiness but other small companies in the sector have the same need and this is what we wanted to tap with our cloud and mobile based offerings,” says Mr. Sreeram P. Products are referred as Rain+ solution suite having five products namely Rain+ Grow, Rain+ Make, Rain+ Move, Rain+ Trade and Rain+ Serve. All five solutions address the business challenges of every player in the agribusiness and food processing value chain. Rain+ Grow is solution designed for contract farming companies working closely with farmers to monitor and track their complete backward integration/contract farming activities. Rain+ Make is used by processor companies like rice mill, oil mill, seafood processing plant or snack food manufacturer. Using the software processors can monitor all business operations from sourcing, raw material receipts, quality management, production, inventory and batch management, dispatch, wholesale, retail sales and finance at ease. “If you are a branded manufacturer of food and other products and have sales people and distributors to support retail sales to stores, then Rain+ Move based mobile and cloud solution can help you track every visit of your sales person to a retail store or distribution to book orders, track stock on the retail shelf, van sales, and collections. You can also monitor all distributor activities like invoicing and delivery,” says Mr. Sreeram. Rain+ Trade is a solution for exporters to plan and deliver all their international trade contracts taking care of every export documentation from the beginning of export deal. Rain+ Serve is a solution for farmer producer companies, NGOs in the sector who work closely with farmers. It helps them maintain member directories, farmer related activities and outreach programs and initiatives. “Last year, we introduced a new export enabler platform called Eximdesk that allows exporters to do all their marketing and trade activities in a simple way. This is a Do-it-yourself solution that allows exporters to sign-up and to start using the solution from day 1 on their own. They can have a digital presence by creating a website within minutes, start doing email marketing to get more buyers,” he adds. Exporters can create their sales contracts, plan their shipments, interact with their buyer, source the products from vendors and every service provider like freight forwarders and customs clearing agents with mobile and web based instant chat messaging to execute their business more efficiently and faster. Eximdesk has seen a huge traction from India and over 20 countries. All solutions are customized as each commodity has different supply chain. Every business and every commodity has its own challenges, “So, we work closely with clients to ensure that their challenges are addressed. As of now our solution supports more than 20 different commodities and has been successfully customized and used by many companies in India, Middle-east and Africa,” he informs. Companies using these solutions can focus on their business activity and need not be worried about IT hardware, operating systems, networking setup etc as the solutions are hosted on the cloud and instantly access them. “In fact, the system is provided to them the same minute they sign up and data maintenance, back up is all taken care of. We support the complete implementation for the customer along with training, on-site visits and support,” informs Mr. Sreeram. Being mobile based solutions, these can be used at farm level in offline mode without internet connectivity. Any data capture or advice to be given the farmer can be done without internet connectivity. “We have successfully deployed solutions for several companies in the sector now – seed companies, gherkin companies, spices companies, seafood , coffee etc in India. We have also deployed technology solutions at the farm level in countries like Nigeria and Ethiopia. As these solutions are capable for capturing information even in offline mode so that they can operate without internet connection which is a huge benefit for remote areas in Nigeria, Ethiopia etc,” he adds. Rain+ is an industry specific product designed and built to cater all typical challenges of an agri and food processing business. “Rain+ Trade and Rain+ Move also have a large set of customers as these solutions have a direct impact on enhancing the sales revenue of companies. Eximdesk has been in huge demand since its launch last year as it is catering to even the smallest of exporters who are doing only a few shipments a month,” shares Mr. Sreeram. With a single field level visit by FrontalRain staff and demonstration, users are able to grasp the usage of the technology, “We make all our solutions very easy to operate,” says Mr. Sreeram. Initially FrontalRain Technologies allows its clients to evaluate the solution by offering a 15 day free trial run to observe and understand working of solutions with their own data. “We provide implementation support, on-site visits and end-user trainings for our solution,” he adds. All solutions are offered on monthly subscription based model, “INR 5000/user/month, all-inclusive cost for the Rain+ solution. We charge on pay-as-you-go model for Eximdesk offering wherein we charge 5 USD per export shipment,” he shares and adds, “Monthly subscription turns to be cost effective and avoids all the hassles of managing IT hardware and software for the customers.” Sharing the future plans he concludes, “We are focused on international expansion of our customers’ base, raising more capital to further propel the revenue growth and user base of FrontalRain’s offerings.” Contact details- FrontalRain Technologies Pvt. Ltd 2nd Floor, Sona Towers, 71/2, Millers Road, Bangalore – 560052 Phone: +91-80-41203849 +91-9886722005 Email: info@frontalrain.com , p.sreeram@frontalrain.com Web: http://www.frontalrain.com/ Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > FrontalRain Technologies – agri IT company Related – articles, consultants, downloads R.L. Wason & Company – grain testing lab equipments Perikali Trading Company – nursery and landscaping services Majhya Mamacha Gaon – agri tourism center Sampurn Agri Ventures – Using water logged wastelands for shrimp farming You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water