Bureau of International Labor Affairs - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Bureau of International Labor Affairs From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search United States Bureau of International Labor Affairs Bureau overview Formed October 10, 1947 Headquarters Frances Perkins Building Annual budget $83 million (2009) [ 1 ] Bureau executives Carol Pier , Deputy Undersecretary for International Affairs Mark Mittelhauser, Eric Biel , Associate Deputy Undersecretaries for International Affairs Parent Bureau United States Department of Labor Website http://www.dol.gov/ilab/ The Bureau of International Labor Affairs ( ILAB ) is an operating unit of the United States Department of Labor which manages the Department's international responsibilities. According to its mission statement: “The Bureau of International Labor Affairs leads the U.S. Department of Labor's efforts to ensure that workers around the world are treated fairly and are able to share in the benefits of the global economy. ILAB's mission is to improve global working conditions, raise living standards, protect workers' ability to exercise their rights, and address the workplace exploitation of children and other vulnerable populations. Our efforts help to ensure a fair playing field for American workers and contribute to stronger export markets for goods made in the United States.” [ 2 ] ILAB promotes the economic security and stability of United States workers in international affairs and provides advice and statistics on policy decisions which have U.S. labor concerns. The Bureau also represents the United States at trade negotiations and at international bodies like the International Labor Organization (ILO), the World Trade Organization (WTO), and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). It also provides technical assistance to foreign countries in the interest of benefiting the United States and additionally works with other government agencies to combat child labor and human trafficking abroad and in the United States. [ 3 ] The Bureau of International Labor Affairs is located in the Frances Perkins Building, Room C-4325, 200 Constitution Avenue , NW Washington, DC 20210. It is currently under the direction of Deputy Undersecretary for International Affairs Carol Pier . Contents 1 History 2 Child labor, human trafficking and forced labor 3 International technical cooperation 4 Offices 5 Related legislation 6 See also 7 References 8 External links History [ edit ] The Bureau of International Labor Affairs was formed October 10, 1947, during the administration of President Harry S. Truman under the direction of Lewis B. Schwellenbach as a means to formally institutionalize the international directives of the Department of Labor. [ 4 ] Since its creation, ILAB has helped pass the Trade Agreements Act of 1979, aided the introduction of the United States of America into the International Labor Organization (ILO), and administered the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation (NAALC), the portion of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) which dealt with trade relations and required the establishment of a department in each member state to provide information about labor conditions in that country. Child labor, human trafficking and forced labor [ edit ] In 1993, the United States Congress directed the Secretary of Labor, Robert Reich at the time, to identify foreign industries and countries which export goods to the United States which were produced using child labor. Responsibility for this project was given to ILAB which published the first of its reports on the subject: The Sweat and Toil of Children: The Use of Child Labor in American Imports. [ 3 ] In 1999, President Bill Clinton signed Executive Order 13126 which prohibited the purchase of items which were produced by forced or indentured labor . It also authorized the Department of Labor to compile a list of items and their respective countries which would be banned. This fell under the purview of the Bureau of International Labor Affairs. [ 5 ] The current list, as compiled by ILAB, consists of 31 products including bamboo, beans, cocoa, coffee, nuts, rice, rubber, shrimp, and sugarcane. [ 5 ] The products come from countries such as Afghanistan, Argentina, Benin, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Burma, China, Colombia, Congo, Ethiopia, Ghana, India, Ivory Coast, Mali, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Russia, Sierra Leone, Tajikistan, Thailand and Uzbekistan. [ 5 ] As of 2004, ILAB has spent more than $250 million to combat child labor since 1995. [ 1 ] On April 10, 2009, the Bureau of International Labor Affairs announced a letter of intent to "Fund International Child Labor Elimination Projects in Fiscal Year 2009" this involves the awarding of merit-based "cooperative agreement awards" to organizations seeking to fund projects to combat child labor through education. It is intended that $20 million be budgeted for this purpose. These efforts will be focused in the countries of Guatemala, Indonesia, Nepal, and Rwanda. International technical cooperation [ edit ] ILAB provides technical assistance with other countries in the areas of technical expertise, worker health, and working conditions with the goal of benefiting U.S. foreign policy. This program began in the aftermath of World War II when the Department of Labor taught German trade unionists to assist in European reconstruction efforts. In 1975, ILAB worked with the Government of Saudi Arabia to develop a vocational training program and in 1989, after the passage of the Support for Eastern European Democracy Act (SEED), ILAB aided economies that were transitioning to a more open economic system to develop labor markets. [ 6 ] Additionally, ILAB has undertaken various social initiatives globally including a $10 million project to combat the spread of HIV/AIDS in workers. These initiatives are all aimed at providing stability to an interconnected global economy in which labor issues in foreign countries can have negative effects in the United States. [ 1 ] Offices [ edit ] Office of Trade and Labor Affairs (OTLA) Trade Policy and Negotiations Division Economic and Labor Research Division Monitoring & Enforcement of Trade Agreements Division Technical Assistance & Cooperation Division Office of International Relations (OIR) Office of Child Labor, Forced Labor and Human Trafficking (OCFT) Monitoring & Evaluation Division Africa Division Latin America and Caribbean Division Asia/Europe/MENA Division Research & Policy Division Related legislation [ edit ] Executive Order 13126 Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (“ Farm Bill ”) Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TVPRA) See also [ edit ] United States Department of Labor United States Department of State Harkin-Engel Protocol Child Labor Children in cocoa production References [ edit ] ^ a b c Bureau of International Labor Affairs, "Bureau of International Labor Affairs Assessment" Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Labor, Accessed 25 June 2013. ^ United States. Bureau of International Labor Affairs (ILAB). "Bureau of International Labor Affairs Mission Statement" Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Labor, Accessed 10 April 2014. ^ a b United States. Bureau of International Labor Affairs (ILAB). Bureau of International Labor Affairs: A Brief Outline of Principal Activities . Washington, DC: Department of Labor, 1994. ^ United States. Bureau of International Labor Affairs (ILAB). "Lewis B. Schwellenbach" , Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Labor, Accessed 25 June 2013. ^ a b c United States. Bureau of International Labor Affairs (ILAB). "Executive Order 13126" Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Labor, 2013. Accessed 25 June 2013 ^ United States. Bureau of International Labor Affairs (ILAB). "International Cooperation Program" Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Labor, 2013, Accessed 25 June 2013. United States. Bureau of International Labor Affairs (ILAB). Bureau of International Labor Affairs: A Brief Outline of Principal Activities . Washington, DC: Department of Labor, 1994. External links [ edit ] United States Department of Labor Official Website Bureau of International Labor Affairs Official Website Selected Bureau of International Labor Affairs Publications and Documents Official Website of the International Labor Organization (ILO) US Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons Website (G/TIP) v t e Agencies under the United States Department of Labor Headquarters: Frances Perkins Building Thomas Perez , Secretary of Labor Christopher P. Lu , Deputy Secretary of Labor Deputy Secretary of Labor Administrative Review Board Benefits Review Board Bureau of International Labor Affairs Bureau of Labor Statistics Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships Employees' Compensation Appeals Board Employee Benefits Security Administration Office of Administrative Law Judges Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management Ombudsman for the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Employment and Training Administration Mine Safety and Health Administration Occupational Safety and Health Administration Office of the Chief Financial Officer Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs Office of Inspector General Office of Labor-Management Standards Office of Public Engagement Office of the Solicitor Office of Workers' Compensation Programs Veterans' Employment and Training Service Wage and Hour Division Women's Bureau Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bureau_of_International_Labor_Affairs&oldid=603647182 " Categories : United States Department of Labor agencies Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Kiswahili Edit links This page was last modified on 10 April 2014, at 20:27. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view