Goat Manure Uses AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Goat Farming - Mohsin Shaikh Goat Manure Uses Results 1 to 4 of 4 Thread: Goat Manure Uses LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… December 3rd, 2014 #1 smy82482 Join Date Mar 2012 Posts 2,324 Goat Manure Uses Goat manure contains high content of nitrogen as compare to cows,buffaloes,horses manure.This nitrogen further enhances the growth of plants and crops by nitrogen fixation,hence it increases the yield of crops at least by 20%.Due to this reason the demand for goat manure is vast in any part of the country and hence their is a hike in goat manure prices year by year. Using goat manure in garden beds can create the optimal growing conditions for your plants. The naturally dry pellets are not only easy to collect and apply, but are less messy than many other types of manure. There are endless uses for goat manure. Goat droppings can be used in nearly any type of garden, including that of flowering plants, herbs, vegetables, and fruit trees. Goat manure can even be composted and used as mulch.Many of the fruit gardeners has noticed that after using goat manure,falling of their fruits before maturity(ripen) due to natural calamities like wind,heavy rainfall,storm etc has been decreased by 50%. One of the most common uses for goat manure is as a fertilizer. Goat manure fertilizer can help gardeners produce healthier plants and crop yields. Goats not only produce neater pelletized droppings, but their manure doesn’t typically attract insects or burn plants as does manure from cows,buffaloes or horses. Goat manure is virtually odorless and is beneficial for the soil to maintain its PH. This manure contains adequate amounts of the nutrients that plants need for optimal growth, especially when the goats have bed in stalls. As urine collects in goat droppings, the manure retains more nitrogen, thus increasing its fertilizing potency. Regards, Dr.Shaikh Reply With Quote December 3rd, 2014 #2 prashant9 Join Date Dec 2014 Posts 2 Nice information,i was looking high content of nitrogen manure for my chikoo farm.thanks for useful information it will help me a lot. Prashant Sapoota Farm Lmtd. Reply With Quote January 28th, 2015 #3 deepdeepak Join Date Sep 2009 Posts 13 Goat Manure Can anybody let me know that whether goat manure can be used for bio gas plant? Regards Deepak Originally Posted by prashant9 Nice information,i was looking high content of nitrogen manure for my chikoo farm.thanks for useful information it will help me a lot. Prashant Sapoota Farm Lmtd. Reply With Quote January 29th, 2015 #4 smy82482 Join Date Mar 2012 Posts 2,324 Yes goat manure can be used for bio gas plant too.Goat manure gets easily decompose and you will get continuous supply of flame(heat) generated via anaerobic process. Regards, DR.Shaikh Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 12:33 PM .