Wikipedia:Verifiability - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Wikipedia:Verifiability From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search To discuss particular sources, see the reliable sources noticeboard . For vandalism, see WP:VAND . For the default Wikipedia skin, see WP:VECTOR . This page documents an English Wikipedia policy , a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus . Shortcuts : WP:V WP:VER WP:VERIFY This page in a nutshell: Readers must be able to check that Wikipedia articles are not just made up. This means that all quotations and any material challenged or likely to be challenged must be attributed to a reliable, published source using an inline citation . Core content policies Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability Other content policies Article titles Biographies of living persons Image use policy What Wikipedia is not v t e In Wikipedia, verifiability means that anyone using the encyclopedia can check that the information comes from a reliable source . Wikipedia does not publish original research . Its content is determined by previously published information rather than the beliefs or experiences of its editors. Even if you're sure something is true, it must be verifiable before you can add it. [ 1 ] When reliable sources disagree, present what the various sources say, give each side its due weight , and maintain a neutral point of view . All material in Wikipedia mainspace , including everything in articles, lists and captions, must be verifiable. All quotations, and any material whose verifiability has been challenged or is likely to be challenged, must include an inline citation that directly supports the material. Any material that needs a source but does not have one may be removed. Please remove contentious material about living people that is unsourced or poorly sourced immediately. For how to write citations, see citing sources . Verifiability, no original research and neutral point of view are Wikipedia's core content policies. They work together to determine content, so editors should understand the key points of all three. Articles must also comply with the copyright policy . Contents 1 Responsibility for providing citations 2 Reliable sources 2.1 What counts as a reliable source 2.2 Newspaper and magazine blogs 2.3 Reliable sources noticeboard and WP:IRS 3 Sources that are usually not reliable 3.1 Questionable sources 3.2 Self-published sources 3.3 Self-published or questionable sources as sources on themselves 3.4 Wikipedia and sources that mirror or use it 4 Accessibility 4.1 Access to sources 4.2 Non-English sources 4.2.1 Citing non-English sources 4.2.2 Quoting non-English sources 5 Other issues 5.1 Verifiability does not guarantee inclusion 5.2 Tagging a sentence, section, or article 5.3 Exceptional claims require exceptional sources 6 Verifiability and other principles 6.1 Copyright and plagiarism 6.2 Neutrality 6.3 Notability 6.4 Original research 7 See also 8 Notes 9 Further reading Responsibility for providing citations Policy shortcuts : WP:UNSOURCED WP:CHALLENGE WP:BURDEN WP:PROVEIT "WP:PROVEIT" redirects here. For the editing tool, see User:ProveIt GT . All content must be verifiable. The burden to demonstrate verifiability lies with the editor who adds or restores material , and is satisfied by providing a citation to a reliable source that directly supports the contribution. [ 2 ] Attribute all quotations and any material challenged or likely to be challenged to a reliable, published source using an inline citation . Cite the source clearly and precisely (specifying page, section, or such divisions as may be appropriate). The citation must clearly support the material as presented in the article. See Citing sources for details of how to do this. Any material lacking a reliable source directly supporting it may be removed and should not be restored without an inline citation to a reliable source. Whether and how quickly this should happen depends on the material and the overall state of the article. In some cases, editors may object if you remove material without giving them time to provide references; consider adding a citation needed tag as an interim step. [ 3 ] When tagging or removing material for lacking an inline citation, please state your concern that there may not be a published reliable source for the content, and therefore it may not be verifiable. [ 4 ] If you think the material is verifiable, you are encouraged to provide an inline citation yourself before considering whether to remove or tag it. Do not leave unsourced or poorly sourced material in an article if it might damage the reputation of living people or existing groups, and do not move it to the talk page. You should also be aware of how the BLP policy applies to groups . [ 5 ] Reliable sources Policy shortcuts : WP:SOURCE WP:SOURCES "WP:SOURCE" redirects here. For <source> tag, see Wikipedia:Syntaxhighlight . What counts as a reliable source Further information: Wikipedia:Identifying reliable sources The word "source" in Wikipedia has three meanings: The type of the work (some examples include a document, an article, or a book) The creator of the work (for example, the writer) The publisher of the work (for example, Oxford University Press) All three can affect reliability. Base articles on reliable, third-party , published sources with a reputation for fact-checking and accuracy. Source material must have been published , the definition of which for our purposes is "made available to the public in some form". [ 6 ] Unpublished materials are not considered reliable. Use sources that directly support the material presented in an article and are appropriate to the claims made. The appropriateness of any source depends on the context. The best sources have a professional structure in place for checking or analyzing facts, legal issues, evidence, and arguments. The greater the degree of scrutiny given to these issues, the more reliable the source. Be especially careful when sourcing content related to living people or medicine . If available, academic and peer-reviewed publications are usually the most reliable sources, such as in history, medicine, and science. Editors may also use material from reliable non-academic sources, particularly if it appears in respected mainstream publications. Other reliable sources include: University-level textbooks Books published by respected publishing houses Magazines Journals Mainstream newspapers Editors may also use electronic media, subject to the same criteria. See details in Wikipedia:Identifying reliable sources and Wikipedia:Search engine test . Newspaper and magazine blogs Policy shortcut : WP:NEWSBLOG Several newspapers, magazines, and other news organizations host columns on their web sites that they call blogs . These may be acceptable sources if the writers are professionals, but use them with caution because the blog may not be subject to the news organization's normal fact-checking process. [ 7 ] If a news organization publishes an opinion piece in a blog, attribute the statement to the writer (e.g. "Jane Smith wrote..."). Never use blog posts that are left by readers as sources. For personal or group blogs that are not reliable sources, see Self-published sources below. Reliable sources noticeboard and WP:IRS Further information: Wikipedia:Reliable sources noticeboard and Wikipedia:Identifying reliable sources To discuss the reliability of a specific source for a particular statement, consult the reliable sources noticeboard , which seeks to apply this policy to particular cases. For a guideline discussing the reliability of particular types of sources, see Wikipedia:Identifying reliable sources (WP:IRS). In the case of inconsistency between this policy and the WP:IRS guideline, or any other guideline related to sourcing, this policy has priority. Sources that are usually not reliable See also: Wikipedia:Identifying reliable sources § Questionable and self-published sources Policy shortcuts : WP:NOTRELIABLE WP:NOTRS WP:QS Questionable sources Questionable sources are those that have a poor reputation for checking the facts, lack meaningful editorial oversight, or have an apparent conflict of interest. [ 8 ] Such sources include websites and publications expressing views that are widely considered by other sources to be extremist or promotional, or that rely heavily on unsubstantiated gossip, rumor or personal opinion. Questionable sources should only be used as sources of material on themselves, especially in articles about themselves; see below . They are not suitable sources for contentious claims about others. Self-published sources Policy shortcuts : WP:SPS WP:SELFPUBLISH WP:BLOGS Further information: Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons § Avoid self-published sources and Wikipedia:List of self-publishing companies Anyone can create a personal web page or publish their own book , and also claim to be an expert in a certain field. For that reason, self-published media, such as books, patents, newsletters, personal websites, open wikis, personal or group blogs (as distinguished from newsblogs , above), Internet forum postings, and tweets, are largely not acceptable as sources. Self-published expert sources may be considered reliable when produced by an established expert on the subject matter, whose work in the relevant field has previously been published by reliable third-party publications. [ 7 ] Exercise caution when using such sources: if the information in question is really worth reporting, someone else will probably have done so. [ 9 ] Never use self-published sources as third-party sources about living people, even if the author is an expert, well-known professional researcher, or writer. Self-published or questionable sources as sources on themselves "WP:SOCIALMEDIA" redirects here. For the policy on what Wikipedia is not, see WP:NOTSOCIALNETWORK . "WP:TWITTER" redirects here. For the external links essay, see WP:Twitter . Policy shortcuts : WP:ABOUTSELF WP:SELFPUB WP:TWITTER WP:SOCIALMEDIA Self-published and questionable sources may be used as sources of information about themselves , usually in articles about themselves or their activities, without the self-published source requirement that they be published experts in the field, so long as: the material is neither unduly self-serving nor an exceptional claim ; it does not involve claims about third parties; it does not involve claims about events not directly related to the source; there is no reasonable doubt as to its authenticity; the article is not based primarily on such sources. This policy also applies to pages on social networking websites such as Twitter , Tumblr , and Facebook . Wikipedia and sources that mirror or use it Policy shortcuts : WP:CIRC WP:CIRCULAR "WP:CIRCULAR" redirects here. For links on a page that refer back to the same page, see Wikipedia:Redirect § Self-redirects . See also: WP:COPYWITHIN Do not use articles from Wikipedia as sources. Also, do not use websites that mirror Wikipedia content or publications that rely on material from Wikipedia as sources. Content from a Wikipedia article is not considered reliable unless it is backed up by citing reliable sources . Confirm that these sources support the content, then use them directly. (There is also a risk of circular reference / circular reporting when using a Wikipedia article or derivative work as a source.) An exception is allowed when Wikipedia is being discussed in the article, which may cite an article, guideline, discussion, statistic or other content from Wikipedia or a sister project to support a statement about Wikipedia. Wikipedia or the sister project is a primary source in this case, and may be used following the policy for primary sources . Any such use should avoid original research , undue emphasis on Wikipedia's role or views, and inappropriate self-reference . The article text should make it clear that the material is sourced from Wikipedia so the reader is made aware of the potential bias. Accessibility Access to sources Policy shortcuts : WP:PAYWALL WP:SOURCEACCESS See also: Wikipedia:Offline sources , Wikipedia:WikiProject Resource Exchange/Resource Request and Wikipedia:Reliable sources/Cost Some reliable sources may not be easily accessible. For example, an online source may require payment, and a print source may be available only in university libraries or other offline places. Do not reject sources just because they are hard or costly to access. If you have trouble accessing a source, others may be able to do so on your behalf (see WikiProject Resource Exchange ). Non-English sources Policy shortcuts : WP:RSUE WP:NOENG WP:NONENG See also: Wikipedia:Translators available and Wikipedia:No original research § Translations and transcriptions Citing non-English sources Citations to non-English sources are allowed. However, because this is the English-language Wikipedia, English-language sources are preferred over non-English ones whenever English sources of equal quality and relevance are available. As with sources in English, if a dispute arises involving a citation to a non-English source, editors may request that a quotation of relevant portions of the original source be provided, either in text, in a footnote, or on the article talk page. [ 10 ] (See Template:Request quotation .) Quoting non-English sources When quoting a non-English source (whether in the main text, in a footnote, or on the talk page), a translation into English should always accompany the quote. Translations published by reliable sources are preferred over translations by Wikipedians, but translations by Wikipedians are preferred over machine translations. When using a machine translation of source material, editors should be reasonably certain that the translation is accurate and the source is appropriate. Editors should not use machine translations of non-English sources in contentious articles or biographies of living people. If needed, ask an editor who can translate it for you. In articles, the original text is usually included with the translated text when translated by Wikipedians, and the translating editor is usually not cited. When quoting any material, whether in English or in some other language, be careful not to violate copyright ; see the fair-use guideline . Other issues Verifiability does not guarantee inclusion See also: WP:UNDUE and WP:PAGEDECIDE Shortcut : WP:ONUS While information must be verifiable in order to be included in an article, this does not mean that all verifiable information must be included in an article. Consensus may determine that certain information does not improve an article, and that it should be omitted or presented instead in a different article . The onus to achieve consensus for inclusion is on those seeking to include disputed content. Tagging a sentence, section, or article Further information: Wikipedia:Template messages/Sources of articles If you want to request a source for an unsourced statement, you can tag a sentence with the {{ citation needed }} template by writing {{ cn }} or {{ fact }}. There are other templates here for tagging sections or entire articles. You can also leave a note on the talk page asking for a source, or move the material to the talk page and ask for a source there. To request verification that a reference supports the text, tag it with {{ verification needed }}. Material that fails verification may be tagged with {{ failed verification }} or removed. When using templates to tag material, it is helpful to other editors if you explain your rationale in the template, edit summary, or on the talk page. Take special care with material about living people . Contentious material about living people that is unsourced or poorly sourced should be removed immediately, not tagged or moved to the talk page. Exceptional claims require exceptional sources Policy shortcuts : WP:REDFLAG WP:EXCEPTIONAL See also: Wikipedia:Fringe theories Any exceptional claim requires multiple high-quality sources. [ 11 ] Red flags that should prompt extra caution include: surprising or apparently important claims not covered by multiple mainstream sources; challenged claims that are supported purely by primary or self-published sources or those with an apparent conflict of interest; [ 8 ] reports of a statement by someone that seems out of character, or against an interest they had previously defended; claims that are contradicted by the prevailing view within the relevant community, or that would significantly alter mainstream assumptions, especially in science, medicine, history, politics, and biographies of living people. This is especially true when proponents say there is a conspiracy to silence them. Verifiability and other principles Copyright and plagiarism Further information: Wikipedia:Copyright , Wikipedia:Plagiarism , Wikipedia:MOS § Attribution and Wikipedia:CITE § In-text attribution Do not plagiarize or breach copyright when using sources. Summarize source material in your own words as much as possible; when quoting or closely paraphrasing a source use an inline citation , and in-text attribution where appropriate. Do not link to any source that violates the copyrights of others per contributors' rights and obligations . You can link to websites that display copyrighted works as long as the website has licensed the work, or uses the work in a way compliant with fair use. Knowingly directing others to material that violates copyright may be considered contributory copyright infringement . If there is reason to think a source violates copyright, do not cite it. This is particularly relevant when linking to sites such as YouTube , where due care should be taken to avoid linking to material that violates copyright. Neutrality Further information: Wikipedia:Neutral point of view Even when information is cited to reliable sources , you must present it with a neutral point of view (NPOV). All articles must adhere to NPOV, fairly representing all majority and significant-minority viewpoints published by reliable sources, in rough proportion to the prominence of each view. Tiny-minority views need not be included, except in articles devoted to them. If there is disagreement between sources, use in-text attribution : "John Smith argues that X, while Paul Jones maintains that Y," followed by an inline citation . Sources themselves do not need to maintain a neutral point of view. Indeed, many reliable sources are not neutral. Our job as editors is simply to summarize what the reliable sources say. Notability Further information: Wikipedia:Notability If no reliable third-party sources can be found on a topic, Wikipedia should not have an article on it. Original research Further information: Wikipedia:No original research The "No original research" policy (NOR) is closely related to the Verifiability policy. Among its requirements are: All material in Wikipedia articles must be attributable to a reliable published source. This means that a source must exist for it, whether or not it is cited in the article. Sources must support the material clearly and directly: drawing inferences from multiple sources to advance a novel position is prohibited by the NOR policy. [ 10 ] Base articles largely on reliable secondary sources . While primary sources are appropriate in some cases, relying on them can be problematic. For more information, see the Primary, secondary, and tertiary sources section of the NOR policy, and the Misuse of primary sources section of the BLP policy. See also Argument from authority Wikipedia:Anarchism referencing guidelines Wikipedia:Identifying reliable sources (medicine) , a guideline Wikipedia:List of free online resources Wikipedia:Template messages/Sources of articles Wikipedia:Wikipedia is not a reliable source Wikipedia:WikiProject Fact and Reference Check Wikipedia:WikiProject Resource Exchange Wikipedia:Core content policies Related essays Wikipedia:Citation clutter Wikipedia:How to mine a source Wikipedia:Improving referencing efforts Wikipedia:Use of tertiary sources Wikipedia:Verifiability, not truth Wikipedia:Video links Wikipedia:When to cite Notes ^ This principle was previously expressed on this policy page as "the threshold for inclusion is verifiability, not truth ." See the essay, WP:Verifiability, not truth . ^ Once an editor has provided any source that he or she believes, in good faith, to be sufficient, then any editor who later removes the material has an obligation to articulate specific problems that would justify its exclusion from Wikipedia (e.g., undue emphasis on a minor point, unencyclopedic content, etc.). All editors are then expected to help achieve consensus , and any problems with the text or sourcing should be fixed before the material is added back. ^ It may be that the article contains so few citations that it is impractical to add specific citation needed tags, in which case consider tagging a section with {{ unreferencedsection }}, or the article with {{ refimprove }} or {{ unreferenced }}. In the case of a disputed category or on a disambiguation page, consider asking for a citation on the talk page. ^ When tagging or removing such material, please keep in mind that such edits can be easily misunderstood. Some editors object to others making chronic, frequent, and large-scale deletions of unsourced information, especially if unaccompanied by other efforts to improve the material. Do not concentrate only on material of a particular POV, as that may result in accusations that you are in violation of WP:NPOV . Also check to see whether the material is sourced to a citation elsewhere on the page. For all of these reasons, it is advisable to communicate clearly that you have a considered reason to believe that the material in question cannot be verified. ^ Wales, Jimmy . "Zero information is preferred to misleading or false information" , WikiEN-l, May 16, 2006: "I can NOT emphasize this enough. There seems to be a terrible bias among some editors that some sort of random speculative 'I heard it somewhere' pseudo information is to be tagged with a 'needs a cite' tag. Wrong. It should be removed, aggressively, unless it can be sourced. This is true of all information, but it is particularly true of negative information about living persons." ^ This includes material such as documents in publicly-accessible archives, inscriptions on monuments, gravestones, etc., that are available for anyone to see. ^ a b Please do note that any exceptional claim would require