Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Social Welfare / Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme Share Views View Edit Suggest Contributors State: Open for Edit Info Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme This topic covers about process and steps for direct benefit transfer of LPG scheme. Contents The Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) or PAHAL (Pratyaksh Hanstantrit Labh) scheme was earlier launched on June 1, 2013 and finally covered 291 districts. It required the consumer to mandatorily have an Aadhaar number for availing LPG Subsidy. The government has comprehensively reviewed the scheme and after examining the difficulties faced by the consumer substantively modified the scheme. The modified scheme is being re-launched in 54 districts on 15.11.2014 in the 1st Phase and in the rest of the country on 1.1.2015. As on Jan 1, 2015, the scheme covers over 15.3 crore consumers across 676 districts of the country. As part of the first phase, over 6.5 crore consumers ie. 43% have already joined the scheme and are receiving the subsidy in their bank account. As on 30.12.2014, an amount of Rs.624 Crore has been transferred to over 20 Lakh LPG consumers since the launch of the scheme on 15th November 2014. Modified DBTL scheme Options to receive LPG subsidy Under the modified scheme, the LPG consumer can now receive subsidy in his bank account by two methods. Such a consumer will be called CTC (Cash Transfer Compliant) once he joins the scheme and is ready to receive subsidy in the bank account. The two options are: Option I (Primary) : For joining the scheme, the consumers have to fill up a form available with distributors and also on www.mylpg.in . The consumers need to provide their Aadhaar number to LPG distributor and to Bank. Option II (Secondary) : If LPG consumer does not have an Aadhaar number, then he can directly receive subsidy in his bank account without the use of Aadhaar number. This option which has now been introduced in the modified scheme ensures that LPG subsidy is not denied to an LPG consumer on account of lack of Aadhaar number. In this option, Either consumer can Present bank account information (bank account holder name /account number /IFSC code) to the LPG distributor for capture in LPG database OR Present LPG consumer information (17 digit LPG consumer ID) to his bank. LPG consumers who do not wish to avail the LPG subsidy for LPG cylinders can simply choose to opt out of subsidy. Over 12000 citizens have already voluntarily given up subsidy freeing up crores of subsidy amount for their less privileged brethren. LPG Consumers who are already CTC prior to launch on modified DBTL Domestic LPG Consumer who had already joined the earlier DBTL scheme by linking their Aadhaar to bank and LPG database don’t need to take fresh action for receiving subsidy as the subsidy will be transferred to their bank accounts via Aadhaar based on the previous seeding. Such CTC consumers cannot exercise Option II above. Consumers can check CTC (cash transfer compliance) status on www.mylpg.in . Pricing under DBTL Under DBTL, once a consumer joins the scheme, he will get the cylinders at market price and will receive LPG subsidy directly in his bank account. A sum of Rs 568 will be paid in advance to the consumer, in the bank account, who now joins the scheme, as soon as s/he makes the first booking for a cylinder after joining the scheme to ensure that s/he has extra money required to pay for the first LPG cylinder at market price. This is in addition to subsidy that is paid on each cylinder. This process is followed for each subsidized cylinder delivered (up to the cap) as per his/her entitlement. To keep consumers informed about their status in the scheme, consumers will receive SMS at every stage in the scheme. To avail of this feature all LPG consumers are requested to register their mobile number with their distributor if they have not done so. They are also advised to receive cylinders only with cash memos to be assured of their subsidy transfer. Grace Period Non-CTC consumers will be allowed 3 months from the date of launch of DBTL to become CTC. During this period such consumers will receive their entitlement of subsidized cylinders at the then applicable subsidized retail selling price. Between 1st January 2015 and 31st March 2015 (three months), any LPG consumer who does not join the scheme will get the cylinder at subsidized price. Between 1st April 2015 and 30th June 2015 (three months), those LPG consumers who still do not join the scheme will start getting the cylinder at market price and subsidy will be parked with the Oil Marketing Companies. As soon as they join the scheme within this 3 month period, the parked subsidy would be sent to their bank account, else it will lapse. From 1st July 2015, consumers who have still not joined the scheme will get the cylinder at market price, but subsidy will not be admissible. Subsidy will be transferred only to the bank account of those consumers who have joined the scheme prior to 30th June 2015. Any consumer joining the scheme after 30th June 2015 will get permanent advance and subsidy with prospective effect. Permanent Advance A one-time Advance will be provided to every CTC consumer joining DBTL. The Advance will be notified, from time to time and will remain fixed for a financial year. Currently it is fixed as Rs 568. It will remain with the consumer till the time of termination of connection, when it will be finally adjusted. LPG consumers who were provided permanent advance on a previous scale will not be eligible for any differential payment on account of the revision in the permanent advance. Coverage of districts under DBTL The scheme is to be launched in two phases 54 Districts where DBTL scheme is launched on Nov 15, 2014 . Rest of India where DBTL scheme is to be launched from January 1, 2015. Helplines Oil Manufacturing companies - IOCL, HPCL, BPCL - 18002333555 Source : Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas Page Rating (6 votes) 4.5 Post Your Suggestion (If you have any comments / suggestions on the above content, please post them here) Name Your Message   Type the word given below Navigation Women and Child Development Scheduled Caste Welfare Scheduled Tribes Welfare Backward Classes Welfare Unorganised Sector Welfare Differently- abled Welfare Community power Financial Inclusion Unorganised Sector Minority Welfare Senior citizens Welfare Rural Poverty Alleviation Urban Poverty Alleviation NGO-Voluntary Sector Disaster Management Fight against social evils Skill development Social Security Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme Discussion Forum - Social Welfare Related Items Home Women and energy policies Others Pension, Family and Maternity benefits more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector