Energy — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Energy Share Info Energy The energy section provides information on technologies, best practices, policies and schemes and database related to energy conservation, improved energy efficiency and enhanced energy production from renewable sources. Towards Sustainable energy for all… Access to modern energy services is key to development. As India progresses ahead, energy demand is on the increase. At this juncture, increased energy conservation, improved energy efficiency and enhanced energy production from renewable sources need attention. Green environment – it’s everyone’s responsibility Environment and climate change are no longer global issues that are discussed only in conferences. They have become every man’s problem, given the impact it creates on one’s daily life. Hence, every individual's efforts to green our planet earth counts. Increased energy conservation, improved energy efficiency and enhanced energy production from renewable sources can definitely lead India to become self sustainable communities. The energy portal attempts to give information on the above aspects with inspiring stories that would motivate you to use them and derive the associated benefits. Energy Basics The basics of energy such as sources of energy, forms of energy, units of power and energy and present use of energy is explained. Energy conservation The importance of energy conservation and simple tips to conserve energy at home, in agriculture, transport systems and various other places is explained. Energy efficiency Technologies that promote energy efficiency are outlined here. Energy production Various technologies for energy production from renewable sources are discussed here. Best Practices Experiments and experiences in meeting the energy and water demands of communities are detailed hers. Women and Energy This section covers various aspects related to women and energy. Policy Support Various policies and schemes of government and other agencies are detailed in this section. Rural Innovations This section contains details of grassroots innovations. Environment All aspects related to Environment such as policies, tips, technologies, etc are covered in this section. Database The database of agencies related to energy product sales and service, schemes, funding, etc is presented in this section. Mohana vamsi Feb 17, 2014 10:55 AM vikaspedia one way to prime society Venkat Feb 17, 2014 04:04 PM This site is a media that helps in improving and enhancing the life-style of rural India. But it needs advertisement too - from govt side. bhogeswar Feb 18, 2014 09:37 PM A lot information need to added to this site which should be helpful atleast it should serve as a complete knowledge bank to students, in later stages latest innovations by scientists.. Ravi Feb 19, 2014 09:42 PM This site needs to have the details of the energy products like solar plates wind turbines and other re usable energy source provided by the government on subsidy or a place where it can be procured from easily and at a right regulated price. SUROJIT BAKALI Jul 24, 2014 09:06 AM I appreciate the first comment. These website is very helpful but to involve lager population to it required a huge advertisement among every class of people in India.. Other wise again it'll be stay good for nothing..... SRIKANTA Jul 26, 2014 08:34 PM I want to know from this website variety type of energy related simple, low-cost , energy related model , idea , information or technology for rural area .How it is possible ? Post Your Suggestion (If you have any comments / suggestions on the above content, please post them here) Name Your Message   Type the word given below Navigation Energy Basics Energy conservation Energy efficiency Energy production Best practices Women and energy Policy support Rural Innovations Environment Energy access Database Discussion Forum - Energy Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector See More.... Energy Energy Basics Energy conservation Energy efficiency Energy production Best Practices Women and Energy Policy Support Rural Innovations See More.... e-Governance e-Governance in India About RTI Act 2005 e-Gov Services online Resources for VLEs