LANSA | Leveraging Agriculture for Nutrition in South Asia Skip to main content Contact us Login Intranet Search form Search Navigation Home About us What we do Innovative Research Strengthen Capacity Inform policy and practice Who we are People Partners MS Swaminathan Research Foundation BRAC Collective for Social Science Research Institute of Development Studies International Food Policy Research Institute Leverhulme Centre for Integrative Research on Agriculture and Health UK Department for International Development Research themes Enabling Environments for Nutrition Barriers and facilitators Bridging disconnects Agri-Food Policies and Markets Influences on nutrition impacts Public and private actions Nutrition Sensitive Agriculture Farming system for nutrition Impact of farming and knowledge Impact of land grants to landless women Nutrition communication and technology Cross-Cutting Themes Country Afghanistan Bangladesh India Pakistan Publications News LANSA News LANSA Blog Gender and nutrition Given the links between women’s empowerment and nutrition, gender frames our research. Read More Nutrition Sensitive Agriculture How can agriculture interventions be designed to improve nutritional status? Read More Agri-food value chains How can nutritional impacts be improved in agriculture and food value chains? Read More Enabling environments How can agriculture and food systems be better linked to other drivers of nutrition? Read More 1 2 3 4 Nearly half of South Asian children are stunted. Agriculture is the main livelihood for nearly half the population in the region, yet its potential for reducing undernutrition has not been realised. LANSA is a new international research partnership. We are finding out how agriculture and agri-food systems can be better designed to advance nutrition. We are focused on policies, interventions and strategies that can improve the nutritional status of children in South Asia. What we do Innovative research Research to help us maximise agriculture for improved nutrition outcomes Capacity strengthening Facilitating knowledge sharing and learning between partners and amongst stakeholders Inform policy and practice Communicating research and engaging key stakeholders throughout the process Latest Blog How good are you at research uptake? New tool to assess capacity What’s Next for Biofortification in South Asia Post-Kigali? Agriculture can’t fulfil its commitment to nutrition without much more broadly based innovation Short film about Farming Systems for Nutrition UK tops rankings for tackling undernutrition for 2nd year Read more Partner News Battered but not broken What Kinds of Social Safety Net Transfers Work Best for the Rural Ultra Poor? New report argues water is integral to food security and nutrition Graduation: Ensuring social protection delivers for the poor Centre for Social Protection newsletter 31 Read more Country Focus partners