CAB eBooks Cookies on CAB eBooks Like most websites we use cookies. This is to ensure that we give you the best experience possible. Continuing to use www.cabi.org/cabebooks means you agree to our use of cookies. If you would like to, you can learn more about the cookies we use. Close Find out more CAB eBooks Ebooks on agriculture and the applied life sciences from CAB International Other CABI sites AgBiotechNet Animal Health & Production Compendium Animal Science Database Aquaculture Compendium CAB Direct CAB eBooks CAB Reviews CAB Thesaurus CABI Bookshop CABI.org Crop Protection Compendium Descriptions of Fungi and Bacteria Distribution Maps of Plant Diseases Distribution Maps of Plant Pests Environmental Impact Forest Science Forestry Compendium InfoTree Invasive Species Compendium Japanese Knotweed Alliance Leisure Tourism Nutrition and Food Sciences Plantwise VetMed Resource Home About MARC Records Help Contact Mobile Subscribe Sign in Sign in Username Password Sign in Remember me Forgotten password? Institutional sign in Choose institution Sign in using my IP Not yet subscribed? Subscribe here Agriculture Animal & Veterinary Environmen tal Science Human Health & Nutrition Leisure & Tourism Plant Sciences Search CAB eBooks Search CAB eBooks Enter keyword or phrase Search Search within topic Limit to selected topics Agriculture Animal & Veterinary Environmental Science Human Health & Nutrition Leisure & Tourism Plant Sciences Filter by type Limit to selected content types CABI Book Chapter Info CABI Book Info Advanced Bibliographic Search CAB eBooks smart searches are based on commonly researched topics, and your own requests Request a search Latest content Not subscribed CABI Book Info Rodent pests and their control. This updated 2nd edition, two decades after the publication of the first edition, combines information from the latest scientific research on rodent pests and their control. It includes 19 chapters discussing: the natural history of rodents and preadaptations to pestilence; commensal rodents;... Authors Buckle, A.; Smith, R. ISBN 2015 CABI (H ISBN 9781845938178) Recommend to my librarian CABI Book Info Bt resistance: characterization and strategies for GM crops producing Bacillus thuringiensis toxins. This book focuses on descriptions of the extent of use of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) crops and the emerging problem of resistance, recent progress in elucidating the mechanism of action of Bt toxins and describing the different resistance mechanisms and strategies for coping with resistance in the... Authors Soberón, M.; Gao, A.; Bravo, A. ISBN 2015 CABI (H ISBN 9781780644370) Recommend to my librarian CABI Book Info The nature of crops: how we came to eat the plants we do. This book, containing nine chapters, aims to try and ascertain why we eat so few of the plant species that are available to us on Earth. The first chapter suggests that our ancestral diets differed greatly between cultures and although some of these may have been more diverse than our own, many... Authors Warren, J. M. ISBN 2015 CABI (H ISBN 9781780645087) Recommend to my librarian CABI Book Info Livestock production and climate change. This 395-paged-book aims to raise awareness among scientists, academics, students, livestock farmers and policy makers of the twin inter-related and inter-dependent complex mechanisms of livestock rearing and climate change. The contents are divided into sections: one on livestock production, one... Authors Malik, P. K.; Bhatta, R.; Takahashi, J.; Kohn, R. A.; Prasad, C. S. ISBN 2015 CABI (H ISBN 9781780644325) Recommend to my librarian CABI Book Info Amino acids in higher plants. This book, divided into 5 parts, deals with topics on amino acids in higher plants. Part I (enzymes and metabolism) contains 16 chapters pursuing the theme of amino acid metabolism through the driving actions of the principal enzymes, emphasizing recent advances particularly with reference to... Authors D'Mello, J. P. F. ISBN 2015 CAB International (H ISBN 9781780642635) Recommend to my librarian Not all content could be returned, please refresh the page. If you continue to see this message please report the issue, thank you. My CAB eBooks Account Create and export short lists Create bibliography Save content Articles, books, reviews and more… Save searches Monitor the latest content Your Subscriptions Collections you are not subscribed to: Front File (2011-present) Archive (2008-2010) Archive (2005-2007) Archive (2000-2004) Contact Sales to subscribe Subscribe to CABeBooks Please contact sales@cabi.org if you are interested in subscribing to CAB eBooks. Content types CABI Book Chapter Info CABI Book Info Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Cookies Accessibility Feedback Copyright © 2015 CABI. CABI is a registered EU trademark Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email