Char Dham Yatra and Location Map of Char Dham of India Home » Maps » India » Char Dham Yatra   About India Political Map of India States and Capitals of India Districts of India Physical Map of India India Outline Map India River Map India Satellite Map India Zone Map Tier I And Tier II Cities of India Per Capita Income of India Climate Map of India Temperature Map of India India Seismic Zone Map India Topographic Map Mountain Ranges in India Soil Map of India Vegetation Map of India Lakes in India Telecom Circles Map Hydro Power Plants in India Thermal Power Plants in India Nuclear Power Plants in India Pre Partition Map of India Annual Rainfall in India Water Resources of India Map of Ruling Parties of India India Map in Various Languages Google Map India Universities in India Transport Network in India India Road Map National Highways in India India Railway Map Indian Railways Timetable Railway Zones Map of India Konkan Railway Delhi Metro Airports in India Air Network in India Ports in India Facts about India India Flag Geography of India History of India India Census Maps Economy of India Culture of India AIIMS in India Travel to India Tourist Places in India Religious Places in India Taj Mahal India Taj Mahal Facts Char Dham Yatra Beaches in India Hill Stations in India Hotels in India Jyotirlinga Shrines in India States of India Andhra Pradesh Goa Gujarat Tamilnadu Cities of India Delhi Mumbai Kolkata World Map World Continents Map Custom Mapping Major Events in 2015 My India What is Net Neutrality Land Acquisition Bill Child Labour in India Water crisis in India Unemployment in India Overpopulation in India Poverty in India       Char Dham Yatra Location of Char Dham in India Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Location of Char Dham in India Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Char Dham Yatra has a great significance among the Hindus. There is a belief among the Hindu community that a yatra to the Char Dham washes away all the sins of a person and takes him to 'Moksha'. It is also believed that a Hindu must visit these pilgrimage sites once in his lifetime. Char Dham are the different abodes of God widely revered by the Hindus. These destinations are spread across four different directions of the country - Badrinath in the north, Puri in the east, Rameswaram in the south and Dwarka in the west. The term "Char Dham" was given by Sri Adi Shankaracharya. Char Dham form a square as Badrinath and Rameswaram fall on the same longitude and Dwarka and Puri fall on the same latitude. The four abodes have their own significance and importance in Hindu mythology. Badrinath The Badrinath Dham is one of the sacred places located in the Himalayas. It is situated in the Badrinath town in Uttarakhand at a height of 3133m above sea level. The Badrinath Temple is dedicated to Lord Vishnu and it is believed that he had done his penance at this holy place. According to the mythological beliefs, when Goddess Mahalaxmi saw Lord Vishnu undertaking his penance in open, she took the form of Badari tree and provided him shelter to protect him from adverse weather conditions. Hence, the temple is named as Badari Narayan. The Kings of Garhwal have built the present structure of the temple. The Lord Badari Narayan carries a Shankh (Conch) in one hand and Chakra in the other. The other two arms rest on the lap in Yogamudra. The best time to visit this pilgrimage site is from May to October except monsoons. Puri The Jagannath Temple is located in Puri, Odisha. The name 'Jagannath' is derived from the word 'Jagat Nath', which means the 'Lord of the Universe'. The deities of Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra are worshipped in the temple. The idols of these deities are made from wood. After every twelve years, these wooden idols are replaced ceremoniously with the wood of sacred trees. Exactly same replica of the wooden statues is prepared during every ceremony. Daily worship in the temple takes place four times a day- 1, 5, 9 and 11 am. An annual Rath Yatra or the Chariot Festival is held in Puri for Lord Jagannath. During this yatra, the three deities are taken out on a procession and kept for nine days at Gundicha Temple. The best time to visit Puri is from October to April. Rameswaram Ramanathaswamy Temple, located in the island of Rameswaram is dedicated to Lord Shiva. It gained this name because here Lord Rama worshipped Lord Shiva, when he returned from Sri Lanka. It is believed that after Rama killed Ravana, in order to clear the "dosha" of killing a brahim, he worshipped an idol of Lord Shiva here which was brought by Lord Hanuman from Kailash. The deity of Shiva, in the temple, is in the form of lingam. There are two lingams in this holy place, one that Goddess Sita had built with sand and the other one which Lord Hanuman brought from Kailash. For the devotees, the temple is open from 5 am to 9 pm (except 1-3 p.m.). The main poojas are performed six times a day. The time from October to April is the best to visit this pilgrimage site. Dwarka Dwarkadhish Temple, popularly known as Jagat mandir is located in Dwarka, Gujarat. It is dedicated to Lord Krishna who is also known as the 'King of Dwarka'. As per Hindu mythology the temple was built by Vajranabha, grandson of Lord Krishna at hari-griha, the resident place of Lord Krishna. The temple is also known as Mokshapuri as it is believed that a person can achieve moksha if he visits this temple. The festival of Janamashtmi, also known as Krishna Janmotsav, is very popular among the devotees here. The timings for darshan in the temple everyday is from 6.30 am to 1 pm and then from 5 pm to 9 pm. The best months to visit the temple are from October to March. The Char Dhams are run and maintained by their respective committees and the government also takes adequate measures to provide services to the devotees and for the maintenance of the temples. All these pilgrimages are well connected through rail, road and air. Every year thousands of devotees visit these places and worship their idols. WBST121214 EBAKB070115 Last Updated on : January 9, 2015 India general Maps India Political Map India Road Map India River Map India Vegetation Map India Nuclear Plant Map Poverty Map of India Political Parties in States of India Top Cities by Rape Incidence in 2011 India Physical Map India Blank Map India Tourist Map India Seismic zoning India Major Sea Routes Map India Large Color Map India Power Grid Map Top States by Rape Incidence in 2011 India Outline Map Indian Railway Map Indian Cuisine Map Thermal Power Plant Map India Large Map India Globe World Heritage Sites in India Indira Gandhi Canal             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule