Child labour in India - Causes, Facts and Consequences | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Society / Child labour in India Child labour in India April 5, 2014 by Debu C   India is growing- but on child labour We Indians take pride in the fact that India is rapidly emerging as a leading developing nation. Prosperity is reaching several segments of people and the benefits have reached out to large parts of the country where none existed just a few decades ago. No mean achievement this. But the story is not entirely green. There is a dark underbelly that has and is contributing to this growth. It’s the use of child labour. As a nation we have long accepted this very cruel practice of using children as very cheap, and often, free labour. We have turned a blind eye to children being denied their right to be in school and an opportunity to better their lives. This problem is across both urban and rural areas and we have been by and large living with this black truth. Consequences of child labour in India The picture that emerges is dark. Children are working in hazardous export oriented industries like fireworks, match works, electroplating, beedi rolling, glass blowing, brassware, lock making, glass blowing, lead mining and stone quarrying amongst several others. These are places that have a severe negative impact on the health of anyone working there. In the case of children, by the time they begin touching their teens, they are already inflicted with several life threatening diseases. Sitting at home in a city, we have no idea of the terrible conditions that these children are made to work in and for more than ten to twelve hours a day. In many cases, these children are offered by the parents in lieu of a loan that they may have taken from the factory owner. So it’s a barter deal; loan in cash that is repaid in kind through the child. Not all are barter deals. Some work for money where the pay is as little as ten rupees per day! There are other situations where children are made to work. These are typically home run cottage industries like handloom and carpet weaving. This author has personally visited carpet weaving centers in Bhadohi and Mirzapur, in eastern U.P. and has seen children working alongside their parents, in virtually all homes lying in interior rural areas. The typical explanation given by the parents are that they see the child as an additional resource for income generation. This is a necessity given the abject poverty prevailing in rural areas and in the absence of any social security system. People look at raising children as additional manpower, which further exacerbates the population problem that India is reeling under. It’s a Catch-22 situation! A poor villager can’t afford to raise children but continues to produce them in the hope that they will add to the income while also providing an income security in his old age. This is one of the primary reasons one sees large families in rural areas where deep poverty prevails. While this situation is still understandable even if not justifiable, what about child labour and abuse in urban and semi urban cities and towns? What about our homes? This gets murkier. Remember the recent case in Vasant Kunj, a South Delhi middle–to-upper-middle class colony, where a maid from Jharkhand was locked up at home, and was beaten and tortured for over several months. She was denied food and when she couldn’t take it anymore, she barely managed to scream for help. When the police along with representatives of a NGO finally managed to get an entry, they were horrified to find a starving sick girl with scars on her body that included burn marks. She was filthy, having skin infections, and was in traumatized state. All this in the home of a lady working in a senior position in a well-paid MNC. And we think that child labour and abuse happens only in the villages? This is right here in the heart of India’s capital and in the home of a so called highly educated and highly paid executive. How can we live with this? So what makes a person living in an urban area do this, especially in an age of high awareness of the laws, active roles played by NGOs, and a hyper active media? Despite this, we still have people employing children as domestic labour and abusing them! What has made us so cold and cruel? Why have we allowed our inner conscience to die? What legacy of morality and ethics do we leave for our children when a child’s first education is supposed to start from home? The very home where another child is denied his basic fundamental right to education and a life of dignity. A nation stands on the legs of its society and the citizens that live within it. If we have to build a nation where the next generation can live with dignity and fairness, where there is equal opportunity to prosper for all, then we have to ensure that we lay the very core of that society on a strong foundation i.e. our home. If there is a child labour happening in our home or in our vicinity, it is our moral right to raise our voice against it. If we don’t, we would lose our moral right to look into our children’s eyes and expect respect from them. We cannot raise one child’s future while denying another one. No way. Related Information: Family planning in India Overpopulation in India Human Trafficking in India Child Trafficking Poverty and its causes Why India is a poor Country ? Child Labour Debu C I'am a quintessential traveler surfing the winds of time. With horizons everywhere ... still searching for my path.....can I ? ....will I ?....if only time will wait... but the winds... they never wait !!! More articles from Debu C : Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission What is Kejriwal’s Gajendra Singh Kisan Sahayata Yojana? Agra-Lucknow Expressway: India’s First Road Runway Draupadi Murmu: First Tribal Woman Governor in India Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Baidyanath sah on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd omprakash on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd VIJAY MANGLIK on Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012