A Fresh Businessman Should Pay Attention to Corn Peeling Machine Maintenance AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS General Questions & Answers A Fresh Businessman Should Pay Attention to Corn Peeling Machine Maintenance Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: A Fresh Businessman Should Pay Attention to Corn Peeling Machine Maintenance LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 1 Day Ago #1 joanna yan Join Date Apr 2014 Posts 138 A Fresh Businessman Should Pay Attention to Corn Peeling Machine Maintenance CORN PEELING MACHINE is a common machine in grain processing plant. However, a fresh businessman should notice its maintenance. Now, let’s introduce detailed notices for the equipments. Strictly operate as the rules, making sure safe protection and maintenance. Be cautious against disease-carrying work. Firmly keep quality at first place and increase flour extraction and yield. The dead corn peeling machine should be lively operated and the old newly. When the corn peeling machine needs maintenance, you should correctly operate till they exert the highest efficiency. Increase hulling rate in the front line and grinding rate in front mid line; enhance sifting rate. The materials should be completely grinded, clearly graded and purely sifted. When you find it is not completely hulled, you should prevent leakage by strengthening tail rolling. If husks are mixed with too much flour, you should increase efficiency of sifter and brusher in the rear line. Keep high stability and flexibility. see more information on www.wintone-machinery.in contact me through joannayan198712@gmail.com Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 10:26 PM .