Overpopulation in India - Causes, Effects, Stats and How to control it? | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / India / Overpopulation in India – Causes, Effects and How to Control it? Overpopulation in India – Causes, Effects and How to Control it? July 31, 2014 by Rumani Saikia Phukan Every nook and corner of India is a clear display of increasing population. Whether you are in a metro station, airport, railway station, road, highway, bus stop, hospital, shopping mall, market, temple, or even in a social/ religious gathering, we see all these places are overcrowded at any time of the day. This is a clear indication of overpopulation in the country. According to the Indian census, carried out in 2011, the population of India was exactly 1,210,193,422, which means India has crossed the 1-billion mark. This is the second most populous country of the world after China and the various studies have projected that India will be world’s number-1 populous country, surpassing China, by 2025. Inspite of the fact that the population policies, family planning and welfare programmes undertaken by the Govt. of India have led to a continuous decrease in the fertility rate, yet the actual stabilisation of population can take place only by 2050. Causes of Over Population The two main common causes leading to over population in India are: The birth rate is still higher than the death rate. We have been successful in declining the death rates but the same cannot be said for birth rates. The fertility rate due to the population policies and other measures has been falling but even then it is much higher compared to other countries. The above causes are interrelated to the various social issues in our country which are leading to over population. Early Marriage and Universal Marriage System: Even though legally the marriageable age of a girl is 18 years, the concept of early marriage still prevails and getting married at an young age prolongs the child bearing age. Also, in India, marriage is a sacred obligation and a universal practice, where almost every woman is married at the reproductive age. Poverty and Illiteracy: Another factor for the rapid growth of population is poverty. Impoverished families have this notion that more the number of members in the family, more will be the numbers to earn income. Some feel that more children are needed to look after them in their old age. Also hunger can be cause of death of their children and hence the need for more children. Strange but true, Indian still lag behind the use of contraceptives and birth control methods. Many of them are not willing to discuss or are totally unaware about them. Illiteracy is thus another cause of over population Age old cultural norm: Sons are the bread earners of the families in India. This age old thought puts considerable pressure on the parents to produce children till a male child is born. More the better. Illegal migration: Last but not the least, we cannot ignore the fact that illegal migration is continuously taking place from Bangladesh, Nepal leading to increased population density. Effects of Over Population Even after 67 years of independence, the scenario of our country is not good, due to over population. Some major impacts of high population are as follows: Unemployment: Generating employment for a huge population in a country like India is very difficult. The number of illiterate persons increases every year. Unemployment rate is thus showing an increasing trend. Manpower utilisation: The number of jobless people is on the rise in India due to economic depression and slow business development and expansion activities. Pressure on infrastructure: Development of infrastructural facilities is unfortunately not keeping pace with the growth of population. The result is lack of transportation, communication, housing, education, healthcare etc. There has been an increase in the number of slums, overcrowded houses, traffic congestion etc. Resource utilisation: Land areas, water resources, forests are over exploited. There is also scarcity of resources. Decreased production and increased costs: Food production and distribution have not been able to catch up with the increasing population and hence the costs of production have increased. Inflation is the major consequence of over population. Inequitable income distribution: In the face of an increasing population, there is an unequal distribution of income and inequalities within the country widen. Steps to Control Population in India The Government of India, politicians, policy makers should initiate a bold population policy so that the economic growth of the country can keep pace with the demands of a growing population. Major steps which have been already implemented but still need to be emphasised more to control population. Increasing the welfare and status of women and girls, spread of education, increasing awareness for the use of contraceptives and family planning methods, sex education, encouraging male sterilisation and spacing births, free distribution of contraceptives and condoms among the poor, encouraging female empowerment, more health care centres for the poor , to name a few, can play a major role in controlling population. India’s strengths in the global world in various fields cannot be ignored, whether in science & technology, medicine and health care, business and industry, military, communication, entertainment, literature and many more. Experts are hopeful that by increasing public awareness and enlisting strict population control norms by the Government will definitely lead the way for the country’s economic prosperity and control of population. Related Information: Expanding middle class in India Family planning in India Human Trafficking in India Child Trafficking Child labour in India Poverty and its causes Why India is a poor Country ? Problems in India Rumani Saikia Phukan I am an experienced web content management professional with a sound understanding in website content development, content editing, SEO, and internet research. I love blogging, cooking, listening to music and watching TV. I have a passion for writing on anything that interests me. Married and mother of 2 kids, I enjoy my work and try to maintain a balance between my professional and personal life. Fun loving and God fearing, I take life as it comes. More articles from Rumani Saikia Phukan : Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India Amendments in the Child Labour Law: The Real Picture Green Tea: Types, Benefits and Side Effects Fun n Food Village in Delhi How to Prevent Hair Loss in 10 Tested Ways? Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Comments Showing 6 Comments : sourav sharma May 26, 2015 at 6:50 pm good Reply Carlos Sintana March 24, 2015 at 8:51 pm this really helped me understand how much India is really overpopulated Reply Advice chijena February 6, 2015 at 11:43 pm Overpopulation in india is uncontrollable due to its values and norms Reply gauri December 26, 2014 at 9:46 pm Population growth must be controlled otherwise it will lead to great problems Reply ogonna December 5, 2014 at 4:41 am i love this post. Reply N.K.PANDU October 26, 2014 at 10:38 am population and its over its the major cause s of development at that movement . Each and everybody can participate for how to control it. come forward and find out the solution of this causes. N.K.PANDU-NBDP INDIA Reply Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Baidyanath sah on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd omprakash on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd VIJAY MANGLIK on Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013