Shillong City Map Home » Maps » Meghalaya » Shillong City Map   Meghalaya मेघालय का नक्शा Districts of Meghalaya West Khasi Hills East Garo Hills West Garo Hills South Garo Hills              more.. Meghalaya Map Cities in Meghalaya Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Shillong City Map Cherrapunji City Map Travel to Meghalaya Places to visit in Meghalaya Wildlife Sanctuaries Elephant Falls Cherrapunji Travel Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Agricultural Map Geography Media in Meghalaya Government Education Universities in Meghalaya History Mineral Map Society Information Hotels in Meghalaya Shillong Hotels Sex Ratio Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Polls Pincode STD Code       Shillong City Map City Map of Shillong Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Map showing Roads, Railway, Hotels, Hospitals and Important Landmarks of Shillong, Meghalaya. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Meghalaya         Shillong City Map Cherrapunji City Map   Shillong, capital of the state of Meghalaya is located at 25.57° N and 91.88° E on a plateau in the eastern part of the state. Shillong falls in the East Khasi hills district of the state and is also the district headquarters. The city, spread over a total area of 6436 square kilometers, is situated at an altitude of 1496 meters, surrounded by hills. The temperature varies from 23°C in summers to 4°C in winters. The temperate hill climate and the natural beauty of the country side have made Shillong into an attractive tourist destination of the state and the city offers all the facilities for tourists such as hotels and accommodation. It is one of the few urban centers in the state. Roads are the most important link of the city and it is connected by motorable roads to neighboring states and the country. There is no airport in the city, nor is it connected by rail. The closest air and rail link is in Guwahati in Assam. Shillong is connected by National highway 40 and National highway 44. NH 40, runs entirely within the state of Meghalaya and connects Shillong to Jorabat and Jowai. NH 44 connects Shillong with Agartala, the capital of Tripura, passing through the state of Assam at Karimganj. The total population of the city is 223366 with the majority of the populations belonging to the Khasi tribe. Christianity is the dominant religion and Shillong has a number of churches. It also has a very high literacy rate of 87%. Localities in the City Shillong is divided into various geographical localities having schools, churches, hospitals etc. The localities are Langkryding, Pynthorumkhrah, Shyriap, Laitumkhrah, Happy Valley, Dernthring, Nongthymmai, Moti nagar, Lamwabah, Upper Mawprem, and Lower Mawprem. Laitumkhrah has one of the oldest hospitals in Shillong, The Nazareth Hospital. The Laitumkhrah Catholic Cemetery is also located here. The church of Saint Peters and Paul is located in Pynthorumkhrah. Important Landmarks in the City The headquarters of the Northern Eastern Council is also located here. The Shillong Golf Course, one of the oldest in the country, is in the center of the city. The Pasteur Institute The Power Grid Corporation of India has its regional headquarters for the north eastern region located at Shillong. Don Bosco Museum, one of the top cultural and academic institutions of the state, has a research and publication division, apart from galleries displaying northeastern artifacts and paintings. Religious and Educational Institutes Some of the famous churches in Shillong are Baptist church, Catholic Pastoral center, All Saints Church, St Peters and Paul Catholic church, Mawpat Catholic Church, Mawlai Kyntonmasar Presbyterian Church. Shillong is one of the most developed parts of the state and has developed into an educational hub with a number of educational institutes present here The educational institutes in the city are Auxillium School, , Seng Khasi Higher secondary School, Lady Keane College, Army school, Queenie Secondary School, Shillong Vidyalaya, Shillong Polytechnic ,North Eastern Hill University, and CMJ University.   Shillong Images   Cherry Blossoms Elephant Falls Lewduh Market Mawsmai Cave Nohklikai Falls Souls Day Tir Game Umian Lake Village Smit Wettest Territory Cherapunji Last Updated on : 16/04/2013   Shillong Maps   Shillong City Map Shillong Location in Meghalaya District Map Shillong Location Map Shillong Travel Map Places to Visit in Shillong Elephant Falls Shillong Peak Cathedral of Mary help of Christians Butterfly Museum Lady Hydari Park Golf Course Umiam Lake Don Bosco Centre for Indigenous Culture Places to visit in Meghalaya Places to visit in Cherrapunji Places to Visit in Shillong Shillong Location Map Shillong Travel Map Places to Visit in Shillong Travel to Cherrapunji Elephant Falls Shillong Peak Cathedral of Mary help of Christians Butterfly Museum Travel to Meghalaya Lady Hydari Park Golf Course Umiam Lake Don Bosco Centre for Indigenous Culture             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule