Oklahoma Climatological Survey Home About News Contact Oklahoma Mesonet Climate Weather Research Outreach Reports Oklahoma Climate Local Data Tornadoes & Severe Storms Drought & Wildfire Extreme Heat & Cold Outlooks Reports & Summaries Links & Resources Oklahoma Climate Long-term Averages & Extremes Normal annual temperature learn more Normal annual temperature The normal annual temperature for a 30-year period using observations from the National Weather Service cooperative observer network. Data are quality assured by the National Climatic Data Center. Normal annual precipitation learn more Normal annual precipitation The normal annual precipitation for a 30-year period using observations from the National Weather Service cooperative observer network. Data are quality assured by the National Climatic Data Center. Normal annual snowfall learn more Normal annual snowfall The normal annual snowfall for a 30-year period using observations from the National Weather Service cooperative observer network. Data are quality assured by the National Climatic Data Center. Temperature history - Annual, statewide learn more Temperature history - Annual, statewide The graph shows the evolution of Oklahoma's temperature history since the modern record began in 1895. The diamonds represent the average of the observed in the region for each year. The red-blue trace represents the five-year weighted average of these temperature values over time. Precipitation history - Annual, statewide learn more Precipitation history - Annual, statewide The graph shows the evolution of Oklahoma's precipitation history since the modern record began in 1895. The diamonds represent the average of the measured precipitation in the region for each year. The green-brown trace represents the five-year weighted average of these precipitation values over time. Average number of days with highs above 100°F learn more Average number of days with highs above 100°F The average number of days per year when the high temperature is 100 degrees Fahrenheit or hotter. Average number of days with highs above 90°F learn more Average number of days with highs above 90°F The average number of days per year when the high temperature is 90 degrees Fahrenheit or hotter. Average number of days with highs below 32°F learn more Average number of days with highs below 32°F The average number of days per year when the high temperature is 32 degrees Fahrenheit or colder. Average number of days with lows below 32°F learn more Average number of days with lows below 32°F The average number of days per year when the low temperature is 32 degrees Fahrenheit or colder. Average annual heating degree days (HDD) learn more Average annual heating degree days (HDD) The average annual heating degree days for a 30-year period using observations from the National Weather Service cooperative observer network. Data are quality assured by the National Climatic Data Center. Average annual cooling degree days (CDD) learn more Average annual cooling degree days (CDD) The average annual cooling degree days for a 30-year period using observations from the National Weather Service cooperative observer network. Data are quality assured by the National Climatic Data Center. Average date of first freeze learn more Average date of first freeze This is a map of the average date of the first freeze observed in autumn. Average date of last freeze learn more Average date of last freeze This is a map of the average date of the last freeze observed in spring. Average length of growing season learn more Average length of growing season This map displays the average number of days the growing season has been frost free throughout Oklahoma. This map was created using daily reports from National Weather Service Cooperative Observers, volunteer weather observers who provide data for the climatological record of Oklahoma and the United States. Earliest fall freeze learn more Earliest fall freeze The Date of the Earliest First Freeze map shows the date of the earliest observed occurrence of the last freeze in autumn. Latest spring freeze learn more Latest spring freeze The Date of the Latest Last Freeze map shows the date of the latest observed occurrence of the last freeze in spring. Climate Overview & Events Oklahoma weather timeline The Oklahoma Weather Timeline provides a decade-by-decade listing of interesting or disastrous events that have occurred in Oklahoma's weather history. For more detailed daily summaries (since 2003) please view the Oklahoma monthly climate summaries. Climate Overview A climate overview for the state of Oklahoma. State Records Temperature, precipitation, and other state weather extremes. Other Climate-related Maps Map of Oklahoma climate divisions learn more Map of Oklahoma climate divisions This map shows Oklahoma counties separated into the nine climate divisions. Ecoregions of Oklahoma - Oklahoma Forestry Services learn more Ecoregions of Oklahoma - Oklahoma Forestry Services This is a map produced by the Oklahoma Forestry Services that separates the state into its 12 ecoregions. The ecoregions are based on environmental conditions, climate, landforms, and soil characteristics. Ecoregions of Oklahoma - Level III (Omerick) learn more Ecoregions of Oklahoma - Level III (Omerick) The Oklahoma ecoregion map was compiled at a scale of 1:250,000; it revises and subdivides an earlier level III ecoregion map that was originally compiled at a smaller scale (Omernik, 1987; U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2005). In Oklahoma, there are 12 level III ecoregions. More maps can be found at http://www.epa.gov/wed/pages/ecoregions/ok_eco.htm. 120 David L. Boren Blvd., Suite 2900 Norman, OK 73072 phone: 405.325.2541 fax: 405.325.2550 Climate Weather Research Outreach Reports Ticker Data Fees About News Contact Copyright © 1994-2015 Board of Regents of the University of Oklahoma. All Rights Reserved.