Fish on Farms: Food Security & Nutrition in Rural Cambodia Skip to content Campuses UBC Directories UBC Quick Links [X] close The University of British Columbia a place of mind Faculty of Land and Food Systems Fish On Farms Home Overview People Case Studies Media Photos Partners Contact Us Blog Fish on Farms Improving household food security and nutrition outcomes, livelihoods and women’s empowerment through a sustainable homestead food production model. Fish on Farms Improving household food security and nutrition outcomes, livelihoods and women’s empowerment through a sustainable homestead food production model. Fish on Farms Improving household food security and nutrition outcomes, livelihoods and women’s empowerment through a sustainable homestead food production model. Fish on Farms Improving household food security and nutrition outcomes, livelihoods and women’s empowerment through a sustainable homestead food production model Fish on Farms Improving household food security and nutrition outcomes, livelihoods and women’s empowerment through a sustainable homestead food production model. Fish on Farms Improving household food security and nutrition outcomes, livelihoods and women’s empowerment through a sustainable homestead food production model. Fish on Farms Improving household food security and nutrition outcomes, livelihoods and women’s empowerment through a sustainable homestead food production model. Fish on Farms Improving household food security and nutrition outcomes, livelihoods and women’s empowerment through a sustainable homestead food production model. Connect with Fish on Farms Welcome to Fish on Farms! The Fish on Farms project is being jointly conducted by the  University of British Columbia  (UBC) and  Helen Keller International  (HKI), with technical assistance from WorldFish , in Prey Veng Province, Cambodia. This project, supported by IDRC and CIDA through the Canadian International Food Security Research Fund (CIFSRF), studies how an integrated Homestead Food Production system impacts poverty, food security, and nutrition, particularly among women and children.  This is the first project to rigorously measure the effectiveness of different models of Homestead Food Production at reducing undernutrition using biochemical and anthropometric measurements! Partners Helen Keller International - Cambodia House #43Z43, Street 466 Sangkat Tonle Bassac, Khan Chamkar Mon, P.O. Box 168 , Phnom Penh , Kingdom of Cambodia Tel: +855-23-210851 Fax: +855-23-210852 Email: ZTalukder@hki.org Project Contacts (HKI): Zaman Talukder - Country Director Hou Kroeun - Program Manager Fish on Farms 2205 East Mall, Vancouver , BC , V6T 1Z4 , Canada Tel: 604-822-6195 Fax: 604-822-5143 Email: judy.mclean@ubc.ca Project Contacts (UBC): Associate Professor Tim Green Assistant Professor Judy McLean Emergency Procedures  |  Accessibility  |  Contact UBC  |  © Copyright The University of British Columbia