Andhra Pradesh monuments Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andhra Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Mosques & Shrines in Andhra Pradesh Parks in Andhra Pradesh Caves in Andhra Pradesh Churches in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Temples in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Museums in Andhra Pradesh Cities to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Travel to Srisailam Travel to Tirupati Travel to Visakhapatnam Travel to Vijayawada Travel to Hyderabad Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Srikakulam Hotels in Kurnool Hotels in Tirupati Hotels in Vijayawada Hotels in Nellore About Andhra Pradesh History Climate Home » Andhra Pradesh » Tourism &raquo Monuments Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad, the capital city of Andhra Pradesh is a popular Tourist Spot in India. The city is famous for the Monuments that reflect the charm of the Nizams. These Monuments in Hyderabad are exemplary works of architecture of the past. A trip to South India should include a visit to the city of the Nizams. Charminar Charminar, Hyderabad is a magnificent piece of architecture. Charminar is located in Hyderabad, the capital city of Andhra Pradesh. A Tour to Hyderabad is never complete without a visit to this monument. It has become the pride of the 400 year old city of Hyderabad. Charminar or the Four Minarets was built in 1591 by Mohammed Quli Qutub Shah. This monument is a perfect amalgamation of the Indo-Islamic architecture. It also shows the influence of the various Islamic style from Arab, Turkey and Persia. The artistic style and tradition of the Islamic countries assimilated with the Indian styles as the Muslim rulers invaded and settled in India at different periods of time. Charminar, Hyderabad is a huge square structure built with granite. The monument of Charminar is 56 meter high and 30 meter in width. The four artistically carved minarets of Charminar is constructed at each corner of the monument. Actually these four pillars face the four directions. There are double balconies at each minarets of the Charminar. Charminar is a two storied structure. There is a open roof mosque built in the top floor of the structure that faces the holy city of Mecca. The ground floor of Charminar, Hyderabad has beautiful balconies from where one can have a view of the surrounding areas. Charminar is the oldest mosque in Hyderabad that has been well preserved. It has become one of the most visited Tourist Destination in Hyderabad. Surrounding this historical monument, numerous shops and exotic bazaars have grown up. Golconda Fort Hyderabad, the capital city of Andhra Pradesh is known for its architectural splendor. The Golconda Fort, Hyderabad is reflective of the military architecture during the time of Qutab Shahi rulers. The fort was built mainly as a defensive structure. It acquired an important place in the political map of India at one point of time due to its strategic location. The Fort of Golconda in Hyderabad has a long association with historical rulers. The Kakatiya rulers built a mud fort in Golconda in 1143. Later the rulers of the Bahamani Kingdom got hold of this fort in 1364. But it has been highly fortified under the rule of Quli Qutab Shah when he founded the kingdom of Golconda in 1507. Golconda Fort, Hyderabad consists of numerous halls, royal apartments ans mosques. There are a number of gateways that increases the charm of the Fort of Golconda. The Fateh Darwaza of the fort marks the victorious march of Aurangazeb's army. The Balahisar Darwaza is another magnificent gateway of Golconda Fort. Golconda Fort is built magnificently and reflects the Nawabi culture and style. It is built on a hill and is intelligently planned by the architectures of the time. The intricate and well developed plan of the fort allows proper ventilation and it used to be a respite during the summer months. It is believed that there is an underground tunnel in the fort that leads from the Durbar Hall of the fort to the foothills. Taramathi Gana Mandir and the Premathi Nritya Mandir are the two pavilions just outside the Golconda Fort. Recently, a sound and light show has been arranged in the fort. The special effects of the audio-visual show brings back to life the splendor of the olden days. If on a Tour to Andhra Pradesh, one should not miss a visit to the Golconda Fort in Hyderabad. Falaknuma Palace Falaknuma Palace, Hyderabad was built by Nawab Vikar-ul-Umra Bahadur during the years 1883 to 84. It is built on a 2000 feet high hill. The palace, designed by an Italian architect happens to be one of the finest Palaces in Hyderabad in Andhra Pradesh. In the later years, it was purchased by the Sixth Nizam of Hyderabad and used for the royal guests. But now the ownership of Falaknuma Palace belongs to the grandson of the Seventh Nizam. The Falaknuma Palace is designed in the shape of a scorpion and its two wings are spread out towards north. Its residential quarters of are situated in its ground floor. The Italian marble staircase leading to the upper floor adorns the palace which is decorated with marble figures. The staircase is lined with the portraits of the British Government Generals. The dining room of the palace can accommodate 100 guests at a time. The ballroom of the Falaknuma Palace has a precious organ that has to be manually operated. Falaknuma Palace, Hyderabad hosts a library. The pride of this library is a prestigious collection of holy Quran. The most attractive object in this palace is its magnificent chandeliers. There are 40 such chandeliers used to decorate the palace. The palace has an exquisite collection of antique furniture, paintings, statues, books and manuscripts. This palace is famous for its exclusive collection of Jade. But the palace is seldom opened for the visitors. Falaknuma Palace, Hyderabad is a popular Tourist Attraction in India. But the palace is seldom opened for the visitors, so prior permissions are needed to visit the Falaknuma Palace. Purani Haveli Hyderabad, the capital of Andhra Pradesh is known for the ancient architectures. Purani Haveli, Hyderabad is situated in Dewandevdi. It is a U shaped building. The central part of it is a single storied building bordered by two storied buildings constructed in the European style. Purani Haveli meaning old quarters was established to be the residential quarter of Mir Momen, the Peshwa or the Prime Minister of Mohammed Quli Qutub Shah. It was built in the late sixteenth century. In the eighteenth century the Purani Haveli was taken over by Nizam III and he took the initiative of renovating it for his son. But when his son moved to a different residence, this building came to be known as Purani Haveli. The Purani Haveli, Hyderabad restores various antique furniture and the traditional architecture is reflected from its every corner. Some of the rooms have restored its mosaic flooring as it is, even after so many years. It is a perfect example of the 18th century European architecture. There are two vast courtyards and the balconies resonate the glory of the heydays of the Nawabs. Purani Haveli, Hyderabad remains open for the tourists and the visitors to this historical building from 10.30 am in the morning to 5 pm in the evening except Fridays. This Haveli in Andhra Pradesh has become one of the popular tourist spot. Paigah Tombs is an unique example of architectural splendor of the 18th century. It is one of the recently discovered tourist spot in Hyderabad. The tombs are spread for about an area of 30 to 40 acre of land. The tombs reflect the majestic heydays of the Nizams of hyderabad. Paigah Tombs Paigah Tombs, Hyderabad is a unique example of architectural splendor of the 18th century. It is one of the recently discovered Tourist Spot in Hyderabad. The tombs are spread for about an area of 30 to 40 acres of land. The tombs reflect the majestic heydays of the Nizams of Hyderabad. The Paigah nobility was founded by Abdul Fateh Khan Tegh Jung. He is known to render service to the second Nizam of Hyderabad. For his excellent service, the Nizam conferred him the title of Shams-ul-umra. The Paigah nobles were very influential and they were assigned to look after the security of the state. A marital tie between the Nizam and the Paigahs further strengthened the bond between the two families. The Paigah Tombs are the burial chambers built for the family members of the Paigahs. At the very entrance of the complex of the Paigah Tombs, Teng Jung has been buried in 1786 and since then tombs came to be known as the Paigah Tombs. The devotees of the Islamic religion and the lineage of the Paigahs have been highly eulogized on an iron plaque, kept at the entrance of the complex. These Paigah Tombs reflect the high class of nobility of the Nizams. The intricate designs and the geometric perfection of the tombs perplex the visitors. The enticing marble structure and the famous jali works add to the splendor of these tombs. The Paigahs were known for their aesthetic and artistic taste. They were patrons of art, literature and sports. Osmania University Osmania University, Hyderabad in Andhra Pradesh is the seventh oldest University in India. With the motto of "Thamasoma Jyothirgamaya" this state university was established in the year 1918. It was established by Nawab Mir Osman Ali Khan, the Seventh Nizam of Hyderabad. Osmania University, Hyderabad from the day of its inception has kept contributing to the development in the career of the students. The university has a total enrollment of 250,000 students according to the record of 2004. The university receives students from both India and foreign countries. The total number of faculty and staff of Osmania University is about 5000, according to the information available in 2004. Osmania University, Hyderabad has received recognition from the University Grants Commission (UGC) and is a member of The Association of Indian Universities (AIU). In 2001, Osmania University achieved Five Star status from the National Accreditation and Assessment Council (NAAC) of the University Grants Commission. The university has a Foreign Relations Office that assists in obtaining information regarding the different courses. According to the information last available in 2004, the total number of colleges affiliated under University of Osmania is 850, out of which 112 colleges offer MBA programs and 92 colleges offer Computer Courses. Last Updated on 29 March 2013 Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Adoni Hotels Eluru Hotels Hyderabad Hotels Kakinada Hotels Kurnool Hotels Nellore Hotels Ongole Hotels Puttaparthy Hotels Puttaparti Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Srikakulam Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Vizianagaram Hotels Andhra Pradesh Tourism Beaches Buddhist Centres Caves Churches Hill Stations Hotels Monuments Mosques Museums Parks Shopping Temples Andhra Pradesh Handicrafts Wildlife Sanctuaries Travel Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Handicrafts Map Tourist Places in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Tirupati Vijayawada Vishakhapatnam Warangal Puttaparthi Rajahmundry How to Reach Andhra Pradesh Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table People, Culture and Festivals of Andhra Pradesh Art and Craft Fairs Festivals Performing Arts About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule