Tamilnadu Seed Certification Department - Site Home About us Department Of Seed Cetification Achievements Lincensed Seed Dealer Data On Seed Seed Production Cereals Millets Pulses Oilseeds Fibres Sugarcrops Tomato Cole Crops Others License Details License Form License Renewal Form License WIthdraw Form Stock Entry Seed Manual Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Login Navigate to... Home About Us Testing Letter Entry Sample Entry Showing Entry Counting Entry Counting Due Result Entry payment reports Certified Samples Official Samples service Samples Weekly Report Monthly Report Satatistics Report Inspection Inspectors Details Inspection Schedule Sample Collected Details Seed Inspection Entry Due Date Configuration Result Entry payment reports Seed selling Point Inspection Seed Collection Weekly Report Monthly Report Satatistics Report certification Master Record Entry Breeder Seeds Details Foundation Seeds Details Certified Seeds Details Tag details Stagewise due date Inspection details Entry Lot Number Results payment reports Breeder Seeds Foundation Seeds Certified Seeds Weekly Report Monthly Report Satatistics Report Contact Us Seed testing is performed in dedicated laboratories by trained and usually certified analysts. The tests are designed to evaluate the quality of the seed lot being sold. Seed Sellingpoints are Inspected by Seed Inspectors to verify the samples. seed certification is to maintain and make available to the public, through certification, high quality seeds and propagating materials of notified kind and varieties so grown and distributed as to ensure genetic identity and genetic purity. Department Of Seed Certification The seed is the basic input in Agriculture and it plays a vital role in sustained growth and development of agricultural sectors. Agricultural sector contributes considerably for the overall economic growth of the state. With a view to protect the farming community, a strong seed production programme and quality control mechanism is a must. Adequate quantity of quality seed at right time could be the primary objective in the farm front of the future. The department is implementing the following schemes in order to make available quality seeds to the farming community. 1. Seed Certification 2. Seed Quality Control 3. Seed Testing Read more... News and Events Will Update Soon... Copyright © 2015 Tamilnadu Seed Certification Department.       All Rights Reserved. Powered By Keyslab