INSAM - The International Society for Agricultural Meteorology — International Society for Agricultural Meteorology Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Site Map Accessibility Contact Search Site Advanced Search… Personal tools     You are here: Home INSAM Navigation About INSAM Society information Statements & Announcements Links Corporate Founding Members Instrument manufacturers Organizations About INSAM Topics INSAM Topics News What's new News & Highlights Meetings, Congresses, Conferences & Training Call for papers Vacancies Financial support requests for agrometeorological projects Membership Services Applications for Membership Members Section INSAM Forum Forgot membership information? Change your membership information Topics Agromet market place Two views Online Weather and Climate Information for Agrometeorologists "Hands on" Training for Response Farming Workbook on climate change impact assessment in agriculture. Basic knowledge, methodologies and tools A set of logical steps in order to make an assessment of climate change impacts on agriculture Handbook for Community Agrometeorological Partecipatory Extension Service (CAPES) Mujika Personal Stories: Climate learning changing livelihoods Selected Bibliography Agrometeorological Societies & Committees Working Groups in operation Accounts of Operational Agrometeorology Needs for agrometeorological solutions to farming problems Educational Aspects of Agrometeorology History of Agrometeorology Journals with agrometeorological components National periodicals of interest to agrometeorologists Books in Agrometeorology Guide to Agricultural Meteorological Practices (GAMP) New information for agrometeorologists Environment and Sustainability Climate change, causes and impacts Software Tools useful in Agrometeorology All India crop situation INSAM homepage texts from 2002 onwards (also in Spanish and some in Farsi) Suggestions for further subjects in agrometeorology Translations Español - Spanish 汉 - Chinese فارسی - Fārsì   Info INSAM - The International Society for Agricultural Meteorology Last modified January 12, 2015 09:51 Dear colleagues and INSAM Members, You all know Moore's “law” according to which the power of microprocessors doubles every two years. This is a completely empirical statement that was first published in 1965; it has largely remained true to date, in spite of it's lack of any “scientific” basis. Moore just captured something profound in a simple statement, and he was lucky to be right! Of course, this is a kind of “luck” that doesn't happen by chance, as it is actually based on knowledge. Here's an agrometeorological example: the number of hectares of rangeland that can sustainably support a livestock unit (LU) is equal to the number of rainless months in the year. This too is mostly correct; I have verified it on many occasions but I cannot remember who told me, or whether I read it somewhere. Another well known empirical law is “Pareto's rule” (associated with the Pareto distribution, a power law distribution). Pareto's rule, also known as the 20-80 rule, says that, in a number of situations, 20% of causes produce 80% of effects. For instance, just 15% of wheat producers account for 80% of world production (FAOSTAT). In many countries, 20% or less of farmers own 80% of the land, which was the case in Italy when Pareto (1848-1923) put forward the rule. The rule is ubiquitous and also applies to INSAM membership. As you can discover by logging into the members section, we currently have 2141 members in 127 countries. Five countries (India, Nigeria, Iran, US and Brazil) make up 50% of membership, and twenty-five (19.7%) account for 1716 members (80.1%). Fifty percent of countries make up 94% of members. Twenty countries have just two members, and twenty-eight have just one, including some large countries and some that do have a long and distinguished agrometeorological tradition of excellence.  When we look at the detail of countries, it is easy to see that membership is large in countries where Prof. Stigter has been most active... which is a lesson for us: without a dedicated person actively promoting INSAM, membership will stagnate and eventually regress. We must all be that dedicated person! How can we promote INSAM? A simple way would be to mention INSAM in our presentations, on the final slide, where it is easy to add, next to the traditional “Thank you” a sentence saying “Join me at the International Society of Agrometeorology (agrometeorology.org)”. There are certainly many other ways, which we could discuss in the “Members' corner” of the newly established INSAM forum ( http://forum.agrometeorology.org ). Do visit the forum and contribute your ideas! Let me conclude by coming back to rules of thumb and observe that they often have in common with standard agrometeorological techniques that their authors are unknown.  Who invented Growing Degree Days? Was it Ivanov around 1948? Who invented crop coefficients and the concept of evapotranspiration (ET)? There are so many ET equations around that it is obvious that many people have been trying and inventing  approaches valid for specific environments, until Penman eventually came up in 1948 with a formulation that appealed to many practitioners. Who invented the soil water balance (SWB)? Trewartha has been using it in the 1950s, but there is little doubt  that the Versatile Soil Water Budget (VSWB) of Baier and Robertson (1966) was a formally explicit and trend setting method, as demonstrated by the “Baier and Robertson Symposium on Modelling and Measurement of Soil Water Content” organized in Canada in 1996.  All crop models and all crop monitoring approaches incorporate a soil water balance that is derived from the VSWB, and this is why I would like to pay a tribute to our friend George Robertson who just turned 100 years at the end of December. The tribute is also a personal one, as I had the privilege to travel with George during his last African trip for WMO, which coincided with one of my first missions to the continent. I have remained in contact with George since then and would like to thank him for being such an inspiration for many agrometeorologists worldwide.  (1) Baier, W. and Robertson, G. W. 1966. A new Versatile Soil Moisture Budget. Can. J. Plant Sci. 46: 299–315. René Gommes Current President of INSAM Visiting Professor, Chinese academy of sciences rene.gommes@agro-impact.com   Percentage of INSAM members as a function of the percentage of the countries represented by at least one member.   The 24 countries shown in the fan chart above make up 79.5 % of INSAM membership (only 20 countries are listed by name). Related content Farsi translation of the present homepage Document Actions Share on Facebook Print this The new INSAM Forum The purpose of this new forum is to encourage members to improve contacts with other members on general subjects, but also (and primarily) to get technical help from others. In evidence The Farsi translation of the actual home page is available . INSAM news New in Journal Science: A Guidebook for Ecosystem Services May 22, 2015 Modern irrigation systems boost carbon emissions May 22, 2015 Conservation buffers please the eye, protect the landscape May 18, 2015 Sweet apple leaves a bitter taste for farmers in the Valley May 18, 2015 Climate Change Job Vacancies Update - 13 May 2015 May 18, 2015 Announcement: Marie Sklodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships at CMCC (Italy) May 07, 2015 Call for Papers: 9th Graduate Climate Conference (USA) May 07, 2015 Use seeds after chemical treatment, farmers told April 28, 2015 Vacancy: Postdoctoral Research Scientist/Research Assistant at the University of Kansas (USA) April 24, 2015 Climate Change Job Vacancies Update - 15 April 2015 April 20, 2015 "Challenges in Meteorology 4" at the Croatian Meteorological Society (Croatia) April 13, 2015 More… Recent updates Cropland/pastureland dynamics and the slowdown of deforestation in Latin America May 29, 2015 Pollen and clouds: April flowers bring may showers? May 29, 2015 Loss of rainfall satellites will hamper flood management May 29, 2015 Soil nutrients may limit ability of plants to slow climate change May 29, 2015 World food system has grown more vulnerable May 29, 2015 2°C climate change target 'utterly inadequate' May 29, 2015 Climate change could boost area suitable for double cropping May 29, 2015 Growing food locally cuts global nitrogen contamination May 29, 2015 Scientists discover why flowers bloom earlier in a warming climate May 29, 2015 Good luck reverses global forest loss May 29, 2015 Global Atlas of Environmental Justice re-launches website May 29, 2015 More…   INSAM, International Society for Agricultural Meteorology. Please note the Disclaimer relating to the use of the information on this site and our site Privacy Policy . This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial 3.0 Unported License .