Ahmedabad City Map Home » Maps » Gujarat » Ahmedabad City Map   Gujarat Cities Ahmedabad Anand Dwarka Gandhinagar Jamnagar Rajkot Somnath Surat Vadodara                        more.. गुजरात का नक्शा About Gujarat History Geography Weather Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Region Map District Map Road Map Railway Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Port Map Ahmedabad Metro Map Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Gujarat Places to visit in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Beaches Wildlife Sanctuaries Hotels in Gujarat Ahmedabad Hotels Saputara Hotels Surat Hotels Vadodara Hotels Rajkot Hotels Jamnagar Hotels              more... How to reach Airports Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Schools Universities in Gujarat India Map in Gujarati World Map in Gujarati Gujarat Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Gujarat       Ahmedabad City Map City Map of Ahmedabad Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Ahmedabad city map showing roads, railways, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Ahmedabad: A lively industrial city History Ahmedabad seems like a kaleidoscope; it is both ancient and modern. On the one hand, it has spiritual peace and tranquility, but on the other hand it also has a busy modern life. Gandhi Ashram on the banks of Sabarmati River is the symbol of spiritual roots of India. Nowadays Ahmedabad is bustling with life and business activities. The city has a distinct culture. Apart from the good roads and flyovers, its glitzy shopping malls also add to the glory of the city. Ahmedabad is also known for premier educational institutes of India, such as the Indian Institute of Management. People are warm and hospitable and the local arts and culture are sure to rejuvenate you. If we look to the history, Ahmedabad was the biggest city in terms of area in the pre-British era till Calcutta and Madras Presidency were set up. In the beginning of 11th century Ahmedabad region was ruled by Bhil king, who was later on defeated was the Solanki ruler of Patan. After 13th century, it fell into the hands of Vaghela dynasty of Dholka. After 13th century entire Gujarat became a part of Delhi Sultanate. It was named as Ahmedabad by Sultan Ahmed Shah in 1411. After 1573 Gujarat came under the Mughal rule of Emperor Akbar. People of Ahmedabad are known to have business acumen and that's reason it is considered to be a prosperous city since the beginning. Textile Industry During the Mughal period it became an exporting hub of textiles. Cotton, silk and luxury goods were being exported to the Middle East and Europe. The Mughals also turned the city green and made the gardens such as Amraiwadi, Ambawadi and Shahibaag, which reflect Mughal style of gardening and have lush greenery. It fell into the hands of Marathas in 1753 and started disintegrating. Gujarat was split from the State of Bombay in 1960 and Ahmedabad became capital of newly formed Gujarat. Access Ahmedabad is home to the most reputed institutes, industries, IT parks, and businesses. It is also a center of art, music and culture. It is also famous for social development organizations. Ahmedabad is connected with all the main road networks in India. Gujarat state transport buses run their buses to all the destinations in the state. You can get railway tickets from both Kalupur railway station and Gandhigram station. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Airport in Ahmedabad is an international airport and you can get flights to major European and Middle East destinations from here. Festivals and Must See Places The International Kite Festival is held here on January 14 every year; it coincides with the famous Indian festival of Makar Sankranti. Navratri with garba dance is also a famous tourist attrction. A Rath Yatra is organized in the months of June or July from Jagannath temple in Ahmedabad. It is in the form a procession with a lot of fanfare. The must see religious places of Ahmedabad are Hutheesing Jain Temple, Sidi Sayeed Masjid, Jama Masjid, Mahudi Jain Temple, and Akshardham. The places of archaeological importance are the walled city and gates, Heritage Walk, Rani no Hajiro, Badshah no Hajiro, Pols of Old City, Dada Harir Vav (Stepwell), Jhulta Minara, The Adalaj Stepwell, Sarkhej Roza, and the House of Mangaldas Girdhardas. The other must see places are Vechaar Utensils Museum, Calico Museum & Sarabhai Foundation, Sanskar Kendra, Institute of Indology, N C Mehta Gallery, Shreyas Folk Museum, Hussain Doshi's Gufa, CEPT Campus, Kanoria Center for Arts, Hutheesing Visual Arts Centre, Community Science Center, Sardar Patel Museum, Science City, and Auto World. Kankaria Lake is also worth visiting. Ahamdabad City Information Country India State Gujrat District Ahamdabad Founded by Sultan Ahmed Shah Area 464 km2 (179 sq mi) Population 5570585 as Census January 2011 Population Density 12,005/km2 (31,090/sq mi) as Census January 2011 Language Gujrati, Hindi, English Official Languages Gujrati, Hindi Literacy Rate 86.65% as Census January 2011 Sex Ratio 909/1000(Census-2011) Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Pin code 380007 Area code 79 Lat Long 23.0300° N, 72.5800° E Religion Hinduism, Islam, Jainism Festivals Uttarayan, Navratri, Deepavali, Holi, Ganesh Chaturthi, Gudi Padwa, Eid ul-Fitr University Gujarat University, Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Open University Sister Cities Astrakhan Oblast (Astrakhan), Jersey City (New Jersey), Ulsan (South Korea) Sports Sardar Patel Stadium (also known as Motera Stadium, Cricket), field hockey, badminton, tennis, squash and golf. Ahmedabad currently has three golf courses Airport Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport Railway Station Ahmedabad Jn (ADI), Ahmedabad Railway Station Tourist Attractions Kankaria Lake, Chandola Lake, Bhadra Fort, Jhulta Minar, Sarkhej Roza, Ahmed Shah Mosque, Akshardham Temple, Swaminarayan Temple Nearby Tourist Attractions Mount Abu, Udaipur, Daman, Indore, Somnath, Dwarka, Ujjain, Jodhpur, Ajmer, Pushkar Popular Things Hatheesing Temple, Sarkhej Roza (built 1451 AD), Modhera Sun Temple (built 1026 AD), Gandhi Ashram (built 1917 AD) Notable People Geet Sethi, Parthiv Patel, Narendra Modi National Highway NH-59,8 Last Updated on : May 2, 2015 Cities in Gujarat Ahmedabad Ambaji Amreli Anand Bharuch Bhavnagar Bhuj Bilimora Dahod Botad Veraval Jetpur Navagadh Dwarka Gandhinagar Garia Godhra Jamnagar Junagadh Navsari Palanpur Mahesana Muzaffarpur Patan Mandvi Porbandar Rajkot Somnath Surat Surendranagar Vadodara Valsad Vapi Palitana Gandhidham Nadiad Morbi Places to Visit in Ahmedabad Gardens in Ahmedabad Lakes in Ahmedabad Ahmedabad Wildlife Religious Places in Ahmedabad   Related Links   Distance Chart of Ahmedabad Hotels in Ahmedabad India             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule