Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Travel / Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka June 6, 2013 by Ramandeep Kaur Bird Sanctuaries In Karnataka How would you feel being welcomed by the melodious chirping sounds of birds and cool fresh air around you? Totally relaxed. This is what the mesmerizing places such as bird sanctuaries and wild life sanctuaries can do. These can relax you, make you feel rejuvenated and connect you with Mother Nature. Karnataka, one of the southern states in India, is rich in flora and fauna with forest area of about 38,720 square kilometer. Bird sanctuaries in Karnataka are scattered all over the state making it an important tourist destination. Birds as well as bird lovers visit these heavenly places in Karnataka for a delightful break. Some of the popular bird sanctuaries in Karnataka are: Gudavi Bird Sanctuary Gudavi Bird Sanctuary provides a fantastic atmosphere especially during monsoon. Gudavi Bird Sanctuary is located at a distance of about 16 km from Sorab town in Shimoga district, Karnataka. It is a great picnic spot too. This bird sanctuary is one of the best bird sanctuaries in Karnataka to visit. This place becomes extremely refreshing with the Gudvi Lake, its green belt of trees and hundreds and thousands of birds. As per a survey, there are 217 species of birds found in Gudavi Bird Sanctuary. Apart from local birds, many species of birds migrate to Gudavi in different seasons for breeding. One can see White Pebis, Grey Heron, Night Heron, Jungle Fowl, Pond Heron, Indian Shag, Bittern, etc. The sanctuary’s visiting  hours are from 6:00 am to 6:00 pm and the best season to visit is from June to October. No accommodation facilities are available at the Gudavi Bird Sanctuary but you can find a comfortable place to stay at Shimoga. How to reach there? By Air: The nearest airport is located at Hubli at a distance of 165 km from Shimoga. The Airport at Sogane is also going to be operational soon. It is located at a distance of just 6 km from Shimoga. By Rail: There is one railhead at Shimoga and well connected to Bangalore and Mysore. If you are coming from other cities, then you have to check, as for other cities less number of trains come to Shimoga. By Road: Shimoga is well connected to Bangalore by NH 206 that is located at a distance of 274 Km. Udupi and Mangalore are the two other cities to which Shimoga is well connected. Take the luxury coaches run by KSRTC as these are a very suitable and convenient way of commuting. Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary It is a very tiny bird sanctuary covering an area of 0.67 square kilometers. In spite of its small area, tourists can watch exotic migratory species of birds, as the Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary is a nesting and breeding place of many birds. Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary is located on the banks of the Kaveri River in the Mandya district of Karnataka and at a distance of just 19 km from Mysore. This bird sanctuary is perfect for birds because of  the presence of plenty of aquatic insects and also because it is an isolated area. One can spot Asian Open Bill Stork, Painted Stork, and White Ibis. This is an ideal picnic spot for many locals as well as tourists. Best period to visit Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary is between June and November. Easy accommodation is available at Mysore. The nearest railway station is located at Mysore. The nearest airport is at Bangalore. Reaching by road is not a problem as it is well connected by roads to all the major cities. Puttenahalli WS Lake Puttenahalli WS Lake is located near Yelahanka at a distance of just 14 km from Bangalore and covers an area of 10 hectares. About 49 different species of birds that breed here have been found by Biodiversity experts and one can see near about 7,000 birds during breeding season. Even some of the endangered species of migratory birds from Siberia and Northern Himalayas visit this Puttenahalli WS Lake for breeding. Kokkare Bellur Pelicanry Bird Sanctuary Kokkare Bellur Pelicanry Bird Sanctuary is an absolute heaven and offers a break from city life. This bird sanctuary is located at a distance of 83 Km from Bangalore. Kokkare Bellur Pelicanry Bird Sanctuary is popular for Spot Billed pelicans and Painted Storks during peak season. Painted Storks in local language are known as kokkare, hence the name of the place. Another interesting bit is that the village kokkare thrives on the droppings of birds that is known as guano . These bird droppings are rich in potassium and are used as manure by the villagers. There is no hotel to stay at Kokkare, so it is better to drive down from your hotel and come back. Also carry something to eat and drink as you won’t get anything nearby. Magadi Bird Sanctuary A temporary home to the Bar-headed Goose, Magadi Bird Sanctuary is located in Magadi village of Shirhatti Taluk, Gadag District. It is rich in biodiversity and situated right on Gadag-Bangalore Road. Attiveri Bird Sanctuary Covering an area of about 2.23 sq km, Attiveri Bird Sanctuary is located in and around Attiveri Reservoir. A variety of birds such as Pied Kingfisher, white-breasted Kingfisher, Spoonbill, Cattle Egret, White Ibis and Common Grey Hornbill are found here. November and March are the best months to visit Attiveri Bird Sanctuary. Sanctuary Ramandeep Kaur I am a mother. A wife. And daughter of my loving parents by heart with passion for creativity, zeal to achieve something big in life but want to live life to its fullest. More articles from Ramandeep Kaur : Enjoy Your Day out at Splash – The Water Park The Importance of Summer Classes 15 Vastu Tips for the Success of Your Business Vehicular Pollution in Delhi and Its Impact on Lotus Temple Which are the Best Cities in India to Live? Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Comments Showing 1 Comments : monika January 13, 2015 at 6:48 pm nice Reply Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed 15 Bollywood Dialogues Fit for Real-Life Situations By: Nandni Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Baidyanath sah on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd omprakash on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd VIJAY MANGLIK on Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012