NATIONAL OILSEEDS AND VEGETABLE OILS DEVELOPMENT BOARD NATIONAL OILSEEDS AND VEGETABLE OILS DEVELOPMENT BOARD Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India 86, Sector - 18, Institutional Area Gurgaon - 122 015 (Haryana)   CITIZEN’S CHARTER The National Oilseeds & Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board is committed for ‘Integrated Development of Tree-Borne Oilseeds (TBOs)’. 1.       Introduction 2.         Vision 3.         Details of Business Transacted by the Department 4.         Clients’ centric programmers 5.         Public Grievances redress Mechanism 6.         Contact Points 1. INTRODUCTION   The National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board was constituted on 8 th  March, 1984 under the National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development Board Act, 1983 (No. 29 of 1983) as a statutory body for the Integrated Development of Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Industry.  The Department of Agriculture and Cooperation is the administrative department for the NOVOD Board.  The Board has its headquarters at Gurgaon, Haryana.   The functions of the Board, as laid down by the NOVOD Board Act, 1983, are very comprehensive and cover the entire gamut of oilseeds and vegetable oils industry including production, processing, marketing, technical and financial assistance, collection, procurement and maintenance of buffer stocks for  stabilizing price, development of infrastructural facilities and promotion of oilseeds growers’ cooperatives and other appropriate agencies for integration of such  facilities, collection of related statistics, publication etc.  Futher providing assistance for the production of quality seeds, supply of inputs and adoption of latest technology for production, processing, schemes for promotion of research and development and setting up appropriate agencies for fulfilling these tasks also form part of the Board’s functions.  The Board is also expected to make recommendations regarding integrated policy and programmes for development of oilseeds and vegetable oils industry.   The Board has been entrusted with the nodal responsibility for ‘Integrated Development of Tree-Borne Oilseeds’ since X Plan onwards. During XII plan period with effect from 2014-15, Tree Borne Oilseeds (TBOs) programmes are restructured into the Mini Mission-III (MM-III) component of National Mission on Oilseeds and Oil Palm (NMOOP) prgramme of Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture & Co-operation, Govt. of India (DAC). The implementation of the TBOs programmes are as per the guidelines of  NMOOP programme of DAC .   < Click to D ownload the guidelines>          2. VISION   Tree-Borne Oilseeds - Potential & Exploitation The country has enormous potential of oilseeds of tree origin like mahua, neem, simarouba, karanja, jatropha (ratanjyot), jojoba, cheura, kokum, wild apricot, kusum, tung etc.  which can be grown and established in the wastelands under varied agro-climatic conditions.  These have domestic and industrial utility in fields of agriculture, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, bio-diesel, cocoa-butter substitutes etc.  Most of these Tree Borne Oilseeds (TBO’s) are scattered in forest and non-forest areas and hardly 20% of the existing potential is being crushed and utilized, that too of poor quality.   Constraints in exploitation of TBOs Though the country has vast potential of TBOs found in forest and non-forest areas with multiple uses, it is not being utilized fully due to lack of awareness of their use, collection and marketing. Besides, lack of proper facility for storage, seed collection, long gestation period, fruiting/maturity season coinciding with rains, are some of the major constraints limiting the collection and utilization of above TBOs.   NOVOD Board Programmes Since X Plan period , the Board has been implementing the Central Sector Scheme on ‘Integrated Development of Tree Borne Oilseeds’ .  During XII plan period with effect from 2014-15, Tree Borne Oilseeds (TBOs) programmes are restructured into the Mini Mission-III (MM-III) component of National Mission on Oilseeds and Oil Palm (NMOOP) prgramme of Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture & Co-operation, Govt. of India (DAC). < Click to D ownload the guidelines>        3. DETAILS OF BUSINESS TRANSACTED BY THE BOARD             Research & Development programmes on “Tree Borne Oilseeds” Two National Networks namely, 'National Network on Jatropha and Karanja' and 'National Network on Wild apricot and Cheura' have been constituted by the Board by involving State Agricultural Universities, Institutions of ICAR, CSIR, ICFRE, CFTRI, TERI and NTs during 2004-05. The various researchable issues have been included by involving more institutions in the subsequent years.   4. SOME OF THE CLIENT’s CENTRIC PROGRAMMES OF THE BOARD   Programmes during XII plan period with effect from 2014-15   Tree Borne Oilseeds (TBOs) programmes are restructured into the Mini Mission-III (MM-III) component of National Mission on Oilseeds and Oil Palm (NMOOP) prgramme of Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture & Co-operation, Govt. of India (DA C) during XII plan period with effect from 2014-15 . The manner of execution of programmes:                 As per the guidelines of MM-III component of NMOOP programme of DAC .           < Click to D ownload the guidelines>          5. DETAILS OF GREIVANCES REDRESSAL MECHANISM AND HOW TO ACCESS THE SYSTEM       5.1 GRIEVANCES REDRESSAL           This Board is sensitised to redress grievances in a responsible and effective manner through the following: Ø    A Grievances Cell has been set up in the Board in order to ensure speedy redressal of grievances received from the public and employees directly or through Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances or Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture & Co-operation. Ø    Shri Prawin Kumar Jha, JHT, functions as ‘Public Grievances-cum-Welfare Officer’,  in order to ensure expeditious redressal of grievances. On every Friday during after noon the public can meet the Asstt Director (Projects) & ‘Public Grievances-cum-Welfare Officer’ with regard to their grievances and complaints. Ø    To deal with complaints of sexual harassment of women employees in the Board, Complaints Committee is available in the Board. Ø    This Board would respond to any complaint regarding the programmes and would also interact with the complainant for redressal of the grievances. Ø    E-mail address of the Public Grievances Cell of the Department is : novod@novodboard.com . Ø    This Board would like to appeal to the Public to provide full and complete information of the grievances in order to enable timely settlement of the issues involved. In any case, it would be our effort to settle grievances thus received from the Public as early as possible. Ø    The Citizens’ Charter will be reviewed annually for further improving our response to the public. Ø    The information with regard to our programmes and activities can be accessed in our website www.novodboard.org , www.novodboard.com . Ø    The information will also be provided through publications which are available through the Information and Facilitation Centre.           5.2 TIME FRAME FOR RE DRESSAL OF THE GRIEVANCES   i.      Issue of acknowledgement/interim reply to the petitioner    -  3 days ii.     Final redressal of  grievances                                       -  2 months                6. CONTACT POINTS :   < Click for details>     होम प्रोफाइल कार्यक्रम प्रकाशन सांख्यिकी     रिक्ति / रिक्तियों   टेंडेर / नीलामी संपर्क Home Profile Programmes Publications Statistics Vacancy / Vacancies Tender/Auction Contact   कॉपीराइट नीति Copyright Policy हाइपर लिंकिंग नीति Hyper Linking Policy नियम एवं शर्तें Terms & Conditions गोपनीयता नीति Privacy Policy हमसे संपर्क करें Contact us हेल्प Help   इस वेबसाइट का  डिजाइन, विकास और रख-रखाव राष्ट्रीय तिलहन एवं वनस्पति तेल विकास (नोवोड) बोर्ड  द्वारा किया जा रहा  है । This website is designed, developed and maintained by National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board.   * * * *    