Parking and Transportation Services Skip to main content University Home About OSU Academics Faculty / Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Parking and Transportation Services Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Police Env. Health & Safety Parking/Transportation Training Welcome to the Parking and Transit Website! Bike permits for 2014-2015 School Year are available for purchase online beginning May 1. Prior to registering your bicycle, you are required to review a safety guideline tutorial and take a Bike Safety Quiz . Once you have completed the quiz, you may register your bicycle through our permit purchasing process at parking.okstate.edu . Bicycle registration is mandatory . All other parking permits for 2014-2015 School Year will be available for purchase online beginning August 1. OrangeRide rentals are currently available for Spring semester! Visit the OrangeRide bicycle (MMTT bus oval on corner of Monroe and Hall of Fame) shop to obtain a rental. Please view the Bicycle Safety Training Tutorial prior to renting a bicycle. In addition to using coins, bills or a credit card, you can also pay for parking meters in Lot80 (south of Colvin Recreation Center) and the visitor spaces in the Monroe Street Garage and Wentz Lane Garage with your smart phone via ParkMobile. Announcements Online Permit Sales For 2014-2015 Ends Bike Permits for 2014 view more[+] Tweets by @OSUTransit OrangeRide Bike Rental and Repair Summer Hours Monday-Friday 10 a.m - 4 p.m. Welcome to BOB BOB Shuttle Reservation Parking Services Bike Registration Campus Parking Map Disability Parking How to Avoid Parking Tickets Monroe St. Garage Motorist Assistance Park Mobile Permit rate and refund schedule Purchase A Permit Special Events Parking Visitor Parking Parking Rules and Regulations Parking Questions and Answers Parking Lot Closings Transportation Services FAQ's Fuel Service Leasing Fleet Vehicle Detail Leasing Rates Vehicle Parts Technician Transit Services Transit System Route Times Bus routes and Bus Locator Calendar Appeal A Citation Manage Parking Account OrangeRide Bike Rental Visitor Parking Bike Permit and Safety Carpool Hertz On Demand Hertz On Demand Car Share Hertz On Demand Mobile Paratransit General Information Trip Purpose Service Area Service Schedule Paratransit Fare Certification Process Scheduling and Reservation Curb to Curb Service Video Tutorials Advertising Employment Press Releases Staff Contact Us Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Ethics Point Accessibility Legal and Trademarks Safety Webmaster © 2015 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved