Prithviraj Chavan: Biography, Family, Early days in Politics, Criticisms & Awards India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Government and Politics » Prithviraj Chavan   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Prithviraj Chavan Prithviraj Chavan was chosen as the 22nd Chief Minister of Maharashtra on 11 November, 2011. He succeeded Ashok Chavan of Congress who resigned as Chief Minister in the wake of the Adarsh Housing Society Scam. Prithviraj Chavan is a Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Karad in Satara district. He won the Lok Sabha seat from Karad three times. As an Engineer and technologist Chief Minister, he sought and obtained environmental clearance for the much delayed Navi Mumbai Airport. Background He was born on March 17, 1946 at Indore, Madhya Pradesh. His father Late Shri Anandrao Chavan was a Lok Sabha MP and served as a Minister under three Prime Ministers- Jawarharlal Nehru, Lal Bahadur Shastri, and Indira Gandhi ministries. His mother, Smt Premlabai was elected to Lok Sabha from Karad following her husband's death. She served as an MP for consecutive terms till her death in 1991. Prithviraj Chavan was educated at BITS, Pilani, Rajasthan, where he did a BE in Mechanical Engineering. He followed it by MS from The University of California at Berkeley. He plays Cricket, Tennis, Badminton, Table Tennis, and Golf and is interested in research in the computerization of Indian languages. He is married to Smt Satvasheela. They have one daughter and one son. Political Career Though he has been a member of the Congress party since 1973, he entered active politics after his mother's death and contested the Lok Sabha election from Karad, his family constituency, in 1991. He won the election to the 10th Lok Sabha. He then served as member of the Consultative Committee for the Ministry of Science and Technology, Electronics, and Atomic Energy. He was reelected to the 11th Lok Sabha from the same constituency in 1996 and held the position of the Deputy Chief Whip of the Congress parliamentary party in the Lok Sabha. He was a member of the Committee on Energy and the Consultative Committee for the Ministry of Finance. In 1998 he was again reelected to the 12th Lok Sabha. He then served on Lok Sabha Consultative Committee for Ministry of Home Affairs and the Committee on Government Assurances. He, however, lost the Lok Sabha election in 1999. He became the Spokesperson of the All India Congress Committee in 2001. In 2002 he was elected to the Rajya Sabha and then reelected again in 2008. In 2009 he was given the independent charge as Minister of State for the Ministry of Science and Technology. He was also appointed Minister of State for Ministry of Personnel, Public grievances and Pensions, Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, and the Ministry of Earth science. He was handpicked by the Congress party to assume the office of the Maharashtra Chief Minister following the resignation of Ashok Chavan.   Related Links   Chief Ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda Vijay Bahuguna Arvind Kejriwal Ptithviraj Chavan Nallari Kiran Kumar Reddy Kalvakuntla Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) Prem Kumar Dhumal mamta Banerjee Tarun Kumar Gogoi Omar Abdullah Nitish Kumar Naveen Patnaik Arjun Munda Neipiu Rio Sheila Dixit N Rangasamy Manohar Parrikar Pawan Kumar Chamling D V Sadananda Gowda Ashok Gehlot Oommen Chandy Jayalalitha Shivraj Singh Chouhan Parkash Singh Badal Akhilesh Yadav Chandrababu Naidu Last Updated on : February 1, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule