The Netherlands Greenhouse Cultivation Market Outlook to 2019 - Research Report AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Press Releases The Netherlands Greenhouse Cultivation Market Outlook to 2019 - Research Report Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: The Netherlands Greenhouse Cultivation Market Outlook to 2019 - Research Report LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… March 19th, 2015 #1 rajbksh Join Date Jan 2014 Posts 36 Blog Entries 2 The Netherlands Greenhouse Cultivation Market Outlook to 2019 - Research Report • The Netherlands Greenhouse Cultivation Market is expected to reach USD 10,708.6 million by 2019 • Stagnant Growth of the market is expected to be due to the falling profitability of the greenhouses • The average greenhouse farm size is expected to increase due to mergers between major greenhouse farmers Ken Research announced its latest publication on “The Netherlands Greenhouse Cultivation Market Outlook to 2019” which provides a comprehensive analysis of the trends and developments in the greenhouse market of the Netherlands. The report covers various aspects such as market size of the Netherlands Greenhouse Cultivation market, segmentation on the basis of vegetables, fruits and flowers grown by number and area covered. The report is useful for greenhouse owners, industry consultants, and new players venturing in the market. The greenhouse market in the Netherlands has witnessed a decline in the number of greenhouses due to falling profitability and overall slow growth of the country’s agricultural market in recent years. The falling profitability has caused many greenhouse owners to go bankrupt, thus reducing the effective number of players in the market. The year on year growth of the market is expected to follow a rocky path, as the market size would be dependent on various domestic factors, as well as factors existing in the world agricultural market. This increase would be accompanied with a decrease in the number of greenhouses operating in the country, as modernization would increase productivity of the existing greenhouses, causing a fall in the profitability of small businesses engaged in the market. The area covered by greenhouses in the Netherlands would also decrease till 2019. According to the research report, the Netherlands Greenhouse Cultivation market size market will grow at a relatively low CAGR thus reaching USD 10,708.6 million by 2019. The year on year growth of the market is expected to follow a rocky path, as the market size would be dependent on various domestic factors, as well as factors existing in the world agricultural market. This increase would be accompanied with a decrease in the number of greenhouses operating in the country, as modernization would increase productivity of the existing greenhouses, causing a fall in the profitability of small businesses engaged in the market. The area covered by greenhouses in the Netherlands would also decrease till 2019. “The greenhouse market in the Netherlands involves fierce competition between the existing companies, which restricts the entry of new players. The market has witnessed stagnant growth in the past accompanied by falling profitability and a decline in the total area covered by greenhouses. The number of greenhouses operating in the country has also decreased, showing unfavorable environment for new ventures into the market. The future of the greenhouse market seems bleak, as the market has reached saturation, causing many greenhouses to shut down. The overall revenue of the greenhouse market would increase, but only those who are able to evolve with the changing agricultural environment would prosper” according to the Research Analyst, Ken Research. Key Topics Covered in the Report: The Netherlands Greenhouse Cultivation Market - Market Size by Number of Greenhouses, Area Covered by Greenhouses, Yield of Greenhouses and Revenue Generated by Greenhouses - Market Segmentation by o Vegetables- Number of Greenhouses and Area Covered o Fruits- Number of Greenhouses and Area Covered o Floriculture- Number of Greenhouses and Area Covered - Trends and Developments - SWOT Analysis of the Market - Competition and Market Shares - Future Outlook - Netherlands Greenhouse Setup Snapshot - Macro Economic Parameters Companies Covered in the Report Havecon Projects Alweco Certhon KGP Greenhouses ReyTec Innovation Projects Related Reports: India Protected Cultivation Industry Outlook to 2017 - Government Initiatives Paving the Way for Future Growth Europe Organic Food and Beverages Industry Outlook to 2016 - Strategic Alliances Driving the Industry Growth India Micro Irrigation System Market Outlook to 2018 - Increasing Government Support and Farmer Awareness to Stimulate the Growth Source: Netherlands Greenhouse Cultivation Market Report Reply With Quote Tags for this Thread greenhouse cultivation , greenhouse market , greenhouse report , netherlands greenhouse View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 02:52 PM .