Allahabad City Map Home » Maps » Uttar Pradesh » Allahabad City Map   Uttar Pradesh Cities Agra Aligarh Allahabad Ghaziabad Gorakhpur Jhansi Kanpur Lucknow Mathura Meerut Noida Varanasi                    more.. उत्तर प्रदेश का नक्शा Uttar Pradesh History of Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                  (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Uttar Pradesh Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map Proposed New States Awadh Pradesh Bundelkhand Paschim Pradesh Purvanchal Yamuna Expressway Lucknow Metro Map Noida Metro Map Industries in UP Thermal Power Plants UP Government Uttar Pradesh Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Travel to Uttar Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Forts and Palaces in Uttar Pradesh Temples and Shrines in Uttar Pradesh Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels             more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Uttar Pradesh Architectural Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Uttar Pradesh Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Uttar   Pradesh       Allahabad City Map City Map of Allahabad Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Allahabad city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Blogs about Allahabad Believe the Unbelievable at the Alopi Devi Temple in Allahabad : Location: Alopibagh, Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh The possibility of the impossible is what that keeps our faith in the divine alive. A lot of things that happen in our lives appear to be so bizarre that they are regarded as a miracle. Just like the story of the Alopi Devi Temple in Allahabad. Situated near the holy sangam of Ganga, Yamuna and Saraswati, this temple is one of the most astounding temples that I have ever… read more... Anand Bhawan in Allahabad: The Centre of the Great Indian National Movement : Location: Jawaharlal Nehru Road, Allenganj, Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh The Indian Freedom Struggle is that part of the history which, even today, touches the heart-chords of every Indian. Testimonies of the long drawn battle are held with utmost respect and are preserved with great care by the Government of India. One of the greatest avowals of the Freedom Struggle is the place which served as the centre of all the activities of the Congress, the Anand… read more... Khusro Bagh – A tranquil garden surrounding Mughal structures : Location: GT Road, Near Allahabad Junction Station, Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh Located in Allahabad, Khusro Bagh is an exquisite example of Mughal architecture. The garden is believed to be commissioned by Emperor Jahangir in fond memory of his son Khusro, who was murdered by his brother Shah Jahan. Besides the Tomb of Khusro, this walled garden surrounds two other sandstone mausoleums – Tomb of Shah Begum and Tomb of Nithar. The tomb of Khusro's mother, Shah… read more... Yamuna Bridge, Allahabad – Among India’s Longest Cable-Stayed Bridges : Location: Allahabad/Naini, Uttar Pradesh One of the oldest cities in India, Allahabad has witnessed an era of historic confluence and also is among the revered pilgrimage places in the country. Be it the magnanimous Allahabad Fort, the pious Triveni Sangam or the Chandrashekhar Azad Park, Allahabad has a long list of attractions for its visitors to explore. Yamuna Bridge is like a new feather in Allahabad's cap. The image speaks about the stupendous architecture of… read more... Hathi Park or Children Park in Allahabad : Location: Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh Sumitra Nandan Park or Hathi Park is situated opposite to the Allahabad Museum. The park attracts mainly the kids for it has a huge stone elephant as its main attraction. A huge gateway opens into the lush green park that also has a small zoo. It is well maintained and is adorned with a variety of flowers, shrubs and trees. It is even known as the Children's Park of Allahabad. Minor… read more... Last Updated on : 24/09/2013 Uttar Pradesh Cities Agra Aligarh Allahabad Ayodhya Azamgarh Badaun Ballia Bareilly Basti Bhadohi Bijnor Chandauli Chandausi Chitrakut Deoria Etah Etawah Faizabad Ferozpur Ghaziabad Gokul Gonda Gorakhpur Greater Noida Hapur Hardoi Jaunpur Jhansi Kanpur Lalitpur Lucknow Mathura Meerut Mirzapur Moradabad Muzaffarnagar Noida Pilibhit Saharanpur Sambhal Sarnath Sitapur Sultanpur Unnao Varanasi Vrindavan Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Aligarh Hotels Allahabad Hotels Bahraich Hotels Balrampur Hotels Bareilly Hotels Basti Hotels Bhadohi Hotels Ghaziabad Hotels Gorakhpur Hotels Greater Noida Hotels Jhansi Hotels Kanpur Hotels Kosi Hotels Kosi Kalan Hotels Kushinagar Hotels Lucknow Hotels Mathura Hotels Meerut Hotels Mirzapur Hotels Moradabad Hotels Muzaffarnagar Hotels Noida Hotels Orai Hotels Rampur Hotels Sahibabad Hotels Sravasti Hotels Varanasi Hotels Travel to Uttar Pradesh Travel to Agra Travel to Allahabad Travel to Ayodhya Travel to Ghaziabad Travel to Gorakhpur Travel to Jhansi Travel to Kanpur Travel to khushinagar Travel to Lucknow Travel to Mathura Travel to Noida Travel to Sarnath Travel to Sravasti Travel to Varanasi Travel to Vrindavan Places to visit in Uttar Pradesh Places to visit in Agra Places to visit in Allahabad Places to visit in Ghaziabad Places to visit in Gorakhpur Places to visit in Jhansi Places to visit in Kanpur Places to visit in kushinagar Places to visit in Lucknow Places to visit in Mahura Places to visit in Noida Places to visit in Sarnath Places to visit in Shravasti Places to visit in Varanasi             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule