Textile Trade Show,Fabric Trade Show Events,Textiles & Fabrics Exhibition JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Textiles & Fabrics Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Textiles & FabricsTrade Shows Date : 12 Nov - 13 Nov 2015 ITMA Barcelona -  Spain ITMA Barcelona is one of the largest textile machinery exhibition in throughout the world. Held at Barcelona International Convention & Exhibition Centre, Spain, the event is aimed towards providing an entrusted podium for.... Venue : Fira de Barcelona ,Barcelona Spain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 Sep - 13 Sep 2015 Feria Internacional de Muestras -  Spain Feria Internacional de Muestras de Valladolid is characterized by constant evolution for its dynamism and ability to present to its visitors products and services sectors as diverse as automotive, leisure and tourism, culture, food . each section.... Venue : Feria de Valladolid Spain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 11 Jun - 15 Jun 2016 Texcare International Frankfurt -  Germany Texcare Forum, the high-calibre conference at Texcare International will provide detailed insights into tomorrow's trends in the textile-care sector. Venue : Exhibition Centre Frankfurt Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Jan - 16 Jan 2016 ZAK Garmentech Bangladesh -  Bangladesh Zak Garmentech Bangladesh is International Garment & Textile Machinery Trade Show. It includes buyers and sellers meet, technology seminars, country pavilions, and industry workshops. Venue : BICC - Bangabandhu International Conference Centre ,Dhaka Bangladesh Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 Nov - 19 Nov 2015 ITMA -  Spain International Exhibition of Textile and Textile Machinery. Venue : Fira de Barcelona ,Barcelona Spain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 12 Jun 2015 The 14th China International Consumer Goods Fair -  China The 14th China International Consumer Goods Fair (CICGF) is the largest and most professional international consumer goods fair in China, which ranks only second to Canton Fair among all the exhibitions sponsored by Ministry of Commerce. Venue : Ningbo International Conference & Exhibition Center ,Zhejiang China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Aug - 22 Aug 2015 FESPA Mexico -  Mexico FESPA Mexico offers a unique environment where the market can unite to share the latest technologies and solutions for the signage, textile, screen and digital printing industries. Venue : Centro Banamex ,México DF Mexico Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 29 Aug - 31 Aug 2015 Textile Asia 2015 -  Pakistan The International Textile Asia 2015 Exhibition, one of the most promising & enduring Event of its kind in the region, as the Visitors’ market has split into Punjab and Karachi Region due to which, on Demand by our valued Clients, we are able to.... Venue : Expo Centre Lahore ,Lahore Pakistan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 19 May - 23 May 2015 EVTEKS -  Turkey EVTEKS 2015 is actually a stand where lots of notable products and services will be exhibited. A number of these will be Textile, Home Textile, Carpets, Rugs, Kitchen Textiles, Curtains, Furnishing Fabrics and Wall Covering. The number of.... Venue : CNR Expo Center ,Yesilkoy Turkey Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 May - 09 May 2015 Intermasz -  Poland Intermasz is an International Trade Fair of Textile, Clothes and Shoemaking Machines. Venue : Poznan Congress Center ,Poznan Poland Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Apr - 27 Apr 2015 INTERNATIONAL TEXTILE FAIR 2015 -  United Arab Emirates INTERNATIONAL TEXTILE FAIR offers buyers, distributors, and designers the opportunity to view a large range of textiles from the most prestigious textile mills all over the world– all under one roof! Showing at Dubai World.... Venue : Dubai World Trade Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Mar - 07 Mar 2015 Tex-Styles India -  India Tex-Styles India 2015 Fair has emerged as an ideal forum for presenting the multi-faceted splendour of the Indian textile industry and established itself as the leading fair of its kind in South East Asia. The most comprehensive coverage of the.... Venue : Pragati Maidan, Hall Nos. 8,9,10 & 11 ,Central Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Feb - 04 Feb 2015 Munich Fabric Start -  Germany Munich Fabric Start is a global marketplace for fashion and trends. With over 600 exhibitors from 29 countries, the munich fabric start is one of the largest textiles trade fairs in Europe, and Germany's premiere trade fair for textiles and.... Venue : M,O,C, ,München Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Jan - 25 Jan 2015 ZAK Salaam India Expo-Singapore -  Singapore ZAK Salaam India Expo-Singapore 2015 is one of the exclusive exhibition & trade fair of indian products & services from multiple industry sectors. One can sell, sell in bulk, identify potential partners, and locate joint venture partners.... Venue : Singapore Expo Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Jan - 23 Jan 2015 Indian Ceramics-Ahmedabad -  India Want to know about the latest technology innovations in the ceramics industry? Need deep insights into the ceramics market in India? Or simply looking for a great opportunity to network with industry peers? The 10th Edition, The Indian.... Venue : Gujarat University Exhibition Centre ,Ahmedabad ,Gujarat India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 19 Dec - 21 Dec 2014 New Year Shooping Festival-2014 -  India The NEW YEAR SHOPPING FESTIVAL-2014 on 19,20 & 21 December-2014 presents a showcase for all the trendy and designer stuff ranging from home interiors, furniture & furnishing, Kitchen Accessories, Modular Kitchens, Bathroom Fittings, Decorative.... Venue : Chennai Trade Centre ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Sep - 18 Sep 2014 Buyer Seller Meet in Czech Republic & Poland -  Czech Republic The buyer seller meet between the Indian Textile, Apparel, Home Textile, Leather and Sports Goods Manufacturer is conducted by leading global marketing companies Masbee Services and Odema S.R.O based out of Slovakia. Venue : Brno, Czech Republic & Lodz ,Poland Czech Republic Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Jun - 23 Jun 2014 GFT-Thailand -  Thailand GFT-Thailand 2014 is the only international trade show for garment and textile manufacturing industry, which will once again open its door to the domestic as well as international participants, the show will be staged along side with the 2nd.... Venue : Bangkok International Trade & Exhibition Centre (BITEC) ,bangkok Thailand Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration « Prev 1 Next » Trade Shows by Month May 2015 Jun 2015 Jul 2015 Aug 2015 Sep 2015 Oct 2015 Nov 2015 Dec 2015 Jan 2016 Feb 2016 Mar 2016 Apr 2016 Trade Shows by Country Argentina Australia China Germany France India Italy Japan South Korea Mexico Russian Federation United Kingdom United States WELCOME GUEST Join Us! Its Free or Sign In For Supplier For Buyers Create your catalog FREE Suppliers... Get listed in our catalogs, advertise your products to thousands of buyers worldwide, and much more! Advertise FREE Get listed in our catalogs, advertise your products to thousands of buyers worldwide, and much more! Read More Post your Buy Requirement Get instant detailed quotes from pre-verified Suppliers Search Products / Suppliers Send inquiries directly to the Manfacturers/suppliers Read More General Links Home Contact Us Sitemap Help About Us Feedback Terms of Use Testimonials Advertise with Us Disclaimer Resources Email this Page Bookmark Page Make EI Home Page Trade Tool Kit Buy Offers Post Buy Requirement Post Products - FREE Services Directory Business Services Real Estate Tours & Travels Employment Services Matrimonials Services Business Directory Manufacturers Exporters Suppliers Service Providers Web Design By WeblinkIndia.NET - ISO 9001:2008 Certified © Copyright 2015. All Rights Reserved. ExportersIndia.com