Eric's Archived Thoughts: Inadvertent Algorithmic Cruelty meyerweb .com Exploration Powered by Google Skip to: site navigation/presentation Skip to: Thoughts From Eric Inadvertent Algorithmic Cruelty Wed 24 Dec 2014 1637 Rebecca Web 268 responses I didn’t go looking for grief this afternoon, but it found me anyway, and I have designers and programmers to thank for it.  In this case, the designers and programmers are somewhere at Facebook. I know they’re probably pretty proud of the work that went into the “Year in Review” app they designed and developed , and deservedly so—a lot of people have used it to share the highlights of their years .  Knowing what kind of year I’d had, though, I avoided making one of my own.  I kept seeing them pop up in my feed, created by others, almost all of them with the default caption, “It’s been a great year! Thanks for being a part of it.”  Which was, by itself, jarring enough, the idea that any year I was part of could be described as great. Still, they were easy enough to pass over, and I did.  Until today, when I got this in my feed, exhorting me to create one of my own.  “Eric, here’s what your year looked like!” A picture of my daughter, who is dead.  Who died this year . Yes, my year looked like that.  True enough.  My year looked like the now-absent face of my little girl.  It was still unkind to remind me so forcefully. And I know, of course, that this is not a deliberate assault.  This inadvertent algorithmic cruelty is the result of code that works in the overwhelming majority of cases, reminding people of the awesomeness of their years, showing them selfies at a party or whale spouts from sailing boats or the marina outside their vacation house. But for those of us who lived through the death of loved ones, or spent extended time in the hospital, or were hit by divorce or losing a job or any one of a hundred crises, we might not want another look at this past year. To show me Rebecca’s face and say “Here’s what your year looked like!” is jarring.  It feels wrong, and coming from an actual person, it would be wrong.  Coming from code, it’s just unfortunate.  These are hard, hard problems.  It isn’t easy to programmatically figure out if a picture has a ton of Likes because it’s hilarious, astounding, or heartbreaking. Algorithms are essentially thoughtless.  They model certain decision flows, but once you run them, no more thought occurs.  To call a person “thoughtless” is usually considered a slight, or an outright insult; and yet, we unleash so many literally thoughtless processes on our users, on our lives, on ourselves. Where the human aspect fell short, at least with Facebook, was in not providing a way to opt out.  The Year in Review ad keeps coming up in my feed, rotating through different fun-and-fabulous backgrounds, as if celebrating a death, and there is no obvious way to stop it.  Yes, there’s the drop-down that lets me hide it, but knowing that is practically insider knowledge.  How many people don’t know about it?  Way more than you think. This is another aspect of designing for crisis, or maybe a better term is empathetic design.  In creating this Year in Review app, there wasn’t enough thought given to cases like mine, or friends of Chloe , or anyone who had a bad year.  The design is for the ideal user, the happy, upbeat, good-life user.  It doesn’t take other use cases into account. Just to pick two obvious fixes: first, don’t pre-fill a picture until you’re sure the user actually wants to see pictures from their year.  And second, instead of pushing the app at people, maybe ask them if they’d like to try a preview—just a simple yes or no.  If they say no, ask if they want to be asked again later, or never again.  And then, of course, honor their choices. It may not be possible to reliably pre-detect whether a person wants to see their year in review, but it’s not at all hard to ask politely—empathetically—if it’s something they want.  That’s an easily-solvable problem.  Had the app been designed with worst-case scenarios in mind, it probably would have been. If I could fix one thing about our industry, just one thing, it would be that: to increase awareness of and consideration for the failure modes, the edge cases, the worst-case scenarios.  And so I will try . Note: There is a followup to this post that clarifies my original intent, among other things. A slightly revised and updated version of this post was published at Slate . 268 Responses » Comments RSS feed # 1 Pingback Wed 24 Dec 2014 1700 Received from Inadvertent Algorithmic Cruelty | The WordPress C(h)ronicle […] visit Meyerweb […] # 2 Comment Wed 24 Dec 2014 1747 Pseudonymous wrote in to say... We, the people of the internet who have watched your career, have all felt a deep pang of sympathy as we’ve read about the unfolding of your year. Our deepest condolences that Facebook should add to that pain so mindlessly. This year I went through divorce. A few months after my separation, Facebook suggested via a push message to my phone that I befriend my ex-wife’s lover. Thanks, Facebook! This doesn’t compare to your situation, of course, but it seems like wanton cruelty on their part not to do some kind of minimal sifting so that, for example, it doesn’t suggest creating a year to those in mourning or suggest friends of ex-partners for divorcees. # 3 Comment Wed 24 Dec 2014 1803 Flowbee Rida wrote in to say... My son died this year, so i understand the feeling. When i got the “picture” from Facebook, it was instead of myself and my mother, who died 2 years ago, and i reposted on the anniversary of her death. Not cool Facebook…some of us would rather not relive the year…..sigh…i guess we get what we pay for with them :( # 4 Comment Wed 24 Dec 2014 1810 Carolyn Wood wrote in to say... I’m sorry, Eric. I don’t like that you had to gain these insights the way you did. To notice them through jarring and/or painful experiences. Yes, I would like to try to “increase awareness of and consideration for the failure modes, the edge cases, the worst-case scenarios,” too. I have to do other projects (though with this in mind) to keep us going, but this has become a huge concern and interest of mine, as well. <3 # 5 Pingback Wed 24 Dec 2014 1846 Received from Facebook y el algoritmo de la crueldad | lou_s […] El algoritmo de la crueldad: cuando no existe la empatía en el diseño y desarrollo de un app/plata…  ¿Sí este año fue tan malo que no quieres que hasta Facebook te lo recuerde poniendo la cara de tu hija que acaba de fallecer? […] # 6 Comment Wed 24 Dec 2014 1917 Pascal Bourguignon wrote in to say... “The average age of a Facebook employee is 31.” When you’re twenty, you still believe you’ll live forever. When you work in the Silicon Valley, at any age, you still believe you’ll live forever. Therefore it’s not surprising that this is a very blind spot for them. http://www.theverge.com/2013/9/19/4748594/understanding-calico-larry-page-google-ventures-and-the-quest-for http://www.lifeissues.net/writers/asp/asp_01siliconvalley.html http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/07/05/technology-workers-are-young-really-young/?_r=0 # 7 Comment Wed 24 Dec 2014 1931 Matthew O'Leary wrote in to say... My picture was of Kurt Cobain, whom I had posted as part of a collage of him, Robin williams, and myself acting goofy. The point was that people suffering from the worst depression act goofy on the outside to cover up their pain. Three months later, my mother died of pancreatic cancer. Needless to say, my Facebook year is a pretty bleak one. # 8 Comment Wed 24 Dec 2014 2035 Dan N wrote in to say... Sorry for your loss and for your difficult year. I do agree that sentiment analysis is a “hard, hard problem”, but in this case, it seems like relatively simple heuristics could reduce such inadvertent cruelty. For example, if the cover image is to consist of something with the most likes/comments/shares in your feed…then it would be trivial to apply a filter that looks for comments in which the words “sorry/condolences/praying” etc. appear in at least 10% of the comments, or perhaps in the post text itself. Even if you were to manually create that filter for every language that Facebook exists in, it’d be a day job, at most, for an intern. And of course, there are more complicated heuristics or actual NLP that could be done, but why make it anymore complicated than the algorithm FB uses to group birthday-related posts together? In the end, it is a problem of myopia in the product group. It should be one that they’re acutely aware of: as they progress in their intent to make Facebook more ubiquitous in our lives, they have to be aware that FB, as a product, has to encompass all the complexities of modern life itself. # 9 Comment Wed 24 Dec 2014 2044 Anna wrote in to say... Eric, I’m so sorry. How are the kids handling Rebecca not being there? Face book should give people a choice if they choose to see their year in review. I deliberately don’t post much, few photos of outings and very few restaurant photos. So now apparently I’ve spent my whole year eating out. Guess it’s better then telling people about my surgeries and hospital stays :-) # 10 Comment Wed 24 Dec 2014 2044 Cliff Tyllick wrote in to say... Eric, I wish I could be so gracious in expressing my own pain. But I have to wonder who has lived such a perfect life that neitherthey nor anyone they know has ever had a bad year—or whether their algorithm for selecting pictures might produce an unpleasantly skewed “review” of the year gone by. Never a relationship gone sour, never a debilitating disease, never the untimely death of a loved one… For that matter, it seems that they must live completely isolated from news of Newtown or Ferguson or Sandy or Afghanistan or any other less-than-satisfying experience. Incredibly insensitive. For my part, I will keep each of you in my thoughts this holiday season. May you find peace and restoration and even joy, to the extent that it’s possible for you today. # 11 Comment Wed 24 Dec 2014 2052 Cliff Tyllick wrote in to say... Oops. That made no sense. Try this: *a bad year—or even one experience that would lead them to consider whether their algorithm… might produce an unpleasantly skewed… “ # 12 Comment Wed 24 Dec 2014 2239 Judy Frank wrote in to say... I’m so sorry for your loss. My mother died in February, and FB begins my Year in Review in April-May. I can’t even edit it to get January-March in there. It’s kind of the opposite problem — FB somehow erasing my loss. # 13 Comment Wed 24 Dec 2014 2258 Nope wrote in to say... At worst, it is a mirror. It cannot show you anything you didn’t already know. Use it as such. Look closely at what you have presented to the world. Learn from that. Mirrors can hurt, or teach us about ourselves. Your choice. # 14 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 0011 Carolyn Wood wrote in to say... @nope But why celebrate or even silently tolerate what these things are when they are “at worst.”? Some of us would rather point out what is not good about designer/developer choices, so they will learn to be “at best.” If software decides not only how to present your year, without your permission, and does so with an invalidating party atmosphere (as shown in the photo above), the makers of the software have not been thinking outside their corner of the world or considered the wholeness of what people are going through in the rest of the world. They chose the photo, not Eric. They chose Eric’s story, not Eric, and didn’t offer a clear alternative in advance. They aren’t bringing up something that anyone has chosen to hide from, or has pretended never happened. Look at everything Eric has written. He most certainly doesn’t need a mirror. He has taken, over the past year, a careful and considered look at himself, his choices, his family, his experiences, and shared so much with the rest of us. He speaks for many people when he brings matters to the attention of the makers of software, and the makers of other apps, sites, etc. And, finally, I don’t think that people who haven’t lost a child or been through great suffering should instruct someone in a comment section about how to feel or what they should learn or tell them to make a choice. If, indeed, you have lost a child or been through great suffering, you would know that…or you would know not to offer unsolicited advice, especially in public. And if you have known what it is like, you know it isn’t up to you to decide what reaction Eric should have…or, perhaps, you’ve forgotten that. His choice is to help others by pointing out how these are experienced by many, and what should be changed. if we are in the business of making the internet—and thus the world—a better experience, then we should listen carefully when people who are going through crises and/or suffering point out the failings of our work, and take it to heart—and, then, to our jobs. # 15 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 0041 Mud wrote in to say... Nope: I wonder what lesson you think he should have chosen to learn about himself. I gather you mean he should try to change himself and nothing else, which would be terribly convenient for those of us who don’t want to be bothered with anyone else’s problems. In any case, he did learn something: that such mirrors, unasked-for and presented persistently and without empathy, can cause needless pain — not just to himself, but to others. This led to him consider other people’ feelings and experiences and recommend some ways to help spare those people, as well as himself, that pain. I think he handled this as productively and as thoughtfully as anyone could. If you think his problem is him… well, maybe it’s you who needs another look in a mirror. # 16 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 0117 trish reeve wrote in to say... whilst you may see it as incredibly hurtful – maybe try and see it as a celebration of the beautiful girl and the love you have for her?! that she existed at all – that you got the opportunity to love and cherish her – that you brought this beautiful, precious angel into the world and that her photo reminds to tell you that she is not gone – she is not far away… love is a powerful force and this may be a reminder that whilst her arms are not here to hold nor her adorable face to kiss – that her love – is in every breath you take, every movement of the wind, every sunrise and every sunset. you have my condolences – truly and lovingly – and I get to see the picture without the pain, sadly having never known her… but I see your pain too… # 17 Pingback Thu 25 Dec 2014 0211 Received from Algorithmic cruelty | NerdlyNews […] you, over and over, what your year “looked like”; in Eric Meyer’s case, the photo was of his daughter, who died this year: “For those of us who lived through the death of loved ones, or spent extended time in the […] # 18 Pingback Thu 25 Dec 2014 0216 Received from Facebook's Year in Review app shows how algorithms can inadvertently hurt users in worst-case scenarios (Eric Meyer/Thoughts From Eric) | Golden Gate Daily […] Meyer / Thoughts From Eric:Facebook’s Year in Review app shows how algorithms can inadvertently hurt users in worst-case …  —  Inadvertent Algorithmic Cruelty  —  I didn’t go looking […] # 19 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 0218 Billy Di wrote in to say... Sorry to hear that Facebook’s review of the year reflected part of your recent loss. However it does allow you to change anything you do not want there. So before posting it you can make changes. # 20 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 0229 ben wrote in to say... At the risk of stating the obvious: There is a preference setting to auto-hide things from your Timeline that you did not yourself expressly post. At present: Dropdown (next to lock) => “Activity Log” => “Timeline Review” (left column) => gear icon near top of middle column Activating the icon with your pointer/caret will open a modal dialog, in one corner of which lies an Enable/Disable button. So nobody sees my Year in Review, just the post I wrote in its place. It’s public, so the more-observant among you can get at it if you like. # 21 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 0239 Gaurav wrote in to say... Our sympathies – this is truly a tough loss to bear. On the product side,this is a colossal failing – not anticipating when this will fail. Guess when there is a rush to out-innovate other groups in a company, these things are bound to happen… # 22 Pingback Thu 25 Dec 2014 0240 Received from Facebook’s algorithm cruelty | IDentifEYE […] us a summary of our past year. Cory Doctorov writes: “in Eric Meyer’s case, the photo was of his daughter, who died this year“. Meyer comments: “To show me Rebecca’s face and say “Here’s what your year […] # 23 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 0937 Satish wrote in to say... Facebook’s year review app is a cruel thing for those of us who had a horrible year. I lost my mother after a brief battle with cancer and life since has not been the same. But looking back – is it so difficult to ensure the app can recognise the sort of year one had had? Aren’t algorithms built which can identify phrases and words which could indicate joy or sadness? I think its not just about a worst-case scenario. Facebook could have but chose not to give a damn for people who would have had a shattering or trying last 12 months. # 24 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1014 David Orlowski wrote in to say... I was only annoyed, and a little saddened, to see my dead parents (a photo I posted after my mother died this year) pop up in my feed. But each time I clicked “I don’t want to see this,” my mobile facebook crashed. And when I opened it up again, there they were once more, dad kissing mom’s hand after waltzing with her at a party. A picture I want to keep, when I want to go looking for it. After “I don’t want to see this” proved repeatedly ineffectual and the problem kept recurring, I started getting angry. This loss, while painful, must be much less than what you and your family have experienced, still experience. May her memory always be a blessing. # 25 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1021 Emily wrote in to say... Thanks for writing this. I’m amazed by some of the comments, seeming to suggest this kind of thing is inevitable and we should just learn to accept it and draw meaning from it. It sounds like pre-modern people trying to justify the mysterious and occasionally cruel workings of God. Facebook isn’t God–it’s some twentysomethings working out in Silicon Valley, and we don’t have to accept their product, and we can certainly try to tell them how it isn’t working for us (not that they’ll listen). What makes it difficult is that Facebook is often a source of community and support during trying times, so it doesn’t make sense to say “just quit if you don’t like it.” Facebook is hugging you with one arm and punching you with the other. I’m sorry for your loss and that you were confronted with it in this way. # 26 Pingback Thu 25 Dec 2014 1046 Received from Algorithmic cruelty and thoughtless, young developers. It's been a great year! Unless it hasn't: http://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/2014/12/24/inadvertent-algorithmic-cruelty/ […] Algorithmic cruelty and thoughtless, young developers. It's been a great year! Unless it hasn't: http://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/2014/12/24/inadvertent-algorithmic-cruelty/ […] # 27 Pingback Thu 25 Dec 2014 1102 Received from Bookmarks for December 24th through December 25th : Extenuating Circumstances […] Inadvertent Algorithmic Cruelty – Genevieve Bell: More complications of an algorithmic life (fyi @katecrawford) MT@doctorow: Algorithmic cruelty http://t.co/fIb5xLBcRL http://t.co/w0uRBMFo23 […] # 28 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1104 Anon77 wrote in to say... Eh, decided to go anonymous with this comment, because I know all the backlash I’ll receive. I don’t think it’s fair to blame the employees at Facebook for this. I put myself in their shoes, and I would’ve never thought of this. I’ve had family die, been cheated on, lost a job, all in the last year. I’ve got to question the people who post that on Facebook. Who does that? “Hey everyone, I was cheated on. Welp, enjoy the rest of your day”. Facebook is where you post good things that happen in your life, not the terrible ones. That’s probably what they’re were thinking… # 29 Pingback Thu 25 Dec 2014 1106 Received from Facebook’s ‘Year In Review’ Feature Will Chronicle Your 2014, Good Or Bad | TechCrunch […] then you read something like this, where a man is being consistently reminded that this year, his young daughter passed […] # 30 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1109 Lewis wrote in to say... > If I could fix one thing about our industry, just one thing, it would be that: to increase awareness of and consideration for the failure modes, the edge cases, the worst-case scenarios. And so I will try. Well said. Let’s all work on that. Very thoughtful post, sir. All the hugs. <3 # 31 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1141 Dana Gaskin Wenig wrote in to say... I’m so sorry. My losses are not in the same league as losing a child, but 4 deaths this year: my father, a close friend my age from cancer, a new friend who never became an old friend, and a step aunt, plus Southern Gothic drama and pain in my extended family makes 2014 one of my worst ever. Thank you for writing this post and for posting it. My Year in Review started and ended with pictures of my dad and me. It startled me and it hurt, but for me it was a way of sharing the reality so I posted it. If I had lost a child – I’d like to think I’d be brave enough to do what you did. I’m so very sorry for your loss. ❤️ # 32 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1144 snow wrote in to say... I’m truly sorry for your loss but we cannot blame Facebook for what happen. Facebook hasn’t forced this on anyone. You say your daughter passed this year, so if you knew seeing her picture would hurt you why do you still have it on your Facebook profile? Anyone could have regenerated that picture simply by liking it or leaving a comment under it Facebook hasn’t forced anything on us because I haven’t received a notification informing me to create one. Lets learn today that any and everything you post on the internet you can not get back or delete. # 33 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1250 Turgut Kalfaoğlu wrote in to say... Facebook did the same to me; it showed me the same party background and a big picture of my dad who passed away this summer :( # 34 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1257 MedicalQuack wrote in to say... I understand this as I lost my mother last year, however, I refuse to use Facebook so didn’t have an issue like this. I am however, very tired of all the algorithmic emails I get, getting old. I had to go through Mom’s emails and online accounts, and she had quite a bit. Be aware too of the data selling business out there as a bot is worth $100 on Facebook and humans are worth 1-2 cents, techno serfs that do what the bot can’t do, good video from Sean Gourley, physicist and mathematician. It’s one of the videos at the Killer Algorithms page. http://www.ducknet.net/attack-of-the-killer-algorithms/ Be aware too of how our personal data is sold right and left and so some of this information may show up again and again. There’s a lot of algorithmic cruelty out there we have to deal with. I’m a former developer myself and there’s just too much of a lot of this. http://www.youcaring.com/other/help-preserve-our-privacy-/258776 # 35 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1308 Glenn Block wrote in to say... Thank you for sharing your thoughts Eric. As a father of a 10 year old daughter, I am terribly sorry for the loss of your beautiful daughter. I agree with everything you said. When I saw these albums popping up everywhere it was annoying, but never considered how much pain it could cause for someone who has had tragedy during the year. This is a good lesson for all of us who design software. As you said, algorithms fall down and in this case when they do, it is hurtful. Yes, be more considerate, yes make it opt-in, yes let me have a checkbox to make it go way! Keep strong and thanks for your honesty and for your courage in sharing your experiences. # 36 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1347 Kat wrote in to say... Eric, I’m so sorry. I would find it even better when this is no longer shown on facebook. # 37 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1500 Divorcee wrote in to say... Very bang on piece. I can’t conpare my loss to yours, but my ‘year in review’ was a picture of me, my wife of less than 1 year, and the guy she left me for that we had met on vacation. Thanks for that painful reminder Facebook. That’s exactly the album I want to share with my friends. # 38 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1540 ben wrote in to say... …And to the charmer who in reply to my earlier comment sent an anonymous, profanity-laden tirade via the web2mail form on my site: 1. OF COURSE I have a grasp of tragedy; you have no idea of how I fit in here, but the proprietor certainly does. A number of people reading might want to avoid showing their Year in Review posts to everybody, particularly given that many here were invested in the events of the past year and prior, and would never want to risk putting their Facebook friends through something like that. Light a lantern instead of cursing the darkness, I say. 2. Maybe I do suffer from an undiagnosed ASD, but it’s not your place to judge, especially when you proceed to accompany your layman’s diagnosis with value judgments. 3. I’ve forwarded the message with full headers to the Time Warner network abuse folks. (Network analysis tools are great.) I figure I’m not the first person who’s gotten this treatment from you. Happy holidays! P.S. Apologies to those who feel this straddles the boundaries of the conduct policy. I DO NOT TOLERATE BULLYING, and the message I received read a lot like that. # 39 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1623 Carolyn Wood wrote in to say... Ben, You sent a direct, helpful bit of information to help people. You didn’t add critiques of Eric’s feelings, or justification for what Facebook needs to change and what every site should keep in mind (the real lives of people.) Though it burns, I guess you have to consider that an anonymous putdown of you is from a troll. It’s shameful. To those (not you, Ben) who think that Facebook only shows the happy moments, I beg to differ. MANY groups of people with illnesses, etc. have pages there, and the individuals in those groups often include what they are going through in their posts. I belong to a group whose members have a certain type of brain tumor. I can only imagine seeing a party atmosphere around a picture of someone showing the stitches in their head after their craniotomy. One of the points here is the default setting. There should be a “Would you like to make a Year in Review?” That should be the default. As for not being able to change Facebook or anything else on the web, keep in mind that the web used to be a place in which EVERY VERSION OF EVERY BROWSER interpreted HTML and CSS differently. It was the time of Browser Wars. Eric is one of the people who was very active in a movement to change all of the standards in the industry, and the web industry was radically changed as a result. It’s good to know the history of the web. It makes us bold, it reminds us that as individuals and as a group, YES, WE CAN CHANGE THINGS. And sometimes that change begins with one person telling his or her story. # 40 Pingback Thu 25 Dec 2014 1644 Received from Facebookの「今年のまとめ」カードは良きにつけ悪しきにつけ2014年を巧みに要約してくれる - TechCrunch […] しかし、悲劇的な例もある。あるユーザーは、娘の死をいやおうなく繰り返し思い出させられることになった。 […] # 41 Pingback Thu 25 Dec 2014 1715 Received from Inadvertent algorithmic cruelty from Facebook’s ye… | Ali's Li'l Place on the Net […] Inadvertent algorithmic cruelty from Facebook’s year in review feature: meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/… […] # 42 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1730 Brendan Minish wrote in to say... One of things that needs to be considered about this kind of algorithmic approach is that for each and every one of us, it is almost certain to kick us at the end of a bad year sooner or later. # 43 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1809 rkw wrote in to say... Part of it is a failure of a system that pulls talent from a pretty narrow pool. If your biggest problem is deciding between finding a roommate for your San Francisco apartment or illegally listing your extra bedroom on AirBnB, things like the death of a child, divorce, or job loss aren’t on your radar. The team on this didn’t think it through. I’m on a job hunt and, in the meantime, make ends make via the ride share services. I drive a lot of tech folks around, hear a lot of stories and see the demographic first hand. My year had some bad moments and isn’t one I want to review. Sure enough, FB gave me the option to review and post my year too. It shall remain private. Let’s hope that next year they get it and give folks the option to opt out. # 44 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1825 Adam wrote in to say... Two things make me sad here. Of course, the most prominent one is that you — and undoubtedly so many other people — suffer from having painful reminders thrust at you. Whether it’s FB’s newsfeed, watching TV news, reading feeds online, etc… particularly for those of us who have had difficult or depressing years, this is awful. But at the same time, much of the scorn and vitriol I’m seeing here against FB programmers and other ‘geeks’ is also sad. The implication by many that these folks are callous, indifferent, clueless… this is unfair, broadly incorrect, and counterproductive. It muddies the more important message, assigning blame rather than encouraging people to work together to make things better. Yes, FB needs to do better in this situation and others. But as someone who has friends who work there, I know firsthand that they care about the people who use their service. At least a couple of these friends, in fact, have had awful years… and to imply that no Facebooker’s have endured a tragic loss… that’s simply asinine. Eric, this is not directed at you. Your post was thoughtful and IMHO important as well; people in nearly every industry (education, service, technology, etc.) need to strive to be more empathetic. Rather, my frustration is stemming from some of the comments I’ve read here and elsewhere (“ the web biz is dominated by socially inept privileged corporate drones “) Anyway, thank you for posting this. Wishing you peace during this challenging time and beyond. # 45 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1943 Paul wrote in to say... My wife and I have lost 3 babies through miscarriage in the last couple of years. I posted about it on fb. Therefore a post that got a large and heartfelt sympathetic response from friends and family when we lost number 3 popped up last year with the 10 years of fb posts. It is was poignant, touching and painful all at the same time. But…these are our lives. These are our lives online. We all have these moments that remind us about pain and loss. Whether it’s a song played, a familiar fragrance, a movie on TV that we went to see with a lost loved one. These things crop up all around us, all the time but many of us probably take deep breaths and tell ourselves that time is a healer. Eric. I’m so sorry for your lost. We are blessed with a five year old and I can’t even bring myself to wander down the “what if” thought process. I think your posting will be important and influential for future review features on Facebook. I’m not sure I would be too quick to be overly critical of fb on this though. I suspect that for a very large number of people their review year was really joyous as mine was whilst recognising some really tough health issues I’ve had this year. Sometimes people are triggers for grief totally inadvertently and I think maybe that’s what’s happened here. I’ll leave you with a story of how I was once such a trigger. I’m a teacher and in the course of playing the fool with some high schoolers I broke into song from a children’s film. However, one of my students leapt to her feet and ran out of the door distraught. Little did I know that this song had a special significance for her and her late father and had been played at his funeral six months earlier. I felt so bad but realised there was no way it could have been prevented. Sometimes things come along and just knock the wind out of our sails. For my wife and I it’s when we hold a baby with one of the names we had chosen. A long post I know but death robs and steals from us all. My sympathies. # 46 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 1954 Iain Roberts wrote in to say... I’m very sorry for your loss. As parent of a baby son I can’t imagine how hard it was. Something very similar happened earlier this year, wherein Facebook made me into a bystander at the grief of a total stranger. My thoughts on it are here: http://blog.iainroberts.com/2014/07/death-and-facebook.html # 47 Pingback Thu 25 Dec 2014 2011 Received from Inadvertent Algorithmic Cruelty « Another Word For It […] Inadvertent Algorithmic Cruelty by Eric A. Meyers. […] # 48 Pingback Thu 25 Dec 2014 2123 Received from Facebook Has Replaced the Annual Christmas Letter | Swaby Online Media - SEO, SEM & Social Media Marketing […] Not everybody thinks the algorithm was good. Eric Meyer called his experience with it algorithmic cruelty. […] # 49 Pingback Thu 25 Dec 2014 2145 Received from Safety and effectiveness in data mining | Stats Chat […] Eric Meyer has written a post about Facebook’s “Year in Review”, which (repeatedly) pops up a picture in his feed saying “Eric, here’s what your year looked like!”. The algorithm is right. Horribly right. […] # 50 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 2151 Eric Meyer wrote in to say... Thank you all for your responses. I wish I could reply to them all right away. I just… I had no idea the post would trigger so much response. It’s been a little bit surreal. And of course today was a bit busy with presents, friends, cookie decorating, and an outing to see Big Hero 6 , so I’m just now getting back to where I can comment. Still, there are two things I do want to say before things get any later. First, Ben , I’m sorry that you were attacked by someone over your comment. I don’t know if it was another commenter, and I sincerely hope not, but in any event I’m not happy that one of my guests treated another with such disrespect. It was uncalled for, and inappropriate. Second, Adam , I very much agree with you. The post was not meant as an indictment of Facebook or of geeks in general, and it’s bothered me to see it used that way. I don’t think anyone at Facebook was callous or indifferent, nor do I think they were uniquely short-sighted. They just didn’t consider how their design would be received in non-ideal cases. In this, they’re hardly alone. It happens all the time, on all kinds of web sites (and beyond the web, too, but web design is my field). Again, my thanks to everyone for sharing your thoughts, feelings, and experiences. I truly appreciate all that you’ve shared. # 51 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 2222 Joseph wrote in to say... My deepest condolences Eric. I have three children, my oldest daughter is the same age as your daughter, and it literally pains me to tears reading your account of losing her. No parent should have to survive by their children, and though you don’t know me, I wish I could do something to ease your grief. I cannot imagine what it is like to lose one of my children, an I’m so sorry you have to experience that. Thank you for openly sharing your experience, your family is in my thoughts and prayers. # 52 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 2229 Rachel wrote in to say... I’m so sorry for your tragic loss. My best friend died in October, after a freak accident, which has left me in a downward spiral of awful thoughts and feelings that I’m attempting to put behind me. In our mourning lots of my friends re-uploaded and re-tagged a lot of photos with him. The photo Facebook’s algorithm chose to use for my “year” was us two having a great time together – about three years ago. It physically pains me to see all of these photos again but it helps to look through them sometimes. That being said, I do not understand how arbitrarily the algorithm chooses a photo, nor do I appreciate the “here’s what your year looked like” as if somehow the program senses that this arbitrary photo is at all representative of anything that occurred this year. It feels painful, unfair, and like just another reason not to use support or use Facebook any longer. # 53 Comment Thu 25 Dec 2014 2311 Carolyn Wood wrote in to say... Adam, I have friends at Facebook, too, some of whom I love and/or admire greatly. But it’s not only fair, but also very important, to challenge what they were thinking and to urge them to get it right, which is what Eric wrote about. And this is true for all who work on the web, in a wide range of companies, but the case at hand IS Facebook. As he said, ““I have designers and programmers to thank for it (his grief). In this case, the designers and programmers are somewhere at Facebook.” The process and the resulting algorithm are damaging to many