Hill Stations in Kerala Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Kerala Travel Honeymoon in Kerala Hotels in Kerala Kerala Food How to Reach Kerala Airports in Kerala Tour Operators Kerala Attractions Kerala Backwaters Beaches in Kerala Wildlife in Kerala Hill stations in Kerala Kerala Water sports Shopping in Kerala Ayurvedic Resorts Pilgrimage Places Museums in Kerala Places to Visit in Kerala Trivandrum Travel Alleppey Travel Kannur Travel Kozhikode Travel Munnar Travel Thrissur Travel Wayanad Travel Kumarakom Travel Periyar National Park Thekkady Travel Kochi Travel Kovalam Travel Idukki Travel Mallapuram Travel Palakkad Travel Pathanamthitta Travel Varkala Travel Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya About Kerala Weather in Kerala History of Kerala Culture of Kerala Kerala Festivals Nehru Trophy Boat Race Champakulam Boat Race Aranmula Snake Boat Race Gramam Village Fair Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Cities in Kerala Lat Long Map Outline Map Districts in Kerala Kerala Road Map Kerala Railway Map Home » Maps » Kerala » Hill Stations in Kerala Hill Stations in Kerala Kerala Hill Stations Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the location of hill stations in Kerala. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Kerala Hillstations Tours present yet another facet of God's Own Country. The high and rugged Western Ghats endow the state with a number of Hillstations, which unlike the rest of the state have a high rate of tourist influx during the summer months. If you seek to beat the heat or enjoy the cozy comfort of Nature or wish to trek on the woody mountain trails or I you are simply answering the "call of the mountains", get away to one of these beautiful chilly places in Kerala. The undulating paths, the rich variety of flora and fauna available, the beautiful gorges and valleys and the sparkling silver streams that skip and dance through the rocks, the settling clouds that one can walk through and the fresh plucked green tea, brewed hot- this is the irresistible lure of the land. Maps Of India is your guide in planning your unforgettable holiday in the mountainous retreats of Kerala. Munnar Munnar is one of the picturesque places of Kerala where you can feel nature in the lap of Western Ghats. The name of this hill station means 'three rivers' and is located at the confluence of three rivers - Kundaly, Nallathanni, and Madhurapuzha. Tourists can enjoy the lush green surroundings, tea plantations, forests, reservoirs, waterfalls, lakes, spectacular views, and winding lanes. Must-visit tourist spots in and around Munnar are Mattupetty, Marayoor, Eravikulam National Park, Periyar Tiger Reserve, Peerumedu, Pambadum Shola National Park, Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary, Devikulam, Pothamedu, Nyayamakad, Pallivasal, Blossom International Park, Mount Carmel Church, etc. Munnar region is situated at an altitude from anything between 4,760 ft (1,450 meters) and 8,842 ft (2,695 meters). Cochin International Airport is the nearest airport to Munnar town. The nearest railways to this place are Aluva and Ernakulam. In winters, the temperature varies from 5 °C to 15 °C while during summer it ranges between 15°C and 25°C. The celebrated protected areas that support the ecology of this place through preservation of flora and fauna (such as Grizzled Giant Squirrel, Nilgiri Thar, Gaur, Elephant, Nilgiri Langur, Gaur, Sambar, Nilgiri Wood-pigeon, and Neelakurinji) are Kurinjimala Sanctuary, Indira Gandhi Wildlife Sanctuary's Amaravati Reserve Forest and Manjampatti Valley, Palani Hills National Park, and Pampadum Shola National Park. Wayanad Hill Station Wayanad is one of the most celebrated camping hilly areas of Kerala. It is located in Wayanad, the least populous district of the state. This place was earlier known as Mayakshetra or "Maya's land". The present name of the place, as per folk etymology, means 'The Land of Paddy Fields'. This beautiful place in the Western Ghats is located at an altitude of anything between 700 metres and 2,100 metres. In this district you will find some important mountains such as Brahmagiri, Banasura Peak, and Chembra Peak. The river that flows through this place is Kabini River. Its tributaries are Kalindi, Mananthavady, and Panamaram. The weather in Wayanad remains cool and pleasant throughout the year. The temperature remains, on an average, around 29°C and only sparingly reaches 31°C. The Wayanad Tourism Organization organizes many trails, and one of the most popular trails here is the 'Outdoor Trail', which covers areas such as Chembra Peak, Chethalayam, Meenmutty waterfalls, Neelimala, Pakshipathalam, and Banasura Sagar Dam. The nearest airport and railway station from Wayanad are Calicut International Airport and Calicut Railway Station, respectively. Devikulam In Idukki district, Devikulam is a picturesque hill station, located 5 km from the celebrated tourist place Munnar. Devikulam is located 1,800 metres above sea level. The lake, now called Sita Devi Lake, is located in the hilly surroundings and lush green picturesque backdrop. Tourists will enjoy the scenic beauty of Pallivasal Waterfalls, natural vegetation of gum trees, and dense forests. People here predominantly speak Tamil and Malayam languages. Population of this hill station is very low. Around 350 people live here. You will enjoy the cool air throughout the year, exotic flora and fauna, and velvet lawns. Tourists can also enjoy the good picnic spot near the Sita Devi Lake in the picturesque backdrop. You get there by road, air, and rail. The nearest railway stations to Devikulam are Ernakulam and Aluva. The Cochin International Airport is the nearest railway station located here. You can also take the Munnar-Kumily Highway to reach the place as Devikulum is situated just 8 km from Devikulam. Ponmudi Ponmudi, also known as the Golden Peak, is a picturesque hill station of Thiruvananthapuram district, Kerala. It is located 1,100 metres above sea level and is a part of Western Ghats. Tropical forest rolls down the hill range, which looks like a carpet, is simply a treat to the eyes. Water streams, twisted trails, salubrious atmosphere, natural beauty, and scenic splendor make this place truly blessed. Just travel from Trivandrum to Ponmudi through the narrow-winding road and you will be mesmerized by the scenic views offered on the way. This place is popular among hikers as well as trekkers because it serves as a base for them to start their trail. Tea gardens make this place that more beautiful. Some attractions here are Golden Valley, Ponmudi Falls, Agasthyarkoodam Biosphere Reserve, Echo Point, numerous trekking points, and Meenmutty Falls. In the sanctuary you can watch a wide variety of animals and birds, including leopards, Asian elephants, Malabar grey hornbills, lion-tailed macaques, sambar, etc. Thiruvananthapuram International Airport and Thiruvananthapuram Central Railway Station are the nearest airport and railway station to Ponmudi, respectively. The distance between Trivadandrum city and Ponmudi, by road, is 61 km. Nelliyampathy Nelliampathi is one of the most visited hill stations in Kerala, located 60 km from Palakkad. Tourists throng this place every year because of the excellent weather conditions, tea/coffee plantations, coupled with exquisite scenery. You will enjoy the journey between Kaikatty and Nemmara. You will go past Pothundi Dam, rice plantations, adventurous hairpin bends, and government forest having massive teak trees on the way. During rainy season you can watch many water streams coming down the hilly slopes. If you are lucky you can also come across many flora and fauna including porcupines, deers, and monkeys. Nelliampathi hills are especially known for having exquisite fauna, including 90 species of butterflies and 215 species of birds. Some of the rare species of brids such as Nilgiri Pipit, Broad-tailed Grassbird, Nilgiri Flycatcher, Oriental Broad-billed Roller, Great Black Woodpecker, Jerdon's Baza, Great Pied Hornbill, and Grey-breasted Laughing Thrush. Nilgiri Tahr, Nilgiri Langur, Bonnet Macaque, and Lion-tailed Macaque can be found in the grassy peaks of Nelliampathi Hills. Coimbatore Airport and Palakkad Railway Station are the nearest airport and railway station to Nelliyampathy, respectively. Peermade This small hilly town is located in Idukki district of Kerala. It is also called Plantation Town of Kerala, located at an altitude of 915 metres from the sea level. Peermade is famous for picturesque locales and picnic spots. Some of the most renowned ones are Wagamon, Pattumala, Grampi, Peeru Hills, Thrissanku Hils, Sahayadri Ayurvedic Centre, and Kuttikanam. Travelers can walk on rolling hills, trek, get Ayurvedic massage, and many more. You can also visit Periyar Wildlife Sanctuary to catch a glimpse of elephant herds and other wildlife. The best time to visit Peermade is during the summer season, between March and May. One of the best aspects of this place is that it is well connected through air, road, and rail. Accommodation facilities are better than any other place located nearby. During peak season, tourists should book accommodation in advance. Last Updated on : February 27, 2014 Hotels in Kerala Alleppey Hotels Angamaly Hotels Changanacherry Hotels Guruvayur Hotels Idukki Hotels Kannur Hotels Kasaragod Hotels Kochi Hotels Kollam Hotels Kottayam Hotels Kozhikode Hotels Kumarakom Hotels Malappuram Hotels Munnar Hotels Nilambur Hotels Palakkad Hotels Palghat Hotels Punalur Hotels Sultan Battery Hotels Thalassery Hotels Thekkady Hotels Thiruvananthapuram Hotels Thrissur Hotels Trivandrum Hotels Varkala Hotels Wayanad Hotels Travel to Kerala Travel to Alleppey Travel to Kumarakom Travel to Kannur Travel to Kozhikode Travel to Mallapuram Travel to Palakkad Travel to Pathanamthitta Travel to Thekkady Travel to Wayanad Travel to Kochi Travel to Kovalam Travel to Munnar Travel to Trivandrum Travel to Varkala Travel to Thrissur Places to Visit in Kerala Places to visit in Alleppey Places to visit in Kochi Places to visit in Kovalam Places to visit in Kozhikode Places to visit in Kumarakoram Places to visit in Munnar Places to visit in Thekkady Places to visit in Thrissur Places to visit in Trivandrum Places to visit in Varkala About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule