Health — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Health Share Info Health The Health section focuses on women and child health besides various other topics such as sanitation, common diseases, policies and schemes, first aid and mental health. Awareness on Maternal and Child Health India is committed to reduce the maternal mortality ratio and providing universal access to reproductive health. Awareness generation on maternal and child health is a major responsibility and fundamental importance, to ensure utilization of various programmes implemented by Government. Indigenous Systems of Medicine. People are in dire need of relevant information on the utilization of indigenous systems of medicine. InDG attempts to consolidate the information, resource materials and database related to Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH). Mental Health awareness - Need of the hour According to World Health Organisation, by the year 2020, depression constitutes the second largest disease burden worldwide. The social and economic costs associated with growing burden of mental ill health, directs to create awareness on mental health and treating mental illness. Women Health Women health is very important thorough out her life, from puberty to menopause. Adolescent health, pregnancy, and reproductive tract health are the major areas of concern where care needs to be taken. In this portal information is provided for safe motherhood and care for good reproductive tract health. Child Health Children and Newborns, Growth and development, achieving mile stones, vaccination, care during illness, nutrition etc play a big role in child health. children are vulnerable to malnutrition and infectious diseases. Healthy growth and development need to be supported with proper care to prevent malnutrition and infectious diseases. Each phase of child as a new born, infant, toddler and school going age needs special attention and care to protect and prevent diseases and to optimise the growth and development to their full potential. The portal provides information about all these topics. Polices and schemes National Health Mission seeks to provide effective health care to the population, the disadvantaged groups including women and children by improving access, enabling community ownership strengthening public health systems for efficient service delivery, enhancing equity and accountability and promoting decentralization. The portal provides information related to the NHM and various health related policies and schemes. AYUSH AYUSH that is Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) is gaining popularity. The portal provides information on basic concepts, diagnosis, treatment and related institutions and schemes related to AYUSH. Nutrition Nutrition is the intake of food, considered in relation to the body’s dietary needs. Good nutrition – an adequate, well balanced diet combined with regular physical activity – is a cornerstone of good health. The portal provides information related to dietary guidelines, foods and their nutritional values, nutrition concepts and tips and much more. Diseases Disease is a term for any condition that impairs the normal functioning of organs or body. They can be divided into three categories. Those are Intrinsic Diseases, Extrinsic Diseases and Diseases of Unknown Origin. The portal provides information related to these types of diseases. Sanitation and Hygiene A holistic definition of sanitation includes safe drinking water, liquid and solid waste management, environmental cleanliness and personal hygiene. The portal provides information on these topics of importance. Mental Health WHO defines Mental health as mental well-being in which an individual realizes his or her own abilities, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and is able to make a contribution to his or her community. The portal provides information related to this vital health aspect that is drawing attention at present. First Aid First aid is the provision of initial care for an illness or injury. The portal offers information on necessary points to remember and keep ready when any emergency accident or small injury occurs, in the house or in office, school, college or factory. mayank Mar 12, 2015 06:56 AM kindly add something about rashtriya bal swasth karyakram and other govt welfare schemes and how to avail benefits from them... Post Your Suggestion (If you have any comments / suggestions on the above content, please post them here) Name Your Message   Type the word given below Navigation Women Health Child Health Policies and Schemes AYUSH Nutrition Diseases & disorders Sanitation and Hygiene Mental Health First Aid Facts for Life Organ donation Health Directory Discussion Forum - Health Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector See More.... Energy Energy Basics Energy conservation Energy efficiency Energy production Best Practices Women and Energy Policy Support Rural Innovations See More.... e-Governance e-Governance in India About RTI Act 2005 e-Gov Services online Resources for VLEs Mobile Governance Judicial Services in India Services e-Vyapar Ask an Expert MOTHER Online Courses Multimedia CD's Recaller VLE Corner GK Quiz This portal has been developed as part of the national level initiative - India Development Gateway (InDG), dedicated for providing information / knowledge and ICT based knowledge products and services in the domain of social development. InDG is a Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY) , Ministry of Communications & Information Technology, Government of India initiative and is executed by Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Hyderabad. About Us Link to Us Contact Us Help Portal Policies Add to Favourite Sitemap Give Your Feedback Last modified: Jun 16, 2014 © 2015 C-DAC. All rights reserved. Navigation plus minus Back to top