Protected cultivation of Vegetables and Flowers in North and West Karnataka - AgricultureInformation.com Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your Message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store My Orders Need Help? Protected cultivation of Vegetables and Flowers in North and West Karnataka QUESTIONS > Protected cultivation of Vegetables and Flowers in North and West Karnataka Dear Sir, I want to enter in to the protected cultivation of fruits and vegetables. Actually I am from Kolar district which is known for vegetable cultivation, but due to lack of ground water and low rain fall the vegetable growing area is shifting towards north and central part of karnataka. I am also thinking to move towards any of these places. Now i want to know from the experts that, given the high humidity conditions in west karnataka and high temprature in north karnataka; is it possible to grow vegetables and flowers under green houses on a large scale. Reply fast… Thanking you……. Complete this form to contact the person who posted the above message Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Enter above letters/numbers: You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) Search – messages Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Tags agriculture land agriculture land for sale aloevera capsicum coconut consultancy consultant cows cultivation dairy farm dairy farming distributors farming farm land ginger goat goat farm goat farming green house Job land for sale lease loan mango medicinal plant Melia Dubia moringa mushroom mushroom farming organic organic farming PAKAYOKO NATURAL SEED partner poly house poultry farming project report rice spirulina subsidy training turmeric vegetable vermicompost wanted farm land want land PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Related messages – questions, wanted, for sale How to make Sauce from fruits and Vegetables doing research in agriculture based electronics Food products for export Cut flower growing in ooty Log in Sign in Remember me Lost your password? Forgot your details? Reset Password I remember my details