Bihar Map Home » Maps » Bihar Map   Bihar बिहार का नक्शा Bihar Map Bihar at a Glance Bihar Cities Motihari Chhapra Bhagalpur Bodhgaya Samastipur                    more.. Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Travel to Bihar Places to Visit in Bihar Wildlife Sanctuaries Nalanda Archaeological Museum Ashokan Pillar Buddha Stupa Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Education Universities In Bihar Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Government and Politics Hotels in Bihar Bhagalpur Hotels Bodhgaya Hotels Gaya Hotels Forbesganj Hotels Katihar Hotels Patna Hotels Purnia Hotels Rajgir Hotels People, Culture and Festivals Handicrafts Agricultural Map Geography and history New Course of Kosi river District Map in Hindi STD code Pin code       Bihar Map बिहार का नक्शा Map of Bihar Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing major roads, railways, rivers, national highways, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Location Map of Bihar Bihar District Map River Map of Bihar Bihar Road Network Map Bihar Rail Network Map Bihar is divided into 9 divisions and 37 districts, and has Patna as its capital. It has a very rich history, and is also an attraction for travelers and tourists. There are various hotels to cater to the needs of tourists. The economy is mainly based on agricultural and trading activities. There have been some attempts to industrialize the state as well. An oil refinery in Barauni, a scooter plant at Fatuha, a power plant at Muzaffarpur and some agriculture-based industries such as sugar and vegetable oil, have been established in Bihar. It is also known for its famous mines at Dhanbad. The service sector comprises of Real estate, Mortgage and Insurance. Bodh Gaya, Nalanda, Rajgir Vaishali, Bhagalpur, Vikramsila and Sutanganj are a must visit for Buddhist pilgrims. All of these are very popular historical sites as well. Other admired historical sites are Pawapuri, Champaran and Sasaram Bihar State Information Capital Patna Date of formation 26. Jan. 1950 Governor D.Y. Patil Chief Minister Nitish Kumar Tourist attractions Rajgir, Nalanda, Vaishali, Pawapuri, Bodh Gaya, Vikramshila, Gaya, the ancient city of Patliputra Festivals Chatth Puja, Sama-Chakeva, Nag Panchami Major dance and music forms Jat-Jatin dance of the Mithila region, Bidesia, the songs of Vidyapati, Chau Tribal dances Arts and crafts Madhubani painting; Madhubani's marsh `sikki. grass is used to make baskets, toys, dolls etc; Sujini kantha embroidery is a specialisation of Bihar. Languages Hindi, Urdu, Santhali Size 94,163 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 104,099,452 Rivers Kosi, Ganga, Saryu, Gandak, Kamla, Panar, Saura, Pun-pun Forests and wildlife sanctuarie s Valmiki NP, Rajgir WS, Bhimbandh WS, Gautam Buddha WS, Udayapur WS State animal Gaur State bird Indian rollAt., State flower Kachnar State tree Peepal Major crops Paddy, wheat, maize Factoids A peepal or Bodhi tree in Bodh Gaya marks the spot where the Buddha achieved Enlightenment. Nalanda University, a seat of Buddhist learning, was founded around the 5th century AD. No. of District 38 Travel to Bihar Travel to Bodhgaya Travel to Vaishali Travel to Nalanda Travel to Patna Travel to Rajgir Places to visit in Bihar Places to visit in Bihar Places to visit in Bodhgaya Places to visit in Nalanda Places to visit in Patna Places to visit in Rajgir Places to visit in Vaishali Last Updated on : February 23, 2015             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule