Travel to West Bengal - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train West Bengal Travel পশ্চিমবঙ্গ পর্যটন Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Getting Around Places to Visit in West Bengal Nivedita Setu Race Course Victoria Memorial Bangiya Sahitya Parishad Shahid Minar Nakhoda Masjid Chitrakoot Art Gallery The Asiatic Society of Bengal Genesis Art Gallery Gallerie La Mere Arts acre CIMA Gallery Vidyasagar Setu Spandan Art Gallery Howrah Bridge Asutosh Museum of Indian Art Science City Fort William Kolkata Academy of Fine Arts Birla Planetarium Academy of Fine Arts Sundarbans National Park Bandel Church Hooghly Imambara Pilgrimages in West Bengal Museums in West Bengal Cities to Visit in West Bengal Kolkata Travel Darjeeling Travel Nabadwip Travel Barrackpore Travel Hooghly Travel Howarh Travel Murshidabad Travel Nadia Travel Jaldapara Travel Siliguri Travel Kalimpong Travel Road Distance Guide Route Map Kolkata Siliguri Route Map Varanasi Siliguri Route Map Patna Darjeeling Route Map Delhi Siliguri Route Map Varanasi Darjeeling Route Map Delhi Darjeeling Route Map West Bengal Hotels Asansol Hotels Howrah Hotels Hotels in Kolkata Darjeeling Hotels Siliguri Hotels About West Bengal Geography of West Bengal West Bengal Weather West Bengal Dance Festivals in West Bengal History of West Bengal West Bengal Map পশ্চিমবঙ্গ মানচিত্র Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » West Bengal » Travel to West Bengal Travel to West Bengal Travel Map of West Bengal Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing important tourist locations in West Bengal. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Kolkata Metro Map Kolkata Siliguri Route Map Kolkata Tourist Map Location of Nakhoda Masjid         Siliguri Tourist Map Varanasi Darjeeling Route Map Varanasi to Siliguri Route Map Darjeeling Tourist Guide Map West Bengal Tourism On the eastern part of India, the state of West Bengal is the land of culture and rich tradition. Apart from the glorious past, today's West Bengal claims more fame as a bastion of leftist dominance. A travel to West Bengal takes you to the state, which has given birth to maximum number Nobel laureates of the country. This is the home to numerous poets, painters, filmmakers and scholars celebrated across the globe. Best time to visit Travel to West Bengal is mostly preferred during September and October, when the state celebrates Durga Puja with much enthusiasm. Dotted with many places of interest, West Bengal tourism offers the tourists with a wonderful opportunity to explore the rich cultural heritage and architectural splendor of the state. Demographics Location Northern part of India Sikkim and Bhutan at the north Assam and Bangladesh on the east Bay of Bengal on the south Orissa, Bihar and Nepal on the west. Latitude Between 27°13'15" and 21°25'24" north Longitude Between 85°48'20" and 89°53'04" east Area 88,752 sq km Climate Summer - Hot Winter - Cold Max Temperature 35°C Min Temperature 10°C Average Annual Rainfall 210cms Capital Kolkata Population 80221171 Languages Bengali, Hindi, English Religion Hinduism, Islam, Christianity, Buddhism, Jainism Best Time to Visit October to March Clothing Summer - Light Cottons Winter - Woolens How to Reach West Bengal West Bengal represents a panorama of majestic hills, dense jungle replete in wild lives, undulating green plains, beautiful breaches, historical monuments and a tremendously rich culture. Strategically located at the eastern part of Indian peninsula, the state has a very smooth communication network. It is often referred to as the gateway of the eastern India. How to Reach West Bengal is, therefore, not an issue. By Air The state has an international airport in Kolkata, the state capital and another domestic airport at Bagdogra near Siliguri, in the northern Bengal. These two airports are served by nearly all public and private airlines and linked to major Indian cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and so on. Most of the destinations in West Bengal are located at convenient distance from Kolkata and Bagdogra. By Rail The state has a very good rail network too. Two railway stations namely: Howrah and Sealdah near Kolkata and New Jalpaiguri, close to Siliguri, are key railway stations in the state. There are numerous other railheads that are served by important trains from all over the country and link major destinations within the state. By Road An extensive road network covers the entire state. A number of National Highways and State Highways crisscross the land. One can also approach the state from neighbouring states, name Bihar, Orissa and Jharkhand. Cross border road transportation is also operational with neighbouring countries like Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh. Shopping in West Bengal The ace artisans of the sate make exquisite items out of clay, conch, shoal. In some places of West Bengal, the craftsmen weave superb silk saris, which is a popular item for those who wish to do some shopping in West Bengal. West Bengal Handicrafts Fine arts also have a rich tradition in West Bengal. In fact the state has produced a number of celebrated painters. Painting is also a worth buying item in West Bengal. Last but not the important to mention is that Darjeeling in West Bengal produces the finest quality of tea in the world. So a packet or two of original Darjeeling tea must feature in your list for Shopping in West Bengal. While shopping in West Bengal, look for: Baluchari silk saris Clay models and terracotta items (horses) Tea Jute Products, Cane & Bamboo work and mats Items made of shola, conch-shell Leather work Dhokra and metal cast items Paintings In all destinations in West Bengal there are a lot of opportunity for shopping. Government Emporia are galore in number whereas private shops literally dot all over the state. You can also opt for shopping from the roadside vendors who offer good variety and great bargain. Places to Visit in West Bengal Nivedita Setu Race Course Victoria Memorial Bangiya Sahitya Parishad Shahid Minar Chitrakoot Art Gallery The Asiatic Society of Bengal Genesis Art Gallery Gallerie La Mere Arts acre CIMA Gallery Vidyasagar Setu Spandan Art Gallery Howrah Bridge Asutosh Museum of Indian Art Science City Fort William Kolkata Academy of Fine Arts Birla Planetarium Last Updated on : September 6, 2014 Travel to West Bengal Travel to Darjeeling Travel to Kalimpong Travel to Kolkata Travel to Nakhoda Masjid Travel to Siliguri Places to Visit in West Bengal Places to visit in Darjeeling Places to visit in kalimpong Places to visit in Kolkata Places to visit in Sliguri About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule