Rajasthan Mineral Map, Mineral Resources of Rajasthan Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Rajasthan Mineral Map   Rajasthan History and Geography Weather राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar                         more.. Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Rajasthan Mineral Map Mining sector in Rajasthan is another pre-eminent sector next to Agriculture. There are about 42 major and 28 minor minerals. This sector provides employment to about two million mine workers throughout the state. The huge sandy expanse of Rajasthan abounds in silver, phosphate fluoride, phosphorite, rock, phosphate, copper ore, zinc, gypsum, clay, granite, marble, sandstone, dolomite, calcite, emeralds and garnets. Mineral Map Of Rajasthan Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Rajasthan Mineral Map showing metallic and non metallic minerals found in the state. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. It is the second largest mineral producing state in India and houses about 90% of the total mineral reserves of the country. It shares 24% of the aggregate national production of non-metallic minerals. The following table shows the share of Rajasthan in terms of reserve and production of the principal minerals- Minerals Reserve(million tones) Production (million tones) Copper Ore 35 0.98 Lead and Zinc Ore 75 2.64 Gypsum 70 2.86 Limestone 1990 21.19 Rock Phosphate 60 1.18 In India, Rajasthan is the greatest producer of non-ferric metals such as copper and zinc and accounts for 40% of the country's copper production and 100% of zinc production. The state also accounts for 85% of lead production, 94% of gypsum, 76% of silver ore, 68% of feldspar, 84% of asbestos and 12% mica. The dry terrain of Rajasthan is also repository of colossal slabs of stone and accounts for 65% of India's stone production. The state accounts for 90 % of the marble, slate and sandstone production. In 2000-01, the stone exports from Rajasthan were estimated at around at 2324 million rupees. Thus the mineral and mining sector of Rajasthan is a very important revenue earner for the state. From this sector Rajasthan earns as mineral royalty an annual income of more than US$ 100 Million. Some Mining Areas and Estates Rajasthan houses rich salt deposits at Sambhar. There are large copper mines at Khetri and zinc mines at Dariba. Markana near Jodhpur is site where white marble is mined. Rajasthan State Mines and Minerals limited (RSMML) is one of the significant Government undertaking of Rajasthan that is involved in the mining and marketing of non metallic minerals such as Limestone, Rock Phosphate, Lignite and Gypsum. The limestone reserve of Sanu Limestone Unit in Jaislamer is best suited for Steel Industry owing to its low silica deposit and high decrepitating element. Sanu Limestone Unit is the biggest producer and supplier of steel grade limestone in India. This region houses about 167 million tonnes of S.M.S grade limestone and 2153 million tonnes of cement grade limestone. Last Updated on : 27 December 2010 Statewise Mineral Maps of India Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chhattisgarh Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu & Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Nagaland Orissa Punjab Rajasthan Tamil Nadu Uttar Pradesh Uttaranchal West Bengal Rajasthan Geography History Weather Area Languages Population Desert Quick Facts Soil and Vegetation Art Dress Fairs and Festivals Food Culture Rajasthan Factsheet Rajasthan Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map District Map in Hindi Jaipur Metro Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Location Map Mineral Map Physical Map Raiway Map Road Map Tehsil Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule