Harvest - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Harvest From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Harvesting ) Jump to: navigation , search For other uses, see Harvest (disambiguation) . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2008) Harvesting agriculture in Volgograd Oblast , Russia Sugar beet harvester. Baden-Wurttemberg, Germany . Vendangeurs Beaumes-de-Venise in Vaucluse, France Manual harvest in Thirumeyyam Harvest is the process of gathering mature crops from the fields . Reaping is the cutting of grain or pulse for harvest, typically using a scythe , sickle , or reaper . [ 1 ] The harvest marks the end of the growing season, or the growing cycle for a particular crop, and social importance of this event makes it the focus of seasonal celebrations such as a harvest festival , found in many religions. On smaller farms with minimal mechanization , harvesting is the most labor -intensive activity of the growing season. On large, mechanized farms, harvesting utilizes the most expensive and sophisticated farm machinery , like the combine harvester . Harvesting in general usage includes an immediate post-harvest handling , all of the actions taken immediately after removing the crop —cooling, sorting, cleaning, packing—up to the point of further on-farm processing, or shipping to the wholesale or consumer market. Contents 1 Other uses 2 Gallery 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Other uses [ edit ] Harvest commonly refers to grain and produce, but also has other uses. In addition to fish and timber , the term harvest is also used in reference to harvesting grapes for wine . Within the context of irrigation , water harvesting refers to the collection and run-off of rainwater for agricultural or domestic uses. Instead of harvest , the term exploit is also used, as in exploiting fisheries or water resources. Energy harvesting is the process by which energy (such as solar power, thermal energy, wind energy, salinity gradients and kinetic energy) is captured and stored. Body harvesting , or cadaver harvesting , is the process of collecting and preparing cadavers for anatomical study. In a similar sense, organ harvesting is the removal of tissues or organs from a donor for purposes of transplanting. [ citation needed ] Harvesting or Domestic Harvesting in Canada refers to hunting, fishing and plant gathering by First Nations, Métis and Inuit in discussions of aboriginal or treaty rights. For example, in the Gwich'in Comprehensive Land Claim Agreement, "Harvesting means gathering, hunting, trapping or fishing..." [ 2 ] Similarly, in the Tlicho Land Claim and Self Government Agreement "'Harvesting' means, in relation to wildlife, hunting, trapping or fishing and, in relation to plants or trees, gathering or cutting." [ 3 ] Gallery [ edit ] The Harvesters by Pieter Bruegel the Elder (1565). Summer landscape with harvesters by Jan Brueghel the Elder and Joos de Momper (ca. 1610) Woodcut of a reaper in Thomas Bewick 's History of British Birds (1797). After the harvest by Moritz Conradi See also [ edit ] Agriculture and Agronomy portal Combine Harvester Harvest (wine) Harvest festival Overharvesting Threshing Winnowing References [ edit ] ^ American Heritage Dictionary (4th ed. ed.). Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co. 2000. ISBN   0-618-08230-1 .   ^ "Gwich'in Comprehensive Land Claim Agreement" . Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada website.   ^ "Tlicho Agreemen" . Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada website.   External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Harvest . Look up harvest in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Harvest&oldid=649551641 " Categories : Harvest Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from May 2008 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from May 2012 Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Aragonés Беларуская Català ChiShona Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Gàidhlig Galego 한국어 हिन्दी Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Kurdî Magyar Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Runa Simi Русский Sicilianu Simple English Suomi Svenska Тоҷикӣ Українська Tiếng Việt Walon Žemaitėška 中文 Edit links This page was last modified on 2 March 2015, at 16:26. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view