Travel to Mysuru - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Mysore Travel About Mysore Tourist Map How to Reach Shopping Hotels in Mysore Airport Map Flights to Mysore Weather Places to Visit in Mysore Jaganmohan Art Gallery Kukkarahali Lake St. Philomena's Church Brindavan Gardens Karanji Lake Krishna Raja Sagara Chamundi Hills Mysore Zoo Mysore Palace Datta Peetham Jayalakshmi Vilas Lalitha Mahal Places of Interest in Karnataka Museums Private Residential Oriental Research Institute Folk Lore Regional Museum of Natural History Railway Museum Temples in Mysore Excursions from Mysore Tourist Destinations Near Mysore Belur Travel Hampi Travel Halebid Travel Coorg Travel Bangalore Travel Mangalore Travel Karnataka Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Karnataka Places to Visit Home » Mysuru » Travel to Mysuru Travel to Mysuru (Mysore) Mysuru Travel Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the major tourist places in Mysore. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Mysuru Tourism Mysore city is located in Karnataka. Mysore - the word conjures up an image of grandeur. Magnificent palaces, landscaped gardens and impressive architecture and the rustle of rich silk fabric sums up Mysore. The city of Mysore sports a perfect blend of old world charm and contemporary ideas. There is definitely something in its laidback way of life that you would get a hang of Mysore. You may never wish to return from here. Discover whether it is in the fragrance of sandalwood or the distinctive melody of Carnatic music. A travel to Mysore would take you to a city of grand palaces, tree-lined avenues, picturesque gardens and sacred temples. The splendid Mysore Palace, built by the Maharajah of Mysore greets you as you travel to Mysore. Another prominent palace is the Jaganmohan Palace. These two palaces dominate the skyline of the city. The superb architecture that the palaces boast of, showcase the rich culture and heritage of the land on one hand and the pomp and grandeur of the Indian Maharajahs. How to Reach Mysuru Mysore is the second largest city in Karnataka and is located in the southern part of the state. Mysore is an important destination in Karnataka. The historical city has gained political importance since ancient times. In terms of art and culture, Mysore always had a prominent place. Palaces, gardens, shady avenues and sacred temples literally dot all over the city. Huge numbers of tourist pay a visit to the ancient city every year. By Air The Mysore Airport also called as the Mandakalli Airport serves the city. The newly upgraded airport began flights from Bangalore to Mysore via the SpiceJet airlines on 14th January 2013. As of now SpiceJet is the only airline connecting to Mysore. Apart from this the major airport close by to Mysore is in Bangalore i.e. the Bengaluru International Airport. By Train Mysore has a railway station with in the city. It is linked by rail to Bangalore and many other cities in south India. Prestigious luxury trains and many other mails and express trains service this station regularly. The Mysore railway station is located in the proximity of the city and is well linked with buses and taxis. By Road Mysore has a convenient network of roads which connects to important cities in Karnataka. Mysore is connected by National Highway number 212 and other State Highway 17, 33 and 88. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and other private operators run regular bus services both within the city and inter-cities. Within the Mysore city, buses and auto-rickshaws are a cheap means of transportation. Distance to Mysuru From Mangalore - 255 km From Bangalore - 143 km From Coimbatore - 204 km From Kozhikode - 211 km From Hassam - 118 km From delhi - 2200 KM From mumbai - 1064 KM From pune - 901 KM Mysuru Distance Chart Shopping in Mysore Shopping in Mysore is a fantastic experience. Rich tradition of handloom and handicrafts, colorful local bazaars and warm-hearted people would make your shopping in Mysore a treasured memory. Outstanding souvenirs, delightful gift items or personal possessions - whatever you wish to buy, there are abundant options available in Mysore. The most popular item for shopping in Mysore is the silk saris. Silk saris are huge favorites with the Indian women and are believed to reveal the feminine grace most perfectly. Vibrant colors and exquisite motifs adorn the silk saris of Mysore. A piece or two must feature in your shopping cart in Mysore. Sandal woodcrafts are yet another hot favorite with those who go for shopping in Mysore. Mysore grows one of the finest varieties of fragrant sandal wood from which the ace craftsmen chisel out exquisite artifacts. From arty souvenirs to utilities or objets d'art - the sandalwood crafts may leave you spoilt for choice while shopping in Mysore. You may also choose to buy some authentic sandal wood oil that has phenomenal healing and cosmetic quality and is widely used in Ayurveda. Several other traditional handicrafts of the state of Karnataka are available in the shops of Mysore. Beautiful woodcarvings, Bidriware, Metalware, Stone Carvings and Mysore paintings may lead you to a shopping spree in Mysore. Numerous exclusive private shops dot around the Devaraja Market that skirts the main Sayyaji Rao road. Also pay a visit to the Government Silk Weaving Factory and the Government Sandal Oil Factory. They have their retail outlet inn the city markets too. Places to Visit in Mysuru The Mysore Palace The Brindavan Gardens Chamundi Hills Datta Peetham Jaganmohan Art Gallery Jayalakshmi Vilas Karanji Lake Krishna Raja Sagara Kukkarahali Lake Lalitha Mahal Namma Mysore St. Philomena's Church Mysore Zoo More on tourist attractions of Mysuru Last Updated on : 21/10/2013 Travel to Karnataka Travel to Bangalore Travel to Belagavi Travel to Belur Travel to Coorg Travel to Halebid Travel to Hampi Travel to Mangalore Travel to Mysore Travel to Sringeri Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Belur Places to visit in Coorg Places to visit in Halebid Places to visit in Hampi Places to visit in Mangalore Places to visit in Mysore About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule