Geography and History of Uttar Pradesh Home » Uttar Pradesh » Geography and History   Uttar Pradesh Geography and History उत्तर प्रदेश का नक्शा Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                    (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map Proposed New States Awadh Pradesh Bundelkhand Paschim Pradesh Purvanchal Yamuna Expressway Lucknow Metro Map Noida Metro Map Cities Noida Lucknow Allahabad Kanpur Agra                      more.. Industries Thermal Power Plants Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Travel to Uttar Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Forts and Palaces in Uttar Pradesh Temples and Shrines in Uttar Pradesh Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels             more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Uttar Pradesh Architectural Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Uttar Pradesh Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Uttar   Pradesh       Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Geography and history of Uttar Pradesh gives a wide scope for the people inclined towards learning the ethnic background of the state. Geography and history has been the vital source information about the culture and traditions prevalent in Uttar Pradesh . This bewitching terrain has seen a glorious past with the accession of many different kings and dynasties. Thus, the geography and history of Uttar Pradesh has lots in store! Talking about the historical aspect of the geography and history of Uttar Pradesh, we can touch up on the following points: The history of Uttar Pradesh dates back to the period when 'Dasas' occupied Uttar Pradesh. In 2000 BC the Aryans came and laid the foundation of a Hindu civilization. Then emerged the Panchala kingdom. Subsequently followed Vatsas, Kosis, Hosalas, Videhs, etc. The Mauryas followed next in the line of accession. Then came the Kushanas, who remained in power till 320 AD. But the Kushanas were overthrown by Guptas, who themselves got replaced by Harshavardhana. Soon after, Uttar Pradesh saw a succession of the Afghan rulers, Mughals, Rajputs, Marathas and ultimately the British. Thus, as it is evident, the geography and history of Uttar Pradesh provides a wide range of information about the topography, rivers, forest, climate, and its cultural heritage. In fact, the geography and history is the mirror which reflects the flesh of Uttar Pradesh! Last Updated on 02/15/2013 About Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Quick Facts People Fairs and Festivals Taj Mahotsav Music Thermal Power Plants Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Elevation Map Region Map District Map Railway Map Road Map Tehsil Map River Map Proposed Map of Uttar Pradesh Avadh Pradesh Bundelkhand Paschip Pradesh Purvanchal Thematic Maps of Uttar Pradesh Yamuna Expressway Map Lucknow Metro Map Noida Metro Map Sex Ratio Map Handicrafts Map Industrial Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule