Colleges and Institutes in Amritsar Home » Amritsar » Education » Colleges and Institutes in Amritsar   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Colleges and Institutes in Amritsar The eminent colleges and institutes in Amritsar offer degree courses in the arts, science and the commerce stream. The various colleges and institutes of Amritsar indulge in providing the students with a strong conceptual foundation and pragmatism with which they deal with situations that confront them. The colleges and institutes also prepare the students for higher education that they may pursue. The city of Amritsar is resplendent in colleges and institutes dedicated to the study of engineering and technology. The engineering colleges and institutes at Amritsar are affiliated to the Punjab Technical University. The courses and the syllabi are approved by the government of Punjab and the AICTE. Furnished with workshops and laboratories, the engineering colleges provide the students with the best technical and practical knowledge which aid the student to achieve proficiency in the stream. Anticipating the need for good and efficient designers and garment manufacturers in the fashion industry, the city of Amritsar has also set up one of the most reputed fashion institute of the country. The Government Institute of Garment Technology, Amritsar is one the oldest institutes of the city. The colleges and institutes in Amritsar are dedicated to empowering the women and giving them equal opportunities in academics. The BBK DAV College for Women is an educational institute established to develop the intellectual capital of the women of the region. The city of Amritsar is also dotted with colleges and institutes that are dedicated to the study of medical science. The medical colleges produce eminent doctors who earn their repute all across the globe. Amritsar Education BBK DAV College for Women Government Polytechnic Amritsar college of engineering    & technology Government Medical College Spring Dale School DAV International School Baba Kuma Singh Ji    engineering college Kndriya Vidyalaya No. 1 Shiv Shankar Institute of    engineering & technology Delhi Public School Guru Nanak Dev University Schools Central Institute of Plastics    Engineering Technology Khalsa College Government Institute of Garment    Technology The Institute of Company    Secrataries of India DAV College About Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule