Madhya Pradesh Population Home » Madhya Pradesh » Quick Facts » Madhya Pradesh Population   Quick Facts of Madhya Pradesh Population Languages Chief Minister मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Madhya Pradesh Population Madhya Pradesh is situated in the heart of India. Also known as MP the state spreads across an area of 3,08,245 sq. km making it the second largest state in India. Bhopal serves as the capital of Madhya Pradesh . Indore happens to be the largest city while Jabalpur is the most important commercial center of Madhya Pradesh. Madhya Pradesh is the sixth largest state in India by population. It shares its borders with Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat and Rajasthan. Currently the population of Madhya Pradesh stands at 7,25,97,565 million according to the 2011 Census Report. The Madhya Pradesh Population has increased by 24.34% as compared to 60.35 million populations in 2001. The report also states that almost 75% of the population of the state resides in the rural areas and their main occupation is agriculture. The rest of the 25 percent live in the cities and towns of Madhya Pradesh. Indore is the most populated district of the state with a total head count of 25,24,912 million. The majority population of the state consists of Hindu's. Muslims are the largest minority community. Tribes constitute about 20 percent of the total population of Madhya Pradesh. Most of the tribal people are concentrated around the southern part of the state. Gond is the most popular tribal group in Madhya Pradesh. They mainly inhabit the areas like; Mandla, Chhindwara, Betul and Seoni, Vindhya and the Satpura region. Hindi is the most widely spoken and the official language of Madhya Pradesh English is also spoken by quite a large section of the society. The other common languages spoken in the state are; Bundeli, Malwi, Bagheli and Nimari. Madhya Pradesh: Census 2011 According to the latest 2011 Census Data Madhya Pradesh has a total population of 7.25 Crore which constitutes about 6 % of total Population of India. Madhya Pradesh Statistics Population of Madhya Pradesh 72,597,565 Total Males 37,612,920 Total Females 34,984,645 Decadel Growth Rate 20.30 Sex ratio females per 1000 males 930 Population Density of Madhya Pradesh 236 km sq Literacy rate 70.63 Males 80.53 Females 60.02 Last Updated on : 14 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule