My Government | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > My Government My Government This section links Constitution of India Constitution of India (Full Text) Search in Constitution of India Amendments Government Directory Union Government States & UTs Codes Judiciary Indian Parliament President of India Rajya Sabha Lok Sabha Publications Recent Publications Archive Who's Who President Vice-President Prime Minister Council of Ministers Governors Lt. Governors & Administrators Chief Ministers Judges of Supreme Court Chiefs of Armed Forces Members of Parliament MLAs/MLCs Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Annual Report Budget Census Report Citizens Charter E-Books Gazetteer Notification Guidelines Others Plan Document Policy Reports Forms Downloadable Fillable People Speak My Government India is a "Sovereign, Socialist, Secular, Democratic Republic" with a parliamentary system of government. This section seeks to introduce the Constitution of India, its origin, the Parliament, various Acts and Rules that govern the nation, Documents, Public Notifications, Welfare Schemes and Application Forms to avail them, apart from updates on what’s happening around us. Know the "Who's Who" of the Indian Government and check out a range of such vital information that may help you in your daily life. Who's Who This section gives you information about the persons holding the highest offices as well as respectable positions at the Executive, Judiciary, and Legislature levels in the country. Users can get t... details of Who's Who ... Announcements This section will keep you informed about the various announcements made by the Central as well as the State Governments. Be it the announcement of a result declaration or the notification of a Gov... details of Announcements ... Constitution India, also known as Bharat, is a Union of States. It is a Sovereign Socialist Secular Democratic Republic with a parliamentary system of government. The Republic is governed in terms of the Consti... details of Constitution ... Website Directory In this section you can find the contact information for Union, State and UT Government agencies, authorized persons and employees. Postal address, telephone number, email address and fax number of... details of Website Directory ... Parliament Parliament is the supreme legislative body of India. The Indian Parliament comprises of the President and the two Houses - Rajya Sabha (Council of States) and Lok Sabha (House of the People). The P... details of Parliament ... Publications The Publications Division (PD), one of the leading publishing houses in the Country and the largest in the public sector, functions under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. It attempts t... details of Publications ... Acts/Rules In this section, you can access full text of all the Central Acts passed by the Indian Parliament since 1834 by searching the India Code Information System (INCODIS). State Acts are also available... details of Acts/Rules ... Schemes Indian Government, at all levels, announces Welfare Schemes for a cross section of the society from time to time. These schemes could be either Central, State specific or a joint collaboration betw... details of Schemes ... Documents This section provides a one-stop source for important documents and reports released or published by the Indian Government at the Central or State level. This section is constantly enhanced and the... details of Documents ... Forms This section is a centralised resource for important application forms of Central/State/UT Governments which are required to be filled up and submitted for availing different services and applying... details of Forms ... People Speak This section will help the Citizens to give their inputs in formulation of policies, acts, rules and other functions of the Central and State Governments. details of People Speak ... 1 of 1 Search this section Type Here What's New Earthquake Reports by India Meteorological Department Check daily Water storages of dams in Maharashtra Prohibition of Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products Act 2003 Most Viewed in This Section All Policy Note of Housing and Urban Development Department of Tamil Nadu Schemes and programmes of Ministry of Rural Development Domicile Certificate form in UP Check and apply for minority students scholarship EPFO Form-10C View online BSNL landline and mobile bill Voter registration forms by ECI New or duplicate Ration Card in Rajasthan About the Portal Contact us Feedback Help Link to Us Newsletter Tell a Friend Website Policy Accessibility Statement Visitor Summary Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communication Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services Online Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms People Speak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects