Welingkar Institute - Commodity trading - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Welingkar Institute – Commodity trading Home Welingkar Institute – Commodity trading Offers  a  diploma in commodity trading.  Duration of the course is three and half months. The course is held on weekends only Prof. A. G. Mendhi Prof. A. G. Mendhi, along with Group Director Prof. Dr. Uday Salunkhe, has been instrumental in introducing the course Diploma in Commodity Trading (DICM) in Welingkar Institute of Management Development and Research. Prof. Mendhi is the Head of Department for courses on commodities market. Prof. Mendhi is an electronics and telecommunication engineer from V. R. C. E. (now VNIT) and M. M. S. from Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies, Mumbai. He has 34 years work experience mainly in management consultancy. Prof. Mendhi has been with Welingkar Institute of Management Development and Research as a core faculty for the last four years. Course Objective The institute conducted a limited study to explore the potential for such a course and came to the conclusion that the knowledge of derivatives trade in the country particularly in the context of commodities trade was limited. “It was felt that we should introduce not only a part time course but also an elective for our regular PGDM (MBA) students. As a result, we are now offering this subject as an elective for our full time PGDM students, who specialize in finance,” says Prof. Mendhi, adding, He adds, “Contents of the elective course were designed by me after studying the contents of similar courses in leading universities abroad (mainly in USA). We have also included commodity markets as a part of curriculum for our course in Agri Business Management course.” The main goal of introducing these courses was to create awareness among the students about the price discovery and risk management functions of commodity markets apart from the lucrative alternative that it offers for diversification of one’s investment to earn higher returns. Eligibility The eligibility for the course is graduation in any discipline. “We also give admission to diploma holders in exceptional cases if they have substantial experience in the field of capital or commodity markets. Such admissions are however based on personal interviews,” informs Prof. Mendhi. He further says, “The students opting for DICM course come with diverse backgrounds. They include graduates of different disciplines; employees with substantial experience, who are already analysts or investors in stock market, who join to sharpen their existing skills; and employees with treasury departments of banks and financial institutions, besides others. A small number also have agriculture background.” He maintains the response for the DICM course has been overwhelming. Course Content The duration of the course is three and half months. The course is held on weekends only. It trains the students in various aspects of commodity trading. “Besides the basics of derivatives and their trading aspects, we train them for trading in other derivatives including options which are more popular instruments abroad and are also likely to be permitted in the country in near future. Strategies using futures and options are taught so that they could be used in practice for speculative gains as well as for hedging risks arising from volatility in prices of commodities. Surveillance mechanism of the exchanges, their operating aspects and rules and regulations framed by the regulator FMC form a part of this course,” says Prof. Mendhi. He adds, “Sessions on technical analysis include demonstration of software packages for technical analysis. Fundamental analysis of selected commodities (two agro commodities and at least one each from three other classes viz., base metals, precious metals and energy products) is covered with emphasis on risk management. Practical aspects of online trading are demonstrated by mock trading sessions organized with the help of commodity exchanges. Case studies in the field of risk management and a bonus of two sessions on currency markets also form a part of the course. Totally about 10 to 12 sessions are conducted to cover these aspects of commodity futures trading: fundamental analysis – 5, case studies -3, mock trading and market operations – 3 and currency trading – 2.” Job Opportunities When asked about job opportunities on completion of the course, Prof. Mendhi says, “This is a part time course and most of the students joining the course are already working in various organizations. However, we form yahoo group of the students of various batches and keep them informed about the potential employers who are interested in recruiting. This obviously depends on the enquiries by potential employers with us.” Further speaking about future potential, he says, “I personally feel that India can emerge as one of the biggest hubs for commodity derivatives trading in the world, especially in agro commodities, since it is one of the largest consumer or producer in case of many commodities. Despite the current restrictions and the fact that only futures are allowed to be traded in India, the trade on commodity exchanges in the country has witnessed spectacular growth.” Individual Traits When asked about prerequisites in an individual to be successful in commodity trading, Prof. Mendhi says, “They need clarity of goal whether they are you in the market for speculative gains or for hedging; analytical and disciplined mind and risk tolerating capacity for speculators.” He adds, “Risk management is one of the most important functions of trade in commodity derivatives. We teach specific strategies that can be used as hedging strategies when the volatility in prices is likely to have an adverse impact on the operations of a participant or corporate entity’s profits be it the producer, user or trader of commodities. These examples typically cite the cases of farmers, traders, producers and users of various commodities and how they could hedge their risks. These examples come very handy when students are actually exposed to real life situations.” Prof. Mendhi suggests the course to students of agriculture who are planning a career in agriculture and Individuals who wish to make a career in wealth or portfolio management, treasury departments of banks or in large corporate entities dealing with commodities as producers or users. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Prof. Anil Mendhi D 802, Great Eastern Gardens, L. B. S. Marg, Kanjur Marg (West) MUMBAI – 400078. Email – agmendhi@yahoo.co.in Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Welingkar Institute – Commodity trading Related – articles, consultants, downloads No related posts. You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water