About | Food Security Portal Food Security Portal About Us Contact Us Join Login Supporters About Documentation Data API About Data Sets Agricultural Land (% of total area) Agriculture Value Added Calorie Supply Per Capita, Crops Equivalent Calorie Supply per Capita, Livestock Equivalent Children Undernourished (%) Commodities Futures Data Countries CPI External Debt (% of GNI) Foreign Direct Investment (Current $US) GDP (current $US) Global Hunger Index Global Inflation Dataset GNI per Capita (current $US) Maize Exports Maize Imports Maize Prices Maize Production National Poverty Rates (%) Population Population Density Population Undernourished (%) Receipts of Food Aid (cereals) Regions Rice Exports Rice Imports Rice Prices Rice Production Soybean Exports Soybean Imports Soybean Production Under 5 Mortality Rate Unemployment Weekly Commodities Prices Wheat Exports Wheat Imports Wheat Prices Wheat Production World Commodity Prices World Maize Price World Oil Price World Rice Price World Soybean Price World Wheat Price This site contains over 40 indicators related to food security, commodity prices, economics, and human well-being. Much of this data is available for every country in the world and goes back over 50 years. We draw from public, authoritative data sources like the World Bank, the FAO, UNICEF, and others, as well as IFPRI's own data. In order to make the data contained on the site as useful as possible, it is available to freely download both in the country profile section of the website as well as through the Data API. Visitors to the site are welcome to download, aggregate, mash-up, and share this information as they like. For more information on how to use this data, please visit the Documentation section. The Food Security Portal team works to collect this information every month by visiting data providers' websites, scraping PDF files, and copying and pasting out of flat text files. These are currently the only formats made available for much of this data. In the future, we hope that more data providers will adopt an API approach in order to facilitate easier sharing and use of the critical information they collect and maintain. For now the Food Security Portal will continue to aggregate this data by hand as a service to researchers and the broader food security community. If you have any questions about the Data API, our data collection techniques, or other related issues, please feel free to contact us using the Feedback form on this site.   IFPRI gratefully acknowledges the European Commission (EC) and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) for their financial support of the Food Security Portal. Facebook Twitter About Us The Food Security Portal, facilitated by IFPRI, aims to provide improved food security for the world's poor and increased resilience of global food systems against food and financial crises. The project brings together international, regional, and country-level data, news, and research aimed at meeting countries' immediate food security needs, as well as building long-term global food security. The open-access project encompasses a global research-based monitoring and capacity-strengthening device for successful identification and implementation of the appropriate policy actions in response to food crises. The Food Security Portal is designed to pool information in structured ways and ensure data quality, timeliness, and relevance, as well as the opportunity for collaboration among policymakers, development professionals, and researchers. About Documentation Data API Partners Contact Us Food Security Portal   |   Facilitated by IFPRI   |   2033 K St, NW   |   Washington, DC 20006-1002 USA Copyright ©2012 All Rights Reserved Share Home Countries Commodities Policy Analysis Tools Data Dashboard Blog Food Security News About Us Contact Us Join Login Supporters