Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » History » Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Biography Vallabhbhai Jhaverbhai Patel was one of the important social and political leaders of India. He played an important role in India's struggle for freedom. He is believed to be born on 31st October 1875 at Nadiad, Gujarat and was often addressed as Sardar. He did his matriculation at the age of 22. He seemed to be an ordinary person to everyone around him, but had strong will power. He wanted to become a barrister. At the age of 36, he went to England to fulfill his dream and joined Middle Temple Inn. He completed his 36-month course in just 30 months. After returning to India he became one of the most successful barristers of Ahmedabad. Inspired by the work and philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi , he joined India's struggle for independence. He organized peasants of Kheda, Bardoli and other parts of Gujarat and launched non-violent Civil Disobedience Movement in Gujarat, against the payment of raised tax, levied by the British government. He succeeded in his goal and British government suspended the payment of revenue for that year. With this he became one of the most influential leaders in Gujarat. In 1920 he became the president of Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee and served in the post till 1945. He was a strong supporter of the Non -Cooperation movement of Gandhi and worked against alcoholism, Untouchability and caste discrimination in Gujarat. He was elected as the municipal president of Ahmedabad in 1922, 1924 and 1927. When Mahatma Gandhi was in prison, he led the Satyagraha in Nagpur in 1923 against the British law, banning the raising of the Indian flag . He was elected as a President of India National Congress in 1931. He was at the forefront of the Congress's all India election campaign in 1934 and 1937 and was a prominent leader in organizing the Quit India Movement in 1942. He was arrested prior to the Quit India Movement and was released in 1945. After India's independence, he became the first Home Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of India. He organized relief camps for refugees in Punjab and Delhi. He was the man behind the consolidation of 565 semi-autonomous princely states to form a united India. Patel was very attached to Mahatma Gandhi. After Mahatma Gandhi's death his condition also started deteriorating, he suffered a major heart attack within two months of Gandhi's death. He died on 15th December 1950. He was a man of courage and determination and in the true sense the 'Iron Man of India'. Facts and Information about Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Born October 31, 1875 (Nadiad) Died December 15, 1950 (Bombay) Father Jhaverbhai (farmer) Mother Laad Bai Wife Jhaverba Elder Brothers Somabhai, Narsibhai and Vithalbhai Patel. Younger Brother Kashibhai Sister Dahiba Son Dahyabhai Daughter Maniben Leaving Home After contracting Bubonic Plague, he started leaving alone in Nadiad and recuperated slowly. Wife's Cancer Patel's wife was a patient of cancer. She died during a major surgical operation. Early Political Career In September 1917, Patel delivered an encouraging speech in Borsad to motivate Indians to sign Gandhi's petition demanding Swaraj. Patel also rose against the forced servitude of Indians to Europeans. He organised relief efforts at the time of plague and famine in the Kheda district. Vallabhbhai Patel initiated a village-to-village tour to involve maximum people in the statewide revolt to refuse the payment of taxes. Patel supported Gandhi's Non-cooperation Movement and toured the state to recruit more than 300,000 members and raise over Rs. 15 lakh in funds. Satyagraha was led by Patel in Nagpur in the absence of Gandhi in 1923 against a law that restricted the hoisting of the Indian flag. The Sardar Patel became popular as Sardar among his colleagues and followers after the triumph in Bardoli. Patel became the Congress president for the Karachi session of 1931. Quit India Movement On the outbreak of World War II, Patel supported Nehru's decision to withdraw the Congress from central and provincial legislatures. In 1940 he was jailed for 9 months . In 1942 he rejected the proposals of the Cripps' mission. Integration after Independence In the 1946 election for the Congress presidency, Patel stepped down in favour of Nehru. As the first Home Minister, Patel's role was significant in integration of several princely states into the Indian federation. Vallabhbhai Patel believed that the partition of India could resolve the rising Muslim separatist movement led by Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Patel represented India on the Partition Council and chose the Indian council of ministers with Nehru. Leading India Patel took the decision to appoint Dr. Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar as the chairman of the drafting committee and the other leaders for the process of writing the constitution. Patel was the chairman of the committees that was responsible for fundamental rights, tribal and excluded areas, minorities and provincial constitutions. When the Pakistani invasion of Kashmir began in September 1947, Patel immediately wanted to send troops into Kashmir. But agreeing with Nehru and Mountbatten, he waited till Kashmir's monarch had acceded to India. Patel then oversaw India's military operations to secure Srinagar, the Baramulla Pass and the forces retrieved much territory from the invaders. Gandhi's death and relations with Nehru Patel was a loyal follower of Gandhi. Nehru and Patel argued over national issues. Nehru was opposed by Patel over his Kashmir policy. According to Patel, Nehru was not justified in sidelining his home ministry's officials. Institutions Several institutes have been named after him, such as: Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel University of Agriculture & Technology, Meerut Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology, Surat Sardar Patel University, Gujarat Sardar Patel Institute of Technology, Vasad Sardar Patel Vidyalaya, New Delhi Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Institute of Technology, Vasad Monuments Sardar Patel Memorial Trust Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Memorial, Ahmedabad Sardar Sarovar Dam, Gujarat Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport, Ahmedabad Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Stadium, Ahmedabad Films on Sardar Patel Arun Sadekar played the part of Patel in Hey Ram , a movie by Kamal Haasan in 2000. In 1993, the biopic Sardar was produced and directed by Ketan Mehta, featuring Paresh Rawal as Patel, describing Patel's leadership, the partition of India and Patel's relationship with Gandhi and Nehru. Saeed Jaffrey portrayed Patel in Richard Attenborough's Gandhi in 1982. Mention in literature Shashi Tharoor in his novel The Great Indian Novel has made use of satire to present the character of Vidur Hastinapuri, which is based on Patel as well as Vidura, a mythological character. Documentary A documentary on Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was made under the direction of Kantilal Rathod in 1976. Books To know more about Patel you may read: Life and Work of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel , Editor Parshottam Das Saggi, Foreword by C. Rajagopalachari. Overseas Publishing House, Bombay.   Related Links   Indian freedom movement Sukhdev Chittaranjan Das Shivaram Rajguru Dadabhai Naoroji Surendranath Bannerjee Jatindra Mohan Sengupta Laxmi Sehgal Jawaharlal Nehru Abdul Gafar Khan Khudiram Bose Rash Behari Bose Lala Lajpat Rai Rani Lakshmi Bai Madan Mohan Malviya Ram Singh Kuka Mahatma Gandhi Lala Hardayal Mangal Pandey Begum Hazrat Mahal Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Bipin Chandra Pal Motilal Nehru Sri Alluri Seetarama Raju Nellie Sengupta Veer Savarkar Pandit Balakrishna Sharma Subhash Chandra Bose Puspa Lata Das Bhim Sen Sachar Ram Manohar Lohia Acharya Kripalani Ram Prasad Bismil Aruna Asaf Ali Sagarmal Gopa Ashfaqulla Khan Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Bal Gangadhar Tilak Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chandra Shekhar Azad Last Updated on : August 8, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule