ATREE | Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment Search this site: About Purpose Structure Sites Governing board Partners FCRA, Annual reports and brochures Education fund Newsletters Press Research Environment and Development Forests & governance Land, water & livelihoods Biodiversity and Conservation Ecosystem services & human wellbeing Ecosystems & global change Academy PhD programme Certificate courses Conservation education Talks @ ATREE Capacity building Outreach Policy outreach Action outreach Khoshoo memorial award Workshops and conferences Publications Journal articles Book chapters Books Discussion papers Reports Popular press Archives Manuals and guides People Faculty Students Staff Resources Ecoinformatics lab Biosystematics lab Conservation genetics lab Water and soil lab Library Community-based Conservation Centres Field offices Opportunities Jobs Internships CEPF grant Contact ‘Matsyathavalam’: A democratic approach towards conserving fishes and livelihoods The recovery of Manas A fiery history Rights, governance and conservation Western Ghats clusters are UNESCO World Heritage Site Home ATREE Research Highlights Democratizing Forest Governance in India An edited book that highlights the shift in discourse on forests: from a purely biophysical focus to questions of rights and governance ...more Global climate change impacts vegetation on tropical mountains Early warning: global climate change can severely disrupt the delicate balance of life ...more Grassland/ wasteland: the politics of nomenclature Miscellaneous use of grasslands compromises the habitat that supports critically endangered species ...more Archive Academy Matters Strategic Action Linking Science and Policy: Multi-Level and Interdisciplinary Solutions for Complex Problems David W. Cash @ATREE auditorium at 3.45 pm on 23rd April 2015 ...more Harnessing Space Technology for Societal Benefits Ranganath Navalgund @ATREE auditorium at 3.45 pm on 23rd March 2015 ...more Forms of (attempted) water commodification in India: A brief review Priya Sangameswaran @ATREE auditorium at 3.45 pm on 16th March 2015 ...more Archive Policy & Outreach Orchids of the Sikkim Himalaya revisited Orchids of the Sikkim Himalaya revisited ...more FEJI ATREE media fellowships FEJI ATREE media fellowships ...more Five-year assessment of the CEPF investment in the Western Ghats A special report…download report (5MB) from here Archive Democratizing Forest Governance in India Authors: Sharachchandra Lele and Ajit Menon Livelihood strategies in southern India:conservation and poverty reduction in forest fringes Authors: Purushothaman, S., R. Abraham(Eds.) Treetops at Risk. Challenges of Global Canopy Ecology and Conservation Authors: Lowman, M., S. Devy, T. Ganesh Himalaya: Mountains of Life Authors: Kamal Bawa, Sandesh Kadur Common dryland trees of Karnataka Authors: A. Kavitha, N. Deepthi, R. Ganesan, S. C. Gladwin Joseph Invertebrate diversity and conservation in the Western Ghats Authors: Priyadarsanan Dharma Rajan, Soubadra Devy, Aravind Madhyastha, Subramanian, K. A., and Seena Narayanan Forest Canopies of South Asia: A Glimpse Authors: M. Soubadra Devy, T. Ganesh, Amrita Tripathy. 2012 Community-based Natural Resource Management. Issues and cases from South Asia Authors: Ajit Menon, Praveen Singh, Esha Shah, Sharachchandra Lele, Suhas Paranjape, K.J. Joy Conservation Biology: A Primer For South Asia Authors: Kamaljit S Bawa, Richard B Primack and Meera Anna Oommen. 2011. Biligiri Rangaswamy Temple Wildlife Sanctuary: Natural History, Biodiversity and Conservation. Vivekananda Girijana Kalyana Kendra Authors: Ganeshaiah, K.N., R. Uma Shaanker (eds), 1998 Exploring Options For Joint Forest Management In India Authors: Dr. K.D. Singh, Dr. Bhaskar Sinha and Mr. S.D. Mukherji. Fig Insects of Kerala. Records of the Zoological Survey of India, Occasional Paper No. 182. Zoological Survey of India, Calcutta, India. Authors: Rajan, Priyadarsanan Dharma,(2000) Forest Genetic Resources: Status, Treats And Conservation Strategies. Oxford and IBH, New Delhi, India. Authors: Uma Shaanker, R., Ganeshaiah, K.N., and Bawa, K.S. (eds), (2001), Tropical Ecosystems: Structure, Diversity and Human Welfare. Oxford and IBH, New Delhi, India Authors: Ganeshaiah, K.N., Uma Shaanker, R. and Bawa, K.S (eds), (2001), Bamboos and Rattans of the Western Ghats: Population biology, Socio-economics and Conservation strategies, ATREE, IPGRI and UAS, Bangalore. Authors: Uma Shaanker, R., Ganeshaiah, K. N., Srinivasan, K., Ramanatha Rao, V. and Hong, L.T. (2004). A Decade of Diversity, Bangalore: ATREE and University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore Authors: Ganeshaiah, K.N. and Uma Shaanker, R. (2003) Sahyadris: India's Western Ghats - A vanishing heritage. Authors: Sandesh Kadur, Bawa, K.S., Hydrology and watershed services in the Western Ghats: Effects of Land-cover and Land-use change. Tata McGraw-Hill, New Delhi, India. Authors: Krishnaswamy, J., Lele, S and Jayakumar, R. (2005) (Editors) Treasures on Tiger Tracks - A Bilingual Nature Guide to Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve Authors: Ganesh, T., R Ganesan, M Soubadra Devy, Jahnavi G Pai. 2009 Non-Timber Forest Products Conservation, Management and Policy in the Tropics. Authors: Uma Shaanker, R., Ankila J. Hiremath, Gladwin Joseph and Nitin D Rai. 2009. (Eds). Reforesting Landscapes Linking Pattern and Process Series: Landscape Series Authors: Nagendra, Harini., Jane Southworth (Eds.) Newsletters Branches Vol 11.4 Agasthya Vol 8.1 Vembanad Vol 1.1 Eastern Himalayas Vol 2.3 Kulam Valam Vol 1 Nesara Vol 3.2 Archive Related Sites Conservation and Society Current Conservation CISED Lantana Craft Center Announcements ATREE Annual Report 2013-14 [ pdf 4.5mb] Calling for applications to the ATREE PhD Program in Conservation Science and Sustainability Studies. Last date: 6 April 2015 ...more Nature in the city. The ATREE 2015 calendar on plant and animal life in urban spaces. See it here [5.64MB]. Research positions / jobs at ATREE and three faculty positions for climate change programme ...more Archive News and Events First Elinor Ostrom Award on Collective Governance of the Commons to Harini Nagendra Archive Publications Hiremath, A. J. and B. Sundaram. 2013. Invasive plant species in Indian Protected Areas: conserving biodiversity in cultural landscapes . In: Plant invasions in protected areas. Patterns, problems and challenges (edsFoxcroft, L.C.; P. Pyšek, D. M. Richardson, P. Genovesi) Invading Nature - Springer Series in Invasion Ecology Volume 7 Pp 241-266. Springer. Sundaram, Bharath. 2012. Patterns and processes of Lantana camara persistence in South Indian tropical dry forests .PhD thesis.Ashoka Trust for Ecology and the Environment, Bangalore, India. Calendar «   May   » S M T W T F S           1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21   22   23   24   25   26   27   28   29   30   31               [ Staff intranet login ] Sitemap © 2010. ATREE . All rights reserved.