Labour problem AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Shout Box Labour problem Results 1 to 4 of 4 Thread: Labour problem LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… January 16th, 2013 #1 nostradamus Not Available Join Date Mar 2010 Posts 1,428 Blog Entries 3 labour selection Hi If we tackle Labour complaints,may be they will continue.... for example: Having a yearly plan of your labour needs will show you where your busiest periods are, and your peak demands for labour. This will assist with cash flow budgeting, and planning labour needs well in advance. Include on the plan an annual holiday for yourself and your family, plus staff annual leave periods. Labours often complain that they can never get away from the farm, but if you plan ahead and make a booking there will be much more chance that it will actually happen! thanking you _ Last edited by nostradamus; January 23rd, 2013 at 09:58 PM . Reply With Quote January 18th, 2013 #2 krishnann Join Date Mar 2011 Posts 79 Dear Sir We have a dairy farm near Mulabagal and we face the terrible labour problem and we incurr heavy loss. We sold half of our life stock beacuse of this problem. We pay the labours well and we have all equipments including Milking Machine, back up battery and tractor etc to help. Still no body stay more than three months and while going they tell some reasons and take huge advances and run away. Most of the lands are kept barren and all the villagers are given royal treatment by the goverment by announcing free schemes to fetch the vote banking. They have made the villagers to feel lazy and gossipping around. If this situation continues India will become bankrupt soon. Reply With Quote April 4th, 2015 #3 sugithaagri Join Date Mar 2014 Posts 141 Blog Entries 1 We are mainly emerging the manpower to Agriculture Sector . We are specially focusing on Farming , Landscaping ,Poultry ,Dairy,Agro Industries and other related activities . We are dealing with our manpower in the terms of permanent as well as contract basis . We are ensuring high standards of our manpower skills and their delivering by world class operating efficiency . We are inviting your requirements...we are having 40 farm labour couples from tamilnadu(madurai,palani,ottanchatiram,manaparai) 9677982862 - sugitha(Tamilnadu) sugithaagri@gmail.com Reply With Quote April 22nd, 2015 #4 krishnaprasad Join Date Aug 2013 Posts 33 Dear Sugitha, Please do not show sky to others. When we had same requirement one year back you have not even spoke to us properly. YOu have given one more no. to contact and he has asked me to talk to only. This will not work. Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 05:30 PM .