Directorate of Rice Development Welcome Walk-in Interview for Selection of 2 Nos. of Technical Assistants on 19-06-2014 ... An introduction from the desk of the Director ..   Directorate of Rice Development Patna, Bihar The Directorate of Rice Development, a sub-ordinate office of the Ministry of Agriculture, Dept. of Agriculture & Co-Operation, Govt. of India has been functioning from Patna, the capital city of Bihar State since 1-1-1970. The major activity of the Directorate is to popularize the latest high yielding varieties of rice among the farmers of different rice growing eco-systems in various states of the country, through demonstration trials and also arranging training programmes to impart trainings to the Agriculture Extension Officers (AEO) about the latest improved production technology evolved by the Agriculture Scientist. The  AEOs further go to the farmers in their assigned rice growing areas and transfer to them the latest technique and knowledge of improved production technology for increasing productivity and production of rice. Besides, the Directorate is also organizing National Seminar on Rice with participation of Agriculture Scientists engaged in rice research and Agriculture Development Agencies from central and state govts. to review and discuss the various aspects and/or problems of rice production in the country at one platform. After fruitful deliberations, future research and development programmes are chalked out and recommended to the concerned agencies or the departments for their implementation suitably and effectively. The Directorate of Rice Development has also brought out the following publications on various aspects of rice development activities for the benefit of agriculture research scientists, planners, policy makers, traders, agriculture universities, agriculture development extension personnels, etc. The following publications can be had from the Directorate of Rice Development, Patna - Notified Rice Varieties - 2001 Basmati Rice in India : Its Export Potential - 2001 Rice in India - A Handbook of Statistics - 2001 Rice in India - A Status paper - 2002 Rice Varieties in India - 2002 Rice Productivity Analysis in India - 2002 Problems and Prospects of Rice Export from India - 2003 Most of the material published under the above mentioned titles is also being put on the world-wide-web for immediate and easy access with help from NIC Bihar State Unit. Copyright © Directorate of Rice Development, Patna, Bihar. Last updated on 07-06-2013.  