Digital India: A programme for digitally empowered society and knowledge economy | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Global Navigation Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communication Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms People Speak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > Spotlight > Digital India: A programme for digitally empowered society and knowledge economy Digital India: A programme for digitally empowered society and knowledge economy Digital India Programme (1.5 MB) - PDF file that opens in a new window aims to transform India into digital empowered society and knowledge economy. This is a follow up to the key decisions taken on the design of the programme during the meeting of the Prime Minister - External website that opens in a new window on Digital India Programme (1.5 MB) - PDF file that opens in a new window on August 7, 2014, and to sensitize all ministries to this vast programme touching every corner of the government. This programme has been envisaged by Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY) . Digital India Programme (1.5 MB) - PDF file that opens in a new window will be implemented in phases from the current year till 2018. It is transformational in nature and would ensure that Government services are available to citizens electronically. It would also bring in public accountability through mandated delivery of government's services electronically. The source of funding for most of the e-Governance projects at present is through budgetary provisions of respective Ministries/ Departments in the Central or State governments. Requirements of funds for individual project(s) for Digital India (1.5 MB) - PDF file that opens in a new window will be worked out by respective Nodal Ministries/ Departments.   The vision areas of Digital India Infrastructure as Utility to Every Citizen Governance and Services on Demand Digital Empowerment of Citizens India India India India India India Infrastructure as Utility to Every Citizen High speed internet as a core utility shall be made available in all Gram Panchayats. Cradle to grave digital identity - unique, lifelong, online and authenticable. Mobile phone and Bank account would enable participation in digital and financial space at individual level. Easy access to a Common Service Centre within their locality. Shareable private space on a public Cloud. Safe and secure Cyber-space in the country. Governance and Services on Demand Seamlessly integrated across departments or jurisdictions to provide easy and a single window access to all persons. Government services available in real time from online and mobile platforms. All citizen entitlements to be available on the Cloud to ensure easy access. Government services digitally transformed for improving Ease of Doing Business. Making financial transactions above a threshold, electronic and cashless. Leveraging GIS for decision support systems and development. Digital Empowerment of Citizens Universal digital literacy. All digital resources universally accessible. All Government documents/ certificates to be available on the Cloud. Availability of digital resources / services in Indian languages. Collaborative digital platforms for participative governance. Portability of all entitlements for individuals through the Cloud. India India India India India India India India India India India India   Scope of Digital India The overall scope of this programme is: To prepare India for a knowledge future. On being transformative that is to realize IT (Indian Talent) + IT(Information Technology) = IT (India Tomorrow) Making technology central to enabling change. On being an Umbrella Programme - covering many departments The programme (1.5 MB) - PDF file that opens in a new window weaves together a large number of ideas and thoughts into a single, comprehensive vision, so that each of them is seen as part of a larger goal. Each individual element stands on its own, but is also part of the larger picture. The weaving together makes the Mission transformative in totality. The Digital India Programme will pull together many existing schemes which would be restructured and re-focused and implemented in a synchronized manner. The common branding of the programmes as Digital India, highlights their transformative impact.   nine pillars of Digital India programme Broadband Highways, Universal Access to Mobile Connectivity, Public Internet Access Programme, e-Governance: Reforming Government through Technology, e-Kranti - Electronic Delivery of Services, Information for all, Electronics Manufacturing, IT for Jobs Early Harvest Programmes   Approach and Methodology Ministries / Departments / States would fully leverage the Common and Support ICT Infrastructure established by the Government of India . The existing/ ongoing e-Governance initiatives would be revamped to align them with the principles of Digital India. Scope enhancement, Process Reengineering, use of integrated & interoperable systems and deployment of emerging technologies like Cloud & mobile would be undertaken to enhance delivery of Government services to citizens . States would be given flexibility to identify for inclusion additional state-specific projects, which are relevant to their socio-economic needs. e-Governance would be promoted through a centralised initiative to the extent necessary, to ensure citizen centric service orientation. Successes would be identified and their replication promoted proactively. Public Private Partnerships would be preferred wherever feasible. Adoption of Unique ID would be promoted to facilitate identification, authentication and delivery of benefits. Restructuring of NIC would be undertaken to strengthen the IT support to all government departments at the Centre and State levels. The positions of Chief Information Officers (CIO) would be created in at least 10 key ministries so that various e-Governance projects could be designed, developed and implemented faster. DeitY would create necessary senior positions within the department for managing the programme. Central Ministries / Departments and State Governments would have the overall responsibility for implementation of various Mission Mode and other projects under this Programme. Considering the need for overall aggregation and integration at the national level, it is considered appropriate to implement Digital India as a programme with well defined roles and responsibilities of each agency involved.   Program Management Structure A programme management structure would be established for monitoring implementation. Key components of the management structure would consist of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) for according approval to projects, a Monitoring Committee headed by the Prime Minister - External website that opens in a new window , a Digital India Advisory Group chaired by the Minister of Communications and IT , an Apex Committee chaired by the Cabinet Secretary and the Expenditure Finance Committee (EFC) / Committee on Non Plan Expenditure (CNE).   Background : Digital India Programme Even though India is known as a powerhouse of software, the availability of electronic government services to citizens is still comparatively low. The National e-Governance Plan approved in 2006 has made a steady progress through Mission Mode Projects and Core ICT Infrastructure, but greater thrust is required to ensure effective progress in electronics manufacturing and e-Governance in the country. The Digital India (1.5 MB) - PDF file that opens in a new window vision provides the intensified impetus for further momentum and progress for this initiative and this would promote inclusive growth that covers electronic services, products, devices, manufacturing and job opportunities. India in the 21st Century must strive to meet the aspirations of its citizens where government and its services reach the doorsteps of citizens and contribute towards a long-lasting positive impact. The Digital India Programme (1.5 MB) - PDF file that opens in a new window aims to transform India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy by leveraging IT as a growth engine of new India.   Related Links Download Digital India Presentation - External Website that opens in a new window Ministry of Communications and IT National e-Governance Plan Online services for citizens हिन्दी About the Portal Contact us Feedback Help Link to Us Newsletter Tell a Friend Website Policy Accessibility Statement Visitor Summary Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communication Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services Online Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms People Speak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance This is the National Portal of India, developed with an objective to enable a single window access to information and services being provided by the various Indian Government entities. The content in this Portal is the result of a collaborative effort of various Indian Government Ministries and Departments, at the Central/State/District level. This Portal is Mission Mode Project under the National E-Governance Plan, designed and maintained by National Informatics Centre (NIC), DeitY, MoCIT, Government of India. Last reviewed and updated on 07 May, 2015