Rapid Organic - helps farmers to convert to organic farming - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Rapid Organic – helps farmers to convert to organic farming Home Rapid Organic – helps farmers to convert to organic farming Engaged in contract farming and trading of organic agriculture products. Helps farmer in conversion procedure “I realized organic is the future while pursuing one year diploma in organic farming. I also observed that consumers are fed up with adulterated food and are desperately looking for nutrition rich food, no matter if they have to spend some extra money. Hence soon after completing my education I started my career with establishment of Rapid Organic in 2008,” says Mr. Yogesh Joshi, Founder and Director of Rapid Organic. The Company is engaged in agricultural products trading. Based at Sanchore, Jalore dist, Rajasthan, the company is involved in contract farming of 65 products produced in the state organically. “We provide technical know-how, consultancy, bio-fertilizers and training to our contract farmers followed by 100% buy-back of their farm produce at premium rates,” he says. Rapid Organic has the tie-up with 15,000 farmers out of which 4000 farmers are organically certified and the rest are in different stages of conversion process. Farmers from 5 districts of Rajasthan are associated with the company. “It was a difficult period in 2008 to go organic as the farmers were totally in chemical-based farming. I started my journey with only 7 farmers who trusted my vision,” shares Mr. Joshi and adds, “Farmers were completely unaware of bio-fertilizers, reason being, in India there are limited companies producing bio-fertilizers and their reach deep within rural India is further limited. As the first step we had a tie-up with these companies to provide concrete organic farming alternative solution to farmers who were for years using chemical based farming inputs.” It took intense research of one year to provide alternative solutions to the farmers like in place of urea and DAP we offered bio-fertilizer rich in similar quantum of nitrogen and phosphorous etc. to farmers. When asked how the farmers agreed for the switch considering the fact that change in farming inputs drops the yield, he shares, “It was not practical to stop using urea at once and so we opted for 1/3 conversion ratio. For example in one hectare if a farmer was using one 50 kg bag of urea we made him use 40 kg urea in first season, next 30 kg and so on. All the bio-fertilizers are given to farmers on credit (without any interest) to assist them financially. Later the amount gets adjusted in the payments during buy-back of their farm produce,” informs Mr. Joshi. Rapid Organic buys back entire farm produce of its associate farmers at premium price. Quoting the example of cumin seeds, Mr. Joshi says, “Market price of cumin seeds is Rs. 120/kg. We buy it from our farmer at Rs. 125/kg directly from his farm. He saves money and hard work of visiting the market for cumin sales and so altogether he is earning additional Rs. 20-25/kg.” The company always remains in touch with farmers. Mr. Joshi insists that for converting a conventional farmer into organic farmer, constant touch is the key to success. He shares, “For every 500 group farmers we have an office where technical team is appointed to interact with farmers on daily basis. The team provides them technical assistance and also solves their farming related problems. We do not charge a single penny from the farmer for consultancy or technical assistance provided and even initial organic certification charges are borne by our company. We consider this as an investment and not as an expense.” Organic certification is taken from Biocert. Some of the products are exported and hence the company has taken Canada and Japanese certification too. Rapid Organic deals in 65 products produced at Rajasthan whereas 200 products are procured from across the country for trading. From Rajasthan the products that are high in demand are cumin, fennel, millet, sesame, black mustard, yellow mustard, fenugreek and coriander. Some of the top selling cereals are wheat, barley, maize and pearl millet. “We buy all these products in bulk from the farmers and re-sell to bulk suppliers like Reliance, ITC etc.,” he shares. The company participates in agriculture fairs held across India to create awareness about itself and products. “We get potential contacts and buyers from these fairs,” he informs. Selling the products to big buyers is preferred over retail sales. “We have to give immediate payments to our farmers and hence we always look for re-selling the products soon. We are not keen on retail sales as it is difficult to allocate time for the same,” he adds. In all 40 people are working in the company, out of which 20 people are always in the field. Talking about accomplishment, Mr. Joshi says, “Our contract farming model and awareness on organic farming are motivating the youth to stay back with their family. Earlier due to lack of water, in spite of having land holding of 100 plus acres the farmers were forced to send their children far for work but things are changing for good now. We are observing farmers are earning minimum of Rs. 20-25 Lakhs/year. In Rajasthan mainly cash crop is grown and so the farmer is able to earn well and these days pomegranate farming too is highly profitable.” He also shares that farmers who were working under Neraga, a government scheme where they were paid Rs. 400/day, have discontinued it and are doing contract farming for Rapid Organic. “I feel this is an achievement,” he shares proudly. Mr. Yogesh Joshi has been felicitated by district level awards for his services in helping farmers adopt organic farming practices. He did his graduation in agriculture and one year diploma in organic farming. Contact details- Rapid Organic Plot No; 544/545, 1st Floor, Hinglaj Nagar, (Mojiya), Narmada Colony Road, Sanchore, Dist- Jalore, Rajasthan-343041 INDIA. Phone : +91-2979-285734 E-mail: info@rapidorganic.com, rapidorganic@gmail.com Website: http://rapidorganic.com/index.html Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Rapid Organic – helps farmers to convert to organic farming Related – articles, consultants, downloads Nalla Keerai- Helps farmers in organic farming Food Processing helps farmers to earn better! Why organic farming has not yet taken off? Mr. Daneshwar Gawande – Organic farming You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water