ï»¿ AED     Gallery Links Site Map FAQ           Home Schemes Central Sector Demonstration of Agricultural Machinery and Implements Training to Farmers on operation and maintenance of Agrl. Machinery State Sector Rain water harvesting and Run off management programme Master plan - Artificial Recharge to Ground Water SWC in Tribal areas under Integrated Tribal Development Programme Pulses Villages in Rain fed Areas - NADP Scheme to Revive Agriculture In Fallow Land - NADP SWC under Hill Area Development Programme Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project Soil Conservations in the Catchment of River Valley Project - NADP SWC under Western Ghats Development Programme Agricultural Mechanization under NADP Training on operation and maintenance of farm machinery Training rural youth on agricultural machinery and implements Diesel Engine Pump set with Rain gun / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation. Solar Powered Pumping system with Micro Irrigation Solar Chilli Drier Onion Storage structures TN IAMWARM Project Centre and State Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Command Area Development and Water Management Programme Services Land Development Minor Irrigation Mandate Downloads RTI Contacts                                 Schemes State Sector   World Bank aided Tamil Nadu Irrigated Agriculture Modernization and Water bodies Restoration and Management       Objectives     Improve the water use efficiency by propagating drip and sprinkler irrigation system. The foremost objective of AED is to increase the income of the farming community. The second objective is water savings and the third one is labour savings.     Details of Works     Installation of Drip and Sprinkler Irrigation systems. Construction of Farm pond and rain water harvesting structure Information, Education, communication and capacity building.       Eligibility     All farmers in the 51 sub basins approved by the World Bank.       IMPLEMENTATION     The project is implemented in 51 sub basins for a period of 6 years from 1.4.2007 to 31.3.2013. The World Bank has extended the project up to 30.9.2014.     SUBSIDY       MIS 100% subsidy for small and marginal farmers 75% subsidy for others. FARM POND 95% subsidy for SC/ST farmers. 90% subsidy for general category farmers.           Officer to be approached     Assistant Executive Engineer (A.E) in the Revenue Division Executive Engineer (A.E) in the District. Superintending Engineer (A.E) in the Region. Chief Engineer(AE), Agricultural Engineering Department, 487, Anna Salai, Nandanam, Chennai-600 035. Phone - 24352686, 24352622                      