Meghalaya River Map Home » Maps » Meghalaya » River Maps of Meghalaya   Rivers in Meghalaya West Khasi Hills East Garo Hills West Garo Hills South Garo Hills Jaintia-Hills East Khasi Hills Ri Bhoi मेघालय का नक्शा Meghalaya Meghalaya Map Cities in Meghalaya Districts Roads Tehsils Railways Shillong City Map Cherrapunji City Map Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Agricultural Map Geography Media in Meghalaya Government Education Universities in Meghalaya History Mineral Map Society Information Travel to Meghalaya Places to visit in Meghalaya Wildlife Sanctuaries Elephant Falls Cherrapunji Travel Hotels in Meghalaya Shillong Hotels Sex Ratio Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Polls Pincode STD Code       River Map of Meghalaya Meghalaya River Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * The Meghalaya Rivers Network Map showing the River Flowing in and out of Meghalaya state. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Indian state of Meghalaya has many rivers making them an intrinsic component of the state. The majority of these rivers are rain fed, thus making them seasonal. The rivers have formed deep canyons and numerous glistering waterfalls in the state. The important rivers of Meghalaya that shape the northern region and course from west to east are the Ajagar, Chagua, Kalu, Didram, Dudnai, Krishnai and Ringgi and the important rivers that shape the southern region are Daring, Bhogai, Sanda, Dareng, Simsang, Bandra, Nitai and Bhupai. Similarly, the important rivers of the central and eastern regions of Meghalaya that course towards the north are Umkhri, Umiam and Digaru and some main rivers of the eastern regions that course towards south are Barapani, Kynchiang, Mawpa, Myngot and Myntdu. Some other important rivers of Meghalaya are: Someswari - It is the biggest and second largest river in Meghalaya. Known by its local name"Simsang", it originate from the hills of Nokrek and progresses east towards through the towns of Williamnagar, Baghmara and Rewak. Jinjiram - The river originates from Urpad Beel Lake and streams towards the east through the Goalpara district in Assam. It is the largest river from the two Garo hills districts. Kalu - Known by its local name "Ganol", the river originates from Tura peak in Meghalaya and flows west towards Goalpara district in the state of Assam. Myntdu - The river originates at Mihmyntdu, near Jowai. The River streams across Jowai to Leshka to Borghat village and finally enters into Bangladesh. Last Updated on 9 March 2013   River Maps of Meghalaya   River Map of East Garo Hills River Map of East Khasi Hills River Map of Jaintia Hills River Map of Ribhoi River Map of South Garo Hills River Map of West Garo Hills River Map of West Khasi Hills             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule