National & International Project on Pulses Development Home Mission Directors Meeting/Minutes Social Media State Profile Guidelines Contact Us Pulses Books/Documents NFSM Advisory Action Plans Circulars/Formats Presentations Releases/Approval Photo Gallery Progress Report Yield GAP/FLD Krishi Karman Award NFSM LOGO Crop Production Target Crop Contigency Plan Crop Diversification Programme other NFSM Implementing Agencies Commercial Crops Archives National & International Project on Pulses Development 1. ICRISAT        2. ICARDA        3 . NCIPM Increasing chickpea and pigeonpea production through Intensive application of Integrated Pest      Management Administrative approval for revalidation and extension of project "Increasing Chickpea and      Pigeonpea Production through Intensive Application of IPM" for five months (April, 2014 to August,       2014) - reg. 4 . ICAR Breeder Seed Production & Training Infrastructure. CMS based Pigeonpea breeding. Progress Report (2011-12 ) IIPR , Kanpur Strengthening of breeder seed production and training infrastructure:(2007‐08 to 2011‐12) Project : Evaluation & Production of CGMS based hybrids:(2010‐11 to 2011‐12) IRRI:Cluster Demonstrations of Stress Tolerant Rice Varieties in Stress Prone Parts of India . Approval of concept notes & submission of detailed Research Project proposals 5 . Adaptive Research Projects Administrative Approval of Project entitled "Screening of Low Arsenic Accumulating Rice Varieties and Hybrids for West Bengal" - reg. Administrative Approval ofNCIPM Project entitled "Large scale demonstration and validation of improved insect light trap on farmers' fields with farmers' participatory mode of approach in selected crops"- reg. Administrative Approval of Project entitled "Quality Seed Production for Higher Productivity of pulses through farmers participatory programme in Shiwalik foothills of Jammu region"- reg. Administrative Approval of Project entitled "Enhancing lentil production in Eastern and North- Eastern States for nutritional security and sustainable ricebased production system in India"-" - reg.(20_10_2014) Administrative Approval of Project entitled "Enhancing Grasspea production in Eastern and North- Eastern States for animal feed, safe human food and sustainable rice-based production system in India"under NFSM-Pulses" - reg. Administrative Approval of Project entitled "Evolution and Popularization of Technologies for       paddy management" - reg.(23_09_2014) Administrative Approval of Project entitled "Identification of salt tolerant chickpea varieties for      coastal regions of Gujarat" - reg. Enhancing mothbean and mungbean productivity in western Rajasthan" Administrative Approval of project proposal of CoEs on Sorghum Administrative Approval of project proposal of CoE on Pearl Millet(CCSHAU,Hisar). Administrative Approval of project proposal of Centre of Excellence on Small Millets (UAS,Bangalore) Relaxation of age limit of varieties of pulses for cluster demonstrations and seed distribution under      NFSM-Pulses during 2014-15- reg. Administrative Approval of Project entitled "Development of Surtable Technology for Increasing the      Productivity of Pulses In Rice Fallows" - reg. Administrative Approval of Project entitled "Enzymatic pretreatment in the processing of pigeon pea" BGREI NCAER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS OTHER RELATED LINKS NFSM-MIS FEEDBACK SITEMAP   Designed & Developed by Agricultural Informatics Division,NIC  @Copyright:DAC           |       Updated on 02-06-2014