Maocat Ltd Sabah Malaysia, Fresh Indian Mango Manufacturer & Exporters List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Maocat Ltd Member Since : 2014 | Country : Malaysia Home Products Services Send Inquiry Contact us Waste Products,waste Paper,refined Sunflower Oil Company Information We are Maocat Ltd acknowledged as prominent Supplier and Exporter of Agro Products, Spices, Grains, Basic Starch & Sago, Dried Nuts, Coir Products, Steel wools, Industrial Scraps,Jaggery Products. The company was incepted in the year 2002. It is operating from Kota Kinabalu , Sabah ,Malaysia. We perform under the leadership of Mr. Armed Bin Karim , the Proprietor of the company. He holds a vast experience of 10 years. Infrastructure We own a robust infrastructure with highly sophisticated machines and equipment that performs excellently. We are also assisted by qualified team of professionals who are well versed with advanced working techniques. Thus, we are able to fulfill all the requirements of the client very conveniently. Quality Control Quality assurance is the basic factor that counts in the business domain. We are successful due to the high quality products provided to the customers. We use high quality raw material procured from trusted vendors. Our team of experts conducts several tests on products prior to their delivery. Why Us? We have earned a good reputation in national as well as international market. This is the result of our hard working and dedication towards the customer satisfaction. Moreover, we have well informed team of professionals who has better understanding for the client's requirements. We are the prime choice of the customers due to following reasons: Robust infrastructure Quality monitoring unit Wide distribution network Team of experts Timely delivery of consignment Company Facts Business Type : Manufacturer / Exporters / Service Providers / Wholesale Suppliers Year of Estd. : 2002 Company Turnover : USD 0.1 to 0.5 Million Approx. No. of Employee : 50 - 100 Ownership : LLC (Ltd Liability Corp) Business Markets : World wide Website : http://www.maocatltd.biz Featured Products/Services Fresh Indian Mango Wet Salted Hides Green Cardamom Soybean Meal High Protein Animal Feed Additive Meat Bone Meal Raw Pistachio Nuts Raw Cashew Nuts Processed Cashew Nuts Search Contact Details Mr. Mouhamet Rasmussen Telephone : +60-102581690 Mobile Phone : +60-102581690 » More detail Hot Products » Double A Copy Paper » White Chickpeas » Dry dates » Green Raisin » Brown Raisin » Fresh Indian Mango » Processed Cashew Nuts » Raw Cashew Nuts » Raw Pistachio Nuts » Meat Bone Meal » High Protein Animal Feed Additive » Soybean Meal » Green Cardamom » Wet Salted Hides » Disposable Latex Examination Gloves Other Products » 100% Refined Sunflower Oil » 3-ply Surgical Face Mask / 3 Ply Disposable Mask » Advocate Alcohol Prep Pads » Angel Fish » Black Ghost Fish » Black Tetra Fish » Class 1000 Cleanroom Latex Gloves » Congo Tetra Fish » Double A4 Copy Paper » Emperor Tetra Fish » High Quality Pure Iodine Crystals » High Quality Wood Pellets » Medical Rubber Band » Molly Fish » Neon Tetra Fish » Nitrile Examination Gloves - Powdered » Organic Alfalfa Seeds » Ostrich Eggs » Phantom Fish » Platy Fish View more products SERVICES WE OFFER » After sales Services Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com