Kerala Rail Network Map Home » Maps » Kerala » Kerala Railway Network Map   Kerala Railway Map Ernakulam Palakkad Malappuram Thrissur Thiruvananthapuram Alappuzha Kottayam Kollam Kozhikode more.. About Kerala History Geography Weather Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map District Map Road Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Regions Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Forest Map Cities Economy Industries Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Tourism Travel Map Backwaters Wildlife Sanctuaries Hotels in Kerala Kochi Hotels Trivandrum Hotels Thiruvananthapuram Hotels Guruvayur Hotels Thekkady Hotels Wayanad Hotels more... Kerala Ayurveda How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Karten von Kerala Ubersichtskarte von Kerala       Kerala Rail Network Map Railway Network Map of Kerala Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the entire rail network of Kerala. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Exploring Kerala through Railway maps The Kerala is one of the best places in India which is fertile and green all around the year .It has been a famous tourist destination as it has a rich cultural heritage, backwater, sea life, nature, scenic beauty, unpolluted environment, herbal and ayurvedic healthcare. The tourist are bound to the fact that railways are the important means of transportation in exploring the insights and local areas of Kerala, which still lack airports to all local district and towns. The railway routes are broadly classified into meter gauge which connect the local district and towns, and broad gauge which connects the cities and states rail routes. These details are important when planning to travel through Kerala, and maps are the only help through which you can easily guide in booking you're travel details. Kerala Railways The Kerala railways is an important rail line connecting the trading harbor city to the rest of south and north Indian states .It started at Malabar in 1861 and the railways play an important role in connecting the cities to all the districts within Kerala. The transportation of goods from and to Cochin Port was a major factor that made rail routes in Kerala indispensable. The maps about the Kerala railways give a clear virtual tour of the rail routes and the stations that connect the various destinations. The Kerala railways comes under the division of southern railways .Every map has an unique attribute and purpose ,they not only point the locations and directions but also are created to be useful for a specific need. The railway route of Kerala gives the list of stations which follows meter meter gauge and a broad gauge. The meter gauge are mainly for local train connecting within Kerala and broad gauge trains are train that connect different states and they have stop limits. Maps on Kerala Railways Railways are most predominant means of transport in India, which is affordable and more frequent. The Kerala Railway map have clickable options, which guides the user through the rail routes available for every cities in detail .They clearly indicate the broad gauge lines and meter gauge lines in the map and the routes from one destination to the other. The map includes a scale which classifies the district boundary, state boundary, major stations and railway routes. When clicking on the district, it opens a new map which enlarges the district giving detailed information on all the towns in the cities and the rail route connecting to the cities and the important towns and the district headquarters. These maps are virtual guide to traders and tourists who would like to explore the beauty of Kerala. Maps play a vital factor in helping traveler to track their destinations as well as book their rail tickets to the desired locations .The Kerala railways have frequent trains running through all the major cities in Kerala as well as the major state capitals all around India. The maps give a clear information of the rail routes though out India as railways is a life line of India transportation. Last Updated on : 23/07/2013 Kerala Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map Regions Map Kozhikode Monorail Map District Map Rail Map Road Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Travel Map Backwaters Map Beaches Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations Map Pilgrimage Destinations Map About Kerala History Geography Weather Rivers and Lakes Languages Festivals Onam Culture Art Spices Economy Kerala Railways Railway Map Of Alappuzha Railway Map Of Ernakulam Railway Map Of Kannur Railway Map Of Kasargod Railway Map Of Kollam Railway Map Of Kottayam Railway Map Of Kozhikode Railway Map Of Malappuram Railway Map Of Palakkad Railway Map Of Pathanamthitta Thiruvanathapuram Railway Map Of Thrissur Railway Map Of Idukki             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule