Religion in Amritsar Home » Amritsar » Tourist Attraction » Akal Takht   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Religion in Amritsar Amritsar is one of the major cities of the state of Punjab. It occupies a place of eminence in the state because it has gained importance both for commercial and religious purposes. Sikhism is the main religion in Amritsar. The city has a cosmopolitan culture, where people belonging to different caste, community, creed, and religion live in harmony. People following different religion like Sikhism, Jainism, Hinduism, Islam, Christians, Buddhism etc. live here amicably respecting the beliefs of each other. Among these religions, three are widely followed in the region namely Sikhism, Hinduism and Islam. Major portion of the population of Amritsar follow Sikhism. The city is a pilgrimage center for Sikhs, who frequent the place to visit the Sri Harmander Sahib or the Golden Temple. It is the holiest shrines of Sikhs. Some of the othe Gurudwaras in and around Amritsar are Baba Bakala, Gurudwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodi, Goindwal Sahib, Gurudwara Charan Kamal, Khadur Sahib, Dera Baba Nanak etc. The second major religion of the city of Amritsar is Hinduism. There are a number of places of worship of Hindus in the city namely Durgiana Temple, Mata Mandir, Ram Thirth etc. Sikh A person who follows the religion of Sikhism is known as a Sikh. Guru Nanak Dev ji was the founder of the religion. The three basic requirements of the lifestyle of Sikh are Wand kay Shako, Naam Japo and Kirat Karni, which means repeat the holy name of Waheguru, work sincerely and ardently and share one's fruits. Huge number of people follows Sikh religion and they can be found all over the world. But the religion is mainly followed in the Indian states and union territories of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi. As per the religious beliefs, Sikhs are not asked to renounce the worldly pleasures. The main philosophy of the religion is to aspire to be the best, but not be preoccupied by the act, to desire for the best but one should not have the hunger for accumulation. Some of the inseparable parts of the religion are Seva (service), Gurdwara (temple) and Langar (free food for all). Langar is a community lunch were people from all classes of life come to the shrine and have food together. The ten Gurus of Sikhism are: Guru Nanak Dev Guru Angad Dev Guru Amar Das Guru Ram Das Guru Arjun Dev Guru Har Gobind Guru Har Rai Guru Har Krishan Guru Teg Bahadur Guru Gobind Singh There are five items of faith that all the people following Sikhism are required to wear. This was announced by the tenth Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh during the Baisakhi Amrit Sanskar in 1699. These five items or five Ks, or panj kakaar/kakke are Kesh (uncut hair), Kirpan (strapped sword), Kaccha (underwear), Kanga (wooden comb), and Kara (Iron bracelet). Last Updated on 25/07/2013 About Amritsar History Massacre Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Weather Music and Literature Industries             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule