FAO/GIEWS - COUNTRIES IN CRISIS REQUIRING EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE - March 2015 français    español March 2015 COUNTRIES REQUIRING EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE FOR FOOD (total: 37 countries) Countries in crisis requiring external assistance for food are expected to lack the resources to deal with reported critical problems of food insecurity. The list below covers crises related to lack of food availability, widespread lack of access to food, or severe but localized problems. However, many countries are also severely affected by high food and fuel prices. These include countries which are large net importers of cereals and fuels, with generally low per capita incomes, relatively high levels of malnutrition, and for which there is a strong transmission of high international food prices 1 .   Click on country to see details in the GIEWS Country Briefs AFRICA ( 29 countries ) Map View   Nature of Food Insecurity Main Reasons Changes from last report 2 Exceptional shortfall in aggregate food production/supplies Central African Republic Conflict, displacements and below average crop production The IDP caseload, as of mid-February, was estimated at about 440 000 persons. In October 2014 about 1.5 million people, out of a total population of 4.6 million, were estimated to be in need of food assistance. Food crop production in 2014 is estimated to be 58 percent below average, despite an 11 percent increase from the sharply-reduced 2013 output. Gambia Below-average crop production Cereal production is estimated to have decreased by 54 percent in 2014 compared to the average. Over 331 000 people are estimated to be in Phase 3 “Crisis” and above according to the last “Cadre Harmonisé” analysis. An additional 640 000 people are estimated to be at risk of food insecurity (Phase 2: “ Stressed”). Guinea-Bissau Below-average crop production Cereal production is estimated to have decreased by 34 percent in 2014 compared to the average. Over 55 000 people are estimated to be in Phase 3: “Crisis” and above according to the last “Cadre Harmonisé” analysis. An additional 272 000 people are estimated to be at risk of food insecurity (Phase 2: “Stressed”). Senegal Below-average crop production Cereal production in 2014 is estimated to be 38 percent below the average. Over 927 000 people are estimated to be in Phase 3: “Crisis” and above according to the last “Cadre Harmonisé” analysis. An additional 2.8 million people are estimated to be at risk of food insecurity (Phase 2: “Stressed”). Widespread lack of access Burkina Faso Massive influx of refugees from Mali put additional pressure on local food supplies Over 32 000 Malian refugees are estimated to be living in the country as of January 2015. Chad Large influx of refugees put additional pressure on local food supplies Over 461 000 people from the Sudan’s Darfur region, the Central African Republic and northern Nigeria, as well as the return of an estimated 340 000 Chadians, have put added pressure on local food supplies negatively affecting food security. Over 653 000 people are estimated to be in need of food assistance according to the last “Cadre Harmonisé” analysis. Djibouti Inadequate pasture availability and reduced access to humanitarian assistance About 160 000 people are severely food insecure, mainly in pastoral southeastern areas and in the Obock region. Eritrea Vulnerability to food insecurity due to economic constraints. Guinea Impact of the Ebola virus disease (EVD) outbreak Disruption to markets, farming activities and livelihoods, seriously affecting the food security situation of large numbers of people. About 970 000 people are estimated to be severely food insecure of which the EVD impacts account for 230 000 people. Liberia Impact of the EVD outbreak Disruption to markets, farming activities and livelihoods, seriously affecting the food security situation of large numbers of people. About 630 000 people are estimated to be severely food insecure of which the EVD impacts account for 170 000 people. Mali Droughts, floods, population displacements and insecurity in northern areas Over 270 000 people are estimated to be in Phase 3: “Crisis” and above according to the last “Cadre Harmonisé” analysis. An additional 1.8 million people are estimated to be at risk of food insecurity (Phase 2: “Stressed”). Mauritania Influx of refugees put additional pressure on local food supplies and high food prices constrain access More than 54 700 Malian refugees remain in southeastern Mauritania as of December 2014. Over 424 000 people are estimated to be in Phase 3: “Crisis” and above according to the last “Cadre Harmonisé” analysis. Niger Recurrent severe food crisis About 682 000 people are estimated to be in Phase 3: “Crisis” and above according to the last “Cadre Harmonisé” analysis. Over 37 000 Malian refugees and 100 000 Nigerian refugees are estimated to be living in the country as of January 2015. Severe depletion of household assets and high levels of indebtedness. Sierra Leone Impact of the EVD outbreak Disruption to markets, farming activities and livelihoods, seriously affecting the food security situation of large numbers of people. About 450 000 people are estimated to be severely food insecure of which the EVD impacts account for 120 000 people. Zimbabwe Reduced localized crop production in southern and western regions An estimated 331 000 people require food assistance. However, the overall food security situation is stable, with a 78 percent decrease in the number of food insecure persons compared to 2013/14, mainly attributed to improved maize supplies. Severe localized food insecurity Cameroon Influx of refugees exacerbating food insecurity of the host communities already affected by recurrent droughts and floods The number of refugees from the CAR that entered mainly East, Adamaoua and North regions was estimated at 244 000 in mid-February 2015. About 40 000 refugees from Nigeria entered mainly the Far North region since May 2013. Displacement Insecurity along the borders with Nigeria has led to the internal displacement of 40 000 individuals. Congo Influx of refugees straining the already limited resources of host communities As of mid-February 2015, about 24 000 refugees from the CAR are sheltering in the country. Côte d'Ivoire Conflict related damage to agriculture sector in recent years and lack of support services, mainly in the northern regions. Democratic Republic of the Congo Conflict and displacements in eastern provinces As of December 2014, the total number of IDPs was estimated at more than 2.7 million. An estimated 6.5 million people are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance (December 2014). Floods and landslides in southern provinces At least 30 000 individuals in eastern parts were affected in January 2015, raising serious food security and health concerns. Influx of refugees straining on already limited resources of host communities As of mid-February, refugees from the CAR, mainly hosted in the northern Equateur province, were estimated at about 68 000. Ethiopia Reduced localized crop production About 3.2 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance, mainly in pastoral areas. Kenya Reduced second season crop production and worsening pasture conditions About 1.5 million people are severely food insecure, mainly located in central and northeastern counties. Lesotho Reduced localized crop production Food security conditions remain strained, with an estimated 447 760 people requiring assistance. Madagascar Flooding and low crop production in southern regions Passing of Cyclone Chedza and Fundi in January and February caused flooding and resulted in the displacement of nearly 21 500 people. Food insecurity remains severe in southern regions, due to limited cereal availability, while dry weather has lowered production expectations for the 2015 crop. Malawi Flooding and reduced localized crop production Flooding, mainly in the Southern Region, caused the displacement of 230 000 people, severely aggravating food security conditions. An estimated 640 000 people require assistance (a sharp decline compared to the 1.5 million estimated in 2013). Mozambique Flooding in central provinces and reduced localized crop production An estimated 50 000 people were displaced by the flooding, with crop and stock losses reported, food availability is expected to be constrained. In addition, an estimated 150 000 people require assistance, mainly due to a reduced cereal availability. This figure is, however, approximately 60 000 below the level estimated last year. Somalia Conflict, civil insecurity and reduced localized crop production Floods affected coarse grains in Middle Shabelle, Middle Juba and Lower Juba regions. About 730 000 people are estimated to be in need of emergency assistance, mainly IDPs and poor households in southern and central regions. South Sudan Conflict, civil insecurity and reduced crop production in conflict-affected areas Over 1.5 million people have been internally displaced since the conflict erupted at the end of 2013. About 2.5 million people severely food insecure, mainly in Jonglei, Unity and Upper Nile states, due to early depleted food stocks and difficult access for aid delivery. Sudan Conflict and civil insecurity The number of people estimated to be in need of humanitarian assistance, mainly IDPs in conflict-affected areas, is set at 3.5 million. Uganda Below average crop production About 180 000 people in Karamoja region are estimated to be severely food insecure as food stocks were depleted in February, one month earlier than usual.    No change    Improving    Deteriorating + New entry ASIA ( 5 countries ) Map View   Nature of Food Insecurity Main Reasons Changes from last report 2 Exceptional shortfall in aggregate food production/supplies Iraq Escalation of the conflict and large internal displacement Over 2 million people have been displaced since January 2014. 1.8 million beneficiaries (IDPs, non-displaced food insecure in conflict areas and food insecure host families) receiving food assistance. Internal trade restrictions and reduced access to stocks held in the areas under ISIL control. Syrian Arab Republic Worsening civil conflict and below average harvest Wheat harvest significantly affected by conflict and drought. An estimated 6.8 million people are facing severe food insecurity. Although some international food assistance is being provided, Syrian refugees are also putting strain on other host communities in neighbouring countries. 2.1 million people receiving food assistance in neighbouring countries and 4.5 million within the country. Widespread lack of access Democratic People's Republic of Korea Economic constraints and lack of agricultural inputs An estimated 16 million people remain at risk of food insecurity. Despite a generally good aggregate cereal harvest in 2014/15, the food system in the DPRK remains highly vulnerable to shocks and serious shortages exist particularly in the production of protein-rich crops and aggravated food insecurity. Yemen Conflict, poverty, and high food and fuel prices About 40 percent of the population is considered to be food insecure. Recovery and resilience operation replaced emergency relief assistance. Severe localized food insecurity Afghanistan Continuing conflict and population displacement 2.1 million people are classified as very severely food insecure Over 700 000 people are internally displaced, mostly in Helmand province . 1.7 million targeted with food assistance.    No change    Improving    Deteriorating + New entry LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN ( 3 countries ) Map View   Nature of Food Insecurity Main Reasons Changes from last report 2 Exceptional shortfall in aggregate food production/supplies El Salvador Drought-reduced maize production The 2014 drought reduced maize production is estimated at a 3 year low. Maize import requirements are forecast at a 7 year high. Haiti Drought-reduced cereal production Drought conditions during the 2014 main first season, accounting for more than half of annual cereal production, have significantly reduced supplies of maize and rice. + Honduras Drought-reduced maize production The 2014 maize production reached a ten year low as a result of severe drought conditions during the main first season, accounting for more than half of annual production. Maize import requirements are forecast at a record level.    No change    Improving    Deteriorating + New entry   COUNTRIES WITH UNFAVOURABLE PROSPECTS FOR CURRENT CROPS (total: 3 countries) Map View   Country Main Reasons Changes from last report 2 AFRICA ( 3 countries ) Central African Republic The widespread conflict, which caused large scale displacements, the loss and the depletion of the households’ productive assets and input shortages, is expected to severely affect the outcome of the current cropping season. + Namibia Poor rains since January has lowered production prospects for the 2015 crop. + South Africa Cessation of rains in February 2015, during a critical month for the maize crop (to be harvested from April), resulted in sharp decline in the 2015 production forecast from last year’s bumper output. +    No change    Improving    Deteriorating + New entry TERMINOLOGY Countries requiring external assistance for food are expected to lack the resources to deal with reported critical problems of food insecurity. Food crises are nearly always due to a combination of factors, but for the purpose of response planning, it is important to establish whether the nature of food crises is predominantly related to lack of food availability, limited access to food, or severe but localized problems. Accordingly, the list of countries requiring external assistance is organized into three broad, not mutually exclusive, categories: Countries facing an exceptional shortfall in aggregate food production/supplies as a result of crop failure, natural disasters, interruption of imports, disruption of distribution, excessive post-harvest losses, or other supply bottlenecks. Countries with widespread lack of access , where a majority of the population is considered to be unable to procure food from local markets, due to very low incomes, exceptionally high food prices, or the inability to circulate within the country. Countries with severe localized food insecurity due to the influx of refugees, a concentration of internally displaced persons, or areas with combinations of crop failure and deep poverty. Unfavourable Prospects for Current Crops are countries where prospects point to a shortfall in production of current crops as a result of a reduction of the area planted and/or yields due to adverse weather conditions, plant pests, diseases and other calamities. 1. See, for example, Soaring food prices: facts, perspectives, impacts and actions required , page 17, table 4. 2. Crop Prospects and Food Situation, No. 4, Dec 2014 The maps on the GIEWS homepage indicate countries in crisis requiring external assistance for food.