Land Acquisition Bill: Beneficial or Not ? | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / India / Land Acquisition Bill – Beneficial or Not ? Land Acquisition Bill – Beneficial or Not ? November 27, 2013 by Ramandeep Kaur Vacant land is always required both by private as well as public sector in rural and urban areas. But what about the compensation for acquiring the land? This main concern of the government resulted in the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Bill 2013 that was passed by the Parliament. It is a new land acquisition Bill that looks very difficult but beneficial. The bill replaced the Land Acquisition Act of 1894. The new Bill is all about the way the land is to be acquired and compensation to be made in India. Objective of the new Bill is fair compensation which can be through resettlement and rehabilitation and transparency in the entire process of acquiring a land. Earlier bill was meant just to acquire the land not rehabilitation. (Titles of the Bill say it all). The new Bill was the need of the day to stop the forceful acquisition of the land, to safeguard the interest of the affected families and to redefine the rates of compensation. Public and private partnership resulted in more demand for land and thus the regulations of acquiring it. The new Bill was passed because the Land Acquisition Act 1894 had many flaws. According to the previous law, the land could be acquired forcefully regardless of the affected person, the law was silent as far as rehabilitation and resettlement of the affected persons was concerned, urgency clause was not defined properly so almost all the cases of acquiring land were under this clause, and compensation rates were too low. Highlights of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Bill 2013 This is the first law that deals with both acquisition and rehabilitation. The Bill will make sure of the rehabilitation of the family whose land is being acquired for making factories or other infrastructural project. Affected families must be rehabilitated and resettled. The Bill is retrospective in nature. This means it will be applicable to the cases where land was acquired earlier and no compensation had been paid. The entire land acquisition process will take place according to the new provisions if the land acquisition has taken place five years ago without compensation or land possession. It is a known fact that circle rates are often miscalculated or inaccurate at times. To balance this, if the land is acquired in rural areas then the compensation will be four times more than the circle rate and if acquired in urban areas then it will be two times more than that. For circle rate, average sale price for the last three years or last three months (which so ever will be higher) will be considered. For land acquisition, local Panchayati Raj institutions and monitoring committee at the national and state levels will play their roles. They will make sure that all the obligations are met according to the said clause and provisions. The Gram Sabhas will provide sanction in case the land is in scheduled areas. This has been provided to safeguard the rights of tribal communities and disadvantaged groups. Without providing proper alternative sites for rehabilitation and resettlement no one can be evicted. In case the project is for Public private partnership then minimum of 70% consent and in case the land acquisition is for private companies then 80% consent of affected people is required. This is to stop the forcible acquisition of the land. State must impose the limits on the area under agricultural cultivation In case the land is not utilized then it must be returned back either to the original owner or to the State Land Bank. In case the land is sold at higher price to the third party, then 40% of the profit must be shared with the original land owner. How farmers are benefitted? Certain provisions such as retrospective effect, consent of the majority, return of unutilized land, share in profit if the land is sold to the third party at higher price, income tax exemption, protecting fair price, any damage to the crop to be included in the price and acquisition only if required are the associated benefits. Rehabilitation and resettlement provisions in the Bill In case the affected families have been living on the land to be acquired for the past five years then they are entitled to a house. They can also have one time financial grant instead of a house. Affected family can either accept a job or annuity. In case there is no employment then they are entitled to receive Rs 5 lakh per family. Apart from this they are benefitted with the Subsistence allowance, Training and skill development, One-time financial assistance etc. How it is beneficial for schedule caste and schedule tribes? For tribal people as well as for the people belonging to schedule caste, separate chapter in the Bill has been written. It is said that if acquisition is required then their land should be the last resort. First of all no acquisition should be made in the Scheduled Areas and if at all it is required then it needs approval/ consent of the local institutions of self-governance. It must be accompanied by a complete development plan. One third of the compensation must be paid as first installment to the affected families. If possible then these families must be rehabilitated in the same area, may be in a compact block, so that their originality can be retained. Criticism of Land Bill This bill will increase the cost of the land making most of the projects unviable. Also it will increase the land acquiring time. The Bill is in the favor of land owners but not in the poor strata of the society who need affordable housing. In case of urgency, the government can acquire a land by ignoring all the pre-set conditions. For this the Bill has an urgency clause. It is possible that compensation calculated might be less than market rate as compensation is not aligned to the loss but to the category. Railways, highways, defence, nuclear projects, low cost housing and industrial area or parks are exempted from some of the clauses and act of the bill. Projects may be delayed by affected families for additional compensation. Read more: Land Acquisition Laws in India and the Duplicitous Deals What is GST Bill Economic Reforms in India Black Money in India Ramandeep Kaur I am a mother. A wife. And daughter of my loving parents by heart with passion for creativity, zeal to achieve something big in life but want to live life to its fullest. More articles from Ramandeep Kaur : Enjoy Your Day out at Splash – The Water Park The Importance of Summer Classes 15 Vastu Tips for the Success of Your Business Vehicular Pollution in Delhi and Its Impact on Lotus Temple Which are the Best Cities in India to Live? Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Comments Showing 5 Comments : o p sahni January 3, 2015 at 9:09 pm In my opinion, the new bill will prove better than the old bill. Resettlement of persons, better compensation are welcome. The rate of compensation should be based on the prevailing cost of land and not that at which land is sold as shown in Govt record. Reply sujeet January 28, 2014 at 9:35 pm All the Greedy people who are now thinking to reclaim for extra compensation after this act ,please stop thinking because what was in your fate u have got.Now sit and watch whats happening,, Reply V.VENKATACHALAM January 23, 2014 at 12:26 pm Sir, Kindly clarify the land aquisition new act 2014, Is this act applicable for before 2014 aquisition also or after 2014 aquisition only?. Reply krishan vats January 1, 2014 at 8:59 am what benifits we will get whose land is acquired in 2002 or before 2002 Reply Dhirendra Shishodia March 6, 2014 at 6:36 pm You will get all the benefits if you have not accepted compensation OR have not given possession. Reply Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed 15 Bollywood Dialogues Fit for Real-Life Situations By: Nandni Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Baidyanath sah on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd omprakash on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd VIJAY MANGLIK on Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012