Agra City Map Home » Maps » Uttar Pradesh » Agra City Map   Uttar Pradesh Cities Agra Aligarh Allahabad Ghaziabad Gorakhpur Jhansi Kanpur Lucknow Mathura Meerut Noida Varanasi                    more.. उत्तर प्रदेश का नक्शा Uttar Pradesh History of Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                  (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Uttar Pradesh Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map Proposed New States Awadh Pradesh Bundelkhand Paschim Pradesh Purvanchal Yamuna Expressway Lucknow Metro Map Noida Metro Map Industries in UP Thermal Power Plants UP Government Uttar Pradesh Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Travel to Uttar Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Forts and Palaces in Uttar Pradesh Temples and Shrines in Uttar Pradesh Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels             more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Uttar Pradesh Architectural Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Uttar Pradesh Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Uttar   Pradesh       Agra City Map City Map of Agra Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Agra city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Reaching Agra Agra is easily accessible from the main cities of India. Delhi is the major city that can be connected to Agra by bus, train, or airplane.While travelling in Agra , it will benefit tourists to carry a map of Agra with them to know more about the city and reach their destination quickly. Agra lies in Uttar Pradesh and is a famous world destination for its various world heritage site, it is important that one visits all the places of interest with a good road map that can show the details along with many important monuments. The Kheria airport provides all domestic flight services. The Agra Fort railway station and the Agra Cantt railway station are the two main railway stations. Altogether there are 7 railway stations. The National Highway No. 2, 3 and 11 run from Agra and help to connect to various cities in the country. History of Agra The place is a splendid site for the three UNESCO world Heritage sites like the Taj Mahal , Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri. It has seen many battles since the time of Mahmud of Ghazni. It is largely recognized as a city of the Mughul Empire. Although the city has been founded much before the time of Sikardar Lodi, Agra came into light during the 1504. Since then many great rulers like Akbar, Jahangir, Shah Jahan, Aurangzeb and later the British took over Agra. Agra tourist attractions The first and the most attractive of all the attractions is the Taj Mahal that was built by Shah Jahan in the memory of his wife. It is the most graceful and extravagant monument found in India. It is built with pure white marble that takes different shades at the different times of the day. It is best seen in the full moon night when the monument shines with its white silver glory. Agra fort is a huge fort built in red stone in the year 1565 by Akbar. The fort had over 500 buildings in which many were made of marble. At that period river Yamuna touched the fort and that is why the fort had many Ghats so that good could be brought in and out of the fort. The fort has great palaces that boast of its richness and its great walls speak a lot about the power and the might of the kind. Many other attractions Mehtab Bagh, Chini Ka Rauza, Ram Bagh, Mariyam's tomb, Jama Masjid and the Dayal bagh are some of the most prominent must see attraction in Agra. The best time to visit places in Agra is from October to March when the climate is pleasant. Agra has more to it than just the Taj Mahal. The people here are quite helpful and are famous for the diverse religious beliefs. There are people of different religions like Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Buddhist and Sikhs. The Taj Mahotsav takes place in the month of February, which displays the real culture of Agra. Blogs about Agra Best places for photography in India : Beautiful are those places which turn an amateur onlooker into a dexterous photographer! The priceless beauty of certain places urges you to capture their essence in a picture. Fortunately, India is rich with many such awe-inspiring muses which when clicked come out as mesmerizing art pieces. Technology has made everything so convenient that one can actually capture a moment in the blink of an eye and relish it for ever. The growing trend of selfies… read more... A Miniature of Taj Mahal: The Mausoleum of Itmad-ud-Daulah in Agra : Location: Agra, Uttar Pradesh Having been the capital of the Mughal Empire for long years, the city of Agra is full of architectural edifices that glorify the beauty of the place. It started with a small garden on the banks of the Yamuna River and went on till the construction of the masterpiece, Taj Mahal. Mughal Emperors adorned Agra with a number of forts and mausoleums that make the city one of the most attractive… read more... Akbar Tomb in Agra : Location: Sikandra, Agra, Uttar Pradesh An elaborate Mughal structure, the Tomb of Akbar in Agra is a popular attraction of the city. The tomb houses the mortal remains of Akbar and its history reveals that he himself planned for his tomb and started its construction that was later completed by his son, Jahangir. The complex consists of the mausoleum and the giant gateway known as the Buland Darwaza. With an huge arc-way and four marble… read more... Agra Fort – Heroic Mughal Architecture : Fort Rouge, Lal Quila or Qila-i-Akbari all address one overwhelmingly grand monument of Agra- the Agra Fort. The fort stands as a glorious symbol of power and strength and is also listed among the UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Situated on the banks of the River Yamuna, this fort is around two kilometers from the Taj Mahal. This robust specimen of Mughal architecture and the tales associated with the Agra Fort are so gripping that they will take you to… read more... Twenty Facts About the Taj Mahal :   India’s most emblematic monument, the Taj Mahal, is probably one of the best known structures in the world. Built in white marble by Emperor Shah Jahan, in memory of his wife Mumtaz after her death, the Taj Mahal is famous world over as the monument of love. A UNESCO World Heritage Site, the Taj Mahal is shrouded in myth and there have been many legends which have cropped up over the years. Here are… read more... Last Updated on : May 8, 2015 Places to Visit in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri Agra Taj Mahal Travel to Agra Places to Visit Weather Hotels in Agra Flights to Agra Trains to Agra Buses from Agra Airport Travel Agents Pin Code STD code Agra Economy Handicrafts Real Estate in Agra Education in Agra Agra College Agra School Shopping Areas in Agra Loha Mandi Civil Lines Rakabganj Tajganj Entertainment in Agra Stadiums Cinema Halls Manufacturers and Exporters in Agra Agra Locality Maps Belan Ganj Dayal Bagh Delhi Gate Foundry Nagar Jeoni Mandi Kamala Nagar Kamla Nagar MG Road Nehru Nagar Sanjay Place Shahganj Sikandra Tajganj Civil Lines Khandari Madhu Nagar Sadar Bazar Trans Yamuna Colony Daresi Road Hing Ki Mandi Road Mantola Namner Road Pratap Pura Raja ki Mandi Rakabganj Shahzadi Mandi Fatehabad Road Mahatma Gandhi Road Shaheed Nagar Taj Nagari Taj Road Uttar Pradesh Cities Agra Aligarh Allahabad Ayodhya Azamgarh Badaun Ballia Bareilly Basti Bhadohi Bijnor Chandauli Chandausi Chitrakut Deoria Etah Etawah Faizabad Ferozpur Ghaziabad Gokul Gonda Gorakhpur Greater Noida Hapur Hardoi Jaunpur Jhansi Kanpur Lalitpur Lucknow Mathura Meerut Mirzapur Moradabad Muzaffarnagar Noida Pilibhit Saharanpur Sambhal Sarnath Sitapur Sultanpur Unnao Varanasi Vrindavan             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule