GW Micro - Voices and Synthesizers for Window-Eyes Skip to Main Content Window-Eyes  •  Reading Systems  •  Support  •  Training Home >> Voices GW Micro - Voices and Synthesizers for Window-Eyes GW Micro now offers high-quality and human-sounding Nuance Vocalizer voices for use with Window-Eyes. These voices are only compatible with Window-Eyes 8.0 or later and can be purchased directly from GW Micro. Please note that DECtalk Access32 is also available for purchase. For pricing information or to order additional voices, please contact GW Micro by phone at 260-489-3671 or visit the GW Micro Catalog to order online (all Vocalizer sales are final). For a complete listing of available Vocalizer languages, please refer to the Language combo box below. If you have not yet purchased additional Vocalizer voices for Window-Eyes, you can listen to samples of each available voice below. If you have purchased one or more Vocalizer voices for Window-Eyes, you can use this page to download the appropriate synthesizer voice installer as well as your synthesizer authorization file. Please note that before you can use the Vocalizer voices you purchased with Window-Eyes, you will first need to run the synthesizer voice installer and synthesizer authorization file. Synthesizer Authorizations To verify your Window-Eyes synthesizer authorizations and access your synthesizer authorization file, please enter your Window-Eyes serial number in the provided edit box and activate the Continue button. After submitting your Window-Eyes serial number, you will be presented with a Download Synthesizer Authorization button that you can activate to initiate the download of your synthesizer authorization file. Serial Number: Vocalizer Expressive Downloads Vocalizer Expressive voices for Window-Eyes offer many key benefits including improved performance, especially in the areas of latency and speech quality, as well as support for a large number of foreign languages. In addition, Vocalizer Express voices allow for pitch changes. To download a Vocalizer Expressive voice that you have purchased from GW Micro, select the correct language, voice and preferred quality from the combo boxes below and then activate the Download button. For example, if you wanted to download the Premium quality US English Tom voice, select American English from the Language combo box, select Tom from the Voice combo box, select Premium from the Quality combo box and then activate the Download American English Male Tom Premium button. Note: Each voice can be downloaded as premium or standard quality. The premium quality voice package includes the premium voice and high premium voice. The premium and high premium voices are large files, but offer the highest quality speech. The standard quality voice package includes compact, standard and standard high. The standard quality voices offer very good speech quality and a smaller file size and might be ideal for those with older computer systems. All of the different quality versions of a voice can be installed on the same computer so they can be compared. Language: Select Language Voice: Select Voice Quality: Select Quality Vocalizer Voice Samples and Downloads Vocalizer voices for Window-Eyes offer many key benefits including improved performance, especially in the areas of latency and speech quality, as well as support for a large number of foreign languages. To hear a brief sample of a Vocalizer voice, please select a language and voice from the combo boxes below and then activate the Preview button. For example, if you wanted to listen to a sample of US English Tom, select American English from the Language combo box, select Tom from the Voice combo box, and then activate the Preview American English Male Tom button. To download a Vocalizer voice that you have purchased from GW Micro, select the correct language, voice and preferred quality from the combo boxes below and then activate the Download button. For example, if you wanted to download the Premium quality US English Tom voice, select American English from the Language combo box, select Tom from the Voice combo box, select Premium from the Quality combo box and then activate the Download American English Male Tom Premium button. Note: Each voice can be downloaded as premium or standard quality. The premium quality voice package includes the premium voice and high premium voice. The premium and high premium voices are large files, but offer the highest quality speech. The standard quality voice package includes compact, standard and standard high. The standard quality voices offer very good speech quality and a smaller file size and might be ideal for those with older computer systems. All of the different quality versions of a voice can be installed on the same computer so they can be compared. Language: Select Language Voice: Select Voice Quality: Select Quality Microsoft Speech Platform Downloads The Microsoft Speech Platform voices require the initial installation of the Microsoft Speech Platform Runtime . After the runtime is installed, you may download and install any of the following languages. Microsoft Speech Platform Voices: Catalan Herena Chinese - China HuiHui Chinese - Hong Kong HunYee Chinese - Taiwan HanHan Danish Helle Dutch - Netherlands Hanna German Hedda English - Australia Hayley English - Canada Heather English - United Kingdom Hazel English - India Heera English - United States Helen English - United States Zira Finnish Heidi French - Canada Harmonie French Hortense Italian Lucia Japanese Haruka Korean Heami Norwegian Hulda Polish Paulina Portuguese - Brazil Heloisa Portuguese - Portugal Helia Portuguese - Portugal Helia (16k) Russian Elena Spanish - Spain Helena Spanish - Mexico Hilda Swedish - Sweden Hedvig Window-Eyes Links Window-Eyes Demo Latest Features License Information Testimonials Window-Eyes Certification Manual Comparison Chart TrainingWare App Central Voices Supported Equipment Tutorial Test Page Version History Audio Video Archive Find a Dealer Non-English Languages VPAT Social Networking Online Ordering © 2015 GW Micro, Inc. - All Rights Reserved. Contact Information 725 Airport North Office Park • Fort Wayne, IN 46825 Ph: 802-362-3612 • Fax: 260-489-2608 Hours: M-F, 9:00a-5p, EDST • • Privacy Policy