Welcome to MSSRF | M S Swaminathan Research Foundation M S Swaminathan Research Foundation Call Us : +91-44-22541229; 22541698       Webmail Twitter Facebook Slideshare Youtube Rss Home About us About MSSRF Founder Founder's Speech Videos Chairperson Executive Director Executive Director Speech Trustees Directors Staff Profile MSSRF Review 2014 Programmes Coastal System Research Biodiversity Biotechnology Ecotechnology Food Security Information Education and Communication LANSA Cross Cutting Themes Climate Change Gender and Grassroots Institution HMRC Events SBI youth fellowship profile Knowledge Center Library Publications Coastal Systems Research Biodiversity Ecotechnology Food Security Information Education and Communication Gender and Grassroots Institution LANSA Research publications Tenders Media The Hindu Media Resource Centre Capacity Building Events and discussion platforms Media Advocacy News updates Newsletter Press Release In the News Press Release Media Gallery Careers Contact Regional centres Field Sites Search form Search M S Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) follows a pro-nature, pro-poor, pro-women and pro-sustainable on-farm and non-farm livelihoods through appropriate ecotechnology and knowledge empowerment. Coastal Systems Research Involves restoration of mangrove forests, alternative livelihood for fishing community. Biodiversity Involves documenting endangered and medicinal plants, providing necessary training to village community to maintain biodiversity register Biotechnology Involves developing salt and drought tolerant transgenic rice varieties, testing availability of oil content in different biofuel crops / plants, lichens diversity. Ecotechnology Involves setting up bio-villages for sustainable management of natural resources and sustainable on-farm and non-farm livelihoods Food Security Involves Community Based Interventions focusing on promoting household food security and Research to provide a macro perspective of the country’s food security concerns Information, Education and Communication Involves addressing the issues related to sustainable development using different information communication technology tools for knowledge empowerment of unskilled rural women and men. "To enlist Science and Technology as Allies in the Movement for Sustainable Development" Prof.M.S.Swaminathan The M. S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) was established in 1988 as a not-for-profit trust. MSSRF was envisioned and founded by Professor M. S. Swaminathan with proceeds from the First World Food Prize that he received in 1987. The Foundation aims to accelerate use of modern science for agricultural and rural development for development and dissemination of technology to improve lives and livelihoods of tribal and rural communities. MSSRF follows a pro-poor, pro-women and pro-nature approach and applies appropriate science and technology options to address practical problems faced by rural populations in agriculture, food and nutrition. Read more >> Latest Tweets Tweets by @twitterapi MSSRF In the News Farm distress? I earned Rs 85 lakh from 30 acres, says Kolli Hills farmer- Times of India, 27 May, 2015 Monsoon management strategy is need of the hour for farmers’ welfare - 28 May, 2015 संपादकीय : गर्म हवाओं के कहर से बेहाल- Nayi Duniya, 26 May, 2015 Read more Latest publications Farmers’ Rights to Seeds Food Availability in Households of Young Children (Upto 3 Years) in Three Tribal Villages of Odisha A Farming System Model to Leverage Agriculture for Nutritional Outcomes Paniya Adivasi Women’s Innovative Livelihood Development Endeavours in Farming Read more Latest News Workshop on Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture-June 6 - 7, 2015 Time has come for sea water farming: Prof M S Swaminathan Towards a hunger free world: World Hunger Day Designing Soil Health Cards for Pulses Revolution: Prof. M S Swaminathan Read more Media Gallery Quick Links Leveraging Agriculture for Nutrition in South Asia -LANSA Alleviating Poverty and Malnutrition Programme for the Empowerment of Women Farmers-MKSP (Vidarbha) Socio - Economic Empowerment Of Women Farmers (MKSP - ODISHA) ClimaAdapt Grameen Gyan Abhiyan (GGA) International Year of Family Farming 2014 (IYFF 2014) Technology for Rural Development SBI youth fellowship Awards Copyright © 2014. MSSRF All rights reserved Home | Contact | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Sitemap