Agriculture | HLH Group Ltd Home Company Company Profile History Board of Directors Management Team Events Photo Gallery SGX Announcement Local Overview Residential Properties Commercial Properties Industrial Properties Overseas Overview Public Executive Apartment Public Prime Apartment Announcements Agriculture Overview Land Sales & Development Crop Sales Contact Contact Us Feedback Toggle navigation Learn More About Us Home Company Company Profile History Board of Directors Management Team Events Photo Gallery SGX Announcement Local Overview Residential Properties Commercial Properties Industrial Properties Overseas Overview Public Executive Apartment Public Prime Apartment Announcements Agriculture Overview Land Sales & Development Crop Sales Contact Contact Us Feedback Agriculture In 2008, HLH Group Limited ventured into Cambodia’s Agricultural market by establishing the group’s Agri-subsidiary, HLH Agriculture (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. Its aim is to perform potential land acquisition, and then clear to develop the land into a fully functional farm. This ensures that the farm is ready for a full take-over by investors who have committed to the Agricultural sector in South-East Asia. Completed Development To date, the company has completed the development of approximately 10,450 hectares of land to be used for agricultural farming. The farm is equipped with all the necessary infrastructures required for operations. Over the past 4 years corn cultivation has been successful and we are pleased to announce that as of 2014, the farms are fully utilized for the cultivation of cassava as well as sugarcane. The company can ensure that the farm is stable for take-over by potential agricultural investors to further expand their Agri-Business. Land Sales & Development HLH has been investing in Cambodia's Agricultural Market since 2008. Its solely focussing on the aspects of acquiring potential land upon the Client’s request, and then cleared to developed into a fully functional agricultural farm that is ready for operations for the client's agriculture business. For buyers investing in our land development, we also offer a full range of machineries and equipments suitable for agricultural use. Read more Crop Sales HLH Global Trading Pte Ltd is a trading arm of the Group. The company mainly markets and trades in Tapioca (Cassava) and sugarcane. The Company takes pride and integrity in any business it undertakes and it strives to anticipate each and every client’s needs and expectations when it comes to quality and delivery. Read more COMPANY Company Profile History Board of Directors Management Team Events Photo Gallery SGX Announcement LOCAL Overview RESIDENTIAL D'Fresco D'Almira D'Castilia D'Ecosia COMMERCIAL D'Lithium D'Kranji Farm Resort INDUSTRIAL D'Centennial Clementi Factory OVERSEAS Overview Public Executive Apartment Public Prime Apartment Announcements AGRICULTURE Overview Land Sales & Development Crop Sales CONTACT Contact Us Feedback Locate Us 10 Neo Tiew Lane 2 #01-05 Singapore 718813 Contact Us Tel : (65) 6861 0330 Fax : (65) 6861 7746 Email : general@hlh.com.sg : Like us on Facebook &copy 2015 HLH Group Limited. All rights reserved. &copy 2015 HLH Group Limited. All rights reserved.