ICRISAT - Research on agriculture - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop ICRISAT – Research on agriculture Home ICRISAT – Research on agriculture Supports agribusiness ventures and nurtures innovations. Since 2003 assisted 200+ ventures S.M. Karuppanchetty The International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) is a non-profit organization that conducts agricultural research for development in Asia and sub-Saharan Africa with a wide array of partners throughout the world. In 2003, it established the first Agri-Business Incubator (ABI) program in partnership with National Science & Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB) of the Department of Science & Technology and Government of India. The idea for ABI program was born out of the need to accelerate technology exchange by nurturing agriculture-focused commercial enterprises. This was a first of its kind program in the country. The incubator was also the first one among the institutions in the Consultative Group of International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) Consortium. The ABI program focuses on supporting agribusiness ventures and nurturing innovations in the sector. “To achieve this, our approach is to look at a service and outreach strategy,” shares Mr. S.M. Karuppanchetty, Chief Operating Officer, ABI program. “The service strategy helps us to promote ventures especially those from the areas of farm business, agri bio-technology, seed business, bio-fuel and innovative ventures. The outreach strategy provides us to expand our operations nationally and internationally and promote agribusiness ventures in newer regions through setting up of business incubators,” he adds. At ABI, 212 ventures have been supported and 22 agribusiness incubators have been set up so far. The program was setup with financial infusion from the partnership with NSTEDB. This grant fund was used to initiate systems and procedures for the incubator operation including infrastructure. As the grant period of three years came to an end, ABI was able to generate enough revenue through its incubator services and by initiating new partnerships thereby allowing it to be financially self-sustainable. Currently, the team at ABI consists of 12 members who handle different aspects of the operations. In terms of clients, 17 clients are under incubation this year. The total number of clients associated with since inception is 212. Through its partnership with the National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the program now has a nationwide presence, except in the North East region. Based on the inquiry from an individual or a start-up venture, the program looks at the best possible way of support that can be provided to a client. A proposal is developed that best addresses the needs and once accepted by the potential client, an agreement is drawn. “In terms of the incubator services, we offer our incubatees with technical and scientific backstopping, access to infrastructural facilities like office spaces, state-of-the-art biotechnology & food testing lab, marketing assistance, access to funding sources, mentoring, training and capacity building etc. In short, we provide the budding entrepreneur with an ecosystem that facilitates growth of the venture, by offering all required services through one platform,” Mr. Karuppanchetty further adds. These steps help reduction of risks and also help the clients go global. The primary focus of the program remains on ensuring that the entrepreneur succeeds, thus promoting agricultural entrepreneurship. The program also supports women entrepreneurs with different incubator support services. In partnership with its NPK program women are helped in food product development, testing and quality standard assessments, training and capacity building activities. “Currently we have developed a partnership with the Association of Lady Entrepreneurs of Andhra Pradesh (ALEAP) for promoting their members who wish to enter the agribusiness sector,” says Mr. Karuppanchetty. The ABI program has achieved many milestones in its 10 years of operations. This includes supporting more than 200 ventures, bringing 64 agro-products to the market, commercializing 208 agro-technologies, setting up 22 agribusiness incubators in India and 11 in Africa. In the next five years ICRISAT aims to consolidate and expand its operations in India and Africa and facilitate creation of a nationwide platform that can be used by agri-entrepreneurs for promoting their ventures. Apart from increasing its service portfolio, it aims to enhance its partnership with similar institutions, from the current number of 40 to 100 in the future. “We hope this will help in supporting more ventures, creation of more jobs in sector and improved livelihood opportunities for rural youth in the agricultural sector,” Mr. Karuppanchetty signs off. Mr. Karuppanchetty holds a B.Sc in agriculture with master’s degree in business administration. He has about 20 years of experience in this field. Our Correspondent Contact : ICRISAT, Mob: 98663 96443 Email: karuppanchetty@cgiar.org Website: www.cgiar.org Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > ICRISAT – Research on agriculture Related – articles, consultants, downloads Advanced Biotech Research Projects Vibrandt Project Consultants You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water