Automobiles in India: Cars, Bikes, Trucks, Buses New Cars Upcoming Cars Used Cars Trucks Car Finance Car Insurance Auto Expo 2014 Automobile History Birth of Automobile Changing faces of car Automobile Companies Car Manufacturers Manufacturers Components & Spares Automobile Components Automobile Spares Auto Accessories Service Stations Petrol Pumps Finder Fuel Price Map Petrol Stations in Delhi Petrol Stations in Kolkata Petrol Stations in Tamilnadu Lubricants Car Accessories Car Airconditioning Tyres Second Hand Car Market Used Car Buying Used Car Second Hand Car Dealers Car Finance and Insurance Car Finance Companies Car Insurance Useful Information Motor Policy Know Your Car Modren Suspension System Development in Transmission System The Electrical System Maintenance Tips Whats New Photographs from Auto Expo 2014 Mahindra Reva E2O Petrol Price Map Diesel Price Map Fuel Price Map CNG Price Map Auto LPG Price Map Dukati Diavel Mitsubishi Cars Honda CBR New Cars New Bikes Automobiles in India Cars in India Cars in India - India today offers a car for every pocket. You can buy opeartional cars in the pre-used catergory for as low as $550 or Rs.25,000 and you can go upto Rolls and Bentleys which can cost you close to a milliion dollars or Rs.4 crores. Car penetration in India is now reached the village level and all car dealerships are there in all medium cities and small towns. Even a top of the line brand like Mercedes has dealers in over 25 cities including cities like Vijaywada, Nashik & Kochi Most Popular New Cars in India by Range Chevrolet Beat Fiat Punto Tata Motors Mahindra Reva E2O Fiat Linea Maruti Eeco Mahindra Scorpio Toyota Corolla Altis Audi Jaguar Maruti Suzuki Hybrid Cars Cars by Brands Volkswagen Chevrolet India Audi Tata Motors Maruti Suzuki Honda Motors Fiat India BMW Jaguar >> More Brands Fuel your thoughts on Automobile twitter/automobilesmoi Auto News Car Care Tips India Automobile Industry The Indian Automobile Industry is amongst the largest automobile markets in the world. It is up-and-coming as one of the fastest growing passenger car markets in the world. In recent days, the automobile industry in India is witnessing a flat and even negative growth rates. It is also the second largest two wheeler manufacturer country in the world. India is also the fifth largest commercial vehicle manufacturer. The Indian automobile industry is becoming a budding hub for exporting sports utility vehicles (SUVs) to Europe, Southeast Asia and South Africa. Furthermore, hybrid and electronic vehicles are new expansion in the Indian automobile outlook. Nowadays, Indian manufacturers are focusing to develop new innovative products, technologies and resource chains. The automobile plants in India are ranked among the best in the world in terms of quality and productivity. Following are the Indian automotive companies in India: Chinkara Motors, Force Motors, Hindustan Motors, International Cars & Motor Ltd, Mahindra, Premier Automobiles Limited, San Motors, Maruti Suzuki and Tata Motors. Following are the foreign automotive companies in India: BMW India, Fiat India, Ford India, General Motors India, Chevrolet, Honda Cars India Limited, Hyundai Motor India, Mercedes-Benz India, Mitsubishi, Nissan Motor India, Renault India, Toyota Kirloskar, Volkswagen, Audi India, Skoda Auto India and Volkswagen India. There are lots of commercial vehicle manufacturers in India. Some of the renowned names in this market are AMW, Eicher Motors, Force, Hindustan Motors, Mahindra & Mahindra, Premier, Tata Motors, Ashok Leyland, KaMAZ Vectra, Swaraj Mazda, Mahindra Navistar, BharatBenz, Piaggio and Volvo amongst others. Cars Cars have been the basic need of human these days. The Season of compact cars are emerging with lot many new cars launching in India uptil 2012. The premium hatchbacks are much in demand with the success of hyundai i20 and Honda Jazz. Read more Bikes Bikes captured 76% market share in India in two wheeler market. The bikes well made for Indian roads are from the stable of Bajaj Auto, Hero Honda, TVS, Suzuki, Honda and find new bikes. Read more Trucks Trucks are being extreme part of logistics and transportation. Tata trucks are fit for Indian roads along with Ashok Leyland. Trucks comes in commercial vehicle and are available in various ranges. Read more Buses Buses in India saw its luxurious part with the advent of Volvo buses being run on highways. Volvo low floor buses run with the corroboration of various National highways being constructed. Read more &nbsp About US | Contact US | Feedback | RSS Feed | Link To Us | Disclaimer | Site Map | XML Sitemap | FAQs Compare Infobase Limited C-62, Community Center, Janakpuri, New Delhi-58 (India) Tel : +91-11-25542045, 41588012 / 14 Fax : + 91-11-25547264 Mobile : +91(0) 9910492371 solutions@mapsofindia.com