Top BDS/MDS Dental Colleges in India HOME | COLLEGES | TOP 10 COLLEGES | UNIVERSITIES | CAREER | HOW TO PREPARE | DATESHEET DU Cut Off 2015 Dates  |  Top 10 Medical Colleges  |  Top 10 MBA Colleges  |  Top 10 Engineering Colleges  |  Top 10 Science Colleges  |  Top 10 Commerce Colleges Home » Education » Dental Colleges in India Dental Colleges in India Andhra Pradesh Assam Bihar Chhattisgarh Delhi Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu & Kashmir Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Orissa Punjab Rajasthan Tamil Nadu Telangana Uttar Pradesh Uttaranchal West Bengal Career in Dentistry Entrance Exams for Dentistry Colleges Animation Colleges Architecture Colleges Arts Colleges B Ed BBA Colleges BCA Colleges B.Pharma Colleges Commerce Colleges Engineering Colleges Fashion Designing Colleges Hotel Management Colleges Law Colleges Mass Communication Colleges MBA Colleges MCA Colleges Medical Colleges Polytechnic Colleges Science Colleges Top Dental Colleges in India Location of Dental Colleges in India Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing Dental Colleges in All the States of India. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Introduction BDS and MDS are dental courses that are recognized by the board. The BDS is a five-year course that includes four years of academics and one year of internship. There are many colleges and universities that provide dentistry courses. The course is aimed at creating dentists who are well trained and educated in diagnosis, treatment and prevention of dental or other oral diseases and also observe the rules and regulation of the Dental Council. MDS is Master of Dental Surgery course that is a postgraduate course, which has a duration of three years. This is a specialization course as well, and one can take the following subjects like oral and maxillofacial surgery, prosthodontics, community dentistry, conservation dentistry and endodontic, oral pathology and microbiology, oral medicine diagnosis and radiology, periodontics, pedodontics and preventive dentistry. Both the courses are regulated in India by the Dental Council. List of all Operational Dental Colleges in India are listed in the table below State wise : Top 10 BDS/MDS Dental Colleges in India College Name City Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Science Delhi Manipal College of Dental Science Manipal Bapuji Dental College & Hospital Davangere SDM College of Dental Science & Hospital Dharwad Govt. Dental College & Hospital Mumbai Tamilnadu Govt. Dental College Chennai Bharati Vidyapeeth Dental College & Hospital Pune SRM Dental College Chennai Dr. R. Ahmed Dental College and Hospital Kolkata Saraswati Dental College Lucknow Admission Admissions are provided based on the score the candidate has earned in the entrance exam. For the BDS course, candidates have to appear for the entrance exam, after which they will be allotted a seat in the institution or university. Application forms are available online, and candidates can fill the forms on the notified date to sit for the entrance exam. The entrance exam is called NEET (National Eligibility Entrance Test) and comprises subjects like physics, chemistry, botany and zoology. There are objective type questions and negative marking for every wrong answer. For MDS also there is an entrance exam, which can be taken only after completing BDS. The MDS entrance test is of three hours and comprises 200 objective type questions. The subjects are basic Science, clinical and para-clinical subjects, etc. There will also be negative marking for every wrong answer. Eligibility criteria for BDS and MDS BDS: The candidate should be above 17 years at the time of admission. It is necessary that the candidate completes the 12th class with at least 50% aggregate marks in subjects like physics, chemistry, and biology. Preferable students in the science stream will be preferred. MDS: The candidate should have completed BDS with 50% aggregate marks. It is also necessary that the candidate has completed 12 months of internship from a recognized dental college. Those who complete internship by the mentioned date can take the entrance test. Benefits of the course Earning a BDS or MDS degree is in itself a big achievement. The course study is one of the most difficult ones, but makes for a respectable profession as well. One can work as a dentist in any hospital or clinic. One can also start private practice. There are many government hospitals where one can get a good job and have a lucrative salary. Some areas of jobs are in pharmaceutical companies, educational institutes, dental products manufacturers, etc. One can work as a dental hygienist, assistant, consultant, lab technician, ceramist, oral pathologist, professor, etc. One can take up further studies and opt for MDS, which can give you a wider prospect and help you gain more knowledge as well. You can go into research or become a surgeon. Candidates are now specialists in their particular field. The program offers development, research skills, critical analysis, etc. Besides, they are looked upon with respect in the society and earn a high package as well. The jobs of MDS can be found in hospitals, health centers, nursing homes, pharmaceutical companies, private consultation and clinics, dental product manufacturing companies, medical colleges, etc. The salaries are very attractive, and one can earn around Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 50,000 in various facilities. Those practicing privately earn in lakhs. Location Map of Top BDS/MDS Dental Colleges in India Top BDS/MDS Dental Colleges in India State College Name Andhra Pradesh Army College of Dental Science Andhra Pradesh Government Dental College Andhra Pradesh Kamineni Institute of Dental Science Andhra Pradesh Mamatha Dental College Andhra Pradesh Panineeya Dental College Andhra Pradesh GITAM Dental College Andhra Pradesh Narayana Dental College Andhra Pradesh SIBAR Dental College Andhra Pradesh Sri Sai Dental College Andhra Pradesh Government Dental College Andhra Pradesh Vishnu Dental College Andhra Pradesh RIMS Government Dental College Andhra Pradesh SVS Institute of Dental Science Bihar Patna Dental College Bihar Mithila minority dental college and hospital Bihar Buddha Institute of Dental Science Bihar Darbhanga Dental College Bihar Dr. B.R Ambedkar Institute of Dental Science & Hospital Bihar Dr. S.M. Naqui Imam Dental College & Hospital Bihar Sarjug Dental College Chhattisgarh Chattisgarh Dental College & Research Institute Chhattisgarh Maitri College of Dentistry and Research Centre Chhattisgarh Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research Chhattisgarh Rungta College of Dental Science and Research Chhattisgarh Triveni Institute of Dental Science Chhattisgarh   Daman & Diu Vaidik Dental College & Research Centre Delhi Faculty of Dentistry Delhi Maulana Azad Dental College Delhi ESIC dental college and Hospital {Inderprastha University} Goa Goa Dental College Gujarat Government dental college and hospital Gujarat Government dental college Gujarat K.M. Shah dental college Gujarat Manubhai patel dental college Gujarat Visnagar dental college Gujarat Karnavati school of dentistry Gujarat ahemdabad dental college Gujarat Mahadevia dental college Gujarat Daman dental college Gujarat Goenka Research Institute of Dental Science Gujarat college of dental science Haryana Post Graduate Institute of Dental Science Haryana B.R.S. Dental College & Hospital Haryana D.A.V. Centanary Dental College Haryana Guru Govind Tricentary Dental College Haryana Jan Nayak Chaudhari Devilal Dental College Haryana Maharishi Markandeshwar College of Dental Science & Research Haryana Manav Rachana Dental College Haryana PDM Dental College & Research Institute Haryana Shri Baba Mastnath Dental College & Hospital Haryana Sudha Rustagi College of Dental Science and Research Haryana Swami Devi Dyal Hospital & Dental College Himachal Pradesh Bhojia Dental College & Hospital Himachal Pradesh H P Government Dental College & Hospital Himachal Pradesh Himachal Dental College Himachal Pradesh Himachal Institute of Dental Science Himachal Pradesh M N Dav Dental College Himachal Pradesh M.N.D.A.V. Dental College & Hospital Jammu and Kashmir Government Dental College and Hospital Jammu and Kashmir Govt. Dental College Jammu and Kashmir Institute of Dental Science Jharkhand Awadh Dental College and Hospital Jharkhand Hazaribag College of Dental Science and Hospital Jharkhand Vananchal Dental College & Hospital Jharkhand RIMS Karnataka The Oxford Dental College & Hospital Karnataka A.B. Shetty Memorial Institute of Dental Science Karnataka Coorg Institute of Dental Science Karnataka Government Dental College Karnataka Manipal College of Dental Science Karnataka Manipal College of Dental Science Mangalore Karnataka SDM college of Dental Science Karnataka Bapuji Dental College & Hospital Davangere Karnataka College of Dental Science Davangere Karnataka Vydehi Institute of Dental Science & Research Centre Karnataka VS dental College and Hospital Karnataka Bangalore Institute of Dental Science Karnataka Dayananda Sagar Dental College Karnataka Hasanambika Dental College Karnataka D A P M R V Dental College Karnataka SJM Dental College Karnataka College of Dental ScienceCollege of Dental Surgery Karnataka Manipal Academy of Higher Education Karnataka Coorg Institute of Dental Science Karnataka Dr Syamala Reddy Dental College Karnataka Farooqia Dental College Karnataka H K D E T's Dental College Hospital & Research Institute Karnataka H.K.E. Society's 'S Nijalingappa Institute of Dental Science Karnataka AECS Maruthi Dental College Kerala Century International Institute Of Dental Science & Research Centre Kerala Amrita School Of Dentistry Kerala Mar Baselios Dental College Kerala Annoor Dental College Kerala PSM College of Dental Science and Research Kerala PMS College Of Dental Science and Research Kerala Royal Dental College Kerala Govt Dental College Trivandrum Kerala Govt Dental College Calicut Kerala Govt Dental College Kottayam Kerala Pariyaram Dental College Kerala Educare Institute Of Dental Science Kerala Al Azhar Dental College Kerala Kannur Dental College Kerala Indira Gandhi Institue Of Dental Science Kerala Malabar Dental College & Research Centre Kerala KMCT Dental College Kerala Pushpagiri College Of Dental Science Kerala Noorul Islam College Of Dental Science Kerala Azeezia College Of Dental Science & Research Kerala MES Dental College Kerala St Gregorious Dental College Kerala Sri Sankara Dental College Madhya Pradesh College of Dental Science & Hospital Madhya Pradesh College of Dentistry Madhya Pradesh Guru Govind Singh College of Dental Science and Research Centre Madhya Pradesh Hitkarini Dental College & Hospital Madhya Pradesh Institute of Dental Education and Advance Studies Madhya Pradesh Maharana Pratap College of Dentistry & Research Madhya Pradesh Mansarovar Dental College Madhya Pradesh Modern Dental College & Research Centre Madhya Pradesh People's Dental AcademyPeoples College of Dental Science & Research Centre Madhya Pradesh Rishiraj Keer College of Dental Science and Research CentreRKDF Dental College & Research Centre Madhya Pradesh Sri Aurobindo College of Dentistry Maharashtra Government Dental College and Hospital Maharashtra Nair Hospital Dental College Maharashtra Governmant Dental College and hospital Maharashtra Government Dental College and Hospital Maharashtra Aditya Dental College Maharashtra Annasaheb Chudaman Patil Memorial Dental College Maharashtra Armed Forces Medical College Maharashtra Bharati Vidyapeeth Dental College & Hospital Maharashtra Chatrapati Shahuji Maharaj Shikshan Sansthas Dental College Maharashtra D.Y.Patil Dental College Maharashtra Dental College & Hospital Maharashtra Dr.Hedgewar Smruti Rugna Sewa Mandal's Dental College Maharashtra Guardian Dental College Maharashtra Jamanlal Goenka Dental College & Hospital Maharashtra Shri Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Medical & Rural Development Foundation's Dental College Maharashtra M.A. Rangoonwala College of Dental Science & Research Centre Orissa Kalinga Institute of Dental Science Orissa SCB Medical College Orissa Gandhi Dental College Orissa Hi-Tech Dental College Orissa Institute of Dental Science Orissa V.M. Lord Jagannath Institute of Dental Science & Research Punjab Genesis Institute of Dental Science and Research- Dental College and Hospital Punjab Baba Jaswant Singh Dental College Hospital & Research Punjab Christian Dental College Punjab Dasmesh Institute of Research & Dental Science Punjab Desh Bhagat Dental College and Hospital Punjab Govt. Dental College & Hospital Punjab Guru Nanak Dev Dental College & Research Institute Punjab Khalsa Dental College & Hospital Nangal Kalan Punjab Kothiwal Dental College & Research Center Mohra Mustaqeen Punjab Laxmibai Institute of Dental Science & Hospital Punjab National Dental College & Hospital Punjab Punjab Govt. Dental College & Hospital Punjab Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Dental Science & Research Rajasthan College of Denstistry Rajasthan Darshan Dental College & Hospital Rajasthan Daswani Dental College & Hospital Rajasthan Dental Wing Rajasthan Eklavya Dental College & Hospital Rajasthan Government Dental College & Hospital Rajasthan Jaipur Dental College Rajasthan Jodhpur Dental College & General Hospital Rajasthan Maharaja Gangasingh Dental College & Research Centre Rajasthan Mayurakshi Dental College & Hospital Rajasthan NIMS Dental College Rajasthan Pacific Dental College Rajasthan Rajasthan Dental College & Hospital Rajasthan Surendra Dental College & Research Institute Rajasthan Vyas Dental College & Hospital Tamil Nadu JKKN DENTAL COLLEGE AND HOSPITAL Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Government Dental College & Hospital Tamil Nadu Ragas Dental College & Hospital Tamil Nadu Saveetha Dental college and Hospital Uttar Pradesh