Ahmed Shah's Mosque Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Ahmedabad Travel Tourist Map How to Reach Shopping Hotels in Ahmedabad Travel Agents Weekend Trips from Ahmedabad Places to Visit in Ahmedabad Gardens in Ahmedabad Law Garden Bal Vatika Victoria Garden Lakes in Ahmedabad Chandola Lake Kankaria Lake Ahmedabad Wildlife Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary The Kamla Nehru Zoological Garden The Runn of Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary Religious Places in Ahmedabad Bhadrakali Temple Hatheesing Jain Temple Sidi Sayed Jhali Rani Sipri's Mosque Ahmed Shah's Mosque Swaminarayan Temple Akshardham Temple Amusement Parks Ahmedabad Metro Map Route Maps Hyderabad to Ahmedabad Mumbai to Ahmedabad Jaipur to Ahmedabad Goa to Ahmedabad Ahmedabad Map Road Map Railway Map District Map Tehsil Map Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Ahmedabad » Places of Interest » Religious Places » Ahmed Shah's Mosque Ahmed Shah's Mosque Ahmed Shah's Mosque is a very attractive mosque of Ahmedabad that is located in the south-west end of the famous Bhadra fort. Ahmed Shah's Mosque is a very ancient mosque, built in 1414 AD by the founder of the city, Ahmed Shah. Ahmed Shah's Mosque in Ahmedabad is an exclusive mosque of the period built only for the nobles and the royal's place of worship. Ahmed Shah's Mosque in Ahmedabad is one of the ancient religious places of worship that is worth visiting. Ahmed Shah's Mosque in Ahmedabad is a small mosque that was believed to be built on a site of a Hindu temple. It is further said that the ruler Ahmed Shah used a part of the Hindu temple to construct Ahmed Shah's Mosque of Ahmedabad. The Ahmedabad Ahmed Shah Mosque is one of the oldest mosques of the city that still survived the ravages of time. You will find a large prayer hall or Mehrabs in the Ahmed Shah Mosque of Ahmedabad. The prayer hall of the Ahmed Shah Mosque is ornately designed with black and white marbles. Towards the north east corner of the grand edifice of Ahmed Shah Mosque on the first floor, there is a women chamber for worship called the 'Zenana'. The Ahmed Shah Mosque at Ahmedabad is the earliest mosques in the city and a famous tourist spot at present. It is a major tourist attraction of the city. There is a beautiful garden in front of this ancient mosque of Ahmed Shah in Ahmedabad. About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule