Udaipur City Map Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Udaipur   Rajasthan Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar Amer Barmer Bharatpur Pali Sikar Nagaur                         more.. राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan History and Geography Weather Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Udaipur City Map City Map of Udaipur Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest in Udaipur City. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The beauteous Udaipur, 'the city of lakes', is a much sought after tourist destination of Rajasthan.Legend has it that Maharana Udai Singh II, on the advise of a god man, laid the foundation stone of this picturesque locale, circa 1559. Situated on the banks of the lovely Lake Pichola and the lake of Fatehsagar, in Southern Rajasthan , the Eden like Udaipur, cocooned by the Aravalli Hills, is a dotted with numerous beautiful palaces, domes, shrines among other top tourist attractions. This top notch tourist hotspot is strategically connected by roadways, railways and airways. The Dabok airport is located at close quarters from the marvelous Udaipur. Flights of the Indian Airlines and Jet Airways operate on a regular basis. Besides, you can also board buses of the Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation, that will take you to Udaipur. If you choose to travel by train, you can take your pick from the Chetak Express, the Lake City Express and Ahmedabad Express. Udaipur, laced with a glorious history is a backpacker's paradise. The history buffs can make a beeline for the splendid City Palace, a comely site on Lake Pichola. The latter itself is a wondrous spectacle to behold. The Lake Palace, Jagdish Temple, Sajjangarh, Gulab Bagh, Jag Mandir, Saheliyon ki Bari, Shilpgram, Ahar, Bhartiya Lok Kala Mandal, Fateh Sagar, Eklingji, Nagada, Jaisamand Lake, Kumbalgarh Fort, Ranakpur, Jagat are some of the other star attractions of this place. Good news for all those adventure freaks! The serene Udaipur also offers rides on horses and trekking facilities. You can rejuvenate those frazzled nerves with a relaxing herbal massage at the Ayurvedic Body Shop. Joyous celebrations are a way of life for the inhabitants of Rajasthan and Udaipur is no exception. It throbs with nervous energy during the colorful Gangaur, Mewar and Teej festivals. A shopper's haven that Udaipur, there is a lot in store for tourists. You can make a dash for beautiful textiles, adorable playthings, eye catching accessories. On a tour of Udaipur, pichwais or tapestries, is a must buy. The government fuelled Rajasthan Emporium is your one stop shop for the above mentioned collector's items. Besides, you can also drop in at the Lake Palace Road and Chetak Circle, among others. Accommodation facilities are aplenty in Udaipur. You can put up at luxurious five star hotels, heritage lodgings and a plethora of other lovely hotels that dot Udaipur. Udaipur City Information Country India State Rajasthan District Udaipur Established Year 1559 Founded by Maharana Udai Singh Area 64 km2 (25 sq mi) Population 598,178(census 2011) Population Density 242/km2 (630/sq mi) as Census January 2011 Language Marwari, Rajasthani, Hindi Official Languages Hindi Literacy Rate 61.82 (census 2011) Sex Ratio 958 Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Pin code 313001 Area code 294 Lat Long 24.5800° N, 73.6800° E Religion Hinduism, Islam, Jainism Festivals Mewar Festival, Shilpgram Crafts Fair, Teej University Mohan Lal Sukhadia University, Sir Padampat Singhania University and Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology Sports Luv Kush Indoor Stadium(Badminton), Maharana Pratap Khel Gaon (Basketball, Volleyball, Tennis, Kho-Kho, Kabaddi, Handball, Archery, Rifle shooting, Judo - Karate, Boxing, Swimming, Squash) Airport Dabok airport (Maharana Pratap Airport) Railway Station Udaipur City (UDZ), Udaipur Railway Station Tourist Attractions Chini Chitrashala, Dilkhusha Mahal, Durbar hall, Jagdish mandir, City Palace Udaipur, Lake Palace, Saheliyon-ki-Bari, Gulab Bagh and Zoo, Neemach Mata Temple, Doodh Talai Nearby Tourist Attractions Nathdwara, Ranakpur, Chittorgarh, Haldighati, Kumbhalgarh, Mount Abu, Eklingji, Kumbhalgarh Wildlife Sanctuary Popular Things Fateh Sagar Lake, Rangsagar Lake, Pichola Lake, Swaroopsagar Lake, Dudh Talai Lake, Udaisagar Lake Notable People Maharana Udai Singh National Highway NH-8, 76 Last Updated on : 27 December 2010 Cities in Rajasthan Ajmer Alwar Amer Banaswara Barmer Bharatpur Bhilwara Bhiwadi Bikaner Bhadra Bundi Chittaurgarh Kishangarh Didwana Nohar Pratapgarh Churu Dungarpur Jaipurcity Jaisalmer Jhalawar Jodhpur Kota Kumbhalgarh Mount Abu Ganganagar Hanumangarh Gangapur Jalore Sojat Nathdwara Niwai Nagaur Neemrana Pali Pushkar Ranakpur Sawai Madhopur Shekhawati Sikar Udaipur Tonk Baran Dausa Laxmangarh Merta Ladnun Rawatbhata             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule