 Government of India, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture Skip to Main Content | Screen Reader Access | | | | हिंदी में | Follow us on Twitter Home Acts & Rules Citizen Charter RFD Schemes & Guidelines Schemes Info Guidelines Write to Us CPGRAMS Feedback & Grievance Miscellaneous Parliament Questions Recruitments Tenders Reach Us Contact Us Telephone Directory You are here : Home > Programmes And Schemes About Us Divisions DAC Organisation Presentations Reports and Publications Programmes & Schemes Agriculture Contingency Plan Circulars and Notifications CACP FAQs RTI e Governance Projects Related Links Programmes And Schemes Missions during XII Plan National Mission on Agricultural Extension & Technology (NMAET) Sub Mission on Agricultural Extension (SMAE) Extension Reforms Guidelines - 2014 Revised Agri -Clinics and Agri-Business Centres (ACABC) Scheme-2010 Mass Media Guidelines ICT (including NeGP-A) Guidelines Sub Mission on Seeds and Planting Material (SMSP) Operational Guidelines on SMSP Under NMAET Sub Mission on Agricultural Mechanisation (SMAM) Sub Mission on Plant Protection (SMPP) Guidelines for the Centrally Sponsored Scheme “National Mission on Agricultural Extension and Technology (NMAET)” to be implemented during the XII Plan. Chapter on NMAET for all Guidelines GUIDELINES FOR NIPHM SCHEME (2) 8.10.13 Guidelines for the Central Sector Scheme Monitoring of Pesticide residue at National Level Guidelines for the Strengthening and Modernization of Plant Quarantine Facilities in India SMPMA guidelines National Food Security Mission (NFSM ) NFSM Operational Guidelines XII Plan NFSM Guidelines on Commerial Crops XII Plan Inclusion of two more districts of Punjab under NFSM Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) Guidelines National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture(NMSA) Guidelines of National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture(NMSA) for XII Plan Period National Mission on Oilseeds & Oil Palm(NMOOP) Operational Guidelines for Implementation of National Mission on Oilseeds & Oil Palm(NMOOP) during xii Plan(Effective from 2014-15) National Mission for Protein Supplements (NMPS) Guidelines for Implementation of fisheries Scheme under the NMPS in States during 2012-13 Guidelines of the sub-scheme Special Programme for Dairy Development as a part of NMPS during 2012-13 Guidelines for Implementation of ‘Pig Development’ scheme under the NMPS in States during 2012-13 Guidelines for Implementation of Goat Scheme under the NMPS in States Saffron Mission Saffron Mission Background   Division-wise Programmes and Schemes Agriculture Census Agriculture Census Agricultural Marketing Central Sector Schemes Integrated Scheme for Agricultural Marketing(ISAM)(Effective Since 01.04.2014) In order to provide single window approach and user & investment friendly atmosphere, all the ongoing six Plan Schemes implemented during the XI Plan period have been put under one umbrella “Integrated Scheme for Agricultural Marketing (ISAM). It aims to (i) promote agri-marketing through creation of marketing and agribusiness infrastructure including storage, (ii)incentivize agri-market reforms, (iii) provide market linkages to farmers, (iv) provide access to agri-market information and (v) support quality certification of agriculture commodities. The XII Plan outlay for ISAM is Rs.4548.00 crore. ISAM scheme is having five components, namely: (i) Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure (AMI), the objective of this component is to create market infrastructure including Storage Infrastructure and Integrated Value Chain Projects (IVC) [the existing schemes of Grameen Bhandaran Yojana (GBY) and Development/ Strengthening of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure, Grading and Standardization (AMIGS) has been merged as AMI] (ii) Marketing Research and Information Network (MRIN) (iii) Strengthening of Agmark Grading Facilities (SAGF), (iv) Agri-Business Development (ABD) through Venture Capital Assistance (VCA) and Project Development Facility (PDF) and (v) Training, Research and Consultancy through Choudhary Charan Singh National Institute of Agriculture Marketing (NIAM). Operational Guidelines of Integrated Scheme for Agricultural Marketing(ISAM)(effective from 01.04.2014)(English). Rural Godown Schemes(RGS)/Grammin Bhandaran Yojana(GBY)(Effective till 31.03.2014) The scheme was started from 1st April 2001. The main objectives of the scheme are to meet the requirements of farmers for storing farm produce, processed farm produce, consumer articles and agricultural inputs, promotion of grading, standardization and quality control of agricultural produce to improve their marketability, prevention of distress sale immediately after harvest by providing the facility of pledge financing and marketing credit, and to strengthen agricultural marketing infrastructure by paving the way for introduction of a national system of warehouse receipts in respect of agricultural commodities stored in such godowns and to reverse the declining trend of investment in agriculture sector by encouraging private and cooperative sector to invest in the creation of storage infrastructure in the country. The scheme of Rural Godowns has been formulated for creation of scientific storage capacity with allied facilities in rural areas by encouraging private and cooperative sector to invest in the creation of storage infrastructure in the country. Under the scheme, 25% back-ended subsidy (33.3% in case of NE States, Tribal & Hilly areas and SC/ST) on the total project costs is being provided for the purpose. The eligible promoters for construction of rural godowns are individual farmers, group of farmers/ growers, partnership/ proprietary firms, NGO, companies, corporations, cooperatives, Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees, Marketing Boards and Agro Processing Corporations. As on 31st January 2013, there are 30,574 Godown projects have been sanctioned and a storage capacity of 38.36million tonnes was created under the scheme. An amount of Rs.1017.32crores of subsidy has been released to various banks and Cooperatives through NABARD and NCDC. Guidelines & Other informations(effective till 31.03.2014) ( English) / ( Hindi ) Strengthening / Developement of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure, Grading & Standardisation(AMIGS)(Effective till 31.03.2014) With a view to induce large investment in the development of marketing infrastructure, the Ministry has formulated a scheme for “Development/Strengthening of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure, Grading and Standardization” during 2004. Under this scheme investment subsidy is provided on the capital cost of general or commodity specific infrastructure for marketing of agricultural commodities and for strengthening and modernization of existing agricultural markets, wholesale, rural and periodic or in tribal areas. The scheme is reform linked, to be implemented in those States/UTs that amend the APMC Act wherever required to allow setting up of agricultural markets in private and cooperative sectors. Under the scheme, back ended subsidy @ 25% of capital cost of the project is provided in all States and @ 33.3% of capital cost in case of NE States, hilly areas and SC/ST entrepreneurs. In respect of infrastructure projects of State Agencies, there is no upper ceiling on subsidy to be provided under the scheme. Agricultural Marketing being the State subject the Directorate has only an advisory role so far as improvement/development of marketing system is concerned. In the field of grading and quality assurance also, Directorate endeavors to involve State authorities more and more to make it consumer/public oriented. Being a central coordinating organization, Directorate is actively associated with the development in agricultural marketing in both State and National level by introducing various reform initiatives of Government of India. Since Inception of the scheme up to 31-12-2012, a total number of 8087 marketing Infrastructure projects have been sanctioned and subsidy of Rs 782.14 crores has been released. Guidelines & more information(effective till 31.03.2014) ( English ) / ( Hindi ) National Agricultural Market Atlas Terminal Market Complex Programmes Grading And Standardisation of Agricultural and Allied Produce Quality standards for agricultural commodities are framed based on their intrinsic quality. Food safety factors are being incorporated in the standards to compete in World trade. Standards are being harmonised with international standards keeping in view the WTO requirements. Certification of agricultural commodities is carried out for the benefit of producer/manufacturer and consumer. Certification of adulteration prone commodities viz. Butter, Ghee, Vegetable Oils, Ground-Spices, Honey, Wheat Atta etc. is very popular. Blended Edible Vegetable Oils and Fat Spread are compulsorily required to be certified under Agmark. The Certification mark under the Agricultural Produce (Grading & Marking) Act is popularly known as "AGMARK". Grading is carried out in accordance with the standards notified, following meticulous procedure of sampling, testing, packaging, marking and sealing as per the instructions issued under the Act and Rules. Click here for more information Cooperation NCDC Programme under Restructured Central Sector Scheme The Government of India implements its cooperative development programmes through National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC). The programmes/schemes being implemented through NCDC are (i) Integrated Cooperative Development Projects in selected districts, (ii) assistance to cooperative marketing, processing and storage etc., programmes in cooperatively under-developed/least developed States/Union Territories, and (iii) share capital participation in growers’/weavers’ cooperative spinning mills under the restructured central sector scheme. It has been decided that under this scheme, subsidy component will be provided by Government of India and the loan component will be arranged by NCDC through its own sources. Cooperative Education & Training Assistance of National Cooperative Federations Assistance to National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India. (NAFED) Price Support Scheme(PSS):The Operational Guidelines JS.DO letter to States and UTs Credit Operational Guidelines of National Crop Insurance Proqramme (NCIP) during Xllth Plan. lmplementation of National Crop Insurance Proqramme (NCIP) during Xllth Plan - issue of Administrative lnstructions National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS)- Scheme and Operational Modalities Pilot Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS) - Scheme Pilot Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS) - Operational Guidelines Pilot Coconut Palm Insurance Scheme (CPIS) - Scheme Progress National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS) States / Districts Covered Crops Covered Business Statistics Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS) States / Districts Covered Crops Covered Business Statistics Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme(WBCIS) States / Districts Covered Crops Covered Business Statistics Coconut Palm Insurance Scheme (CPIS) Flow of Credit to Agriculture Agency-wise credit flow Investment in Debentures of State Land Development Banks (SLDB) Crops NFSM A3P Special Plan to Achieve 19+ Million Tonnes of Pulses Production during Kharif 2013 Additional Area Coverage of Pulses during Rabi/Summer 2013 BGREI INSIMP Technology Mission on Cotton(TMC) Jute Technology Mission(JTM) Drought Management Drought Measures Draft National Disaster Mitigation Plan  &nbsp (Chapter on Drought and Cold Wave/Frost) Economic Administration Operation Guidelines for the 12th Five Year Plan(2012-17) Central Sector Schemes of Integrated Scheme of Agriculture Census, Economics and Statistics Extension Extension Reforms Guidelines - 2014 Mass Media Guidelines - 2014 Support to State Extension Programmes for Extension Reforms Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) Scheme was launched during 2005-06. It aims at making extension system farmer driven and farmer accountable by way of new institutional arrangements for technology dissemination in the form of an Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) at district level to operationalize the extension reforms. ATMA has active participation of farmers/farmer-groups, NGOs,KrishiVigyanKendras (KVKs), Panchayati Raj Institutions and other stakeholders operating at district level and below. Release of funds under ATMA scheme is based on State Extension Work Plans (SEWPs) prepared by the State Governments. Allocation of resources for activities related to extension is linked to number of farm households and Blocks. At present, the Scheme is under implementation in 614 districts in 28 States and 3 UTs in the country. In order to promote key reforms under the Scheme, ATMA Cafeteriam, 2010 continues to support activities in line with the following policy parameters: Multi-agency Extension Strategies : At least, 10% of allocation on recurring activities at district level is to be used through non-governmental sector viz. NGOs, Farmers Organization (FOs), Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), Para-Extension workers, Agri-Preneurs, Input Suppliers, Corporate Sector, etc. Farming System Approach : The activities specified in the cafeteria are broad enough to promote extension delivery consistent with farming systems approach and extension needs emerging through Strategic Research and Extension Plan (SREP). Farmer Centric Extension Services : The Cafeteria provides for group-based extension and it has necessary allocation for activities related to organizing and supporting farmer groups. In order to supplement these efforts, a provision for rewards and incentives to the best organized farmer groups has also been provided. Convergence: The SREP and SEWP are mechanisms for ensuring convergence of all activities in extension. At present, resources for extension activities are being provided under different Schemes of the Central/State Governments. It is mandated that the SEWP to be submitted by the State Governments shall specify the activities to be supported from the resources of other ongoing Schemes as well as from this Scheme. Convergence between Research & Extension is being established in the field as per a joint circular issued by DAC & ICAR. Mainstreaming Gender Concerns : Gender Budgeting enunciates that at least 30% of resources on programmes and activities are utilized for women farmers. Sustainability of Extension Services : At least, 10% contribution should be realized from beneficiaries with respect to beneficiary oriented activities. The important features of the Revised cafeteria include Support for specialists and functionaries at State, District and Block Level Innovative support through a ‘Farmer Friend’ at Village Level @ 1 Farmer Friend per two villages Farmers Advisory Committees at State, District and Block levels Farm Schools in the field of outstanding farmers being promoted at Block/ Gram Panchayat level by integrating the Progressive farmers into Agricultural Extension System (AES) (3-5 Farm Schools/ block). Farmer-to-farmer extension support at the village level to be promoted through Farmers’ Group. Farmers’ Awards instituted at Block, District and State levels. Community Radio Stations (CRS) set up by KVKs/SAUs are being promoted under the Programme. For Non-Governmental implementing agencies, States have been given the flexibility of having Extension Work Plans prepared and approved at the State level. Minimum 10 per cent of outlay of the Programme is to be utilized through them. Non-governmental implementing agencies (excluding the corporate sector) are also eligible for service charge up to a maximum of 10 percent of the cost of the extension activities implemented through them. Apart from other NGOs, financial assistance is also available for implementation of extension activities through agri-preneurs., Public extension functionaries being made more effective through trainings and exposure visits. National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE), Hyderabad is offering PG Diploma in Agriculture Extension Management for public extension functionaries which is fully funded under the ATMA Programme. Convergence Between Agriculture Research and Extension (English) / (Hindi) ATMA Manpower Deployment Financial Allocations and Releases to the state during 2012-13 Online Portal for Data Entry by States Mass Media Support to Agricultural Extension The Central Sector Scheme ‘Mass Media Support to Agriculture Extension’ has been launched during the Tenth Plan Period to enable a revamping of the extension services in the country by using electronic media i.e the wide network of Doordarshan and All India Radio for transfer of technology and information to the farmers. The primary objective of the Scheme is to use Television and Radio with their massive penetration as a vehicle that could be exploited for the purpose of extension. They have the advantage of reaching a wide audience at a very low cost. Under this Scheme, the existing infrastructure of Doordarshan (DD) and All India Radio (AIR) is being utilized to make the farmers aware of modern technologies and researches related to agriculture and allied areas. A 30 minute programme is being telecast five to six days a week through National, 18 Regional Kendras and 180 High Power/Low Power Transmitters of Doordarshan. Similarly, 96 Rural FM Radio Stations of All India Radio are being utilized to broadcast 30 minutes of programme for farmers 6 days a week. For telecasting success stories, innovations and for popularization of change-setting technology and farming practices through the Saturday slot of Doordarshan’s National Channel, DAC is producing films, which would consciously project inter-alia positive aspects of agriculture in India. Focused Advertisement Campaign The Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry Of Agriculture has launched a ‘Focused Advertisement Campaign’ tocreate awareness of assistances available under various schemes. At the national level this is being implemented by way of short advertisements Audio & Video Spots of 30 – 60 seconds duration. The spots are broadcast/telecast through AIR, DD and private channels operating at the national and regional level during news, serials, and entertainment programmes having maximum viewership. You tube Link for krishidarshan Programmes List of Narrowcasting & Regional Doordarshan Kendras and FM Kisan Vani Stations under the Schemes Print Advertisments/Audio Spots/ Video Spots Portal of krishidarshan Programmes Establishment of Agri-Clinic and Agri-Business Centres by Agriculture Graduates (ACABC) The ACABC scheme is under implementation since 2002. The scheme aims at creating gainful self-employment opportunities to unemployed agricultural graduates, agricultural diploma holders, and intermediate in agriculture and science graduates with post graduation in agriculture related courses supporting agriculture development and supplementing the efforts of public extension. MANAGE is the implementing agency for training component under the scheme at identified Nodal Training Institutes (NTIs) in various states. NABARD is the implementing agency for banks for implementing subsidy component under the scheme and is monitoring credit support to Agri-Clinics through Commercial Banks The scheme is open to graduates in agriculture and allied subjects/ biological science graduates with post graduation in agriculture & allied subjects from SAUs/ Central Agricultural Universities/ Universities recognized by ICAR/ UGC, diploma / post graduate diploma holders in agriculture and allied subjects from State Agricultural Universities and also Intermediate (i.e. plus two) level with agriculture courses. The credit linked back-ended subsidy @ 36% of the capital cost of the project funded through bank loan is available under the scheme. This subsidy is 44% in respect of candidates belonging to SC/ST, Women and other disadvantaged sections and those from North-Eastern and Hill areas. The ACABC scheme has recently been revised with changes in relevant operational aspects and also to expand its scope so as to harness the potential of rural educated unemployed youths to start agri-enterprises in rural areas for serving farming community. Estabilishement of Agri Clinics & Agri Bussiness Centres Revised Agri -Clinics and Agri-Business Centres (ACABC) Scheme-2010 Portals of Agri Clinic Central Sector Scheme on Extension Support to Central Institutions The fast changing extension scenario calls for supporting various central institute such as MANAGE/EEIs and also redefining the roles, responsibilities and restructuring of the DOE to enhance its effectiveness and operational efficiency. The support is provided in following heads under the scheme. HRD Support: DAC has strengthened a network of training institutions in the country by supporting the National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE) at Hyderabad; four Extension Education Institutes (EEIs) at the Regional level and the State Agricultural Management & Extension Training Institutes (SAMETIs) at the State level. MANAGE: MANAGE is providing training support to senior and middle level functionaries of the State Governments. It is also providing necessary support to the States in implementation of Extension Reforms (ATMA) scheme. The self-financing educational training courses of MANAGE are two-year Post Graduate Programme in Agri-Business Management, one-year Post Graduate Diploma in Agri-Warehousing and Cool Chain Management (AWACCM), and one year distance education Diploma in Agricultural Extension Services for Input Dealers (DAESI) Extension Education Institutes (EEIs): Four Extension Education Institutes located at Nilokeri (Haryana), Rajendranagar, Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh), Anand (Gujarat) and Jorhat (Assam) are operating at the Regional level. The objective of EEIs is to improve the skills and professional competence of Extension field functionaries of Agriculture and allied departments in the field of (a) Extension Education; (b) Extension Methodology; (c) Information and Communication Technology; (d) Training Methodology; (e) Communication; (f) Extension Reforms Scheme; (g) Market led Extension; etc. Model Training Courses (MTCs): Model Training Courses of eight days duration on thrust areas of Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries Extension are supported by the Directorate of Extension (DOE) with the objective of improving the professional competence and upgrading the knowledge and developing technical skills of Subject Matter Specialists/Extension workers of Agriculture and allied departments. National Gender Resource Centre in Agriculture(NGRCA): Policy level initiatives for gender mainstreaming in DAC are being promoted and coordinated by the Extension Division through a National Gender Resource Centre in Agriculture (NGRCA) which is located in the Directorate of Extension. The Centre is also mandated to perform functions of Gender Budgeting Cell of DAC. The NGRCA has taken up several studies to promote gender mainstreaming in DAC. Exhibitions: Agricultural exhibitions are important means of reaching to a large number of farmers. DAC participates in India International Trade Fair (IITF) every year .Besides, DAC supports five regional fairs every year. State and District level exhibitions are supported under ATMA programme. Pre-seasonal DAC- ICAR Interfaces: Pre-seasonal DAC-ICAR Interfaces are organized under the co-chairmanship of Secretary (A&C) and Director General (DG),ICAR to evolve joint strategies on the emerging Issues of Agriculture Sector. During the Interface both the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation(DAC) and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) share a common platform to deliberate upon various recommendations made by expert group in different Subject Matter Areas. The participants in DAC-ICAR Interface involve the senior officers from DAC, Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairy and Fisheries (AHD&F) and ICAR. Horticulture National Horticulture Mission( NHM) Horticulture Mission for North East & Himalayan States (HMNEH) National Bamboo Mission (NBM) National Mission on Micro Irrigation (NMMI) National Horticulture Board (NHB) Coconut Development Board (CDB) Central Institute of Horticulture (CIH), Dimapur, Nagaland Information Technology National e-Governance Plan in Agriculture (NeGP-A): The Mission Mode Project has been introduced during last phase of the 11thplan to achieve rapid development of agriculture in India through the use of ICT for ensuring timely access to agriculture related information for the farmers of the country. There are a number of current IT initiatives/schemes undertaken or implemented by DAC which are aimed at providing information to the farmers on various activities in the agriculture value chain. These initiatives will be integrated so that farmers would be able to make proper and timely use of the available information. Such information is intended to be provided to farmers through multiple channels including Common Service Centers, Internet Kiosks and SMSs. 12 clusters of services have been identified and the project has been sanctioned for implementation in 7 States i.e. Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The services include Information on Pesticides, Fertilizers & Seeds, Soil Health; Information on crops, farm machinery, training and Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs); Weather advisories; Information on prices, arrivals, procurement points, and providing interaction platform; Electronic certification for exports & import; Information on marketing infrastructure; Monitoring implementation / evaluation of schemes & program; Information on fishery inputs; Information on irrigation infrastructure; Drought Relief and Management; Livestock Management. First phase of the Project is being implemented for a sum of Rs. 227.79 crores. Strengthening of IT Apparatus in Agriculture and Cooperation in the States and Union Territories (AGRISNET) Strengthening/ Promoting Agricultural Information System: To promote e-Governance in Agriculture at the Centre and to provide support to States/UTs for the same, DAC is implementing this Central Sector Scheme. The scheme has the following components: IT apparatus at DAC Headquarters, field offices and Directorates Under the DACNET Project, the Directorates/field units have been provided basic infrastructure which has helped in achieving e-readiness. Development of Agricultural Informatics and Communication DAC has developed around 80 portals, applications and websites (primarily in collaboration with the National Informatics Centre) covering both the headquarters and its field offices/directorates. The important portals include Farmers’ Portal SEEDNET, DACNET, AGMARKNET (prices and arrivals in Mandis), RKVY (Rashtriya Krishi VikasYojana), ATMA, NHM (National Horticulture Mission), INTRADAC, NFSM (National Food Security Mission) and APY (Acreage, Productivity and Yield). DAC is getting online data entry done right from the District level at least, so as to expedite generation of requisite queries & reports in an efficient manner. Under this Scheme, funds are provided to State/UTs for computerization down to Block level. Funds to 26 states have been released under AGRISNET to achieve the objective of providing computers up to Block level. State specific software packages have been developed to disseminate information to the farmers. Availability of requisite hardware and locally suitable software packages has resulted in quick retrieval of data, dissemination of inf