Travel to Mussoorie - Tourism, Mussoorie Tourist Map Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Mussoorie Travel Tourist Map Travel Tips How to Reach Mussoorie Hotels Places to Visit in Mussoorie Gun Hill The Christ Church Camel's Back Road Lal Tibba The Mall Happy Valley Landour Bazaar Sisters Bazaar Kempty Falls Bhatta falls Jharipani falls Mussoorie Lake Jwalaji Temple Jim Corbett National Park Honeymoon in Mussoorie Cities to Visit Near Mussoorie Haridwar Travel Rishikesh Travel Dehradun Travel Road Map From Delhi to Mussoorie About Mussoorie Location Weather Uttarakhand Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Flights to Dehradun Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Hotels in Uttarakhand Home » Mussoorie » Travel to Mussoorie Travel to Mussoorie Tourist Map of Mussoorie Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Downlaod   Buy Now   * The map showing the Important Tourist places in Mussoorie. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Mussoorie Tourism Mussoorie is one place that has helped the government make big bucks from tourism. A lot of people choose Mussoorie as a preferred place for holiday owing to its natural beauty in abundance. The renowned hill station has had an enthralling charm over the colonial masters of India. It was a preferred place of recreation for them in the hot summers of India. Thus, much of the development in the region started during the British Rule and even today Mussoorie has a gripping charm over the tourists. Facts about Mussoorie Time Zone IST (UTC+5:30) Population 26,069 Area 2385 sq. ft. Main Languages Hindi, Garhwali ,Kumauni, Punjabi, Gorkhali, English Telephone Code 013563 Elevation 1876 meters Best Time to Visit Mussoorie The weather of Mussoorie serves as one of the driving factors for the tourist. It remains pleasant throughout the year. The temperature hardly crosses 30 degrees in summers while the winter temperature can fall down to as low as -1 degrees. The city receives pleasant rainfall in the rainy season. However, the best time to visit Mussoorie are the months of October and November when the weather is absolutely perfect. Travel trips to Mussoorie Always book hotels in advance if you are scheduling your trip in the holiday season as all the good hotels in the city are usually booked at this time. Driving in the city is not very easy if you are not familiar with the roads. Always travel with a driver who is well acquainted with the roads in the city. The place remains cool for most part of the year. It is advisable to carry light woolens on your trip to Mussoorie. Emergency Contact Numbers Police Emergency Service Number: 108 Police Station: 91-135-2716238, 2616227 Fire Station Telephone no: +91-135-2632100, 2630101 Hospitals in Mussorie Civil Hospital Landour, Mussoorie Telephone: 2632891 St. Mary's Hospital Kulri, Mussoorie Telephone: 2632144,2632869 Community Hospital Landour , Mussoorie Telephone: 2631188,2632053, 2632541 Eye Hospital Library, Mussoorie Telephone: 2632049 How to Reach Mussoorie Mussoorie is one destination that is on the wish list of every traveler. Though, the city does not have an airport or a railway station, it is not very difficult to reach the place. Following guidelines can prove helpful in answering your question of 'How to Reach Mussoorie', if you are planning a visit to this popular hill station in India: By Air Mussoorie does not have an airport. The nearest airport to the city is the Jolly Grant Airport at Dehradun. From Dehradun one can take a taxi to reach picturesque Mussoorie. The distance between two cities is 60 km. Following are some of the flights to Dehradun from the major Indian cities. From New Delhi Kingfisher Red Air India Jet Lite From Mumbai Kingfisher Jet Lite Jet Airways Konnect From Kolkata Kingfisher Red Jet Airways Konnect Air India By Rail The city does not have a railway station. The nearest railhead is at Dehradun, 34 km from the city. Trains from all the major Indian cities are available to Dehradun. Following are some of the trains that you can take to Dehradun from the major Indian cities. From New Delhi Musoorie Express Shatabdi Express Jan Shatabdi From Mumbai Mumbai Express From Kolkata Howrah Express By Road From Delhi, Mussoorie is just 290 km by road, whereas from Dehradun it is only 35 km. There are direct buses to Dehradun from Delhi and the neighbouring cities, one can also avail private taxis to reach thes city. Every half an hour, buses ply from Dehradun. Places to Visit in Mussoorie Gun Hill The Christ Church Camel's Back Road Lal Tibba The Mall Happy Valley Landour Bazaar Sisters Bazaar Kempty Falls Bhatta falls Jharipani falls Mussoorie Lake Jwalaji Temple Last Updated on : 19/08/2013 Hotels in Uttarakhand Almora Hotels Badrinath Hotels Bhimtal Hotels Corbett Hotels Dehradun Hotels Dist. Almora Hotels Garjia Hotels Haldwani Hotels Haridwar Hotels Kausani Hotels Mussoorie Hotels Nainital Hotels Naukuchiatal Hotels Ramgarh Hotels Ramnagar Hotels Ranikhet Hotels Rishikesh Hotels Rudra Prayag Hotels Rudrapur Hotels Tehri Garhwal Hotels Travel to Uttarakhand Travel to Auli Travel to Dehradun Travel to Haridwar Travel to Gangotri Travel to Bhimtal Travel to Kedarnath Travel to Mussoorie Travel to Nainital Travel to Ranikhet Travel to Dhanaulti Travel to Almora Travel to Rishikesh Travel to Uttarakashi Travel to Chamoli Travel to Pithoragarh Places to Visit in Uttarakhand Places to visit in Auli Places to visit in corbett Places to visit in Dehradun Places to visit in kedarnath Places to visit in Mussorie Places to visit in Nainital Places to visit in Rishikesh Places to visit in Uttarkashi Places to visit in Haridwar About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule