Assocham India :: About Us Thought Leadership The Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India "The Knowledge Chamber: Serving the Nation since 1920" Home About Mission History Structure Persons at the helm President Quotable Quote Vision Membership Membership Forms Services To Members At A Glance Online Registration Services Events Forthcoming Events Recent Events National Councils Gallery Publications Contact Us Membership Complain / Feedback Publication Management Physical Address with Map Overseas Branches About Us ASSOCHAM: The Knowledge Architect Of Corporate India Evolution of Value Creator ASSOCHAM initiated its endeavour of value creation for Indian industry in 1920. Having in its fold more than 400 Chambers and Trade Associations, and serving more than 4,50,000 members from all over India. It has witnessed upswings as well as upheavals of Indian Economy, and contributed significantly by playing a catalytic role in shaping up the Trade, Commerce and Industrial environment of the country. Today, ASSOCHAM has emerged as the fountainhead of Knowledge for Indian industry, which is all set to redefine the dynamics of growth and development in the technology driven cyber age of ‘Knowledge Based Economy’. ASSOCHAM is seen as a forceful, proactive, forward looking institution equipping itself to meet the aspirations of corporate India in the new world of business. ASSOCHAM is working towards creating a conducive environment of India business to compete globally. ASSOCHAM derives its strength from its Promoter Chambers and other Industry/ Regional Chambers/Associations spread all over the country. It was established in 1920 by promoter Chambers, representing all regions of India. Promoter Chambers     Vision Empower Indian enterprise by inculcating knowledge that will be the catalyst of growth in the barrierless technology driven global market and help them upscale, align and emerge as formidable player in respective business segments. Mission As a representative organ of Corporate India, ASSOCHAM articulates the genuine, legitimate needs and interests of its members. Its mission is to impact the policy and legislative environment so as to foster balanced economic, industrial and social development. We believe education, IT, BT, Health, Corporate Social responsibility and environment to be the critical success factors. Members – Our Strength ASSOCHAM represents the interests of more than 4,50,000 direct and indirect members across the country. Through its heterogeneous membership, ASSOCHAM combines the entrepreneurial spirit and business acumen of owners with management skills and expertise of professionals to set itself apart as a Chamber with a difference. Currently, ASSOCHAM has more than 100 National Councils covering the entire gamut of economic activities in India. It has been especially acknowledged as a significant voice of Indian industry in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility, Environment & Safety, HR & Labour Affairs, Corporate Governance, Information Technology, Biotechnology, Telecom, Banking & Finance, Company Law, Corporate Finance, Economic and International Affairs, Mergers & Acquisitions, Tourism, Civil Aviation, Infrastructure, Energy & Power, Education, Legal Reforms, Real Estate and Rural Development, Competency Building & Skill Development to mention a few. Insight into ‘New Business Models’ ASSOCHAM has been a significant contributory factor in the emergence of newage Indian Corporates, characterized by a new mindset and global ambition for dominating the international business. The Chamber has addressed itself to the key areas like India as Investment Destination, Achieving International Competitiveness, Promoting International Trade, Corporate Strategies for Enhancing Stakeholders Value, Government Policies in sustaining India’s Development, Infrastructure Development for enhancing India’s Competitiveness, Building Indian MNCs, Role of Financial Sector the Catalyst for India’s Transformation. ASSOCHAM derives its strengths from the following Promoter Chambers: Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Mumbai; Cochin Chambers of Commerce & Industry, Cochin: Indian Merchant’s Chamber, Mumbai; The Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chennai; PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, New Delhi and has over 4,50,000 Direct / Indirect members. Together, we can make a significant difference to the burden that our nation carries and bring in a bright, new tomorrow for our nation. ASSOCHAM members represent the following sectors: Trade (National and International) Industry (Domestic and International) Professionals (e.g. CAs, lawyers, consultants) Trade and Industry Associations and other Chambers of Commerce D. S. Rawat Secretary General The Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India ASSOCHAM Corporate Office: 5, Sardar Patel Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi-110 021 Tel: 011-46550555 (Hunting Line) • Fax: 011-23017008, 23017009 www.assocham.org Photo Gallery read More Publications read More Membership read More Events read More ASSOCHAM in News read More National Councils read More Blog read More Research Papers read More Tweets by @followassocham RSS Feed Widget ASSOCHAM Across the World India Japan London UAE USA            The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India ASSOCHAMM Corporate Office,5, Sardar Patel Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi - 110021 Phone: 46550555(Hunting Line) Fax: 01123017008/9 Email: assocham@nic.in Copyrights ©2014 assocham.org, All Rights Reserved.