Buffalo dairy farm project report AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Project Reports Buffalo dairy farm project report Results 1 to 8 of 8 Thread: Buffalo dairy farm project report LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… November 8th, 2014 #1 yana12345 Join Date Nov 2014 Posts 1 Buffalo dairy farm project report pl send me the project report for 200 buffalo dairy farm Reply With Quote November 28th, 2014 #2 mahenderkola Join Date Sep 2013 Posts 1 pl send me the project report for 30 buffalo dairy farm Reply With Quote December 8th, 2014 #3 aksharambs Join Date Jan 2014 Posts 62 Dear Sir/Ma'am, Greetings for the day !!! In context to your enquiry about setting up Dairy farm + Milk Processing Plant, We do provide the "Complete, Customized and Detailed Bankable Business Plan cum Project Report with the information of different subsidies & schemes. The plan would cover feasibility and market study as well. So, according to your requirement mentioned, we would suggest the following product which suits your need. - Bankable Business Plan cum Project Report - Dairy Farm + Milk Processing Unit (The capacity and cost can be modified as per requirement.) The Plan would be Customized, Comprehensive, Detailed, Innovative, Bankable and affordable that reflects you, your idea and your future. We don’t use ready to go templates to design your business plan because we understand that every business and its market differs from its nature, mode of operations, investments, demographics and certainly all micro & macro affecting business factors. Our each and every plan is meticulously crafted, analysed & validated by the professional experts of business planning and that is why it takes nearly 10 working days to reach you. Features of plan:- • The plan would serve purpose of fund raising and will be guideline doc for rest of the years as well. • Detailed Financial Projections & Calculations – 3 Yrs/5Yrs • Systematic Sales & Marketing Plan • Registration and Legal information related to project set up • QC & QA – Test, Process, equipments details (Lab Plan) • Strategic Portfolio • Includes details of schemes & subsidy • Trusted Business Contact details – for each major needs (Like – for machinery, legal, furniture, employee, web etc) At the outset, we would like to append the products and services we offer. We MBS are providing ‘One Stop Complete Business Consultation” for budding entrepreneurs in Food, Dairy, Bakery, Confectionary, Agriculture, Biotechnology and Healthcare IT Sectors only. 1. SERVICES WE OFFER:- Complete start up Business Solutions: (Includes) • Initial Consulting Solutions • Business Conceptualization Solutions • Business Planning Solutions • Registration & Legal Solutions • Financial Assistance • Infrastructural Assistance • Product And Process Optimization Solutions • Mecha-Structuaral Solutions (Machinery) • Vendor Development Solutions • Marketing & Sales Solutions • Web & IT Solutions PRODUCTS WE OFFER:- • Bankable Business Plan cum Project Reports (Ask for more details, if needed) • Market Research Reports • Subsidy Reports • Business Feasibility Reports Let us know your detailed requirement, we shall consult you from planning to execution. Thanks & Regards Meticulous Business Solutions +91 992 167 1369 Meticulous info@meticulousbizsol.com Reply With Quote December 8th, 2014 #4 aksharambs Join Date Jan 2014 Posts 62 Leave your contact details Reply With Quote April 13th, 2015 #5 mohanbhai Join Date Apr 2015 Posts 8 PLZ. help me for this project report. You are requested to kindly send us soft copy of project report on mail id mohandhakane91@gmail.com Reply With Quote April 22nd, 2015 #6 chandra471980 Join Date Apr 2015 Posts 1 Please send me project report 10 Buffalo dairy farm Reply With Quote 2 Weeks Ago #7 aksharambs Join Date Jan 2014 Posts 62 Please contact on Meticulous Business Solutions +91 992 167 1369 Meticulous info@meticulousbizsol.com Reply With Quote 2 Days Ago #8 9909491585 Join Date May 2015 Posts 1 Originally Posted by aksharambs Leave your contact details Hi i want your contact no. Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 10:24 AM .