about-edit About us Administrative Setup Infrastructure Training Faculty Contact Picture Gallery ABOUT US History Philosophy Objectives Our Activities Our Focus Quality Systems INFRASTRUCTURE Academic Area Library Computer Lab Quality Control Lab Hostel Training FCI Regular Course FCI Direct Recruitment Training Other Traning Conference     Food Corporation of India   (TO BE PUBLISHED IN PART-II, SECTION 3, SUB-SECTION (i) OF THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ) Government of India Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pension (Department of Personnel and Training) -----------------   New Delhi , Dated the 16 th September,2005 Notification G.S.R……., In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (2) of section 27 of the Right to Information Act, 2005 (22 of 2005), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:- 1.    Short title and commencement- (1) These rules may be called the Right to Information (Regulation of Fee and Cost)Amendment Rules,2006. (2)   They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 2.    Definitions – In the rules, unless the context otherwise requires,- (a)   “Act” means the Right to Information Act, 2005; (b)   ‘section’ means section of the Act; (c)   all other words and expressions used herein but not defined and defined in the Act shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Act. 3.    A request for obtaining information under sub-section (1) of section 6 shall be accompanied by an application fee of rupees ten by way of cash against proper receipt or by demand draft or bankers cheque or Indian Postal Order payable to the Accounts Officer of the public authority. 4.    For providing the information under sub-section (1) of section 7, the fee shall be charged by way of cash against proper receipt or by demand draft or bankers cheque or Indian Postal Order payable to the Accounts Officer of the public authority at the following rates:- ( a)   rupees two for each page (in A-4 or A-3 size paper) created or copied; (b)   actual charge or cost price of a copy in larger size paper; (c)   actual cost of price for samples or models; and (d)   for inspection of records, no fee for the first hour; and a fee of rupees five for each fifteen minutes (or fraction thereof) thereafter. 5.    For providing the information under sub-section (5) of section 7, the fee shall be charged by way of cash against proper receipt or by demand draft or bankers cheque or Indian Postal Order payable to the Accounts Officer of the public authority at the following rates:- (a)          for information provided in diskette or floppy rupees fifty per diskette or floppy; and (b)          for information provided in printed form at the price fixed for such publication or rupees two per page of photocopy for extracts from the publication. (Hari Kumar) Director {F.No.34012/8(s)/2005-Estt.(B)} To The Manager,Government of India Press, Mayapuri, New Delhi . Home About us Infrastructure Our Courses Faculty Contact Picture Gallery Copyright @ 2013, Institute of Food Security, Food Corporation of India "Site is designed and developed by IFS and is hosted by National Informatics Centre"