Agriquest | WeedManagement. Home Seeds Agri Inputs Agriculture Horticulture Sericulture Animal Husbandary Organic Farming Info Agri Jobs Blog Contact Agriquest Language Horticulture Crop Improvement. Crop Production. Soil Management. Weed Management. Water Management. Mechanization. Food Processing. Micropropagation Biotechnological approaches. Sponsored Link Weed Management. Weed management tools Herbicides are one of the tools available to control weeds in orchards. Mulching, mowing and cultivation are also effective in managing weeds, especially in the year of planting. Each strategy has certain strengths and weaknesses as indicated in Table 4-14. Table 4-14. Advantages and disadvantages of weed management tools Tool Advantages Disadvantages Cultivation/ hoeing - effective, especially on small weeds  - non-selective - controls all emerged growth - equipment readily available - may damage soil structure  - may spread perennial weeds  - may damage trees/roots  - provides only short-term control Mulching - effective if properly managed - non-selective - suppresses all emerging weeds - holds soil moisture as well - provides long-term control - availability of mulch  - cost of mulch/application  - attractive to rodents  - may affect tree nutrition  - must be free of weed seeds Mowing - rescue treatment  - quick suppression  - equipment available  - reduce seed spread - weeds may still compete  - quick regrowth  - several mowings required  - may damage young trees Herbicides - effective  - easy to apply  - can be selective  - timely - require 2% soil organic matter  - directed spray equipment  - effects on pest complex  - cost varies Weed management strategies may combine several of these tools and it is important to be aware of the pros and cons of each. Mulching, cultivation and/or mowing may affect the performance of herbicides applied under trees, as well as using irrigation (Figure 4-183). Figure 4-183. Weed "escapes" can occur around trickle irrigation emitters due to leaching of herbicides. Use spot treatments if escapes occur during the critical weed-free periods. How herbicides work Herbicides registered for orchards kill weeds in several different ways, but there are three broad categories of control methods. Burndown (contact) - herbicide is applied to existing vegetation and kills the top growth. Herbicides are directed under the trees to create a weed-free strip and/or applied to the row alleyways. Some burndown herbicides are systemic - they are absorbed into the plant and move to the growing point and/or the roots, and give longer-term control for perennial weeds. Some burndown herbicides are not systemic and target only above-ground green tissue. These contact herbicides control top growth, but do not give long-term control of perennials. Soil residual (pre-emergent) - herbicide is applied to the soil surface before weed seedlings germinate. The chemical remains in the soil for several weeks to months, killing germinating seedlings. Generally, a rainfall of at least 12 mm is required to activate the herbicide, resulting in a longer period of control. Post-emergent (selective) - these herbicides kill only certain weeds out of existing vegetation e.g. graminicides kill grasses only, or auxinic (hormone) herbicides kill only broadleaves. These are usually targeted for weed escapes or for problem weeds like thistles or annual grasses. There are advantages and disadvantages to using these types of herbicides as indicated in Table 4-15. Advantage and disadvantages of herbicide control categories. Table 4-15. Advantages and disadvantages of herbicide control categories Category Advantages Disadvantages Burndown - controls all emerged weeds  - inexpensive  - widely available  - can target critical weed-free period - may damage trees if absorbed (systemic) - early weeds compete with trees  - perennial weeds are not killed - new seedlings germinate after application Soil residual - reliable control  - effective for longer periods  - can target critical weed-free period  - cost effective  - broad spectrum  - longer window to apply - may cause tree injury  - not safe on low organic matter soil  - may have tree-age restriction  - may leave residues after orchard removal - may require incorporation  - applied before weed problems are known  - may affect soil biology Selective - can target critical weed-free period - targets specific weeds  - minimizes herbicide use  - generally safe for trees - does not control a broad spectrum of weeds  - often an extra application  - additional expense  - timing is critical Herbicides are grouped by modes of action by the Weed Science Society of America (WSSA), and are listed in the  OMAFRA Publication 75, Guide to Weed Control. For each of the herbicide categories listed, there may be herbicides from several mode of action groups. For example, glyphosate (e.g. Roundup, Touchdown, Vantage) and paraquat (Gramoxone) are common herbicides used for burndown, but glyphosate is a Group 9 herbicide and paraquat is a Group 22 herbicide.  Be sure to know both the control category and herbicide group for herbicides used in the orchard. For example, a weed management strategy may require a burndown herbicide in the spring may use a Group 22 herbicide because a Group 9 herbicide was used the previous fall.  Rotating herbicides with different modes of action is an important strategy to manage weed resistance. Many herbicides only control grasses or broadleaf weeds. For broad-spectrum control of weeds usually growing in orchards, apply a tank mix of two herbicides. Choose products with strengths on different weeds, e.g. Dual II Magnum (controls grasses well) is often tank mixed with Princep (controls broadleaf weeds well). If weed growth is present, include a burndown herbicide in the tank mix. Selective herbicides are useful for treatments on weed escapes, for specific problem weeds like grasses or vetch, or for reducing pressure from broadleaf weeds with fall treatments of 2,4-D. Waiting until weeds appear before using herbicides is a preferred approach in a truly integrated weed management, as long as practical considerations such as timeliness of application, resistance management and critical weed-free period have been considered. Issues with using herbicides Managing weed resistance There is concern that continuous use of the same herbicide selects for resistant weeds, and herbicide resistance has been identified in a growing number of weeds and locations around the world. In Ontario orchards, resistance to paraquat has been identified where repeated applications each year over several years was practiced.  In orchard practice, it is common to use herbicides with different modes of action, often during the same growing season. For example, triazine herbicides (eg. Princep/simazine) have been widely used in orchards, creating concern of selecting for triazine-resistant pigweed (Figure 4-184) and lamb's-quarters. Corn growers had previously selected triazine-resistant weeds through continuous use of triazines alone. However, when orchard growers include other herbicide modes of action, e.g., Roundup, Ignite or Gramoxone, any resistant weeds are killed by these treatments. The escaped weeds are usually species that simazine does not control well e.g. pigweed and crabgrass. Only tests confirm if weeds are truly triazine-resistant. With more herbicides available to apple growers, choose different herbicide families and modes of action. Rotate herbicides within each year, and between years, in each orchard block.  Figure 4-184. In many orchards, pigweed is a challenging weed, which often escapes after simazine is applied Contamination of surface and ground water Many herbicides are water soluble, and may leach through the soil profile, eventually reaching the ground water. Heavy rainfall or irrigation immediately after application contributes to this problem. Herbicide spills near wells are another potential source of ground water contamination. Avoid these situations, especially on low organic matter soils. Soil residual herbicides such as simazine bind tightly to soil particles and may be washed into surface water when soil erosion occurs. Practice erosion control if the orchard site is at risk of wind or water erosion. Remember herbicides lost through leaching or erosion are not available to control weeds in your orchard.