By Speed Post F. No. 21-03/2014 -GA-I Government of India Ministry of Agriculture Department of Agriculture & Cooperation …… Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi, Dated the 20th January,2014 \ To, (As per the list attached) Subject: Inviting quotations for award of Annual Rate Contract for supply of consumables refill/cartridge (N-4) for Microburst and Auto Janitor (N- 6)Refills/cartridge expression cleaner deodorizer for 5 Microburst and 2 Auto Janitor installed in Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Sir, The Department of Agriculture & Cooperation invites sealed quotations for supply of consumables for Five Microburst and Two Auto Janitor Refills Installed in Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. The products can be inspected through G.A. Section of the Department on any working day between 3.00 PM to 5.00 PM. The period of contract for supply of consumables may be normally for a period of one year. The firm/ dealers having at least five years experience of supply with satisfactory report of consumables of Microburst and Auto Janitor Refills/cartridge in various Govt. Ministry/departments/organisations and capable to supply the items within three days from the date of receipt of the order. The firms interested for supply of these items in the department, may drop their quotation in the tender box kept inside the Reception Gate No. 1, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi latest by 10th February 2014 up to 3.00 P.M. The tender will be opened on the same day at 3.30 P.M. in the Room No. 15, G.A. Section, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi. The bidders or their representative may wish to be present at the time of opening of the tender. It may be specifically noted that the quotations are required to be submitted with EMD and other necessary documents and in the prescribed proforma only(Annexure-I) 2. The following terms and conditions may be kept in view while sending your quotations:- (a). The rates quoted shall be both in words and figures for one unit of Refill for each of the items viz Microburst & Auto Janitor. If VAT/ any other tax or in addition to the rates quoted, it should be specifically mentioned otherwise it would be presumed that the rates quoted are inclusive of the VAT/ any other tax or installation charge. The conditional bid will not be accepted under any circumstances. There should not be any erasing or overwriting on the rates quoted. The rate quoted shall be valid for a period of one year from date of award of contract. (b) In case more than one bidder quoted the same rates resulting in a tie, the lowest bidder will be decided on the basis of highest turnover during the last five years. (c) The firm should be in a position to deliver and install required consumables for Microburst and Auto Janitor Refills on short notice as and when required or with in three days from the date of receipt of the order; Cont….. -2- (d) The firm should be registered with the concerned authorities to carry out the business in this field; (e) The consumables for Microburst and Auto Janitor Refills will be delivered by the firm in Room No. 15, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi and installed at respective locations. No separate installation charge shall be paid. (f) The bidders are required to submit documentary proof of their experience in the field and their sound financial position and their registration with the concerned authorities. (g) The rates for each items shall be both in words and figures and the rates quoted at the time of submission of tender should remain valid for 45 days or till the rate contract is finalized, whichever is earlier and the lowest rates so finalized on the basis of competitive rates shall remain in force during the currency of the contract which will normally be for a period of one year, may be extended up to two additional years on the discretion of HOD, if performance of the vender /supplier as found to be satisfactory. It may specifically, be noted that no changes/ escalations in the accepted rates shall allowed during currency of the contract/ extension of contrat. (h) The tender shall be accompanied with a Demand Draft for Rs. 6,000/- (Rupees Six thousand only) as earnest money deposit drawn in favour of Pay and Accounts officer,(Sectt.) (PAO) Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. New Delhi. The earnest money will be refunded with in 30 days from the date of finalization of rate contract. (i) If the supplier fails to supply the consumables for Microburst and Auto Janitor Refills with in the stipulated time or if the quality of the items is not as per the approved sample, the Department shall be free to make necessary purchase from the market at the suppliers risk and cost of which shall be recoverable from the bills or performance security; (j) The Department has the authority to select more than one firm for award of contract for consumables for Microburst and Auto Janitor Refills; The department reserves the right to reject the tender in whole or any part thereof and decision of Head of the Department in the matter shall be final and binding. (k) Any dispute emanating from the resultant contract shall be interpreted under Indian Laws subject to the jurisdiction of NCT of Delhi; (l) The successful bidder will be required to furnish “Performance Security” of Rs.15,000/- (Rupees Fifteen thousand only) immediately after acceptance of the contract in the form of Fixed Deposit from any of the scheduled Bank in the favour of Pay & Account Officer, P&AO(Sectt.-I)Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, New Delhi which shall be refunded only after successful completion of the contract. (m) If any of the bidders needs any clarification or have any objection with regard to the terms and conditions of the tender, the same may be pointed out to the undersigned with in 15 days from the date of issue of this letter. Cont------- -3- (n) If the supplier fails to supply the Microburst refills (N-4)and Auto Janitor Refills/cartridge(N- 6)expression cleaner in the stipulated time or if the quality of the cartridge is not as per the approved/ required norms, the Department shall be free to make necessary arrangement to the procurement Microburst refills (N-4)and Auto Janitor Refills/cartridge(N-6) expression cleaner from the other sources at the suppliers’ risk and cost which shall be recoverable from his pending bills or performance security besides resulting in cancellation of the contract. Further in case of any deficiency in service, a penalty of 5% on the total amount of the bill for the relevant month will be imposed . (o) Bidders will not be permitted to alter or modify their bids after expiry of the deadline of receipt of bids. Your’s faithfully, (Raj Kumar) Under Secretary to the Govt. of India Tel No. 23384929 1.Copy to: NIC, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation with the request that this may please be displayed on the web site www.agri coop.nic.in of the Department immediately. 2. Copy to: www.eprocure.gov.in ANNEXURE - I QUOTATION FORM To, The Under Secretary (GA) Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Room No-14, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi-110001. Subject: Annual Rate Contract for supply of consumables refill/cartridge (N-4) for Microburst and consumables Refills/cartridge (N-6) expression cleaner Deodorizer for Auto Janitor Installed in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Sir, I/we intend the submit the quotation on the subject captioned above and hereby consent to agree/ accept all the terms and conditions stipulated in Department Of Agriculture & Cooperation’s letter No.21-03/2014- GA-I dated 20.01.14 .The rates quoted and details are as indicated below:- 1.Name of the tenderer (in Block letter) --------------------------------- 2. Address --------------------------------- 3. Telephone No. --------------------------------- 4. Bank Draft No & date --------------------------------- 5. Amount of Draft --------------------------------- 6. Name of the Bank --------------------------------- 7 . Registration No. of the firm --------------------------------- (Please enclose the copy of registration) 8. VAT No. --------------------------------- 9. Service Tax No. --------------------------------- 10. PAN No. --------------------------------- 11. Experience Documents --------------------------------- (Attached a copy of Minimum three years experience) 12. Rate (in Rupees) per refill (Both in figures and words) (1.) Microburst Refills/ cartridge (N- 4) = one refill Rs.------------------------------- (Rupees- (2 ) Auto Janitor Refills/cartridge expression cleaner Deodorizer Rs.---------------- (N- 6) one refill (Rupees- I/we hereby declare and affirm that I/we have read and understood the terms and conditions of the contract as stipulated in the tender notice No.21-03/2014-GA.I dated 20/01/2014. Accordingly, I/ we hereby offer the rate for annual contract of consumables of Microburst and Auto janitor refill as indicated on pre page. (Signature of Authorized Signatory) Name of the bidder: