United Arab Emirates Trade Fairs,Trade Shows & Business Conferences in United Arab Emirates JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? United Arab Emirates Trade Shows Classifieds Country United Arab Emirates Trade Shows Classifieds Date : 04 Oct - 06 Oct 2015 Power-Gen Middle East -  United Arab Emirates POWER-GEN Middle East is the region’s leading event dedicated to the power and water industries. Venue : Abu Dhabi National Exhibitions Company ,Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Jan - 19 Jan 2016 Intersec Thailand -  United Arab Emirates The Thai Intersec country is a professional trade and information platform for products and services related to security. The fair presents new specialized technologies, equipment and services in the areas of personal protection, fire and.... Venue : Dubai International Convention and Exhibition Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Mar - 17 Apr 2016 ISNR 2016 -  United Arab Emirates International Security National Resilience 2015 is provides the best solutions for public and private sectors and civilian entities alike to detect, prevent, protect, respond to and recover from any danger, be it small in proportions or.... Venue : Abu Dhabi International Exhibition Centre (Adiec) United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Oct - 30 Oct 2015 IREIS - International Real Estate & Investment Show -  United Arab Emirates 7th annual International Real Estate and Investment Show – IREIS 2015, the only real estate event in Abu Dhabi targeted at the final consumer rather than at trade visitors. IREIS is set to be our most exciting show yet and.... Venue : Abu Dhabi International Exhibition Centre (Adiec) United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Oct - 29 Oct 2015 Sweet & SnackTec Middle East -  United Arab Emirates Sweets & Snacks Middle East is the sucessful satellite exhibition of the world famous ISM Cologne. The show is jointly organized by Koelnmesse GmbH & the Dubai World Trade Centre. Sweets & Snacks Middle East is the only trade show in.... Venue : Dubai World Trade Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Nov - 03 Nov 2016 Seatrade Middle East Maritime -  United Arab Emirates The Middle East has never been more focused on its one-stop maritime trade hub ambition – or more alive with an abundance of business opportunities! More and more top players from the world’s shipowning community are using SMEM to access.... Venue : Dubai International Convention Exhibition Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 23 Nov - 26 Nov 2015 The Big 5 - Dubai -  United Arab Emirates The largest ever Big 5 was held from 23 - 26 November 2015 at the Dubai International Exhibition Centre, Tens of thousands of industry professionals joined us to source innovative products including exhibitors part of the innovation trail, learn.... Venue : Dubai International Exhibition Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Sep - 15 Sep 2015 Gifts and Premium Dubai -  United Arab Emirates Gifts and Premium Dubai 2015 is one of the leading corporate gifts, giftware, medals show which is showing there quality products and show will providing and best place for the related industries in the country. Venue : Dubai World Trade Centre ,UAE United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Dec - 17 Dec 2015 PVPCEXPO Middle East Exhibition 2015 -  United Arab Emirates PVPC Expo Middle East 2015 is a top quality professional exhibition, which will run between 15th to 17th, December, 2015 at DUBAI WORLD TRADE CENTER,DUBAI,UAE. Middle East. It is organized by Global Fair International, Sharjah.... Venue : DUBAI WORLD TRADE CENTER ,dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Jun - 03 Jun 2015 Middle East EVENT Show -  United Arab Emirates Now in its fifth year, the Middle East EVENT Show will return to the JW Marriott Marquis from the 2 – 3 June 2015. Providing visitors with a unique opportunity to source new MICE, event and entertainment industry suppliers while catching up with.... Venue : JW Marriott Marquis Hotel Dubai ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 May - 13 May 2015 Abu Dhabi International Book Fair -  United Arab Emirates The Abu Dhabi International Book Fair is an annual book fair held in Abu Dhabi. It provides a platform where publishers, booksellers, agents, cultural organisations and press can meet, exchange ideas and identify business opportunities. Since.... Venue : Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre ,Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Apr - 27 Apr 2015 INTERNATIONAL TEXTILE FAIR 2015 -  United Arab Emirates INTERNATIONAL TEXTILE FAIR offers buyers, distributors, and designers the opportunity to view a large range of textiles from the most prestigious textile mills all over the world– all under one roof! Showing at Dubai World.... Venue : Dubai World Trade Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Apr - 16 Apr 2015 Gulf Print -  United Arab Emirates Gulf Print will have a special focus on the integration of processes in printing and packaging and its supply chain as this will eventually lead both industries to claim market leadership and turning UAE to a printing and packaging hub. This.... Venue : Dubai World Trade Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Mar - 07 Mar 2015 The Perfect Wedding Show -  United Arab Emirates The Perfect Wedding Show is the ideal wedding event that throws open to wedding costumes and attire, wedding accessories, wedding planning services, wedding hotel services and all products and services that are involved with this grand event. It.... Venue : Expo Centre Sharjah ,Sharjah United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 11 Feb - 13 Feb 2015 Education Show-Sharjah -  United Arab Emirates The event will once again provide participating educational institutions the chance to directly connect with a large number of fresh school leavers, undergraduates, working professionals and executives, and others who wish to pursue higher.... Venue : Expo Centre Sharjah United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Feb - 11 Feb 2015 5th Annual Business Continuity & Emergency Response Forum -  United Arab Emirates The 5th edition Business Continuity and Emergency Response Forum 2015, provides a platform to discuss the ever-changing technology landscape and its implications for business continuity management, the social media conundrum and share them with.... Venue : Grand Millennium Al Wahda ,Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Jan - 29 Jan 2015 Arab Health -  United Arab Emirates In addition to the 400 new companies we had last year, 200 new companies will be accommodated in Za'abeel 4 in 2015 bringing together a total of 4,000 exhibitors showcasing the latest products and services from the healthcare industr. Venue : Dubai International Convention & Exhibition Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Jan - 29 Jan 2015 SteelFab 2015 -  United Arab Emirates SteelFab is the regions only exclusive trade show that completely caters to the needs and demands of the Steel Working industry. The event is one of Middle East's largest display of steel working machinery & hosts some of the world's most.... Venue : Expo Centre Sharjah ,Sharjah United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Jan - 20 Jan 2015 Intersec Dubai -  United Arab Emirates The leading Trade Fair for Safety & Security Worldwide! Renowned as the world’s largest and most comprehensive trade and networking exhibition for the Security and Safety industries, Intersec 2015 offers you a.... Venue : Dubai international exhibition centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jan - 13 Jan 2015 Tube Arabia -  United Arab Emirates The Construction And Manufacturing Sectors Are A Strong And Important Component Of The Middle East'S Economic Engine. Buoyed In Particular By The Booming Oil Markets, Construction And Manufacturing Has Been Boosting The Demand For Related.... Venue : Dubai International Exhibition and Convention Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jan - 13 Jan 2015 Tekno Tube Arabia -  United Arab Emirates Tekno Tube Arabia is the International Trade Fair for Industrial Machinery, Metal Working & Machine Tools, Tubes & Pipes, Molds and Dies Industry. It is an ideal platform which brings both exhibitors and visitors together.... Venue : Dubai International Convention & Exhibition Centre United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jan - 13 Jan 2015 Arabplast 2015 -  United Arab Emirates ARABPLAST 2015- the FASTEST way to enter the vast MENA region’s plastics, petrochemicals and rubber industry. ArabPlast 2015 is envisioned to make better business sense to the participants who are giving shape to a better world. The.... Venue : Dubai International Convention & Exhibition Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jan - 13 Jan 2015 Arab Plast - Dubai 2015 -  United Arab Emirates Arab Plast - Dubai 2015 is traditionally known for its wide reach among the middle eastern markets through its comprehensive display of innovative solutions for the plastics & rubber industry. no wonder it is now firmly established as the.... Venue : Dubai International Convention & Exhibition Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Dec - 11 Dec 2014 Abu Dhabi International Motor Show -  United Arab Emirates Abu Dhabi International Motor Show 2014 is the year’s largest and most comprehensive motor show in the middle east. Abu Dhabi International Motor Show will feature the latest and best vehicles from around the world. Venue : Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre ,Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Dec - 03 Dec 2014 29th International Autumn Trade Fair - Dubai -  United Arab Emirates International Autumn Trade Fair  (IATF) - Dubai 2014 has been recognised as a robust regional business platform for the global consumer goods industry keen to expand footprints in middle east and north africa (mena) region. iatf will unveil....