Jaisalmer City Map Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Jaisalmer City Map   Rajasthan Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar Amer Barmer Bharatpur Pali Sikar Nagaur                         more.. राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan History and Geography Weather Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Jaisalmer City Map City Map of Jaisalmer Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest in Jaisalmer City. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Rao Jaisal laid the foundation stone of Jaisalmer in 1156 A.D. He hailed from the Yadav and Rajput kin group. His Yadav descent can be traced back to the Mahabharata and the Rajputs were famed for courage and gallantry. Jaisalmer is studded with magnificent tourist haunts that encapsulates the vivacious culture of this lovely locale. It is laced with beautiful forts, sacred shrines, stately havelis reminiscent of the yester years, rippling lake, well stacked museums. Besides, Jaisalmer is also the site of several fairs, that throbs with electrifying energy. The Desert Festival is perhaps one of the most awaited festivals of the splendid Jaisalmer. It comes alive with the foot tapping beats of Dhap, Ghoomar, Gair among a host of other traditional dance forms, in accompaniment with several musical instruments like sarangi, matka and minla. The Gangaur festivities are also major crowd pullers. The adventure freaks have their hands full with camel expeditions and hiking across the desert. It is also a shopaholic's paradise. You can lay hands on eye catching traditional attires, embellished with mirror, exquisite collector's items at the bustling bazaars of the colorful Jaisalmer, Rajasthan . Traveling to Jaisalmer is bereft of any hassle. Strategically located, it is well connected by roadways, railways and airways. The airport of Jodhpur is situated at a distance of three hundred kilometers from Jaisalmer. You can avail flights of the Indian Airlines and Jet Airways that are operational on a regular basis. If you choose to travel by train, you have traverse a journey spanning Jaipur , Alwar and Jodhpur. Buses, another popular mode of transport, also are aplenty. The following is a list of top tourist joints that you can hotfoot to on a trip of Jaisalmer. Jaisalmer Fort Tazia Tower Patwon-Ki-Haveli Nathmal Ji Ki Haveli Akal Wood Fossil Park Desert National Park Jain Temples Patwon Ki Haveli Salim Singhji Ki Haveli Nathmalji Ki Haveli Gadisar Lake Tilon Ki Pol Government Museum Sanskritik Sangrahalay You can team up your sojourn of Jaisalmer with pleasure trips to Amar Sagar, Ludarva, Desert National Park, Barmer, Wood Fossil Park, among a host of others. So, pack your bags, draw up your itinerary and get set for a memorable experience. Jaisalmer Facts City Name Jaisalmer Nickname Golden City State Rajasthan District Jaisalmer District Headquarters Jaisalmer Tehsil/Taluk Jaisalmer Ward 30 Lat Long 26.915825, 70.907605 Area 5.1 km2 (2.0 sq mi) Population as per 2011 672,008 Official Languages Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) STD Code 02992 Transport Air, Road, Rail Vehicle registration RJ-15 Food and Cuisine Ker Sangri, Bhanon Aloo, Kadi Pakora, Most Favorite Non-Vegetarian Delicacy, Murgh-e-Subzchicken Pieces and Chopped Vegetables etc. Religion Hindu, Muslim, Jain Festival Desert Festival, Holi, Dussehra, Rakhi, Ram Navami, Diwali, Gangaur, Teej and Basant Panchami, Muharram, Eids etc. Monuments Jaisalmer Fort, Patwon Ki Haveli, Salim Singh ki Haveli, Bada Bagh, Jain Temples, Nath Mal ki Haveli, Khaba Fort, Vyas Chhatri, Jaisalmer Fort Palace Museum and Heritage Centre, Maharaja's Palace, Tazia Tower, Dussehra Chowk etc. Places of interest Jaisalmer Fort, Nathmalji-ki-Haveli, Gadi Sagar lake, Patwon-ki-Haveli, Deoki Niwas Palace, Salim Singh-ki-Haveli, Jain Temple, Museums, Tazia Tower, Desert National Park, Manak Chowk, Fort Rajwada, Desert Culture Centre & Museum, Folklore Museum, Government Museum, Jaisalmer Fort Palace Museum etc. Markets Sadar Bazar, Sonaron ka Bass, Manak Chowk, Pansari Bazar, Gandhi Darshan, Seema gram, Rajsthani Govt. shop and Khadi Gramuddyog Emporium, Bhatia Bazaar, Light of The East, Markets in the Fort, Barmer Embroidery House etc. Hospital Maheswari Hospital, Dr B K Arya Hospital, New Rajasthan Hospital, Rajkiya Hospital, Al Karim Surgical, Al Rehaman Medical Center, Community Health Centre, S J Hospital, Adarsh Hospital etc. Hotel Hotel Golden City, Rang Mahal, Hotel Fifu, The Gateway Hotel Rawalkot, Hotel Surja, Hotel Jaisalgarh, The Gateway Hotel Rawalkot, Himmatgarh Palace, Gorbandh Palace, Jawahar Niwas Palace, Hotel Priya, Heritage Inn, Hotel Garh Jaisal Haveli, Sagar Guest House, Hotel Golden City, Hotel Fort Rajwada etc. Industries Stone-Cutting and Sculpturing, Travel and Tourism, Mineral-Oriented Industry, Khadi Industry, Oil India Limited Discovered Natural Gas, Merchant Leather Messenger Bags etc. University/College SBK Government Post Graduate College, Government Girls Post Graduate College, Maa Durga,s Sansthan (w) Teacher Training College, Chandrawati Engineering College, Jaisalmer Govt Polytechnic College, Ramdev Teacher Training College, Govt STC College, Jagtamba College of IT & Management, Govt ITI College etc. Blogs about Jaisalmer Indulge in the royalties of the Jawahar Niwas Palace in Jaisalmer : Location: Jaisalmer, Rajasthan Heritage hotels are the best way to keep in touch with our ethnicity and ancestral traditions. The Jawahar Niwas Palace is one such place. The foundation of this beautiful palace was laid in 1899 AD by Maharwal Shalivahan Singhji, the 39th ruler of Jaisalmer. But the present magnificent look of the palace took its form under the supervision of Maharwal Jawahar Singh. Today, the palace stands proud as an elite heritage hotel,… read more... Amar Sagar Jain Temple : Location: Outskirts of Jaisalmer, Rajasthan Located adjacent to the famous Amar Sagar Lake and south of Lodurva, there is a Jain Temple dedicated to Lord Parshwanath, called Adeshwar Nath Jain temple. It was built by Patwa Bafna Himmat Ram in 1928. Amar Sagar once was a water reservoir (particularly an artificial lake) but now it is mostly dry. Beautifully crafted and designed, the temple looks astonishing with its intricate hand carvings and small domes. The… read more... Jaisalmer Fort or Sone ka Quila : One of the world's largest forts, the Jaisalmer Fort in Rajasthan is also popular as 'Sone Ka Quila’ - a name that goes perfectly with its appearance. Amidst the golden sands of the Thar Desert, the fort is the pride of Jaisalmer City and was built by Rao Jaisal, the Bhati Rajput ruler. A 30-feet tall wall protects the magnificent 25-feet tall Jaisalmer Fort. Also known as: Sonar Quila, Golden Fort Key attractions: A rustic… read more... Gadisar Lake in Jaisalmer : Originally a rain water conservation lake, the Gadisar Lake (also called Gadsisar Lake) is today a popular tourist attraction of Jaisalmer. The lake was built in the 14th century by Maharawal Gadsi Singh to meet the water requirements of this arid region. Considering its importance for sustenance, many small temples and shrines were constructed around the Gadisar Lake, hence transforming it into a pilgrimage centre in Jaisalmer. The most popular among these temples is the Tillon… read more... Patwon ki Haveli – Elegant and Captivating : Jaisalmer portrays itself as a mysterious story amidst the gorgeous Thar Desert. And Patwon ki Haweli complements the grace and valor of this city. A cluster of five small havelis, Patwon ki Haveli is also the first Haveli that was ever constructed in Jaisalmer. Every inch of yellow sandstone used in the Heveli's construction has been ostentatiously chiseled to impress, captivate and influence all. Beautiful frescoes, murals, mirror-works and paintings on every section of the… read more... Last Updated on : July 7, 2014 Cities in Rajasthan Ajmer Alwar Amer Banaswara Barmer Bharatpur Bhilwara Bhiwadi Bikaner Bhadra Bundi Chittaurgarh Kishangarh Didwana Nohar Pratapgarh Churu Dungarpur Jaipurcity Jaisalmer Jhalawar Jodhpur Kota Kumbhalgarh Mount Abu Ganganagar Hanumangarh Gangapur Jalore Sojat Nathdwara Niwai Nagaur Neemrana Pali Pushkar Ranakpur Sawai Madhopur Shekhawati Sikar Udaipur Tonk Baran Dausa Laxmangarh Merta Ladnun Rawatbhata             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule