Sanjukta Panigrahi India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Art and Culture » Sanjukta Panigrahi   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Sanjukta Panigrahi 'Dance for the Lord' is Odissi's tradition. Sanjukta Panigrahi, the legendary Odissi dancer maintained this custom all through her life. The dedicated dancer played a pivotal role in reviving the Odissi dance form in India and popularizing it in abroad. She was given the title Padmashri by the Government of India in recognition of her priceless contribution to Indian dance. She was also awarded with the Sangeet Kala Academy Award. Sanjukta Panigrahi was born on 24.08.44 in Behrampur, Orissa . She was a God gifted dancer. She started very young, at the age of four, under Guru Kelucharan Mahapatra.. Sanjukta Panigrahi performed at the annual festival of the Children's Little Theatre in Calcutta, when she was only nine. The little girl became cynosure of the event. "The entire show was stolen by a child prodigy from Orissa" one appreciating coverage in a newspaper the very next morning was published. Discovering her talent, her mother sent her to Rukmini Devi Arundale in Kalakshetra, Chennai. Sanjukta came out of Kalashetra with in Nrityapraveen diploma Bharatnatyam with Kathakali as the second subject after six years. It was here that she met Raghunath Panigrahi, a vocalist. She married him when she was only sixteen. After a long struggling phase they decided to perform jointly. The Sanjukta-Raghunath duo enchanted the audience for a long time. Sanjukta Panigrahi had choreographed many innovative pieces along with performing the traditional ones. She was a leader in Odissi dance and created many brilliant students to carry on with her legacy. Sanjukta Panigrahi died of cancer at an age of 55, when there was lot more for her to contribute in the field of dance.   Related Links   Odissi Sanjukta Panigrahi Protima Bedi Kumkum Mohanty Sonal Mansingh Kelucharan Mohapatra   Bharatnatyam Chitra Vishweswaran Padma Suvramanyum Mallika Sarabhai   Kathakali Anita Ratnam   Kathak PT. Birju Maharaj   Kuchipudi Vempati Chinna Satyam Raja and Radha Reddy Siddhendra Yogi Mrinalini Sadananda Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule