Policies & Disclaimer : Official Website of Government of Jharkhand Click for Archive Website Skip to Main Content Skip to Navigation Sign In A A A- A A+ Government of Jharkhand Official website of the state Home About Directory Photo Gallery e Services You are here : Home Policies & Disclaimer Hyperlinking Policy Links to External Websites/Portals At many places in this portal, you shall find links to other websites/portals created and maintained by other Government, non-Government / private organisations. These links have been placed for your convenience. When you select a link you are navigated to that website. Once on that website, you are subject to the privacy and security policies of the owners / sponsors of the website. Government of Jharkhand is not responsible for the contents and reliability of the linked websites and does not necessarily endorse the views expressed in them. Mere presence of the link or its listing on this portal should not be assumed as endorsement of any kind. Links to the Website by Other Websites/Portals We do not object you for linking directly to the information that is hosted on our site and no prior permission is required for the same.We do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on your site. Our Department's pages must load into a newly opened browser window of the user. Privacy Policy As a general rule, this portal does not automatically capture any specific personal information from you, (like name, phone number or e-mail address), that allows us to identify you individually. This portal records your visit and logs the following information for statistical purposes, such as Internet Protocol (IP) addresses, domain name, browser type, operating system, the date and time of the visit and the pages visited. We make no attempt to link these addresses with the identity of individuals visiting our site unless an attempt to damage the site has been detected. We will not identify users or their browsing activities, except when a law enforcement agency may exercise a warrant to inspect the service provider's logs. If the portal requests you to provide personal information, you will be informed how it will be used if you choose to give it and adequate security measures will be taken to protect your personal information. Copyright Policy Material featured on this portal may be reproduced free of charge in any format or media without requiring specific permission. This is subject to the material being reproduced accurately and not being used in a derogatory manner or in a misleading context. Where the material is being published or issued to others, the source must be prominently acknowledged. However, the permission to reproduce this material does not extend to any material on this site which is identified as being the copyright of the third party. Authorisation to reproduce such material is obtained from the copyright holders concerned.   Disclaimer Although information and contents of various departmental websites of this portal have been put with care and diligence, Government of Jharkhand does not take responsibility on how this information is used or the consequences of its use. In case of any inconsistency/confusion, the user should contact the concerned Department/Officer of Jharkhand Government for further clarifications.   State Department and Agencies Agriculture Animal Husbandry Art & Culture Board of Revenue Disaster Management Forest & Environment Department of Excise Finance Food & Public Distribution Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Human Resources Industries Information & Public Relations Information Technology Labour & Employment Law (Justice) Power & Energy Rural Development Science & Technology Social Development Transport Tourism Department Water Resources Know More... Know Your District Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka East Singhbhum Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan About Us About the Portal Terms of use Policies & Disclaimer Contact us Site Map Accessibility Statement Help Feedback Screen Reader Access FAQ's Weather For Jharkhand --Select-- Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka Jamshedpur Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan Supported By External website that opens in a new window. External website that opens in a new window. This page was last modified on:Fri Jan 02 06:57:22 UTC 2015 All Rights Reserved by Government of Jharkhand, India. Designed & Maintained by TCSL   in cooperation with NIC and JAPIT Validation HTML5 , CSS3   Back to Top