Amritsar Tourist Attraction Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Amritsar Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Amritsar Places to Visit in Amritsar Golden Temple Wagah Border Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Durgiana Temple Ram Bagh Ram Tirath Mata Temple Tarn Taran Sahib Faridkot Fort Govind Garh Fort Pul Kanjari Jama Masjid Khairuddin Khoo Kalyanwala Historical Banyan Tree Massacre Memorial Baba Atal Rai Tower Bathinda Fort Cities to Visit Near Amritsar Ludhiana Travel Chandigarh Travel Dalhousie Travel Dharamshala Travel Delhi to Amritsar Route Map About Amritsar History Climate Punjab Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Punjab Places to Visit in Punjab Home » Amritsar » Amritsar Tourist Attraction Amritsar Tourist Attraction Amritsar is a city with a splendid blend of tradition and culture. With important religious centers and historical sites, the city reveals a magnificent past and a promising future. The city is known as the Jewel of Punjab. There are several heritage and religious attractions in Amritsar. Some of the major attractions are as follows: Places to See in Amritsar Golden temple (Harmandir Sahib) Category : Religious It is one of the most sacred pilgrimage spots for Sikhs. The temple derives its name from its fully golden dome. The temple is built over marble and is two storied high structure. Guru Ram Das, the fourth Guru of Sikhs had initially built a pool here which currently houses the Temple. It is the epicenter of Sikhism. The Granth Sahib is kept in the Temple during day time and at night it is kept in the Akal Takht or Eternal Throne. The Akal Takht also contains the ancient weapons used by the Sikh warriors. There is also a Central Sikh Museum atop the clock tower. The 'Guru Ka Langar' offers free food to approximately two thousand people everyday with number going up to one lakh on special occasions. A visitor to the temple must cover his or her head all the time while in the temple premises. More... Wagah Border Category : History & Culture Wagah is the only road border crossing between Pakistan and India between Aritsar and Lahore cities.Wagah also termed as "Wagha" in Pakistan.The international border between India and Pakistan is located at a distance of 28 km from Amritsar. The ceremonial display of the Beating Retreat and Change of Guard makes it an extraordinary spectacle. The soldiers from both countries demonstrate great enthusiasm and spirit as nationalistic fervor rises amidst roaring applause. More... Jallianwala Bagh Category : History & Culture In 1919, the British under the command of General Dyer fired randomly on a peaceful gathering of people in demand of freedom, resulting in hundreds of men, women and children killed on the spot. The bullet marks on the boundary walls bring alive the agonizing tale of cruelty of the British rule. This event was one of the major incidents of India's freedom struggle. The memorial well is also present here in which some people jumped to escape the firing. The story of the massacre is told in the Martyr's Gallery at the site. More... Akal Takht Category : Religious Just near the Golden Temple of Amritsar and opposite to the marbled Darshni Deorhi, the Akal Takht stands pretty. Considered the highest seat of the Sikh authority, the Akal Takht was built by Guru Hargovind in the year 1609. Shri Hargovind was the sixth guru of the Sikhs who made immense contribution to popularize the religion. Regarded as the Lord's home, it is called - Akal Bunga. More... Durgiana Temple Category : Religious The temple is dedicated to Goddess Durga and its structural design resembles the golden temple. The temple dates back to 16th century. Detailed carved paintings of the Goddess in her different incarnations are displayed in this shrine. Various other deities are also found in the interiors of the temple. The temple has a remarkable splendor and elegance of its own. More... Ram Bagh Category : Garden Ram Bagh is a beautiful garden and is a tribute to Guru Ram Das, the founder of the city. Famed as the summer palace of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh, it has now been converted into a museum which exhibits weapons from Mughal times to portraits of ruling houses of Punjab and the replica of "Kohinoor" diamond. Ram Tirath Category : Religious Located at a distance of 12 Km from Amritsar, the place has an ancient tank and several temples. It is the site where Goddess Sita gave birth to her sons Luv and Kush. A four day fair takes place here, starting on the full moon night in November. More... Mata Temple Category : Religious This labyrinthine type of Hindu cave temple is dedicated to the female saint, Lal Devi. Women who wish to become pregnant visit this temple to pray. The twisty route to the shrine passes through low tunnels, ankle-deep waterways, walkways, staircases and caves. More... Tarn Taran Saheb Category : History & Culture Located in the state of Punjab, Tarn Taran Saheb is a city that was founded by Shri Guru Anjan Dev, the fifth Sikh Guru. He had also laid the foundation of Tarn Taran Sahib Temple. Tarn Taran was later declared as a district and it has the largest percentage of Sikh population in Punjab. It has many gurudwaras, most popular being the Gurudwara Darbar Sahib. With its gold-plated structure and a sarovar (pond), this three-storeyed edifice is undoubtedly the main attraction of the city. Tarn Taran is well connected to other cities by roads and rail lines. More... Faridkot Fort Category : History & Culture The Amritsar tourist attraction flaunts several fabulous locations and Faridkot Fort is one of them. Established near the famous city of Ferozepur, Faridkot Fort attracts the attention of both local and global travelers. As per the historical records of the Punjab tourist places, Faridkot Fort came into being some 700 years back. As such, this fort of Amritsar claims a distinct mention in the heritage of Punjab. More... Govind Garh Fort Category : History & Culture One of the Amritsar Tourist Attractions, the Govind Garh Fort is a very important site with immense historical significance. Locally known as the 'Bhangian Da Quila', the fort was constructed in the year 1760.Historical evidences prove that the fort belonged to Gujjar Singh Bhangi during the early nineteenth century, which gave it the earlier mentioned name. More... Pul Kanjari Category : History & Culture This village is about 35 km away from Amritsar and Lahore and Maharaja Ranjit Singh had been staying here in a Baradari as and when he passed by with his troops. It has been declared as a World Heritage Site by the UNESCO. It is said that once when a young dancer was going to Maharaja's Baradari for a dance performance, her shoe slipped into the water channel. A bridge (pul) was especially constructed to take her shoe out as the dancer had then refused to perform till she gets back her shoe and hence this place got its name. Pul Kanjari also has a temple, a mosque and a Gurudwara that speaks of the secular attitude of this place. The village is also popular for shopping. Jama Masjid Khairuddin Category : Religious This religious center in Amritsar is known for its beautiful architecture. It was built in 1976 by Mohammed Khairuddin and speaks of his struggle for freedom. There is a mosque nearby which attracts many pilgrims to this area. This is the holy spot where Tootie-e-Hind, Shah Attaullah Bukhari protested against the British Rule. Tourists from all over the world and the local people are attracted to this place which is easily accessible. Samadhi of Guru Angad Dev Ji Category : Religious Built in 1815 AD, the Samadhi of Guru Angad Dev Ji was built by the great Maharaja Ranjit Singh. It is situated at a distance of about 30 km from Amritsar. Guru Angad was the second Guru of Sikhs? and a devout follower of Guru Nanak. Khoo Kalyanwala Category : History & Culture This city has played a vital role in relieving India from the British rule. During the Revolt of 1857, a platoon of 400 soldiers at Lahore protested against the British and swam across Ravi to reach Ajnala. But as per the orders of then the Deputy Commissioner of Amritsar, Fedric Cooper, they were all locked up in a tiny room where around 200 soldiers died because of suffocation and the rest were shot dead and thrown into the Kalyanwala Khoo (well). Historical Banyan Tree Category : History & Culture Located just outside the Ram Bagh Garden, the Historical Banyan Tree or Shaheedi Bohr is just a few kilometers away from Amritsar. This great historical Banyan tree serves as a reminder of the long British rule in India during which many fought bravely and gave up their lives for freedom of the Nation. The Historical Banyan tree is a huge with lush, green leaves and a widely spread branches. Four Namdharis were hung here to death in 1871 after they had objected against the hawking of beef near the Golden Temple, Amritsar. Tourist Destinations Near Amritsar Dalhousie (190 km) It is a popular hill station in Himachal Pradesh famous for its picturesque beauty, pleasing climate and serene surroundings. The hill station has an old charm and embraces the reflections of British Raj. More... Dharamshala (196 km) Dharamshala is another wonderful and picturesque hill station in Himachal Pradesh and has lots of temples and monasteries, making it a good spiritual choice for devotees to visit. More... Chandigarh (229 km) The capital city of Punjab is a green, clean and affluent city. With its proper organized sectors and roads designed by Le Corbusier, Jane Drew, Pierre Jeanneret and Maxwell Fry. The city is very different from other cities in the country. More... Ludhiana (142 km) The city of Ludhiana is situated in Punjab and is well-known for being the manufacturing capital of Punjab. There are many religious and historical sites which makes the city appealing to tourists. More... Bhatinda (188 km) The city is among the oldest cities in Punjab. The bustling heritage and culture attracts many tourist both local and foreigners to Bhatinda. There are also many places of religious significance in this city. Last Updated on : June 23, 2014 Tourist Attractions in Punjab Golden Temple Wagah Border Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Durgiana Temple Ram Bagh Ram Tirath Mata Temple Tarn Taran Sahib Faridkot Fort Govind Garh Fort Massacre Memorial Baba Atal Rai Tower Bathinda Fort Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Information People Population Location Restaurant & Bar Shopping Cuisine Living SGPC Transportation Nightlife Banks Municipal Corporation Places to Visit in Amritsar Golden Temple Wagah Border Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Durgiana Temple Ram Bagh Ram Tirath Mata Temple Tarn Taran Sahib Faridkot Fort Govind Garh Fort Massacre Memorial Baba Atal Rai Tower Bathinda Fort About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule