Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Project, DMIC Alignment Home » Infrastructure » Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Project   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views About India India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels Current Events India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Project DMIC Alignment Map Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map Map showing DMIC Alignment within Dadri and JN Port. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor is a corridor expected to be built between the cities of Mumbai and Delhi with the massive budget of 1000 crore. The project has the Indian as well as the Japanese government funding it and it is expected to boost the development of infrastructure in the six major states in the country which are Delhi, Western Uttar Pradesh, Southern Haryana, Eastern Rajasthan, Eastern Gujarat and Western Maharashtra. The corridor will extend up to 1483 km in length. Nine Mega Industrial zones of about 200-250 sq. km., high speed freight line, three ports, and six air ports and a six-lane intersection-free expressway will be developed between the two cities on the corridor. The project is being promoted as the one fetching 2-3-4-5 benefits. It is expected to double the employment opportunities, triple the output for the industries concerned with its development and increase the exports four times in a span of five years. Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Development Corporation will be is in charge of the construction of the corridor. The project will be carried on Built, operate and trade basis. It is also said that a four level institution will be set up to ensure the completion of the corridor. This will include an apex body, a corporate entity, a state- level coordination, project specified special purpose vehicle (SPV's) responsible for the implementation of the project. The corridor will be India's 'Global Manufacturing and Trading Hub'. The corridor is expected to support heavy vehicle weighing up to 25 tonnes. Last Updated on : 02/06/2013               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule