Microsoft Word - Guidelines Correct material Guidelines for manufacture and sale of Customized Fertilizer under Clause 20’B’ of Fertiliser(Control) Order.1985. 1. Objectives: The main objective of Customized Fertilizer is to promote site specific nutrient management so as to achieve the maximum fertilizer use efficiency of applied nutrient in a cost effective manner. The Customized Fertilizer may include the combination of nutrients based on soil testing & requirement of crop and the formulation may be of primary, secondary and micro-nutrients. It may include 100% water soluble fertilisers grades required in various stages of crop growth based on research findings. 2. Definition: Customized Fertilizer is a concept around balanced plant nutrition. Such fertilizers are based on the sound scientific plant nutrition principle and research, Customized Fertilizer provide the best nutrition al package for premium quality plant growth and yield. They are defined as package for premium quality plant growth and yield. They are defined as multi nutrient carrier designed to contain macro and /or micro nutrient forms., both from inorganic and/or organic sources, manufactured through a systematic process of granulation, satisfying the crop’s nutritional needs, specific to its site, soil and stage, validated by a scientific crop model capability developed by an accredited fertilizer manufacturing/marketing company. Such fertilizers also include water soluble specialty fertilizer as customized combination products. Prospective manufacturers or marketers are expected to use the software tools like. Decision Support System for Agro Technology Transfer(DSSAT). Crop Model etc. to determine the optimal grades of customized fertilizer. 3. Eligibility Criteria to manufacture and sale of Customized Fertilizer. (i) Permission for manufacture and sale of Customised Fertiliser shall be granted to only such companies whose annual turnover is Rs. 500 crores or above. (ii) Such manufacturing companies should have soil testing facility with an annual analyzing capacity of 10,000 samples per annum and should have analyzing capacity for NPK. Micronutrient and Secondary Nutrient. Such soil testing labs must process the requisite instruments as provided in Annexure.I). (iii) The grade of customized fertilizer, which the company will manufacturer, must be based on scientific data obtained from area specific, soil specific and crop specific, soil testing results. These manufacturing companies, in association with concerned agricultural universities/KVKs concerned, should also conduct agronomy tests pf the proposed grade to establish its agronomic efficacy.. (iv) Such manufacturing companies should generate multi loctional trials(not on farm demonstration) on different crops for minimum one season. 4. Soil Sampling and Analysis Such ,manufacturing companies must draw these soil samples from within its operational areas and should also ensure that minimum one sample is necessarily, drawn from each village. Scientific data on soil testing, results available with agricultural university /state Governments may also be used to prepare soil fertility map and for determination of required soil, area and crop specific grades for existing and potential marketing areas. 5. Grant of permission to manufacture Subject to the fulfillment of eligibility criteria referred to in the preceding paragraphs, the permission for the manufacture and sale of Customized Fertiliser will be granted by Joint Secretary(INM). Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, MOA,GOI. Such permission, for manufacture and sale of particular customized fertilizer grade shall be granted only for the specific area and for a period not exceeding three years. Such manufacturing companies must start their manufacturing and sales process with in a period of six months from the date of grant of such permission. For grant of permission to produce and to sell such customized fertilizers, the concerned manufacturing companies should necessarily apply for permission, to the office of the Joint Secretary(INM), Ministry of Agriculture under intimation to the State Government in the prescribed Performa as provided in annexure II. The competent authority shall expedite the requisite permission suthorization of otherwise within 45 days of the receipt of such applications 6. Renewal/ Revision of customized fertilizer Grade . On completion of three years or earlier, manufacturing company of customized fertilizer shall submit a renewal/revision application for varied customized fertilizer manufactured by it. In case no change in the already approved composition of customized fertilizer is required, the same shall also be declared by the manufacturer. The competent authority, shall thereon, accord its approval; within .a period of 45 days from the date of receipt of such application, failing which the application duly acknowledged copy of such application shall be treated as official approval. 7. Customized Fertilizer. Grades The grades of customized fertilizer which the manufacturing company propose to manufacture and sell, shall be based on area specific and crop specific soil testing results. The manufacturer may be in association with Agricultural Universities/KVKs concerned, shall also conduct agronomy tests of the proposed grade to establish its agronomic efficacy. The manufacturing company, preferably in association with concerned agriculture universities/KVKs may continue to conduct agronomy tests of the proposed grades on the farm, for at least one season. The minimum nutrient contents in a specific grade of customized fertilize, proposed to be manufactured, shall contain not less than 30 units of all nutrients, combined. 8. For manufacture of area-specific subsequent grades of customized fertilizers, duly approved by the Joint Secretary(INM) MOA from time to time, the company shall intimate the competent authority within at least 45 days prior to its introduction of the said grades in the market. Since these grades will be based on the scientific data, no formal approval will be necessary.. 9. Raw Material (i) Use of subsidized fertilizers by Manufacturer of customized fertilizer: . As per the existing policy, all subsidized fertilizers can be used for manufacturing of customized fertilizers. As such, domestic manufactures of all such subsidized fertilizers will have the choice to sell the requisite quantity to the manufacturing companies of customized fertilizers and the manufacturing company of such subsidized fertilizers shall be eligible to claim subsidy from DOF under relevant rules. (ii) Captive use of subsidized fertilizers by the manufacturer of customized fertilizer. Domestic manufacturer of subsidized fertilizers will have the option to supply the required quantity of such fertilizers, as raw material, to its own manufacturing unit for production of customized fertilizers. All such supplies shall be eligible for subsidy as per the policy of DOF. . (ii) Import of subsidized fertilizers by the manufacturer of customized fertilizers. All manufacturers of customized fertilizers will have option to import subsidized fertilizers under the existing Policy guidelines of GOI for the manufacture of customized fertilizers not exceeding its realistic requirements. On the imported quality of such fertilizer to be used for manufacture of customized fertilizer, such manufacturers shall be eligible for subsidy from DOF, under relevant rules. (iv)Allocation of subsidized fertilizer as raw material for manufacture of customized fertilizers. . Specific allocations of subsidized fertilizers, to ensure adequate availability, in respect of States, may be made for use as raw material for manufacture of Customized Fertilizers, However, if required, permission for import of specific fertilizers as raw material (not included in schedule 1 of FCO, 1985) may also be granted to the manufacturers. 10 Quality of Customized Fertilizers The Customized Fertilizers to be used for based application shall be granular in size with minimum 90% between 1-4 mm IS sieve and Below 1mm should not exceed 5%. The moisture content should not exceed 1.5%. For foliar applications, however, the grades should be 100% water soluble. The specifications of the customized fertilizers provided by the company to manufacture of Customized Fertilizer, duly approved by the Ministry, shall be strictly adhered to. 11 Quality Cheek (i) Procedure for drawl of sample of fertilizers: (a) The method of drawing samples shall be provided in the FCO. (b) Clause 4A(iii)- Weight of one sample should be 400g. as secified under Clause 4 A (iii) for Part A in Schedule 1 of the FCO,1985. (ii)_Methods of analysis of fertilizer (a)The methods of analysis of fertilizers shall be as per the procedure prescribed in FCO. (b) For preparation of sample for analysis in the laboratory (Clause 1-1) under part B in schedule II of FCO,1985 the whole sample size of 400g should be powdered. The whole sample size of 400 gms shall be powdered. (iii)Tolerance limit The tolerance limits prescribed under the FCO ,1985 for NPK mixture and NPK with micronutrients, shall be applicable to the customized fertilizers. However such tolerance limit shall not exceed 3% for all nutrients particularly when secondary and micronutrients are also present with NPK. 12, Labeling (i)The word Customised Fertiliser shall be superscribed on the bags. (ii) The name of the crop and geographical area for which the Customised Fertiliser recommended shall also be indicated on the bags. (iii)The grades of Customised Fertiliser and the nutrient contents shall be mentioned on the bags. (iv)The manufacture should preferably have tampered proof bagging so as to check on adulteration. 13. Pricing of Customised Fertiliser:- The Company shall fix reasonable MRP for its approved grade of customized fertilizers taking all factors into consideration. 14. General: The permission for manufacture of customized fertilizer shall be restricted to such manufacturing companies of fertilisers who have the certificate of manufacture and authorization letter for selling fertilizers in a particular State. All the provisions of Fertilizer(Control) Order, 1985 and Essential Commodities Act 1955, shall be applicable for manufacture and sale of Customised Fertiliser. Annexure.I LIST OF EQUIPMENTS FOR SETTING UP OF NEW SOIL TESTING LABORATORIES FOR CREATING NPK WITH MICRONUTRIENT TESTING FACILITIES SL. NO. NAME OF THE INSTRUMENT. 1. Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer 2. Spectrophotometer 3. Flame Photometer 4. PH Meter 5. Conductivity Bridge 6. Colorimeter 7. Kjeldhal Distillation Set 8. Waster distillation Set(all glass) 9. Centrifuge 10. Deionizer 11. Balances 12. Grinders other instruments like Hotplate, gas Cylinders, heaters etc. 13. Stabilizers 14. Sample holding racks 15. Computer with printer 16. Software for preparation of recommendation and record of data. Annexure.II APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF PERMISSION FOR MANUFACTURE OF CUSTOMISED FERTILISER 1. Name of the Company and address 2. Location of the unit where the Customised grade of fertilizer proposed to be manufactured. 3. Annual Turnjover of the company 4. Location/Particular of the Area where the Customised Fertilizer is to be introduced 5. Soil Fertility Status of the Area. 6. Introduction Season 7. Cropping Pattern of the Area 8. Soil PH 9. Irrigated or unirrigated land 10. Location of soil testing lab 11. Annual Analysing Capacity of soil samples 12. Area Climate 13. Grades and other details relating to composition of Customised Fertiliser 14. Raw Material(indicate whether the subsidized material to be used). 15. Quantity to be produced in each season 16. MRP 17. Whether the company possess any permission for manufacturing the graedes of Customised fertilizer in any area (i) Whether the company possess the soil testin facility as prsescribed in Annex II of guidelines. (ii) Whether the proposed grades are based on the soil testing results and crop requirement. (iii) Whether the multi locational trials have conducted or not (iv) Whether the agronomic test of the product in consultation with Agriculture Universities/KVK have been conducted or not. 1. Declaration:- (a) I/We declare tat the information given above is true to the best of my/our knowledge and belief and no part thereof is false. Date Signature of the Applicant(s) Place Note: