Agriculture Department, Jammu Agriculture Department, Jammu Government of Jammu and Kashmir Home Page Beneficiary Lists Profile of District Ramban Ramban used to be a part of the erstwhile district Doda and has a distinction of being the the 2nd largest district of the state. Ramban is located at 330.14' N and 750.17' E longitudes with altitude of 1000 M from the MSL. The boundary lines of the district have come to be drawn from Patnitop on its South , Assar on its east, Gool on its west and Banihal on its North Raman district is spread over an area of about 1527.65 sq.Km with a population of about 2.15 lacs as per 2001 census. The climate of the district varies according to its altitude. The temperature rises as high as 420 C in low lying areas and seldom goes below 1.50 C in high altitudes. The district is all mountains with difficult, rough terrain. It is estimated that 95% population is is rural based which mainly depends on agriculture. The farmers have small holdings ranging from 1-2 Hects. Total cultivable land is 18448 Hects of which 1400 Hects are irrigated and literacy rate is 43 %. The climate ranges from sub-tropical (Ramban proper) to temperate. Crops are grown from an elevation of 2000 ft (Ramban) to 8500 ft(Mahu) above MSL. The vast range of altitude provides an agro climatiic diversity and enable round the year production of some crops such as peas, vegetables- Double cropping (Maize-Fodder, Maize-Wheat, Paddy-Fodder) Cultivation of some other crops which have been making a significant impact on the economy of the farmers are hybrid vegetables, potato, spices, condiments, floriculture have been introduced by the efforts of the Department of Agriculture under financial support of Technology Mission and Macro Management Weakness / Gaps The staple food of the people of this district being mainly Maize and Paddy, the yield/ha of such cereals is relatively very low as compared to other districts of the state or near by states 90 % of the cultivated area of the district Ramban is rainfed (9-10% being irrigated whereas 5-10% of the area of most of neighbouring districts is un-irrigated. There is still sufficient area lying as cultivable waste in the district. Awareness about latest advances in organic manures, composting methods, use of bio fertilizers, seed treatment and balanced use of fertilizers is inadequate Disclaimer: The information put on this web site is obtained from our field agencies and other sources. The Department is not responsible for any error or invalid data crept into  inadvertently or otherwise. It is our sincere request that any error or discrepancy if noticed may kindly be brought to the attention of the department for its immediate rectification on our e-mail id :agrijammu@rediffmail.com