Application Scope of Fote Ring Die Pellet Mill AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Wanted Application Scope of Fote Ring Die Pellet Mill Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Application Scope of Fote Ring Die Pellet Mill LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 3 Days Ago #1 petal123 Join Date Apr 2015 Posts 13 Application Scope of Fote Ring Die Pellet Mill Fote ring die pellet mill can be used in many industries. There are many wasted sawdust and blocks in the production of furniture factory. We often abandon the sawdust and blocks before, which results great waste in the production process. So, energy saving has been a significant condition. Fote ring die pellet mill can pelletize the wasted sawdust and chips. ring die pellet mill After crushing and drying, the powder can be pelletized into particles, which can replace a part of the coal. With the pellet mill, you can save national energy and reduce environmental pollution. That is why so many countries want to promote the ring die pellet machine. The ring die pellet mill can be used to pelletize all kinds of materials, such as corn stalks, wheat straw, rice straw, peanut shells, corn cobs, cotton stalks, soybean stem, chaff, weeds, twigs, leaves, sawdust, bark and so on. The forage can be pelletized into particles through crushing, pressing, densification, molding and so on. Particle fuel can be pelletized under normal temperature, with pressure roller and ring mold. The density of raw materials is about 110-130kg/m3, and density of finished particles is 1100kg/m3. So, it is very convenient to transport and store the finished materials. Moreover, combustion performance will be greatly improved. The ring die pellet mill is suited to different kinds of materials. During the pelletizing of sawdust and corn straws, pressure should be larger than forage. Roller part is the most important equipment in the whole machines, which is made of quality alloy steel. The ring die pellet mill is widely applied in specialized breeding households and small farms. Otherwise, the pellet machine is suited to low granulation of bio-fertilizer, organic fertilizer, fertilizer. FTM China - Wood Pellet Mill & Briquetting Machine Leading Manufacturers Attached Thumbnails     Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 09:38 PM .