Check application status for various services in Tamil Nadu | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > Check application status for various services in Tamil Nadu Check application status for various services in Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency, Government of Tamil Nadu > Information Technology Department, Tamil Nadu Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Check status of application submitted for various services through Tamil Nadu e-district Services. Users can provide details such as application id, applicant's name, date of birth to check the status of an application online. Related Links Verify whether land is Government or Private in Tamil Nadu Information Technology Department, Tamil Nadu Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   You can verify online whether a land is Government or Private, this service is provided by the Land Records e-Services of Tamil Nadu Government. Users need to enter district, Taluk, village, survey number and sub-division number to get the information. Verify your land records Chitta of Tamil Nadu Information Technology Department, Tamil Nadu Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   You can verify your land records Chitta of Tamil Nadu, this online service is provided by the State Government of Tamil Nadu. The Chitta can be verified by providing the reference number. Website of Tamil Nadu Information Technology Department, Tamil Nadu Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find details about Tamil Nadu government, departments, administration, ministers, districts etc. Get details about welfare schemes for tribals, backward classes, most backward classes and minorities. Information about various online services such as e-Services, commercial taxes, etc. is given. Users can go through citizen’s charter and also download various forms like birth and death certificate, application for water connection, encumbrance certificate. Details of acts and rules, policies, budget, reports etc. are given. Users can register their grievances online. Information about Governor of Tamil Nadu Information Technology Department, Tamil Nadu Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about the Governor of Tamil Nadu. Users can get the personal details of the Governor such as name, date of birth and family background etc. Find details like marital status, occupation, etc. Information related to awards, titles conferred etc. of the Governor is also provided. Details about political career of the Governor are available. Department-wise Tamil Nadu government orders Information Technology Department, Tamil Nadu Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Check the department-wise orders of Tamil Nadu Government. Users can click on the government department to check the details of orders related to it. Citizen's Charters of Tamil Nadu government departments Information Technology Department, Tamil Nadu Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome