Travel to Haflong: Destinations, Hotels, Food, Transport and Tour Guide Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Assam Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Asaam Places to Visit in Assam National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Kamakhya Temple Temples in Assam Kamakhya Temple Nabagraha Temple Rudreswar Temple Monuments and Museums Rang Ghar The planetarium Gargaon Palace Namdang Stone Bridge Charaideo Majuli Island Tourist Destinations in Assam Travel to Manas Travel to Haflong Travel to Dispur Travel to Guwahati Assam Hotels Hotels in Guwahati Hotels in Dibrugarh Hotels in Tezpur Hotels in Jorhat Hotels in Kaziranga About Assam Geography History Home » Assam » Travel to Haflong Travel to Haflong Haflong Travel The only hill station of Assam, Haflong is known for over 2,00,000 varieties of flowers. Unique orchids, rivers, rare species of birds, pineapples, oranges and pera attract tourists here. Haflong is also referred as a 'Land of Blue Hills'. It caters well to the needs of adventure seekers as gliding, para gliding and trekking are among the major activities in Haflong. Best Time to visit Mid December to Mid March Places to see in and around Haflong Chail is a very small village but the various sceneries and sightseeing locations here are extraordinary. Chail is also known as a paradise for hikers. Muolhoi- It is the cultural treasure house of the tribal people in Haflong. Maibang- Located at a distance of 53 km from Haflong it is famous for the ruins of Kachari Kingdom and Ramchandi Temple. Jatiga- It is famous worldwide of a bird mystery according to which the birds migrate to this place during August and November and commit mass suicide. Umrongso- Located 112 km away from Haflong the biggest Hydel plant under North East Electric Power Corporation (NEEPCO) is situated here. Garampani- It is a hot water spring near Umrongso which is believe to have therapeutic properties and is also famous for the exquisite scenic views and boating Borail Hills- Trekking point Haflong Lake- This place is at its best in the evenings. Panimoor- Situated 120 km away from Haflong and is known for its waterfall formed by Kopili river. How to Reach Haflong Nearest Airport Barapani Airport in Shillong, around 252 km from Haflong. Nearest Railway Station Lower Haflong has Haflong's own railway station. Lumding Junction, 60 km from the town is also a conveniently accessible railhead. Shopping Like any hill station, Haflong also offers a wide variety of wooden handicrafts among which, bamboo and cane products are quite popular. You may also spend on traditional handloom products. Haflong is a known producer of exclusive silk. Last Updated on : 15/10/2013 About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule