Travel to Karnataka - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Karnataka Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Places to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan Palace Cubbon Park Raja's Seat Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary Lalitha Mahal Karanji Lake Murudeshwara Temple Mysore Palace Group of Monuments at Pattadakal Bangalore Fort Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Cities to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Travel Belur Travel Coorg Travel Halebid Travel Hampi Travel Mangalore Travel Mysore Travel Badami Travel Belgaum Travel Sringeri Travel Karnataka Hotels Bangalore Hotels Coorg Hotels Udupu Hotels Mysore Hotels Hubli Hotels Mangalore Hotels About Karnataka Geography & History Fairs & Festivals Food Quick Facts Home »» Maps » Karnataka » Travel to Karnataka Travel to Karnataka Karnataka Tourist Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing major tourist places in Karnataka. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Karnataka Tourism The fifth most popular state in India in terms of tourism, Karnataka is a perfect blend of heritage and natural beauty. Bengaluru (earlier known as Bangalore), the capital of Karnataka, is one of the most significant states, as it is the hub of the Indian software industry. Who could have guessed that Karnataka alone houses 507 out of 3,600 centrally protected historical monuments in India, making it the largest number after Uttar Pradesh. Some of the famous temples in the state bring devotees from various parts of the world to pay their homage to their deities, making them an integral part of Karnataka tourism. A 320-km-long coastline, bordered by beautiful palm beaches makes Karnataka one of the must-visit destinations in the country. From the breathtaking views of Chikmagalur, and Madikeri, to the picturesque Coorg, to the woody Biligiri, Karnataka's hill stations are among the major attractions of the state, as some of these hill stations also have historical as well as religious significance. To add to the long list, Karnataka has emerged as a healthcare tourism spot in the last few years, attracting many health tourists to avail alternative therapies. In simple words, tourism in Karnataka is mainly diversified in the four geographical regions of the state, namely: North Karnataka, the Hill Stations, Coastal Karnataka and South Karnataka. Location Located in the southern part of India, the state of Karnataka lies between 11.5° to 18.5 ° Northern latitude, and 74° to 78.5 ° Eastern longitude. Towards the western side, Karnataka is surrounded by the Laccadive Sea and the Arabian Sea. On the northwest, it is bordered by Goa, on the northern side by Maharashtra, towards the north-eastern side by Telangana, on the eastern side by Andhra Pradesh and it has Tamil Nadu towards the south east and Kerala on the south west side. Demographics Location Southern part of India Maharashtra and Goa to the North and Northwest Arabian sea to the West Kerala and Tamilnadu to the South Andhra Pradesh to the East Latitude 11.5° -18.5° North Longitude 74° - 78.5° East Area 191,791Sqkms Climate Summer - Warm Winter - Cool Max Temperature 40°C Min Temperature 10°C Average Annual Rainfall 450 cm Capital Bangalore Population 44,977 Languages Kannada, Tulu, Konkani, Kodava, Hindi, English Religion Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism, Islam, Christianity Best Time to Visit September to February Clothing Summer - Light cottons Winter - Woolens How to Reach Karnataka is among some of the most advanced states of India, and has an organised network of roads, railways and airways. The transport facilities have played an important role in the development of the state's tourism. By Air The state of Karnataka has four domestic and two international airports. The most important airport of the state is the Bengaluru International Airport. The state is well connected to the rest of the country and the whole world, through regular flights to and from the airports. By Rail Karnataka has a vast railway network of 3,089 km of total length. While some parts of the state come under the South Western Zone of the Indian railways, rest of the regions fall under the Southern Railways and the Konkan Railway network. All the major tourist spots of the state can be reached through trains running in the state. The Karnataka Government has recently introduced The Golden Chariot, a train which connects popular tourist destinations in the state and Goa, an added boon to travellers. By Road All the major cities and tourist destinations of Karnataka can be easily approached through the excellent road network. Karnataka is connected by 15 National Highways, along with a wide network of state highways. The state has 3,973 km of national highways and 9,829 km of state highways. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) runs a regular bus service in the entire state. Best Time to Visit Karnataka experiences moderate summers and cool winters, and heavy monsoons from June to September. October to January are the most favourable months to travel in the state, as the state does not have harsh weather during the period. The state records on an average, a maximum temperature up to 40°C and a minimum temperature up to 10°C. How many days are enough to travel in Karnataka The numbers of days to travel in Karnataka vary depending on the number of tourist destinations to be covered in the available number of days of your vacation. Karnataka being a vast state, with a huge mix of heritage, beaches, and religious places, tourists must chalk out their holiday-plan and cover a particular region of the state. You can try to cover the coastal regions of Karnataka in one vacation, the major cities in one vacation, and so on. Places to Visit in Karnataka The state of Karnataka has a wide range of beaches, historical monuments, temples, and national parks to choose from. So, choosing a few from a huge list can be a massive task. Though, here is a compilation of some of the most famous tourist destinations in Karnataka: Coorg hill station Mahabaleshwar Temple, Gokarna The Mysore Palace, Mysore Gol Gumbaz, Bijapur Daria Daulat Bagh Khwaza Bande Nawaz Dargah, Gulbarga Hampi Jog Falls Magod Falls Shivanasamudra Falls Iruppu Falls Lalguli Falls Nrityagram Dance Village Gurudwara Nanak Jhira Sahib Bidar Beaches in Gokarna Murudeshwar Beach Karwar Beach Mallikarjuna Temple Pattadakal Bandipur National Park The cave temples at Badami The rock-cut temples at Aihole Travel Tips Karnataka is a safe state for tourists from across the world, but the tourists should make sure of the following things: Be careful of your personal belongings, especially in crowded places. Travel in groups, if you are not a local or unaware of the local language. Try to learn a few terms of the local language to ease communication. Carry necessary medicines and an adequate amount of water, if travelling during summers. Organise your trip beforehand, using the state tourism department or reliable travel agents. Cost of Travel The travel cost varies from the number of travel days to the tourist destinations that you plan to cover in your tour. The Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC), offers various packages for tourists to choose from, such as the Heritage Holiday package, Nature Holiday package, Beach Holiday package, Pilgrimage holiday package, and City Holiday package, to name a few. You can also find specific packages to visit only Coastal Karnataka. The railways network of Karnataka offers something special to all kinds of travellers. Usually a 7 nights and 8 days journey in the famous Golden Chariot covers a wide range of tourist destinations including, Mysore, Srirangapatna, Kabini, Shravanabelagola, Belur, Halebidu, Hampi, Badami, Aihole, Pattadakal, and Goa. The per person cost is Rs 22,000 or a package of Rs 1,54,000 for Indian nationals only, as the prices vary for foreign tourists. Popular Items From Government Emporiums to malls, to private shops, Karnataka has a wide range of handicrafts to offer. Some of the most popular products which are synonymous with the state are: Sandal sculptures Carved metal, stone and wood objects Silk sarees from Mysore Sandalwood oil Incense sticks Mysore paintings from Mysore Lambani jewellery Bijapur handlooms Bidriware artifacts (made of zinc and copper) Carnatic music (a traditional Indian classical music form) Udupi cuisine of coastal Karnataka Hotels and Accommodation Options The state offers a wide range of accommodations, from lodges/guesthouses, to hotels (low-range to high-range), to on-rent apartments, as well as hostels. You can choose between the rest houses in the Bandipur and Nagarhole wildlife sanctuaries or the luxury resorts from among the modes of accommodation. Read More... Cuisine Karnataka offers a lip-smacking spread that would appeal to every palate. The state has varied forms of different cuisines for both vegetarians and non-vegetarians. The state's foods have a strong influence from its neighbouring states as well, while the Kannada cuisine is the oldest and most famous among all in the state. From traditional Kannadiga cuisine, to Udupi, Mangalorean and Kodava, the food habits differ from the state's southern to the northern parts. Some of the most famous dishes from the state include: Mysore Masala Dosa Kane fry (lady fish) in Mangalore Maamsa Saaru (Mutton Curry - Kannada style) Kesari Baath Patrode in Mangalore Midigayi pickle (tender mango) and sandige in Malnad Masala dosa in Udupi Pandi curry (pork curry) in Kodava Dharwad peda in North Karnataka Dosa Pandi curry in Bijapur Thatte idlis (flat idlis) for Breakfast Mysore pak (dessert) Shavige payasa (dessert) BaaLaka - (a snack made of deep fried vegetables and fruit chips) Kaapi (Filter Coffee) Tourist Helpline Numbers Department of Tourism, Government of Karnataka Tel: 080-2235 2828, Fax: 080-2235 2626 Email: info@karnatakatourism.org Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation Tel: 080-4334 4334, 4334 4337, 089706 50070 Fax: 080-4334 4353 Email: enquiry@karnatakaholidays.net; info@karnatakaholidays.net References: State Tourism Guides WBVV16.07.14 Last Updated on : September 6, 2014 Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Belgaum Hotels Bellary Hotels Bijapur Hotels Chikmagalur Hotels Coorg Hotels Davangere Hotels Dharwad Hotels Gangavathi Hotels Gulbarga Hotels Hassan Hotels Hospet Hotels Hubli Hotels Karwar Hotels Kolar Hotels Mangalore Hotels Manipal Hotels Murudeshwar Hotels Mysore Hotels Sandur Hotels Shimoga Hotels Udupi Hotels Travel to Karnataka Travel to Bangalore Travel to Belagavi Travel to Belur Travel to Coorg Travel to Halebid Travel to Hampi Travel to Mangalore Travel to Mysore Travel to Sringeri Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Belur Places to visit in Coorg Places to visit in Halebid Places to visit in Hampi Places to visit in Mangalore Places to visit in Mysore Flights to Karnataka Flights to Bangalore Flights to Belgaum Flights to Hubli Flights to Mangalore Flights to Mysore About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule