Manipur Media Home » Manipur » Media   Manipur मणिपुर का नक्शा Manipur Map District of Manipur East Imphal West Imphal Churachandpur Ukhrul Tamenglong              more.. Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Capital Imphal City Map Bishnupur City Map Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Agricultural Map Geography Economy Media Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies- Inner Parliamentary Constituencies- Outer Government Education Universities In Manipur History Mineral Map Society and Culture Travel to Manipur Places to visit in Manipur Wildlife Sanctuaries Govindajee Temple War Cemetery Sex Ratio Pincode STD code       Manipur Media Manipur media is the reflection of the social, economic and political relations of the state of Manipur. The democratic tool of the media in Manipur plays an important part in projecting the sentiments of the people and their opinions and views. The tabloid and the electronic media of the state of Manipur have flourished well. Presently, there are 18 local newspapers and a single Imphal based television media called the ISTV.Televisions and satellite connectivity are available in almost each household of the state of Manipur. There is a great demand for cable network and the government has done well to distribute the satellite connections. However, the insurgent group Revolutionary People's Front has prohibited some of the channels like MTV, FTV and Channel V from being aired in the state. Hindi movies are also prohibited from being aired in the Imphal Valley. The Hindi Boycott conducted by the Manipur Students Union established ripples of xenophobia through the state of Manipur. The result was the rise of the ethnicity and the growth of the state's local newspapers and the electronic media. However, the media is often the instrument used in protest of actions and suffers greatly from such insurgencies. The quality and the quantity of matter in the local newspapers also vary as compared to the Naga newspapers that earn a lot of revenue. At present, there are 15 newspapers in Manipur that are published in the local language. There are three newspapers that are published in English. The English daily Manipur Mail is printed in the tabloid format. Newspapers in Manipur Newspapers in Manipur are the democratic instrument that reiterates the views and opinions of the citizens of the state. The newspapers of Manipur are the voice of the people of Manipur and are an appropriate reflection of the political system and the socio-economic relations of the people residing in the valley of Manipur. Presently, there are 18 newspapers that are published in the state of Manipur. These newspapers provide news of local, national and international importance.The newspapers of Manipur comprise of local newspapers and three English dailies. The Imphal Free Press and the Manipur Mail are the two newspapers of the state of Manipur that are published in English. The Matamgi Yakairol and the Sangai Express are the two newspapers that are published in both English and Manipuri versions. Punsh I and Imphal are the two dailies that are printed and published in the evening mail. Some of the other Manipuri newspapers are listed below: AJA Hueiyen-Lanpao Chingtam Kangleipakki Meira Mannaba Naharolgi Thoudang Meeyam Ningtam Lanpao Prajatantra Paonilkhol Poknapham Sanaleibak The publication of the Hindi newspapers in Manipur was prohibited by some ethnic groups. The result of such prohibition was the rise of the local newspapers of the state. Of the several tribal newspapers, the AJA is published in the Tangkhul dialect, used by the people of the state. Last Updated on 15 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule