Wheat Breeding Technology Workshop - Event Summary | Online Registration by Cvent Register Already Registered? Skip Navigation Information Summary Agenda and Speakers Information Summary Wheat Breeding Technology Workshop 20- 25 September, 2015 at the Sydney Four Seasons Hotel, same venue as the BGRI Workshop and the International Wheat Conference. Session times: 20 September (Sunday) 8:30am - 5:30pm 23 September (Wednesday) 1pm - 5:30pm 25 September (Friday) 1pm - 5:30pm Speakers include Ravi Singh, Graeme Hammer, Jesse Poland, Mark Sorrells and more! See entire speaker line-up Please note that there is a limited amount of places available to attend this workshop.  During the registration process select this session and answer a few questions about your career and research.  Participants will be selected based on their answers to the registrations questions, all participation is invite-only. Participants must commit to attending all three sessions. For more information, contact Dr. Lee Hickey or Dr. Jessica Rutkoski Download the PDF flyer for this workshop to distribute: Wheat Breeding Tech Workshop-Flyer   Deadline for registering is 1 July Travel Awards The Crawford Fund has available a limited number of grants for suitably qualified candidates to facilitate their participation in the International Wheat Conference and the Wheat Breeding Technology Workshop. Applicants should be early to mid-career scientists from a developing country actively engaged in wheat and or barley research. These grants are part of the Crawford Fund’s activities to increase engagement in international agricultural research and in particular to foster cooperation with scientists from the developing countries. Attending the International Wheat Conference and the Wheat Breeding Technology Workshop will afford the opportunity for developing country scientists with a demonstrated professional interest in wheat breeding to benefit from discovering emerging science on cereal research in Australia and globally. We would like to thank the Crawford Fund for their kind support for this training. The Fund’s annual conference is being held 10-12 August in Canberra, Australia and may also be of interest. “The Business of Food Security:  Profitability, Sustainability and Risk” will focus on the importance of collaboration and partnership between the public and private sectors to achieve sustainable intensification and improved food security. Speakers include Prof Dr Martin Kropff, soon to be Director General of International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center. More information about the Crawford Fund Annual Conference Objectives Taking place in three sessions from 20 September to 25 September, the Wheat Breeding Technology Workshop is for early career breeders and geneticists. The objectives of this workshop are to impart participants with the background knowledge and practical skills required to implement crop modelling, high-throughput phenotyping, genomic selection, and speed breeding in an applied breeding program, and enable participants to think critically and collaboratively to develop improved breeding strategies that take advantages of these technologies. Participants will learn through lectures and interactive hands-on learning sessions lead by expert speakers. The final workshop session will consist of group discussions and brainstorming to generate innovative ideas about how to integrate diverse breeding technologies to accelerate rates of genetic gain. Details When Sunday, September 20, 2015 - Friday, September 25, 2015 8:30 AM - 5:30 PM Eastern Time Add to Calendar Where Four Seasons Hotel Sydney, Australia Get Driving Directions Planner Anna Garber Websites 2015 BGRI Workshop , Crawford Fund Annual Conference , International Wheat Conference Outlook iCal Google Yahoo! MSN Register Already Registered? Cvent Online Event Registration Software | Copyright © 2000-2015 Cvent Inc. All rights reserved. Event Management Software | Survey Software | Event Venues | Privacy Policy End User License Agreement Top