Citizen charter » Central Silk Board Loading... Screen Reader Access Who's who | Contact Us | Intranet Login Central Silk Board Ministry of Textiles - Govt of India Home About Us Vision & Mission Mandate Organization chart Composition of the Board Act & Rules Citizen's charter FAQ Silk-Sericulture Silk Sericulture Silks of India Services R & D Training Seed Production Consultancy Schemes Central Sector Centrally Sponsored MKSP Projects for Tasar MGNREGA with CDP NER Textile Promotion Statistics Silk Flash Silk Bulletin Silk Exports & Imports Publications Indian Silk Books Videos Annual Report Downloads RFD Note on sericulture Training Calendar Evaluation Reports Regd. Stake holders Silk Exporters Minutes of Meetings Gallery About Us Vision & Mission Mandate Organization chart Composition of the Board Act & Rules Citizen's charter FAQ   Citizen charter CITIZEN'S / CLIENT'S CHARTER CENTRAL SILK BOARD Ministry of Textile, Govt.of India CENTRAL SILK BOARD COMPLEX,  B.T.M.LAYOUT, MADIWALA,  BANGALORE - 560 068 :  ms.csb AT nic.in : http://www.csb.gov.in/ March, 2015 VISION See India emerge as the leader in the world market for silk. MISSION   Make continuous efforts in Research and Development and Technology Transfer To create greater opportunities for gainful employment and improved levels of income in sericulture through spread of scientific sericulture practices To improve productivity in all stages of silk production Strengthen levels of efficiency through a commitment to quality   Mandate Promoting the development of Silk Industry by such measures as it thinks fit. To create greater opportunities for gainful employment and improved levels of income in sericulture through spread of scientific sericulture practices Undertaking, assisting or encouraging scientific, technological and economic research. Devising means for improved methods of mulberry cultivation, silkworm rearing, developing and distribution of healthy silkworm seeds, improved methods of silk reeling and spinning of the cocoons and silk-waste, improving the quality and production of raw silk, if necessary by making it compulsory, for all the raw silk to be marketed, only after the same has been tested and graded in properly quipped raw Silk Testing and Conditioning Houses. Improving the marketing of raw silk. The collection of statistics. See India emerge as the leader in the world market for silk. To advise the Central Government on all matters relating to the development of silk industry including import and export of raw silk. To prepare and furnish such other reports relating to the silk industry as may be required by the Central Government from time to time.   Please Click  for Service Standards       PUBLIC INFORMATION CELL The Central Silk Board (CSB) has setup an “Information Centre” at its headquarters at Bangalore to facilitate computerized public interface aimed at dissemination of information to the public on the services and activities of Central Silk Board. The “Information Centre” provides information on major activities of Central Silk Board, its organizational setup, services offered by the Board, technological advancement in sericulture and silk industry, prices of silk commodities, sericulture production data, silk export, import statistics, schemes/projects implemented by the Board either directly or through the Department of Sericulture, NGOs, training imparted by various CSB units, literatures, periodical publications, books, sericulture films available for sale, facilities provided by the Board on quality testing, certification, seed supply etc., to farmers, reelers, weavers, NGOs, quality clubs and other interested public. The role & scope of the Information Centre has been broadened consequent upon enactment of the Right to Information Act, 2005. The Central Silk Board has designated as many as 39 Central Public Information Officers (CPIOs) in the Central Silk Board Head quarters and its subordinate units to provide information to the Public as per the provisions of the Right to Information Act, 2005. The Public Information Cell receives application from the applicants and send it to the concerned Central Public Information Officer for processing and furnish reply to the applicant as per the provisions laid down under the Right to Information Act, 2005.   Please click for ........... GRIEVANCE REDRESS MECHANISM   STAKEHOLDERS/ CLIENTS:                                   Departments concerned with sericulture development in all States of the Country Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) Farmers practicing sericulture Silk Reelers Silk Spinners Private Silkworm Seed Producers Exporters Entrepreneurs interested in taking up- •     Cocoon growing •    Silk reeling/spinning •    Silkworm seed production •    Manufacturers of chemicals and bio-pesticides for controlling pests and diseases of silkworms and its food plants. RESPONSIBILITY CENTERS: Main Research Institutes and nested units: Three Central Sericultural Research and Training Institutes (CSR&TIs) at Mysore (Karnataka), Berhampore ( West Bengal ), and Pampore (Jammu & Kashmir) Central Tasar Research and Training Institute, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Central Sericultural Germplasm Resources Centre, Hosur (Tamil Nadu) Seri-biotech Research Laboratory, Bangalore (Karnataka) Central Muga Eri Research and Training Institute, Lahdoigarh ( Assam ) 11 Regional Research Stations for Mulberry, 8 for Tasar, 1 for Muga and 2 for Eri at various locations in the Country. 44 Research Extension Centres for Mulberry, 14 for Tasar, 3 for Muga, 3 for Eri, 1 Satellite Silkworm Breeding Station at Coonoor(TN) and 42 Sub-RECs for Mulberry and 1 Sub-REC for Muga & Eri, 1 Field Lab at Titabar, 3 P4 Station at Kargikota, Chakradharpur & Saraiyahat for Tasar and 3 P4 Farm at Kalimpong, Hassan & Manasbal for Mulberry. Basic and Commercial Silkworm Seed Support: The National Silkworm Seed Organisation (NSSO), Bangalore (Karnataka) has a network of 1 Silkworm Seed Tehnology Laboratory at Kodathi, Bangalore, 2 Zonal Silkworm Seed Organisation (ZSSOs) at Malda (WB) and Dehradun (Uttaranchal), 21 Silkworm Seed Production Centres including 1 P1 Grainage at C.M. Vadi, 20 Basic Seed Farms including 1 Centre for Sericulture Development at Ramgiri, 3 Seed Cocoon Procurement Centres, 31 Sericulture Service Centres, 29 Sericulture Service Units and 3 Cold Storage Plants are located at various places in the country. The Basic Seed Farms (BSFs) supply parent seed to the Departments of Sericulture in various States on their request. The commercial silkworm seed produced by NSSO supplements the production by States. The Basic Tasar Silkworm Seed Organization (BTSSO), Bilaspur support basic Seed multiplication, and production of these races through 21 BSMTCs located at various locations in the country and also one Central Tasar Silkworm Seed Station (CTSSS) at Kargi Kota, Chattisgarh and 1 Field Unit at Pallahara(Orissa).    The Muga Silkworm Seed Organization (MSSO), Guwahati support basic Seed multiplication, and production of these races through 8 P4/P3 units and one Muga SSPC at Kaliabari, Boko.  The Eri Silkworm Seed Organisation (ESSO) at Guwahati demonstrates organized production methods through 5 Eri Silkworm Seed Production Centers (SSPCs) located at Azara(Assam), Fatehpur(Uttar Pradesh), Hosur(TN), Sujanpur(Punjab) & Peddapuram (AP). Post-Cocoon Support and Eco-testing: The Central Silk Technological Research Institute (CSTRI), at Bangalore provides research and extension support in the post-cocoon areas with the support of - 1 Zonal Office at Bilaspur provides post cocoon support to the entrepreneurs 1 Regional Silk Technological Research Station (RSTRS) at Guwahati 6 Silk Conditioning and Testing Houses at Bangalore, Dharmavaram, Kanchipuram, Malda, Jammu and Srinagar are equipped for testing raw silk for quality based on standard parameters. 1 Textile Testing Laboratory at Varanasi for testing eco-friendliness of dyes used. 2 Raw Silk Testing Centers at Siddlaghatta and Kollegal (both in KAR) 9 Demonstration cum Technical Service Centres (DCTSCs) one each in West Bengal, Bihar, Maharashtra, Orissa, Uttarakhand, Tamilnadu, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, 3 Cocoon Testing Centers at Ramanagaram (KAR), Coimbatore & Dharmapuri (TN) and 1 TDC at Arni (TN) are functioning to provide technical and training support to the local reeling and spinning industry. Co-ordination and Market Support: In order to co-ordinate the sericulture development programmes in different states & for undertaking pre-shipment inspection of silk goods meant for exports, the Central Silk Board has established 10 Regional Offices at New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Jammu, Hyderabad, Chennai, Bhubaneshwar, Guwahati, Lucknow, Patna and 3 Certification Centres at Bangalore, Varanasi & Srinagar.  Regional Offices of CSB maintain a close liaison with the State Sericulture Departments, field units and CSB field functionaries to co-ordinate transfer of technology. Regional Offices are also conveners of State Level Sericulture Co-ordination Committee meetings constituted by the Central Silk Board. In order to ensure economic and fair price to the primary Vanya cocoon growers, the Central Silk Board has established a Tasar Raw Material Bank (TRMB) at Chaibasa (Jharkhand) along with 4 Sub-Depots at Raigarh (Chhattisgarh), Bhagalpur (Bihar), Warrangal (AP) and Bhandara (Maharashtra). Similarly for Muga cocoons, a Muga Raw Material Bank (MRMB) was established at Sivasagar in Assam, with 3 Sub-Depots at Dhakuakhana, Sualkuchi (Assam) and at Coochbehar in West Bengal. INDICATIVE EXPECTATIONS FROM SERVICE RECIPIENTS Information on subsidy on centrally sponsored Schemes, Availability of silkworm seed, planting material Details of improved mulberry varieties, silkworm seed, improved technology packages, Details of the disinfectant manufacturers, machinery manufacturers, availability of spare parts etc. Prices of cocoons, raw silk and silk commodities REVIEW/UPDATION OF THE CHARTER: In order to monitor and review the Citizen’s Charter, CSB will review & update the Citizen’s Charter on annual basis.                                                       -x-x-x-x-   Sitemap Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2015 Central Silk Board. All Rights Reserved.   This is the official Website of Central Silk Board, a statutory body of Government of India under the Ministry of Textiles Last updated: 04/03/2015