Government and Politics of Andaman and Nicobar Islands Home » Andaman & Nicobar Islands » Government-Politics   Andaman and Nicobar Island अंडमान और निकोबार का नक्शा Andaman and Nicobar Island Map Portblair City Districts Location Map How to reach Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar Travel to Andaman and Nicobar Wildlife Sanctuaries Beaches in Andaman & Nicobar Andaman & Nicobar Monuments Museums in Andaman & Nicobar Hotels in Andaman and    Nicobar Portblair Hotels Havelock Hotels Culture Geography and History Government and Politics Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Infrastructure Language Education Facts Lat Long Pin Code Std code       Government and Politics of Andaman and Nicobar Islands The government and politics of Andaman and Nicobar Islands operate in a way that is slightly different from the governance of most states and Union Territories of India. The first notable thing about the government and politics of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is the lack of a legislature. The Lieutenant Governor is himself the executive head in the government of Andaman and Nicobar. The executive wing runs under his supervision, under direct monitoring from with the heads of the various departments. The state judiciary falls under the supervision of the Kolkata High Court. The Lieutenant Governor The Lieutenant Governor is the most important figure in the government and politics in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. In the absence of a formal legislative council, he looks after the entire legislative structure of the state. The various departments work under his supervision. The government departments of the state operate on both directorate and the secretariat levels and take care of the state executive. The presence of many central government organizations also helps in enhancing the administrative as well as governance profile of Andaman and Nicobar. Politics of Andaman and Nicobar Although there is no legislative council in the state, it does participate in the general elections. However, the government and politics of Andaman and Nicobar Islands does feature many political parties. The nominal presence of a state party and a couple of extremely regional parties characterise the politics of Andaman and Nicobar. However, it is the national level parties that really rule the roost in Andaman and Nicobar's political scene. There is only one parliamentary constituency in the state. The apex body of the judiciary of Andaman and Nicobar islands is a circuit bench of the Kolkata High Court that operates from Port Blair. There are the district courts that fall under the jurisdiction of the session judges who monitor the smooth functioning of the judiciary in Andaman and Nicobar islands. Together, these courts monitor a smooth functioning of the judiciary of Andaman and Nicobar islands. Major Andaman and Nicobar Islands Political Parties The major political parties in Andaman and Nicobar Islands are the ones with prominent national presence. Some of such major political parties are: Indian National Congress (INC) Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPM) Communist Party of India (Lenninist) (CPIML) LJNSP and SWD are some of the other major Andaman and Nicobar political parties. Andaman and Nicobar Constituency Andaman and Nicobar has only one parliamentary constituency, a unit with about two and half lakh electors. The votes are conducted in 329 polling stations. The polling percentage is moderate at a notch over 60 percent. Central Government Organisations Central government organisations in Andaman and Nicobar islands play a very important role in the overall governance of the state. With a very rudimentary infrastructure, the state needs the support of certain central government organisations to look after some of the key areas of the state's governance. The following is a list of Andaman and Nicobar central government organisations: Central Agricultural Research Institute Andaman and Lakshadweep Harbor Works (ALHW) Chief Electoral Officer Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) Andaman and Nicobar Telecom Circle The Works and the Functions of the Central Government Organisations in Andaman and Nicobar Islands The Andaman and Lakshadweep Harbor Works (ALHW) is a central government organisations at Andaman and Nicobar islands. It is a part of the ministry of Shipping, Road transport and Highways of the government of India. Founded in 1965, it is committed towards the maintenance and development of the port facilities in the region. The Andaman and Nicobar Telecom circle not only provides communication to millions of people, but also provides broadband services to thousands of users. The Central Agricultural Research Institute is one of the key Andaman and Nicobar central government organisations. The (CARI), one of the most important central government organisations of Andaman and Nicobar islands is committed towards increasing the research facility in the state in the fields of farming and agriculture. A similar institute is the Krishi Vigyan Kendra, which looks after the agricultural possibilities in the state. The office of the chief electoral office supervises the electoral process in the single constituency of the state. Together the central government institutions go a long way in stabilising certain aspects of the state government in the fields of farming and education. Andaman and Nicobar Government Departments Andaman and Nicobar government departments are at the vary center of the government's executive structure. These government departments of islands work through the secretariats and the directorates under its supervision. The organisational structure typically moves downwards through the decisions taken by the officials at the topmost level. With the absence of a formal legislature and an official council of ministers, Andaman and Nicobar government departments work tirelessly to optimize the efficiency of the various departments. The government departments in Andaman and Nicobar islands are designed to cover all the important aspects of the life in the islands. The head of each department is at the helm of the operations of both the secretariats and the directorates of the respective departments. Andaman and Nicobar government departments are as follows: Agricultural Department Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department Information, Publicity and Tourism Department Police Department Labor, Employment and Training Department Public Works Department Functions of the Andaman and Nicobar Government Departments The functions of the various government departments at Andaman and Nicobar islands cover the many important aspects of the state's administration. While the agriculture, environment and the labor departments look after optimizing the natural and the human resources of Andaman and Nicobar islands, the police and the public works departments are devoted towards the maintenance of the civil infrastructures. All these Andaman and Nicobar government departments work through the secretariat levels at the highest level; the ground level executive wings operate through the directorates of the individual departments. The tourism department of Andaman and Nicobar is gradually gaining in significance, with the great tourist possibilities of the picturesque islands of Andaman and Nicobar. This department is committed with the information and the publicity of the Union Territories as well. Executive Executive of Andaman and Nicobar islands is comparatively simple and uncomplicated. In the absence of state legislature, they play an extremely important role in the governance of the Union Territory. Executive of Andaman and Nicobar Islands looks after the administration of the two districts of the area, Andaman and Nicobar. The Lieutenant Governor is the executive head of Andaman and Nicobar executive wing. He works through a series of departments with their corresponding secretaries and directorates to monitor the administration of the state. Departmental Heads, Secretaries and Directors The heads of the various departments guide the works of the various secretaries and directories into a proper governance of Andaman and Nicobar. The district governance and the officials involved in the district administration also play important roles in the overall picture of the governance of state executive. Judiciary The apex body of the judiciary of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a circuit bench of the Kolkata High Court that operates from Port Blair. There are the district courts that fall under the jurisdiction of the session's judges who monitor the smooth functioning of the judiciary in Andaman and Nicobar islands. Together, these courts monitor a smooth functioning of the judiciary of Andaman and Nicobar islands. Circuit Bench of Andaman and Nicobar Andaman and Nicobar being a Union Territory does not have a High Court of its own. Andaman and Nicobar Islands judiciary falls under the supervision of the Kolkata High Court. A circuit bench of the Kolkata High Court is operative in the state, at Port Blair. There are two chambers of the judges of the Kolkata High Court at Port Blair. The registrar of the circuit bench of Kolkata High Court is also vested with the responsibility to supervise the operation of the judiciary of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Political Parties Political parties in Andaman and Nicobar Islands feature almost exclusively national level parties. With only one parliamentary constituency, the presence of independent state parties and other registered parties among the Andaman and Nicobar political parties are minimal. However, there are a few independent candidates who competes the elections from this Union Territory of India. The solitary constituency is eagerly fought by almost all the major national parties, who almost invariably place their candidates for the single seat. WBST150914 Last Updated on: September 15, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule