Crop Protection Compendium Cookies on Crop Protection Compendium Like most websites we use cookies. This is to ensure that we give you the best experience possible. Continuing to use www.cabi.org/cpc means you agree to our use of cookies. If you would like to, you can learn more about the cookies we use. Close Find out more Crop Protection Compendium The world’s most comprehensive site for Crop Protection Information Other CABI sites AgBiotechNet Animal Health & Production Compendium Animal Science Database Aquaculture Compendium CAB Direct CAB eBooks CAB Reviews CAB Thesaurus CABI Bookshop CABI.org Crop Protection Compendium Descriptions of Fungi and Bacteria Distribution Maps of Plant Diseases Distribution Maps of Plant Pests Environmental Impact Forest Science Forestry Compendium InfoTree Invasive Species Compendium Japanese Knotweed Alliance Leisure Tourism Nutrition and Food Sciences Plantwise VetMed Resource Home Overview About Help Contact Mobile Subscribe Sign in Sign in Username Password Sign in Remember me Forgotten password? Institutional sign in Choose institution Sign in using my IP Not yet subscribed? Subscribe here Datasheets Abstracts Full Text Library Glossary More Resources Search Crop Protection Compendium Smart searches Search over 26,000 datasheets and over 250,000 abstracts Enter keyword or phrase Search Search within topic Limit to selected topics Filter by type Limit to selected content types Abstract Datasheet Datasheet (Basic) Datasheet (Full) Full Text Glossary Library Advanced Datasheet Search Crop Protection Compendium full text searches based on commonly researched topics Request a search Analytical methods Fungal diseases of tomato Geographical distribution of Abutilon theophrasti Geographical distribution of Ceratitis capitata Horticultural Crops Horticultural Crops - Allium Horticultural Crops - Apples Horticultural Crops - Avocado Horticultural Crops - Brassica Horticultural Crops - Organic culture Horticultural Crops - Pineapple Horticultural Crops - Tomato Horticultural Crops - Tropical fruit Insect vectors of plant diseases Interception and quarantine of Bactrocera cucurbitae Invasive plants IRRI Rice Almanac Maize diseases and disorders New geographic records of Callidiellum rufipenne since 1 January 2000 New geographic records of Tuta absoluta since 1 January 2006 Non-infectious disorders Pesticide residues and honey bees Plant health diagnosis Plant quarantine Plant quarantine - pest risk assessment Postharvest pests Safe movement of germplasm Taxonomy and nomenclature Yield losses Latest content Recent Datasheet Alternaria alternata (alternaria leaf spot) Datasheet Type(s): Pest, Natural Enemy Datasheet Ralstonia solanacearum race 2 (moko disease) Lists of host records have been recorded (Kelman, 1953; Bradbury, 1986; Persley, 1986; Hayward, 1994) but the original reports, gathered over many... Datasheet Rhagoletis cingulata (cherry fruit fly) R. cingulata (listed on EPPO A2 list) is a severe pest of cherries. It is closely connected to its host plants Prunus avium, P.... Datasheet Rhagoletis indifferens (western cherry fruit fly) R. indifferens is an important pest of cherries in North... Datasheet Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. phaseoli (bean blight) Common blight can cause significant losses in beans in tropical, subtropical and temperate climates. Its wide distribution, capacity to reduce... Datasheet Apanteles bordagei The life-cycle from egg to emergence of adult varies from 14 to 25 days depending on temperature. After the host larva pupates, the parasite... Datasheet Aphelenchoides besseyi (rice leaf nematode) Rice A. besseyi is widely distributed because of its dissemination in seed, but its importance varies... Datasheet Oryctes rhinoceros (coconut rhinoceros beetle) O. rhinoceros is included in the Global Invasive Species Database (ISSG,... Datasheet Ceratocystis fimbriata (Ceratocystis blight) The literature suggests that introduced populations of C. fimbriata have thus far remained restricted to particular cultivated hosts. This is... Datasheet Broad bean wilt virus (lamium mild mosaic) BBWV can cause substantial yield loss because of its effect on plant development and quality. In broad bean, BBWV caused considerable damage in... Not all content could be returned, please refresh the page. If you continue to see this message please report the issue, thank you. My CPC Account Create and export short lists Create bibliography Save content Articles, books, reviews and more… Save searches Monitor the latest content Subscribe to the CPC The CPC is the world’s most comprehensive site for Crop Protection Information. Please contact our Sales Team at  sales@cabi.org  to find out more.     Content types Abstract Datasheet Datasheet (Basic) Datasheet (Full) Full Text Glossary Library Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Cookies Accessibility Feedback Copyright © 2015 CABI. CABI is a registered EU trademark Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email