Geography and History of Punjab Home » Punjab » Geography and History » Punjab Geography and History   Geography and History Climate Soil and Vegetation Area Rivers and Lakes पंजाब का नक्शा Punjab Punjab Map Cities in Punjab Districts of Punjab Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Punjab Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Punjab Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Telephone Directory Government and Politics Travel to Punjab Places to visit in Punjab Wildlife Sanctuaries Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Handicrafts People Culture and Festivals Pin Code Universities In Punjab       Punjab Geography and History The fountainhead of ancient Indian culture, Punjab, the smiling-soul of India finds adequate mention in the chronicles of the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, thePuranas and the Vedas. The geography and history of this state can be traced as far back as the Indus Valley civilization. The state whose prolific history and culture witnessed the composition of the Rig Veda was also an ancient center for academic excellence where grammer, law, astrology, medicine and warfare were taught. Yasak's Nirkuta and Panini's Ashtadhyayi are two celebrated Punjabi classics. Punjab at the crossroads of cultural conflict became the focal point of Buddhist teachings after King Darius's conquests. However the religious face of Punjab underwent a rapid transition after Guru Nanak Dev preached Sikhism to the locals of Punjab. The state played a zealous and unmistakable role in India's struggle for independence. The horrors of the Jalianwala bagh massacre and the heart-wrenching pain of the Partition have cast an unforgettable impression in people's minds. Post-independence, Punjab has tried and emerged successful in establishing itself as a center of cultural, religious and academic excellence after its horrific saga of suffering over the decades. The state encompasses an area of 50,362 sq. km and is flanked by Pakistan on the west, Jammu and Kashmir on the north, Himachal Pradesh on its northeast and Haryana and Rajasthan on the south. The fertile terrains span across the latitudinal parallels of 29°30' North to 32°32'North and the longitudinal meridians of 73°55' East to 76°50' East. Searing summers, torrential monsoons and cool winters depict the climatic conditions of the landscape that is drained by the Ravi, Beas, Satluj and Ghaggar rivers and their tributaries. Geography of Punjab he state of Punjab stretches from 29°32°' to 32°32°'N latitude and 73°55°' to 76°50°'E longitude, occupying a land of 50,362 sq. kms in the north-western part of India. It is wedged between Pakistan on the west, Jammu and Kashmir on the North, Himachal Pradesh on the north-east and Haryana and Rajasthan on the south. Physically, the topography of Punjab can be divided into the upper portion of the sub-Shivalik area and the rest of Punjab is situated on the Sutlej - Ghaggar river basin. The Shivalik area at an altitude of 400 to 700 meters above sea level is made up of fluvial deposits of conglomerates, clays and silts-all. The low Shivalik Hills demarcates the Himalayas from the plains. Ropar, Hoshiarpur and Gudaspur districts falls in this zone and runs like a wall from north-west to south-east, dividing the Himachal valleys of Sirsa and Una. Topographical changes due to the formation of Himalayas in the recent geographical past gave a basin-like structure to Punjab. The plain lands of Punjab lie between altitudes 180 meters and 300 meters above sea level. The gradient increases from west to east. History of Punjab The history of Punjab goes back to thousands of years ago. Undivided Punjab has been the cradle of the Indus Valley Civilization, Harappan Civilization as well as the Mohenjodaro Civilization. This fertile ancient land finds mention even in Mahabharata and Ramayana. Places like Ropar, Kiratpur, Dholbaha, Rohira and Ghuram...all in Punjab have unearthed artifacts that date back to centuries earlier. The word "Punjab", however, was used for the first time in the Book "Tarikh-e-Sher Shah" (1580). Major Events in the History of Punjab The milestones in the history of Punjab are the Persian rule and the migration of the Aryans to Punjab between 516 BC to 321 AD, immediately followed by Alexander's Invasion, which changed the fate of India as a whole. The Muslims ruled between 713 AD till around 1300 AD and then came the rise of the Sikhs from 1700 AD to 1849 AD. Punjab in the Indian Struggle for Independence Punjab had always ranked high when it comes to courage, might and valor. The state had major contribution to the freedom struggle of India though in the process it had to face its own pathetic division. Satyagraha, Sepoy Mutiny of 1857, Jallianwala Bagh Massacre... with names like Ajit Singh, Lala Lajpat Rai, Madan Lal Dhingra, Guru Gobind Singh, Bhagat Singh and the like instantly evokes the memories of the struggle for Indian Independence. The list is unending for Punjab has been one of the most happening places in the struggle. Punjab now is shared by India and Pakistan though the ethos continues to be the same on both ends, divided only in body and not in soul. Present Day Punjab The partition of Punjab with its brutal riots was one of the most traumatic experiences for some and it continues to have its effect till today. The newly formed state of Pakistan has, time and again, tried to encroach the whole of the fertile lands of Punjab resulting in continuous bloodshed over the years. But Punjab has been able to defend herself against all odds and have improved considerably. The flourishing position of the state in terms of agriculture, industries, education and all other fields prove the tenacity that is so unique to the state and its people. Last Updated on : 25/06/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule