Places to Visit in Tripura and Tourist Destinations near Tripura Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Tripura Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Tripura Places to Visit in Tripura Tripura Wildlife Gumti Wildlife Sanctuary Rowa Wildlife Sanctuary Sepahijala Wildlife Sanctuary Temples Bhuvaneswari Temple Tripura Sundari Temple Kamalasagar Kali Temple Government Museum Fauna Cities to Visit in Tripura Agartala Travel About Tripura History Climate Home » Tripura » Places to Visit in Tripura Places to Visit in Tripura Tripura has a picturesque surrounding covered with hills and dales, sprawling green valleys and hilly brooks. The popular Tripura attractions are Kamalasagar Lake, Dumboor Lake, Ujjayanta Palace, Neermahal, Kunjaban Palace, Tripura Government Museum, Jampui Hill, Dumboor Lake etc. It is located between 22° 56' and 24° 32' north latitude and 91° 10' and 92° 21' east longitude. The state is surrounded on the north, south and west by Bangladesh, on the north-east by the state of Assam and by Mizoram on the east. If you want to witness the rich wildlife of Tripura, you can visit the sanctuaries such as Gumti Wildlife Sanctuary, Trishna Wildlife Sanctuary, Rowa Wildlife Sanctuary and Sepahijala Sanctuary. For people interested in religious places there a wide number of temples and buddhist shrines such as Tripura Sundari Temple, Kamalasagar Kali Temple, Bhubaneswari Temple, Buddha temple at Manu Bakul in South Tripura, Buddha Temple in Venuban Vihar in Agartala, Buddhist Temple at Pecharthal in North Tripura. Tripura is adorned with a large number of attractive tourist sites. The northeastern state of Tripura is famous all over the world for its rich cultural heritage, beautiful palaces, wildlife sanctuaries, temples, museums. The city has a number of interesting tourist attractions to visit and enjoy. Places to See in Tripura Tripura Wildlife Tripura Wildlife sanctuaries vividly illustrate diverse natural heritage of the northeast Indian state. The state is endowed with four wildlife sanctuaries that shelter several species of wildlife animals and boasts of a stunning chiaroscuro of nature. Gumti Wildlife Sanctuary Amongst the eminent wildlife sanctuaries in Tripura, the Gumti Wildlife Sanctuary is located in the southeastern extremity of the state. The sanctuary encompasses an area of 389.59 sq. km and also houses a sylvan water body that itself spans across an area of 300 sq. km. The sanctuary is primarily famed for the elephants, barking deer, sambar, bison as well as the variegated species of domestic as well migratory that seek refuge in the sanctuary's secluded enclaves. Rowa Wildlife Sanctuary Another noteworthy wildlife reserve in Tripura, Rowa Wildlife Sanctuary is situated on the northern fringes of Tripura. This small sanctuary occupies an expanse of 85.85 sq. km and is opulent in natural forests and dense glades. The sanctuary's pride rests in the numerous species of the wild animals, primates, birds as well as its lush vegetation that makes it a dream come true destination for botanists, ornithologists, etymologists as well as wildlife enthusiasts. The sanctuary is also famed for its rich growth of medicinal herbs, fodder, orchids and other horticultural plants. Sepahijala Wildlife Sanctuary Sepahijala Wildlife Sanctuary is sited at a distance of 35 km from the capital city of Agartala. The sanctuary covers an expanse of 185.53 and is renowned for its wildlife, birds as well as primates. The sanctuary is the ideal retreat that personifies Tripura's biodiversity and promotes the eco tourism in the state. Tripura Government Museum Tripura Government Museum is a repository of artifacts and manuscripts that are a hallmark of the rich history of the northeast. In fact, the museum is an integral part of the state's cultural extravaganza. The museum has been accorded the distinguished status of a State Level Museum under Directorate of Higher Education was inaugurated on 22nd June, 1970. Tripura Government Museum is a store houses of priceless pieces that testify the beauty and intricacy involved in the quintessential arts and crafts of Tripura. Sited in the capital city, Agartala in the vicinity of the Chowmohani post office, the museum is endowed with four galleries, namely the: Archaeological gallery Tribal Culture gallery Painting gallery Indian Sculpture through the ages gallery The galleries showcase a wonderful collection of over 1645 historical memorabilia. Scholars and historians can seek numismatic evidence through the numerous gold, silver and copper coins that the archaeological excavations have unraveled. Numerous pottery pieces, sculptures and terracotta, bronze figurines and primordial copper inscriptions have also been unearthed. Magnificent canvas oil paintings, sketches and illustrations, textiles as well as jewelry and ornaments also find pride of place in the museum's sprawling galleries. The musty archives of the museum houses some treasured manuscripts that contains annals of Bengali and Sanskrit epics. The museum is also endowed with a library that contains an enviable collection of rare and out print editions on the history, archeology, architecture and anthropology of Tripura. Tripura Temples Tripura temples form an important part of tourism at Tripura. Known for their architectural grandeur and sculptures, the temples of Tripura attract thousands of tourists from across the world. Bhuvaneswari Temple Situated on the banks of river Gomati, the Bhuvaneswari Temple of the most important temples of Tripura. The Bhuvaneswari Temple of Tripura was constructed during 1660-1675 by Maharaja Govinda Manikya. The temple is known for its exquisite architecture. The roof of the temple features the four-chala style on the crowns of the core chambers and entrance. The temple serves as the back-drop of 'Rajarshi' and 'Bisharjan' composed by the Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore. Tripura Sundari Temple Tripura Sundari Temple is one of the 51 pithasthanas of the Hindus. Situated about 55 kilometers from Agartala, Tripura Sundari Temple constructed in the typical Bengali-hut style. The temple houses two identical deities, who are known as Tripura Sundari and Chhotima. The Tripura Sundari Temple is also known as 'Kurma Pitha', as the premises of the temple is identical to a 'kurma' (tortoise). Kamalasagar Kali Temple Also known as Kasba Kali Bari, Kamalasagar Kali Temple is located about 27 kilometers from Agartala. Kamalasagar Kali Temple is located in the Bangladesh border and is one of the most popular picnic spots in Tripura. The image of the deity housed at the temple resembles Mahishasurmardini. Situated on the hillock overlooking the Kamala Sagar, Kamalasagar Kali Temple dates back to the 17th century. Tourist Destinations Near Tripura There are several exciting Tripura Destinations to some unexplored trailblazing thoroughfares in northeast India. Tripura, located in a remote corner of northeast India is famed for its age-old history, panoramic locales and majestic palaces and other architectural landmarks. One of the most popular destinations in Tripura happens to be the capital city, Agartala. Founded by Maharaja Krishna Kishore Manikya in 1838 AD, the city abounds in tourist attractions. The popular tourist destinations of Agartala that attract myriads of sightseers include the following: Puratan Agartala Ujjayanta Palace Umamaheshwar temple Jagannath temple Venuban Vihar Ravindra Kanan Buddha Mandir Last Updated on : 24/09/2013 Travel to Tripura Places to visit in Agartala Travel to Agartala Travel Agents Agartala About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule