Welcome to SFAC | Krishidoot Contact us "Society promoted by Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India" Home About Us VCA Scheme VCA Scheme Venture Capital Assistance Scheme - Brochure VCA Operational Guidelines (in English & Hindi) List of Banks with whom MOU has been signed by SFAC Utilization of Funds Earmarked for NER, SC & ST under VCA Scheme VCA Application Form - Revised VCA Presentation Simplification of Documentation Process under VCA Scheme-reg. View All Sanctioned Project Revised Fee For Consultant Under SFAC Schemes Track your VCA application Publication Farmer Producer Organizations Farmer Producer Organizations FPO Brochure State Level Producer Companies Detailed List of Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs-Statewise) SuGyan Krishidoot - Connect State Level Association PPP-MSP Resource Institutions(RIs) empanelled for promotion of Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) during XII Five Year Plan Equity Grant Status Status as on 05th May, 2015 Empanelled Institutions Process of Empanelment of Consultants Empanelled Consultants Technical Support Agency Others Media/ Press Releases Photo Gallery Publication State Level Roundtable Conferences For FPOs Events Online Discussion A New Dawn - A Film on FPO Produced by SFAC Archives Project Management Services Project Management Services HMNEH FMDCP PPP-IAD Publication Publication Krishi Sutra Onion & Potato Report Guidelines Home Farmer Producer Organizations State Level Association State Level Association STATE LEVEL Association OF FARMER PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS (SLA) TO SUPPORT INTEGRATED AGRIBUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Aggregating producers into collectives is now universally accepted as one of the most effective means of reducing the risk in agriculture and improving the access of small and marginal producers to investments, technology and markets. Several thousand farmer producer organizations (FPOS) exist across the country, registered under various statutes such as the cooperative laws, trusts, federations, and lately under the Companies Act as producer companies. However, the vast majority of FPOs (a term that includes both cooperatives and producer companies) continue to struggle to establish viable and sustainable business models and achieve significant revenues and returns to their members. More often than not they are languishing at the bottom of the value chain, creating doubts among members and outsiders alike about the rationale of their formation. FPOs, irrespective of their type, also face common challenges in terms of organizing producers, hiring and retaining staff, raising capital including working capital, increasing the capacity of staff and board members, providing effective agriculture extension services to farmers, developing processes and systems for collecting, processing, value addition and marketing and understanding value chains for effective interventions. The core mission of SFAC is focused on increasing the productivity of small and marginal farmers, value addition and efficient linkages between producers and markets. As part of this mandate, SFAC has taken up an initiative, supported by Dept. of Agriculture and Cooperation (DAC), to incubate 250 FPOs covering 2.50 lakh farmers. Thisproject has been under implementation since July 2012 and will run through December 2013. 20 Resource Institutions (RIs) have been empanelled by SFAC to mobilize the FPOs and handhold them for a period of 2 years, through regular inputs of training and capacity building, linkages to technology, value added services and marketing opportunities. SFAC is backing up the process with intensive training of RIs, development of tool kits and other literature and monitoring the institution building process in partnership with NABCONS. Even as we promote these 250 FPOs, feedback from State Governments, FPOs, experts and our RI partners suggests that many existing FPOs, registered and operational prior to the SFAC project, are also in need of support. Thus, SFAC is faced with the challenge of supporting all active FPOs and their members, addressing their diverse needs and demands, enhancing their capacity and bargaining power, and ultimately helping them to move up the various agri value chains in which they are engaged. roundtable discussion series To fully understand the current situation and needs of FPOs across the country, SFAC hosted a roundtable discussion series with key stakeholders to devise a strategy for long-term support. Details of the RT discussion are available at the following links: Roundtable held at Bhopal on April 3,2012 Roundtable held at Hyderabad on 26 April 2012 Roundtable held at Uttarakhand on May 7, 2012 Roundtable held at Gujarat on 9 May 2012 Roundtable held at Bihar on 4 July 2012 Roundtable held at Jaipur on 16th July 2012 Roundtableheld at New Delhi on 31st July 2012 The learnings from the roundtable discussion can be summed up as follows: Lack of awareness about FPOs amongst producers, corporate sector, input suppliers, commercial banks, district level and agriculture department officials. Complex requirements ranging from registration to annual filing of information. Significant need for training and capacity building of farmers, shareholders, board of directors, FPO staff and handholding institutions. Lack of access, knowledge for extension services that can lead to productivity enhancement at farmer’s field level. Lack of access to capital, particularly working capital. Need for both backward and forward linkages. Policies that impede the growth of FPOs, such as mandi laws, cooperative regulation, tenancy provisions etc. Lack of an effective coordination and consultative mechanism at the regional and national level to network FPOs and leverage their collective voice and bargaining power. Based on the feedback from the RT discussions, SFAC has launched the State Level Committee of FPOs (SLCFPO in brief) to address the many challenges faced by the farmer collectives. This forum is seen as an effective solution to the need for better coordination among FPOs, enable them to enter into policy dialogue with State and Central agencies, access services and inputs from government and private agencies, increase capacity in a cost effective manner, seek credit from financial institutions and leverage investment opportunities in agribusiness through SFAC assistance. The SLCFPO initiative holds the promise to contribute significantly to the growth of farmer-owned organizations and opens up tremendous opportunities for linking small and marginal producers to market opportunities, investments, technology and services. This would lead to sustainable growth in farmers’ incomes and improve their quality of life, while at the same time meet important national goals of food production, diversification in agriculture, employment generation and reduction in rural poverty. The purpose is to give the farmer-producer the advantage of scale in the market and provide the ability to participate significantly in the supply chain. Given below are links to the active SLCs of FPOs. Each SLC is hosted by a Local Host Organisation, which is a leading civil society institution anchored within that State, working in partnership with SFAC. More SLCFPO units are likely to become active in States across the country over the next few months. Andhra Pradesh SLC FPO Bihar SLC FPO Gujarat SLC FPO Madhya Pradesh SLC FPO Maharashtra SLC FPO Odisha SLC FPO Rajasthan SLC FPO Uttarakhand SLC FPO   State SFACs Advertisement Tenders List of Empanelled Consultants of SFAC SFAC Logo Standards and Usage Manual What's New SFAC Participated in International Horti Intex 2014, Coimbatore Utilization of Funds Earmarked for NER, SC & ST under VCA Scheme VCA Application Form - Revised Archives Home About us VCA Scheme Farmer Producer Organizations Project Management Services Publication Photos Contact us © Copyright 2013 SFAC . All rights reserved. XML-Sitemap Developed, Designed & Maintained by Arete Software (A division of Arete Consultants Pvt Ltd) Social Media: Back to Top