Travel to Coorg - Tourism, Coorg Tourist Map Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Karnataka Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Places to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Palace Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan Palace Cubbon Park Raja's Seat Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary Lalitha Mahal Karanji Lake Murudeshwara Temple Mysore Palace Group of Monuments at Pattadakal Bangalore Fort Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Cities to Visit in Karnataka Bangalore Travel Belur Travel Coorg Travel Halebid Travel Hampi Travel Mangalore Travel Mysore Travel Badami Travel Belgaum Travel Sringeri Travel Karnataka Hotels Bangalore Hotels Coorg Hotels Udupu Hotels Mysore Hotels Hubli Hotels Mangalore Hotels About Karnataka Geography & History Fairs & Festivals Food Quick Facts Home »» Karnataka » Tourism » Travel to Coorg Travel to Coorg Coorg Tourism Coorg, otherwise known as Kodagu rests on the laps of the mountains in South India (Karnataka), picturesque to the extent that it makes you fall in love with nature. The serenity and the originality of Coorg are unspoiled and the charm is surely rugged and wild. With wooded slopes, attractive villages, vibrant panorama and the natural scenery, Coorg has an excellent combination for the travelers. The endless mountain ranges, slopes rising to the sky and the grassy affair of this place give it an irreplaceable character. Madikeri, the district headquarters of Kodagu or Coorg is situated at a distance of about 255 km from Bangalore lies. The original name of this place was Kodaimalenadu which meant 'dense forest on steep hill'. The softness of nature has termed this place as India's Scotland. It is definitely an unforgettable holiday destination for all those who want to lie in the lap of nature away from the bustling crowd. Located on the Western Ghats, this hill station is spread over an area of 4,102 sq km. Coorg is a beautiful place for tourist seeking natural picturesque spots and exciting treks. One can pay a visit to Raja's seat, Omkareshwara Temple, Abbi Falls, Madikeri Fort and other famous tourist attractions in and around Coorg. Wild life lovers can travel to the Nagarhole National Park. Coorg is different in every season, one has to come here and discover it. Tourist can travel to Coorg anytime round the year. Walk in the rains, enjoy the cold winters or simply relax in the pleasant summers. Demographics of Coorg Time Zone GMT/UTC +5:30 State Karnataka Headquarters Madikeri Talukh Madikeri, Somwarpet, Virajpet Population (2011 census) 349336 Coordinates 27.28° North and 77.41° East Area 4102 Sq. km Population 554762 Climate Summer 19 to 34°C, Winter 14 to 29°C Rainfall 2725.5 mm Main Languages Kannada, English, Kodava STD Code 8272 Pincode 571201 Elevation 174 m (570 ft) How to Reach Coorg By Air The nearest airport to Coorg is the Mangalore Airport which is around 135 km from the city. Flights from different Indian cities will leave you at the Mangalore airport from where you can take a bus or an auto to reach Coorg. By Rail Mysore railway station is the nearest railway station to Coorg. There are trains from all the major Indian cities to Mysore. By Road There is a well-laid-out network of roads connecting the city with important cities in Karnataka. Cities like Mysore (120 km), Hassan (115 km), Mangalore (136 km) and Bangalore (256 km) are linked by roadways with Coorg. Shopping in Coorg Shopping in Coorg is not the focus of activity. This is a land of unspoilt natural beauty. You would not find swanky shopping malls, rising structures in glass and concrete and raucous buyers in Coorg. It is not a typical shopping destination. But for some, returning from a tour without buying some souvenir for near and dear ones, is just impossible. Coorg has some good news for. Shop for the local produce here. Cardamom, pepper and honey should top your shopping list in Coorg. You can also pick delicious oranges in seasons while shopping in Coorg. What else but the natural produce can you get in a destination like Coorg were natural beauty is the highlight. Once you have come to Coorg, buy them to take back. Such things as fresh as here are hard to get in big cities. Coorg Travel Tips It is always advisable to carry some light woolens, just in case the temperature falls. Always take an umbrella along, whether it is the rainy season or not. If you are visiting in rainy seasons, beware of leeches especially in wet grass. Carry a pair of comfortable shoes, as there is plenty of walking to do. For adventure lovers trekking shoes are a must. The locals are very helpful and hospitable, though everyone might not understand English. Book your accommodation well in advance as the rates increase around long weekends and in tourist season. For commuting within the Coorg, auto rickshaws are the best options. Make sure to bargain or at least enquire the fares before hiring the rickshaw. Most of the hotels and resorts will book taxis for their guests if necessary. In some parts mobile signals are either weak or none at all, so make sure you know the way well. Carry your camera as amazing photographic opportunities are at every corner. Places to Visit in Coorg Raja's Seat Omkareshwara Temple Madikeri Fort Abbey Falls Gaddige Bylekuppe Talacauvery Barapole River Somwarpet Last Updated on : 9/09/2013 Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Belgaum Hotels Bellary Hotels Bijapur Hotels Chikmagalur Hotels Coorg Hotels Davangere Hotels Dharwad Hotels Gangavathi Hotels Gulbarga Hotels Hassan Hotels Hospet Hotels Hubli Hotels Karwar Hotels Kolar Hotels Mangalore Hotels Manipal Hotels Murudeshwar Hotels Mysore Hotels Sandur Hotels Shimoga Hotels Udupi Hotels Travel to Karnataka Travel to Bangalore Travel to Belagavi Travel to Belur Travel to Coorg Travel to Halebid Travel to Hampi Travel to Mangalore Travel to Mysore Travel to Sringeri Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Belur Places to visit in Coorg Places to visit in Halebid Places to visit in Hampi Places to visit in Mangalore Places to visit in Mysore About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule