Education in Andhra Pradesh Home » Andhra Pradesh » Education in Andhra Pradesh   Andhra Pradesh History Geography Climate आंध्र प्रदेश का नक्शा Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Hyderabad Metro Stations Map Cities Amaravati: Andhra's New Capital Hyderabad Tirupati Vishakhapatnam Vijayawada Warangal                    more.. Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Andhra Pradesh Places to visit in Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels         more... How to reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education in Andhra Pradesh Universities in Andhra Pradesh       Education in Andhra Pradesh The state of Andhra Pradesh, situated on the country's south eastern coast, is referred to as one of the favored centers of higher education in India. This south Indian state has spread quality education at each and every level of the entire education system prevalent there. Almost all the towns as well as the villages are covered under this educational jurisdiction. The Government of Andhra Pradesh introduces and pioneers many projects and programs so as to enhance the education system in the state. Apart from that many educational schemes are introduced by the state government to facilitate basic education among the underprivileged students. One of the most famous among them is the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, where free education is provided to the poor students. All of these initiatives have resulted in the growth of the state's literacy rate. According to the Census report of the year 2011, over a period of 10 years, the average rate of literacy of this state has increased to 67.77 % from 61.11 % in Census, 2001. Educational Institutes in Andhra Pradesh Apart from around 69, 500 schools ranging from the pre-primary to the senior secondary ones, the state is home to a number of institutes, which impart higher education. These higher education institutes include many colleges, universities, polytechnic institutes, medical colleges, engineering colleges, research institutes and many more. Given below are the approximate total numbers of the different educational institutions in Andhra Pradesh: Pre-primary School: 18 Primary School: 51, 836 Elementary School: 8, 713 Secondary School: 8, 897 Senior Secondary School: 97 Junior College or Pre-degree College: 2, 231 Board of Secondary or Intermediate Education: 2 Degree College (Arts or Science or Commerce): 923 Engineering College: 38 Medical College: 31 University: 20 Deemed University: 3 Teacher Training School: 25 Teacher Training Institute: 74 Polytechnic Institutes: 101 Technical Institutes: 459 Schools in Andhra Pradesh The following table provides names and location of some of the best schools that impart quality school level education in this state of the Republic of India: Sl. No. Name of Schools Location 1 A. P. Residential School Gorantla 2 A. P. Residential Boys School S. M. Puram and Bobbili 3 A. P. Residential Boys Higher Secondary School Pochampad 4 A. P. Residential Girls Higher Secondary School Pochampad 5 Bhashyam High School S. R. Nagar, Hyderabad 6 Narayana Olympiad School Krishnaveni nagar 7 Poornodaya Higher Secondary School Krishna Devaraya Nagar 8 Ratnam Higher Secondary School Nellore 9 Sarada Vidyalayam Thimmapuram 10 Vidyodaya High School Jammikunta Engineering colleges in Andhra Pradesh Following are some of the well known engineering colleges in the state: Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology G. R. I. E. T. (Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of Engineering and Technology) Muffakham Jah College of Engineering and Technology M. V. S. R. Engineering College Sreenidhi Institute of Science and Technology Vasavi College of Engineering Management Institutes in Andhra Pradesh The 2 most esteemed management institutions in this state are: I. S. B. (Indian School of Business) The Institute of Hotel Management, Catering Technology and Applied Nutrition Universities in Andhra Pradesh Being the location of the reputed Osmania University, which is among the oldest Indian universities, the state is known among the domestic as well as external students for higher education. To name a few other universities in Andhra Pradesh are: Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University Andhra University English and Foreign Languages University Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Kakatiya University Nagarjuna University Nalsar University of Law N. T. R. University of Health Sciences Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University Rayalaseema University R. G. U. K. T. (Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies) Sri Krishnadevaraya University Sri Venkateswara University University of Hyderabad Other Institutes of Higher Education in Andhra Pradesh Apart from the ones mentioned above, following are some of the other renowned institutes imparting higher education in this state of India. The city of Hyderabad, being the capital of Andhra Pradesh, most of these institutions are located there: Birla Institute of Technology and Science in Hyderabad C. C. M. B. (Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology) in Hyderabad I. I. C. T. (Indian Institute of Chemical Technology) in Hyderabad Indian Institute of Technology (I. I. T.) in Hyderabad I. I. I. T. - H. (International Institute of Information Technology in Hyderabad)/ N. I. T. (National Institute of Technology) in Warangal School of Planning and Architecture Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Hyderabad Last Updated on 20 June 2013 Education in Andhra Pradesh Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Fashion Designing Colleges Medical Colleges Engineering Colleges Hotel Management Colleges MBA Colleges Distance Learning universities Andhra Pradesh Loyola Colleges Exam Andhra Pradesh Board SSC Date Sheet Andhra Pradesh Board Intermediate Date Sheet Andhra Pradesh About Climate History Geography Languages Population Districts Factsheet Distance Chart Pin code STD code             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule