Furniture Trade Show,International Furniture Exhibition,Furniture Trade Fair & Expos JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Furniture Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry FurnitureTrade Shows Date : 12 Feb - 16 Feb 2016 Ambiente Germany -  Germany Ambiente will be the hub of the consumer goods world. Around 100 different nationalities on both the exhibitor's and visitor's side make visiting Ambiente a journey around the world in just five days. Venue : Exhibition Centre Frankfurt ,Berlin Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Jan - 30 Jan 2016 International trade fair for creative habitat design, furnishing, decorating and lifestyles -  Austria International trade fair for creative habitat design, furnishing, decorating and lifestyles is the most important furniture and deco accessories trade fair.this show is an annual ‘must’ for all painters, decorators, furnishers,.... Venue : Messezentrum Salzburg (Salzburg Exhibition Centre) ,Salzburg Austria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Sep - 20 Sep 2015 Furniture Moldova -  Moldova, Republic of "Furniture" has a stable international reputation and is one of the main projects used foreign manufacturers to develop their business in Moldova. "Furniture" also contributes to increasing the competitiveness of Moldovan.... Venue : I.E.C. Moldexpo ,Moldova Moldova, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 12 Jun 2015 The 14th China International Consumer Goods Fair -  China The 14th China International Consumer Goods Fair (CICGF) is the largest and most professional international consumer goods fair in China, which ranks only second to Canton Fair among all the exhibitions sponsored by Ministry of Commerce. Venue : Ningbo International Conference & Exhibition Center ,Zhejiang China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Feb - 29 Feb 2016 9th INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR ON -  India 9th INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR ON   is a mega exhibition exclusively organized for the Woodworking Industry. The main focus area of the event will be technology up-gradation and capacity expansion. Venue : Bangalore International Exhibition Centre India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Oct - 14 Oct 2015 Intermob 2015 -  Turkey Intermob-Furniture Fair, a must see event for all furniture and furnishings retailers, interior designers, interior decorators, architects and product specifiers, Intermob-Furniture Fair features more than 500 manufacturers, wholesalers and.... Venue : Tüyap Fair, Convention and Congress Center Turkey Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 23 Jul - 25 Jul 2015 Woodmach Cebu -  Philippines Woodmach Cebu is a premier exhibition for Wood, Woodworking, Furniture-Making Machinery & Technology, Furnishings, Accessories, Products and Services. The show will be the best gathering place for all the professionals from Woodworking Industry. Venue : Waterfront Cebu City Hotel ,Cebu Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Aug - 06 Aug 2015 Summer 2015 Las Vegas Market -  United States Las Vegas Market is the most comprehensive furniture, home décor and gift market in the United States, presenting a unique cross-section of 2,000+ resources in an unrivaled market destination. With two markets each year, retailers and designers can.... Venue : World Market Center Las Vegas ,NV United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 May - 08 May 2015 Interzum Cologne -  Germany The world leading event for suppliers of the furniture industry. The latest ideas from the suppliers for the furniture and interiors industry can only be found at interzum. Venue : Exhibition Centre Cologne Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 Zak Interior Exterior Expo Chennai -  India Zak Interior Exterior Expo will provide an excellent platform to the exhibitors to exhibit a wide range of interior and exterior design accessories. Zak Interior Exterior Expo is an international meeting point where companies will present the.... Venue : Chennai Trade Centre ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 ZAK Interior Exterior Expo & International Furniture Fair -  India The event is an international meeting point where companies will present the latest trends in the world of Interiors, elborating technology, innovations, equipment and concepts for the Architects & Designers community. Venue : Chennai Trade Centre ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Apr - 19 Apr 2015 ZAK Interior Exterior Expo & International Furniture Fair-Coimbatore -  India ZAK Interior Exterior Expo & International Furniture Fair - Coimbatore presents a wide collection of interior and exterior design accessories. t is planned as a one-stop to know the whos who of Interiors and Exteriors Expo & International Furniture.... Venue : Chennai Trade Centre ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Apr - 05 Apr 2015 Baby Boom Show-Bucharest -  Romania This year, the Baby Boom moves into his new house, preparing the edition with more than ever, continuing the tradition of being the most important exhibition of products and services in Romania for future mothers and children between 0 and 7.... Venue : Exhibition Centre Romexpo Baneasa ,Bucharest Romania Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Mar - 22 Mar 2015 CIFF-Home Furniture -  China China International Furniture Fair(Guangzhou) - Home Furniture Brings The Latest In Home Furnishings, Furniture Upholstery, Mattresses, Home D?Cor Items, Furniture Making Tools And Accessories, Alternative Material Used In Making Furniture, Space.... Venue : China Import & Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,Guangzhou China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Mar - 16 Mar 2015 Manila FAME International -  Philippines Manila FAME International 2015 is refreshing look to a whole new world of innovation and craftsmanship in home and fashion lifestyle daring you to explore and find elegance, sophistication and perfection in the show's.... Venue : SMX Convention Center ,Philippines Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 11 Mar - 15 Mar 2015 Furnitek China -  China Furnitek China is an international exhibition of machinery and accessories for furniture production, upholstery and furnishings and displays an exclusive collection of wood products and hardware, furniture products, furniture machinery and.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre ,Pudong China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Mar - 07 Mar 2015 EFE 2015 (Export Furniture Exhibition) -  Malaysia Export Furniture Exhibition or better known as EFE in brief, is the most representative international furniture exhibition in Malaysia and one of the highly anticipated fairs in Asia which attracts large numbers of buyers and visitors annually. A.... Venue : Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre (KLCC) ,Kuala Lumpur Malaysia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Feb - 01 Mar 2015 Calgary Spring Home & Garden -  Canada The Calgary Home + Garden Show is the most trusted resource for every home improvement project, inside and out. With expert insight from Canada's favourite home, horticulture and landscaping specialists, plus more than 650 exhibitors and a.... Venue : Bmo Centre & Corral ,AB Canada Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Feb - 22 Feb 2015 AntiquitÄten-Tage -  Germany For 39 years the art and antiques days in Münster are continuously on the road to success: The fair with their exclusive special shows - every year new and unique in its kind - offers artistic delight and thus attracts more and more.... Venue : Messe und Congress Centrum Halle Münsterland ,Munster Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 Feb - 08 Feb 2015 Bauen & Wohnen Salzburg -  Austria Bauen & Wohnen Salzburg 2015 is international fair for building interior, design and energy saving, which is featuring a comprehensive range of building and renovation systems and equipment, interior design products, energy saving devices and.... Venue : Salzburg Exhibition Centre ,Salzburg Austria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Jan - 23 Jan 2015 Indian Ceramics-Ahmedabad -  India Want to know about the latest technology innovations in the ceramics industry? Need deep insights into the ceramics market in India? Or simply looking for a great opportunity to network with industry peers? The 10th Edition, The Indian.... Venue : Gujarat University Exhibition Centre ,Ahmedabad ,Gujarat India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 19 Dec - 21 Dec 2014 New Year Shooping Festival-2014 -  India The NEW YEAR SHOPPING FESTIVAL-2014 on 19,20 & 21 December-2014 presents a showcase for all the trendy and designer stuff ranging from home interiors, furniture & furnishing, Kitchen Accessories, Modular Kitchens, Bathroom Fittings, Decorative.... Venue : Chennai Trade Centre ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration « Prev 1 Next » Trade Shows by Month May 2015 Jun 2015 Jul 2015 Aug 2015 Sep 2015 Oct 2015 Nov 2015 Dec 2015 Jan 2016 Feb 2016 Mar 2016 Apr 2016 Trade Shows by Country Argentina Australia China Germany France India Italy Japan South Korea Mexico Russian Federation United Kingdom United States WELCOME GUEST Join Us! Its Free or