Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Admission    B.Tech (FPE) Admission-2015-16 B.Tech (FPE) Admission-2015-16 Admission Procedure for B.Tech (Food Process Engineering) Degree Program Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology  (IICPT) Entering into JEE- Common Counseling System for B.Tech (Food Process  Engineering) Admission. Important points:   1. Only candidates, who have qualified in JEE (Main) 2015 exam, will be     eligible to get  admission at IICPT. 2. Seat Allocation will be on the basis of the All India Merit Ranks  as well as     the choices filled in by them during the Counselling Procedure. 3. Candidates  must   carefully   follow   the  guidelines   prescribed   for  the     Counseling procedure.(for details http://www.csab.nic.in) 4. Important steps are :             Online Registration, Choice filling and Choice Locking followed by     Seat Allotment and     online fee  submission,  report  to  reporting  centre     followed by  report to Allotted Institute  and     submission  of  remaining     amount of tuition fee and Hostel Fee. No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com