|| Directorage of Extension || ORGANISATION PROJECTS TRAINING PUBLICATIONS PHOTO GALLERY EVENTS RELATED LINKS DISCLAIMER SUBSIDY FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF AGRICLINIC & AGRIBUSINESS CENTRES Policy Initiatives              The agriculture graduates are provided training in agri-business development for two months through institutions in public/private sector located throughout the country and coordinated by National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management  (MANAGE), Hyderabad. These institutions also provide handholding support to the trained graduates for a period of one year in obtaining bank finance, setting up their business in the area, coordinating with different government authorities involved in giving licenses for undertaking the required business activities, etc.  The entire cost of training and handholding is being borne by the Government of India. The credit linked capital subsidy @ 25% of the capital cost of the project funded through bank loan is also eligible under the scheme.  This subsidy is 33.33% in respect of candidates belonging to SC,ST,Women and other disadvantaged sections and those from North-Eastern and Hill States.  The capital subsidy is back-ended in nature.   Full interest subsidy is eligible for the first two years of the project.  The interest subsidy is concurrent in nature. The subsidy will not be admissible under this scheme if subsidy of whatever amount was availed of under any other scheme of Central or State Govt.  Trained graduates are expected to set up Agri-Clinic and Agri-Business Centres. SCHEME : ESTABLISHMENT OF AGRI-CLINICS AND AGRI-BUSINESS CENTERS BY AGRICULTRE GRADUATES The Scheme of Agri-Clinics and Agri-Business Centres was launched on 9 th April,2002 as a follow-up of Finance Minister’s Budget Speech 2001.  The objective of the scheme is (i) to provide extension and other services to farmers on payment basis through economically viable self- employment ventures, (ii) to provide necessary support in supply of agricultural inputs and  (iii) to support agri entrepreneurial  development              The agriculture graduates are provided training in agri-business development for two months through institutions in public/ private sector located throughout the country and coordinated by MANAGE.  These institutions also provide handholding support to the trained graduates for a period of one year. The entire cost of training and handholding is being borne by the Government of India.  The credit linked capital subsidy @ 25% of the capital cost of the project funded through bank loan is also eligible under the scheme.  This subsidy is 33.33% in respect of candidates belonging to SC, ST, Women and other disadvantaged sections and those from North-Eastern and Hill States.  The capital subsidy is back-ended in nature.  The subsidy is available only to those agriculture graduates who are trained under the scheme on or after Ist April, 2004.   Full interest subsidy is eligible for the first two years of the project.  The interest subsidy is concurrent in nature. The subsidy will not be admissible under this scheme, if subsidy of whatever amount was availed of under any other scheme of Central or State Govt. Trained graduates are expected to set up Agri-Clinic and Agri-Business Centres with the help of bank finance. The scheme is being implemented with the help of National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE) and National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). Guidelines for screening the candidates   The procedure for screening of candidates is as follows:   a)           The training is open for graduates in agriculture and any subject allied to agriculture like horticulture, sericulture, veterinary sciences, forestry, dairy, poultry farming, fisheries, etc. MANAGE will publish advertisement for inviting applications for training from time to time.   b)           The application format can be downloaded from www.manage.gov.in . The application for the training shall be made in prescribed proforma along with an application fee of Rs.500/- which is non-refundable.   c)           All the applications shall be submitted to MANAGE, who in turn will send at least double the number of candidates covering different districts to the identified nodal training institution.  The nodal institution will screen the applicants through a Screening Committee before admitting them into training.    