Bihar Road Map Home » Maps » Bihar Map » Bihar Road Map   Bihar Roads Luckeesarai Paschim Champaran Sheohar Nalanda Sheikhpura Samastipur Siwan                    more.. बिहार का नक्शा Bihar Bihar Map Bihar at a Glance Bihar Cities Districts Railways Rivers Tehsils Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Education Universities In Bihar Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Government and Politics Travel to Bihar Places to Visit in Bihar Wildlife Sanctuaries Nalanda Archaeological Museum Ashokan Pillar Buddha Stupa Hotels in Bihar Bhagalpur Hotels Bodhgaya Hotels Gaya Hotels Forbesganj Hotels Katihar Hotels Patna Hotels Purnia Hotels Rajgir Hotels People, Culture and Festivals Handicrafts Agricultural Map Geography and history New Course of Kosi river District Map in Hindi STD code Pin code       Bihar Road Map Road Map of Bihar Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the entire road network of Bihar. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The strategically planned roadways of National Highways 2, 23, 28, 30, 31 and 33 and state highways connect Bihar with all the important Indian cities. The extensive road network of Bihar links Patna and Nalanda (90 kilometer), Bodh Gaya (110 kilometer) and Vaishali (55 kilometer). Some information about the roadways of Bihar is given below: Roadways of Patna: Nalanda-90 kilometer, Rajgir-102 kilometer, Pawapuri-90 kilometer, Gaya-172 kilometer, Bodhgaya-179 kilometer, Raxaul-210 kilometer, Ranchi-335 kilometer, and Muzzafarpur-72 kilometer Roadways of Vaishali: An extensive road network covers Vaishali which connects it to many important cities of Bihar like Patna (55 kilometer), Hajipur (35 kilometer ), Muzaffarpur (37 kilometer ), which are, in turn connected to rest of India. Other important destinations in Bihar, namely Bodhgaya (163 kilometer), Nalanda (140 kilometer) and Rajgir (145 kilometer) lie close by. Roadways of Baidyanath Dham (Deoghar): Kolkata-373 kilometer, Giridih-112 kilometer, Madhupur-57 kilometer and Dumka-67 kilometer Roadways of Bodh Gaya: Bodhgaya is a major bus stop near Sujata Bridge on the Falgu River at the northeastern corner of the town. The nearest transport hub is located at Gaya, a major point on Grand Trunk Road. Regular direct bus services from Gaya, Patna, Rajgir, Nalanda, and Varanasi make road communication easy. Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation run buses twice a day in Patna-Bodhgaya route. Major road - distances are: Gaya-12 kilometer, Patna-152 kilometer, Varanasi-215 kilometer, Nalanda-62 kilometer, Rajgir-46 kilometer and Kolkata-482 kilometer. Roadways of Nalanda: Excellent road network covers Nalanda. Important destinations like Patna, Delhi, Kolkata, Bodhgaya and Rajgir are connected to Nalanda by roadways. Roadways of Kushinagar: Kushinagar is linked by road to Gorakhpur which is 55 kilometer away. Last Updated on : 11/16/2012   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule