Agriculture — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Agriculture Share Info Agriculture Agriculture section of this portal covers majorly on production technologies of crops, livestock, fisheries, policies and schemes, best practices, farm based enterprises, Agri credit, insurance, weather, market and latest updates Managing natural resources for sustained livelihoods India is endowed with a rich diversity of natural resources that form the source of livelihood for majority of its population. Sustainable management of these resources is essential to ensure sustained livelihoods of the communities that co-exist with them. Gainful employment through Agriculture and allied activities Agriculture and allied activities (both on and off farm) provide enormous scope for gainful employment in India. Extensive forward backward linkages, strong policy support and risk management plans are some of the critical support services required by entrepreneurs in this arena. Sharing of gained Knowledge and adopted Best Practices Sharing of experiences gained by farmers through successful adoption of indigenous technologies, innovations and best practices, motivates other farmers and brings confidence. Effective knowledge sharing among small and marginal farmers is the need of the hour. Agriculture section of Vikaspedia portal aims to provide relevant information and knowledge based content related to agriculture and allied sectors, contributed by volunteers in these sectors. As a stakeholder in this platform, you can express your views, share your experiences, participate in relevant discussions,update your knowledge from the available resources and disseminate the knowledge to others. The major focus of Agriculture sector of Vikaspedia portal is pertaining to the following areas. Agri Inputs Preparation and handling of various inputs, including seeds, fertilizers and pesticides are covered here Crop Production Package of practices for various crops, IPM, latest technologies, weather and marketing are detailed here Post Harvest Technologies Technologies developed for handling of harvested crops, processing and food safety standards are detailed here Livestock Commercial production of cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat, rabbit and pigs are discussed here Poultry Commercial Production and scientific management of various birds are detailed here Fisheries Various aspects of fish production including inland fisheries, prawn culture, pearl culture, ornamental fish production, value added products, machineries etc are covered Agro enterprises Various Agro based enterprises suitable for small and marginal farmers are detailed here Best practices Best practices adopted in sustainable agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries, agri-based enterprises, extension practices are covered in the form of case-studies and experiences from experts and practitioners Policies and schemes Policies and schemes related to agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries and rural employment are covered Agri Credit Topics related to agricultural credit, credit institutions and related schemes are covered in this section Agri Insurance Various insurance products that cover agriculture and allied activities, their details such as premium, coverage area, claim procedure etc are highlighted Agri directory Provides links to various websites and portals related to Agriculture and allied sectors Discussion Forum Platform to discuss various issues related to Agriculture and allied sectors Sunil Gade May 08, 2014 11:27 AM very imp information about Agriculture...........Thanku.....!!!!!!! Muhammed jaslam pk Jun 24, 2014 11:01 AM as most of indain farmer are uneducated ...good extention work can only make them to avaiable like this services.. Amit mamgain Jun 26, 2014 09:44 AM Cooperative farming should be promoted as fragmentation of land holding is rampant with increasing population and division of property. Assured irrigation in rain shadow areas and mechanisation can increase productivity.we can't increase area but yield per hectare can be increased . Mohit Kumar Jul 22, 2014 12:46 PM We all are aware that our 70% of farming are small and marginal farmers. We have to introduced mechanical equipment to help the farmers for betterment. We have to encourage the enterprise to setup an entity for the farmers. Vishwas Jul 27, 2014 09:39 AM I have seen many sources of "Package of Practices" but have never seen anything that details the process of what goes on in developing a "Package of Practices". Also is there any format/guidance (similar to CPGs in medical field) regarding it's content, validation of quality before it is published? And once it is published who is supposed to use it and how they use it? Dr.Jayanta Roy May 14, 2015 06:11 PM women empowerment,enterprise,SHG and women dairy farmer can be included. Thanks& Regards. Post Your Suggestion (If you have any comments / suggestions on the above content, please post them here) Name Your Message   Type the word given below Navigation Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Market information Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises Best Practices Policies and Schemes National Schemes for Farmers State-specific schemes for farmers Agri Credit Agri Insurance Agri Directory Discussion Forum - Agriculture Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector