Climate of Himachal Pradesh Home » Himachal Pradesh » Geography » Climate of Himachal Pradesh   Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate हिमाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                 (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Cities in Himachal Pradesh Manali Shimla Dharamshala Dalhousie Kasauli                        more... Travel to Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Himachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Subhash Baoli Shivkul Sankat Mochan Places to Visit in Shimla Travel to Manali Travel to Kullu Travel to Shimla Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una Hotels in Kangra              more... Assembly Polls HP Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities in Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh Colleges       Climate of Himachal Pradesh The Climate of any place is dependent on various geographical factors. The state of Himachal Pradesh, India is a hilly region and it experiences a pleasant Climate through out the year. It even experiences heavy snow fall during the winter months. The weather of Himachal alters with the change of altitude. The best time to visit the state of Himachal is from September to March. The temperature of Himachal Pradesh is highly dependent on altitude. The average altitude of the region is from 350 meter to 700 meter above sea level. The region generally experiences three seasons. The winter season spans from October to February. The summer months in Himachal are the months of March to June. By July the rainy season starts in the hilly region and it ends in September. In the winter months, some parts of Himachal experiences heavy snow fall. It occurs generally in the months of December to March. The days and nights during this time of the year become very cold. The Weather and Climate of Himachal Pradesh becomes very beautiful after the rainy season. The landscape of the place become lush green. But heavy rains often cause floods and landslides causing destruction to life and property. The highest amount of rainfall that has been recorded in Dharmasala is 3400 mm. The annual rainfall of Himachal Pradesh is 2909 to 3800 mm. The average temperature in the summer months vary from 22 degrees to 37 degree Celsius. The temperature varies from 0 degree to 15 degree Celsius. Last Updated on : 26 March 2012             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule