India GDP Composition Sector Wise Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI India GDP    India GDP 2010-2011 India GDP History Calculating India GDP GDP India 2007 GDP India 2006 India Real GDP Growth India GDP Statistics India GDP Growth Rate India Per Capita GDP India GDP Composition Sector Wise Role of Major Industries-GDP You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home   » India-gdp » Sectorwise » India GDP Composition Sector Wise India GDP Composition Sector Wise Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  24  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 The Gross Domestic Product or GDP is the indicator of the performance of an economy. According to the estimates of 2008, India's GDP is $1.209 trillion and this is slated to make improvement in the coming times. It is estimated that India's GDP will grow by 6.5% in the year 2009. In 2008 the country's GDP was 9%; the slowdown that has been witnessed this year in the estimates is largely due to the slowdown witnessed by the agriculture and the industrial sectors. A look at the India GDP composition sector wise throws up some interesting figures. The agriculture sector contributed 17.2%; industry contributed 29.1% while the service sector had a contribution of 52.7% according to 2008 estimates. Sectors contributing to India's GDP India is a vast country, so the sectors contributing to the country's GDP is also big in numbers. Various sectors falling under the India GDP composition includes food processing, transportation equipment, petroleum, textiles, software, agriculture, mining, machinery, chemicals, steel, cement and many others. Agriculture is the pre dominant occupation in India, employing more than 50% of the population. The service sector accounts for employing more than 25% while the industrial sector accounts for more than 10%. India's GDP Statistics GDP: $1.209 trillion (2008 Estimate) GDP Growth: 6.7% (2009) GDP per capita: $1016 GDP by sector (2008 Estimate): Agriculture: 17.2% Industry: 29.1% Services: 53.7% Inflation: 7.8% (2008 Estimate) Labor force: 523.5 million (2008 Estimate) Share of sector wise contribution to GDP Agriculture makes the highest contribution to India's GDP. It has been seen in the last few years that the input of the agriculture sector has been declining, but it is still the biggest contributor. This decline in growth has been largely attributed to the irregular climatic condition, which saw less rain this year. Contributions from the manufacturing sector in the country's GDP have been largely along expected lines, though it was slightly down. The reasons attributed for this are the global economic recession, changing pattern of consumer consumption and a stringent liquidity policy. The service and the industrial sector have performed much better compared to the contribution from the other sectors. The global economic slowdown is showing very slow but some sure signs of recovery. Now is the time for all the sectors to undertake measures to ensure that these sectors contribute appropriately to the GDP of the country. Liberal governmental policies will also ensure that India GDP composition sector wise registers a significant improvement. For further information on India GDP Composition Sector Wise, please refer to the following sites India GDP Composition Sector Wise Agriculture Growth Rate-GDP Industry Growth Rate- GDP Infrastructure Sector Growth Rate- GDP Services Sector Growth Rate- GDP Business Expectations Index Surveys on India GDP India GDP and Standard of Living Limitations of GDP per Capita in Measuring Growth GDP India vs. GDP China India GDP Forecast 2008 World Bank India GDP About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED