Travel to Srisailam: Destinations, Hotels, Food, Transport and Tour Guide Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andhra Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Mosques & Shrines in Andhra Pradesh Parks in Andhra Pradesh Caves in Andhra Pradesh Churches in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Temples in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Museums in Andhra Pradesh Cities to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Travel to Srisailam Travel to Tirupati Travel to Visakhapatnam Travel to Vijayawada Travel to Hyderabad Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Srikakulam Hotels in Kurnool Hotels in Tirupati Hotels in Vijayawada Hotels in Nellore About Andhra Pradesh History Climate Home » Andhra Pradesh » Travel to Srisailam Travel to Srisailam Srisailam Travel Srisailam is an ancient pilgrimage center situated on the Nallamalai Hills of Kurnool District of Andhra Pradesh. It is a temple town situated on the southern bank of the River Krishna and is 212 Kms south of Hyderabad city. It is famous for the Mallikarjun Swamy Jyotirlinga and many of its related temples dating back to the medieval times. The town is situated on hilly terrain and experiences tropical weather with moderate and comfortable winter months which see the maximum number of tourists thronging the place. The temples around the area often offer lucrative lodging deals for the convenience of pilgrims. Eco-tourism is also on the rise in the area. Srisailam is situated at an attitude of 409 meters above sea level. The best time to visit Srisailam is between November and March. The winter months here are comfortable, with temperatures between 14 to 28 degrees Celsius. The languages spoken around the area are primarily Telugu and Hindi. Some tourism offices and tourist guides might also be proficient in English. Places to Visit Srisailam is one of the main pilgrimage destinations of Andhra Pradesh. One finds a whole host of temples and holy sites to explore in and around the area. The jewel in the crown is the Mallikarjuna Swamy Temple, situated on the southern bank of the Krishna River, one of the 12 Jyotirlinga temples of India. Ancient epics from across the subcontinent contain references to this ancient Shiva temple of Srisailam boasting of wonderful Vijayanagara architecture. The Akka Mahadevi Caves are another popular tourist destination of the area. The famous Veerashaivite poet and philosopher of medieval Karnataka known as Akka Mahadevi apparently practiced penance in these caves, steadfastly worshipping the natural lingam formed inside the caves. There are motor boats that can be hired from the tourism department offices to reach the caves. The Hemareddy Malamma Temple is another such holy site that is infused with medieval religious and folklore about the local godhead Mallikarjun. Other attractions of Srisailam include the Srisailma Dam, the Srisailam Sanctuary, which is one of the biggest Tiger Reserves in the country, the Bhramaramba Devi Temple and Mallela Teertham, a waterfall and drinking spot for wild animals in the midst of dense forestry. Best Time to Visit The best time to visit Srisailam is during the winters, especially the months of November, December, January, February and March. The temperature remains moderate and comfortable, between 14 degrees Celsius and 28 degrees Celsius. It is the perfect weather for sightseeing, and charming hill town sees most of its tourist footfall during these months. The summers start from March and go on till May, and they are hot and dry and generally avoided by tourists. Temperatures range from 22 degrees Celsius and soar to around 40 degrees Celsius. From around June to September, Srisailam sees its rainy season and experiences moderate rainfall. It also experiences moderate humidity during this period. Srisailam experiences typically tropical weather, but because it is situated on a hilly terrain, the winter months are not so harsh. The November to March period is especially conducive to travelling, although the off season period does see the tariff rates going down significantly. How to Reach Srisailam is very well connected by air, train and road to the rest of the country. It is 12 Kms away from Hyderabad city, which is 5 hours by road. The nearest airport is the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Hyderabad which is well connected to all major cities on the country like Delhi, Bangalore, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Kozhikode etc., though national and international airlines such as Air India, Jet Airways, JetKonnect, SpiceJet, GoAir, IndiGo etc. The nearest railway station to reach Srisailam is the Markapur Railway Station which is a one-and-a-half hour drive away. Markapur station is well connected to all major cities of Andhra Pradesh and other cities of India via the Prasanti Express (Bhubaneshwar), Puri-Yesvantapur Weekly Garib Rath Express (Puri, Bangalore), Howrah Prasanti Nilayam Express (Kolkata), Kondaveedu Express (Machilipatnam), Amravati Express (Vasco da Gama) and the many local passenger trains from Guntur Junction and Hyderabad station such as the Kacheguda passengers. Srisailam is most easily accessible by road. Buses connect Srisailam with Hyderabad, Kurnool, Guntur and other towns of Andhra Pradesh. For service from Hyderabad to Srisailam, tickets and reservations can be made at the Central Bus station Hyderabad. The approximate travel time from Hyderabad to Srisailam is 5 to 6 hours. Srisailam is also well connected to Tirupathi via Nellore. Many private bus and taxi services are also available from Hyderabad, Kurnool, Tipupathi etc. Local Transport Srisailam is a hill town and the modes of local transport are mainly buses and taxis. Many private enterprises operate buses, taxis and cars for the convenience of tourists. Travellers keen on exploring the hidden treasures of the forests around the ghats need to hire jeeps, as some of the spots are rocky and only jeeps can traverse such terrain. Trekking is an exciting option in the area and a perfect way to discover secret waterfalls and valleys that dot the area. Local tourist destination such as the Akka Mahadevi Caves are accessed by the ropeway. This ropeway is controlled by the tourism department and treats the tourists to a beautiful aerial view of the forests. The Caves can also be accessed by motorboats which are operated by the tourism department as well as private enterprises. While boating in the Srisailam Dam Reservoir, the local Putti or Teppa boats can be availed for a fun outing. Tourists are advised to avail these alternative modes of transportation while exploring Srisailam and its surroundings for a more intimate and exciting experience. Hotels Srisailam, being one of the most important pilgrimage spots of Andhra Pradesh, offers a vast array of moderately expensive to budget hotels run by the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Department as well as private enterprises and the local temples. The government run guest houses are Gouri Sadan, Punnami Guest House, Haritha and Ganga Sadan. Apart from these, the Mallikajun Swamy temple runs the Srisaila Devasthanam, which consists of a plethora of cottages, luxury suites, AC rooms and many guest houses. Other private hotels include the Grand Akka Mahadevi Hotel, Akhila Bharata Redla Satram, the Pathaleshara Sadanam, Velama Satram, Karnabhaktula Seva Sadan etc. Most hotels in Srisailam are very clean and provide average to luxury amenities. Many do not need prior reservations except during peak season, festivals or on if the tourists arrive on a Monday. Lodges and other such alternative budget accommodations are also available for specific spiritual and religious communities with their special needs. Being a pilgrimage spot, most hotels in Srisailam serve vegetarian meals and do not allow consumption of alcohol or other substances on the premises. Travel Tips While Srisailam has become a significant tourist destination mainly for its temples and religious sites, travelers are advised to explore the areas around Srisailam to experience the Eastern ghats at a more up close and personal level. There are various other activities that travelers can indulge in to make their stay in Srisailam memorable, such as trekking and camping the the ghats. The adjoining forests and the Srisailam sanctuary are perfect for nature-lovers and wildlife enthusiasts. The Srisailam Sanctuary boasts a formidable population of tigers and other flora and fauna. Tourists are encouraged to take advantage of the many eco-tourism ventures that have come up in Srisailam. Seshachalam Hills, Mamanduru Village, Malella Teertham are only a few of the many virgin trekking and camping spots around Srisailam that offer world-class rural tourism and eco-tourism amenities. The Irrukam Island Village is another such destination which sees the migration of rare flamingoes during the winter months and hosts a flamingo festival in January. Tourists are advised to take time off their religious itineraries to explore these hidden treasures of Srisailam. How many days are enough to travel Srisailam is often a weekend trip for many tourists as they visit only the pilgrimage spots and temples. But tourists who opt for eco-tourism packages which explore hidden natural resources of the area are advised to keep at least a week in hand. Srisailam and its surrounding areas are also very conducive to camping and trekking trips which take much longer durations. Nature lovers are advised to take their time and explore the many waterfalls and valleys that the Eastern ghats around the area have to offer. Wildlife enthusiasts will find the natural beauty of Srisailam Sanctuary befitting a longer stay in the area. While a run of the mill pilgrimage tour might take just a weekend, pilgrims often club their Srisailam tour with their Tirupathi itinerary for a long-duration religious trip. The temples around Srisailam offer very good and extremely affordable lodging and food options and long duration trips are also very easy on the pocket. Tourism Department Contacts The Andhra Pradesh Tourism Department is in charge of all bookings and reservations in the government run guest houses and hotels in Srisailam. This is the address and contact numbers for the Hyderabad Office, which needs to be contacted in order to make reservations in Srisailam. Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation 3-5-891, Tourism House, Himayatnagar, Hyderabad - 500 029. Andhra Pradesh, India. Phone: +91-40-23262151, +91-40-23262152, +91-40-23262153, +91-40-23262154, +91-40-23262157, Fax: +91-40-23261801. 1800-42-545454 is the toll-free number for Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation which can be contacted for any queries regarding bookings and travel. The number for the reception office at the Mallikarjun Swamy Temple is +91(0)-8524-288888. Tourists can be redirected from the reception office to the various accommodation options available on the premises of the Mallikarjun Swamy Temple. Emergency Contact Numbers While Srisailam is a relatively safe travel destination, it is always useful to keep some emergency contact numbers handy. Following are a few important contact numbers that might come of use in case of emergencies in the area. Police Control Room: 100 Local Police Station: +91(0)-8524-247033 Local Hospital: +91(0)-8524-288884 Tourist Information Center: +91(0)-8524-288885 Last Updated on : 24/10/2013 Andhra Pradesh About Climate History Geography Languages Population Districts Factsheet Distance Chart Pin code STD code About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule