NER Textile Promotion » Central Silk Board Loading... Screen Reader Access Who's who | Contact Us | Intranet Login Central Silk Board Ministry of Textiles - Govt of India Home About Us Vision & Mission Mandate Organization chart Composition of the Board Act & Rules Citizen's charter FAQ Silk-Sericulture Silk Sericulture Silks of India Services R & D Training Seed Production Consultancy Schemes Central Sector Centrally Sponsored MKSP Projects for Tasar MGNREGA with CDP NER Textile Promotion Statistics Silk Flash Silk Bulletin Silk Exports & Imports Publications Indian Silk Books Videos Annual Report Downloads RFD Note on sericulture Training Calendar Evaluation Reports Regd. Stake holders Silk Exporters Minutes of Meetings Gallery Schemes Central Sector Centrally Sponsored MKSP Projects for Tasar MGNREGA with CDP NER Textile Promotion   NER Textile Promotion North East Region (NER) Textile Promotion Scheme  (Sericulture Projects for NE during XII Plan) North East Region (NER) Textile Promotion Scheme  (Sericulture Projects for NE during XII Plan) I n order to boost the textile sector in the NE region, the Govt of India has approved a project- based strategy for the North East Region under an umbrella scheme by name “North East Region Textile Promotion Scheme”. This umbrella scheme will be implemented in the North East Region in addition to the regular schemes of the Ministry. The expenditure under this scheme will be met from the 10 per cent budget outlay being earmarked for the North Eastern States. Planning Commission has allocated a provision of Rs.1038.10 crore for NERTPS in the 12 th Plan. The scheme was approved by the EFC on 8 th April, 2013 and CCEA on 7 th November, 2013.   T he North Eastern States have a long tradition of handloom weaving, handicraft and sericulture. The region accounts for more than 50 per cent of the handlooms in the country. However, most of the looms produce for domestic consumption. The textile sector in the region has tremendous potential for growth and creation of employment opportunities. The broad objective of the North East Textile Promotion Scheme is to develop and modernise the textile sector in the North East Region by providing the required Government support in terms of raw material, seed banks, machinery, common facility centres, skill development, design and marketing support etc. The specific objectives of the scheme include increase in the value of textile production, technology upgradation,  improvement in design capability, diversification of product lines and value addition, better access to domestic and export markets, clusterisation and improvement in labour productivity, market access & market promotion.                                                                                  Please click for ...more information on NERTPS                      Updated on : 23rd July 2014  Sitemap Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2015 Central Silk Board. All Rights Reserved.   This is the official Website of Central Silk Board, a statutory body of Government of India under the Ministry of Textiles Last updated: 23/07/2014