Home | INTERNATIONAL SERICULTURAL COMMISSION Skip to main content HOME About Us Historical Background Current Position Mission and Objectives Organizational Structure Membership Country Membership Collective Associate Membership Individual Associate Membership Join as a Member Core Activity Research and Development Training Scholarship Volunteer Expert Programme Sharing of Genetic Resources Global Partnership Programme Consultancy Global Meetings Awards Publications Benefits Member Country Collective Associate Member Individual Associate Member Non Member Country Silk Companies Fashion Industry Pharmaceutical, Cosmetics & other Sectors Researchers / Students Sericologia About Sericologia Structure Chief Editor How to Subscribe Sericologia Information to Contributors Publication Current Issue Previous Issues Portfolio National Delegates Secretary General Officer on Special Duty Secretary to Secretary General Executive Silk Industry Silk - An Introduction Evolution of Silk Types of Silk Key Components Merits Millennium Development Goal Statistics Silk Products Search form Search this site Visit of trainees to ISC HQs Afghanistan enrolled as the 16th Member Country of ISC on 1st January, 2015. Prof. K. S. Rangappa, Vice Chancellor, University of Mysore inaugurated the training on Sericulture & Silk Industry for ISC Member Countries under ITEC Programme. The ISC Trainees during the inaugural function held at CSR&TI, Mysore on 9th March, 2015. Shri Vajubhai Vala, Governor of Karnataka inaugurated the 23rd ISC Congress on 24th Nov, 2014 at Bangalore. Secretary General receives the Instrument of Accession from Representative of Embassy of Bangladesh, India Louis Pasteur Awardees-2014: Dr. B.S. Angadi (India); Dr. Suwannee Cunvong (Thailand); Dr. Hiroaki Machii (Japan) Quick Access In Focus Country Profile Join as a Member Volunteer Expert Programme Training Programmes FAQ Statistics Notification Upcoming Events Executive Committee and 24th ISC Conference - 25th & 26th July, 2015 Resources Silkworm & Mulberry Database Technical Report Downloads Directory Archives Useful Links Then Now Publications The major publication of ISC is the scientific journal "Sericologia" and proceedings of the ISC Congresses More Publications... TRAINING ON SERICULTURE & SILK INDUSTRY COMMENCED A special training on sericulture and silk industry organised for the candidates nominated from ISC Member Countries was inaugurated by Prof. K. S. Rangappa, Vice Chancellor, University of Mysore at Central Sericultural Research & Training Institute, Mysore on 9th March. This programme is sponsored by the Ministry of External Affairs, Govt. Visit of a delegation from Japan to ISC HQs A four member delegation from Japan headed by Mr. Ejima, Head, JICA India office, New Delhi visited the office of International Sericultural Commission, Bangalore on 14th January, 2015. The other three Japanese members are assigned to work in India as volunteers for a two year term. Visit of a delegation from the University Technology of Malaysia A three member delegation from University Technology of Malaysia comprising Dr. Arieff Salleh bin Rosman, Director, Dr. Farahwahida bt Mohd Yusof, Assistant Director from Center of Research for Fiqh Science & Technology (CFiRST), University Technology of Malaysia and Dr. Visit of a two member delegation from South Korea A two member delegation from South Korea headed by Ms. Hee Kyoung oh, The elderly, Silk, Fashion and Pattern CAD / Researcher, The Research Institute of Nursing Science, Seoul National University, No. 313, 2nd Building College of Nursing, 103 Daehak-ro, Jongno-Gu, Seoul 110799, Korea visited the ISC HQs on 23rd January, 2015. VISIT OF SECRETARY GENERAL, AARDO TO ISC H.E., Eng. Wassfi Hassan El-Sreihin, Secretary General, African Asian Rural Development Organisation (AARDO), New Delhi and Mr. A. W. Anwer, Executive Secretary, AARDO visited the sericultural areas and facilities in Bangalore and Mysore (India) during 25-28, February, 2015. More News... Silk Products Silk has been intermingled with the life and culture of many civilizations in the world.  The silk garments are among the living examples of the excellent craftsmanship of the weavers. More Products... Message from Secretary General Ishita Roy "I would take this opportunity to inform the international silk community that the Commission has taken up a number of new initiatives for the ... Read More...   Louis Pasteur Award To have achived something very significant n sericulture in one's country or internationally. In Focus An extensive in-house review on the various activities of the ISC and the status of sericulture industry in the world Gallery Afghanistan Bangladesh Brazil DPR Korea Egypt France Greece India Indonesia Iran Japan Madagascar Romania Syria Thailand Tunisia Copyright © 2013 Home Contact Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Disclamer Netiapps