TNAU Agritech Portal :: NGO & SHG Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact NGO & SHG :: SOCIO ECONOMIC IMPACT SOCIO ECONOMIC IMPACT The SHG movement with nearly 59 lakh women as members has grown from strength to strength bringing about substantial social change. SHG has been very successful in bringing about social empowerment of women.It motivate the women to take up economic activities. Improved Status of women in the family and society, through access to credit, increased control over resources, improved skills and collective action.  The group formation build capacity of poor and disadvantaged women in order that they are enabled  cross all social and economic barriers, and thereby facilitate their full development into empowered citizens. Achievment of the equality of status of poor women in economic, social and cultural spheres of life. Promote and ensure the human rights of women at all stages of their life cycle. Improved health and family welfare, through better awareness. Better Education for children and Literacy due to increased awareness. Gives equal status, participation & powers of decision-making of women in household, in community and village Breaking social, cultural & religious barriers to equal development of women/girls Communal harmony, caste harmony through formation of mixed caste SHGs. Increasing Social Awareness, through motivation, intermingling, networking, exposure and participation in Social Action/Reformation Programmes. Greater access to financial resources outside household Significant increase in the woman's own income Financial self sufficiency and sustainability by building up of SHG corpus and building ability to meet SHGs costs on their own, over a period of time. Improved Functional literacy, numeracy  through training, exposure and practice. Self-confidence building and improved communication skills through training, increased mobility, exposure & collective action. Better Leadership skills Self-help & mutual help Getting out of money-lender’s clutches, by regular savings & internal rotation of savings. Financial self sufficiency and sustainability by building up of SHG corpus and building ability to meet SHGs costs on their own, over a period of time. Bringing out hidden talents by constant motivation and providing opportunities Greater participation and decision-making in local democratic institutions like Panchayats through participation in Graama Sabhas initially and perhaps by some becoming elected representatives later. Eradication of evils of alcohol and dowry, through community action mobilised by SHGs. Women become vocal and gain confidence.   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.