Microsoft Word - Press Note - DEMIC - Gingelly Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Coimbatore – 641 003 Dr. E. Somasundaram, Ph.D., Public Relations Officer & Professor (Agronomy) Phone: 0422 - 6611302 Fax: 0422 – 2431821 E-mail: pro@tnau.ac.in To Date: 3-5-2013 The Editor, Sir, I request that the following matter may kindly be published in your esteemed daily: Gingelly Prices remains stable Gingelly (Sesame) is an important edible oilseed in India. India exports gingelly seeds to China, Holland, USA, Germany, Turkey, The Netherlands, Hong Kong, Israel, UK, UAE, etc. Globally, China and India are the major gingelly producers. In India, gingelly seed production in Kharif (2012-13) was 3.40 lakh tonnes and it was 4.20 lakh tonnes in Kharif during 2011-12. The major gingelly producing states are Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. The eastern region comprising of West Bengal, Orissa, Assam and Andhra Pradesh mostly produce red and black varieties while white gingelly is grown in Maharastra and other western States. Gingelly occupies around 0.63 lakh hectares in Tamil Nadu with an average yield of 506 kg per hectare and an annual production of around 0.31 lakh tonnes. The major districts producing gingelly are Erode, Villupuram, Thanjavur, Karur, Cuddalore, Thoothukudi and Salem. Gingelly crop is taken up in two seasons, during Thaipattam (Jan -Feb) and Adipattam (July-August). Major growing are cultivated varieties in Tamil Nadu are TMV3, 4,5,6,7 (Brown Gingelly), CO1, (Black gingelly) and SVPR1, (White gingelly). White gingelly is preferred for export purpose mainly. Brown gingelly varieties are used in oil purpose and black gingelly varieties for mainly confectionary purpose. Brown gingelly accounts for more than 75 per cent of total gingelly trade in Tamil Nadu. White type is mostly exported and utilized for table and confectionary purposes. Traders’ survey results confirmed that oil millers outsourced gingelly during July- September from Karnataka, November, December from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and during January – February from Andhra Pradesh and Orissa. Oil millers blend gingelly procured from others States with Tamil Nadu product to get good quality oil. The thaipattam sown crop is under harvest and arrivals have started. Gingelly farmers normally get 400-600 kg yield of gingelly seed per acre in irrigated area. But in this season, the yield obtained was reported as 250-300 kg per acre due to non-availability of quality seeds, pest attack, less rainfall etc. Now farmers have to take a decision whether to sell gingelly harvested immediately or store for some time to get a better price. Hence, to facilitate the farmers in taking a better decision, NAIP- Domestic and Export Market Intelligence Cell (DEMIC) functioning in Centre for Agricultural and Rural Development Studies (CARDS), Tamil Nadu Agricultural University analyzed the past 11 year prices prevailed in Sivagiri market. Results of the econometric analysis revealed that the price of gingelly seed for the next two months i.e. May to June 2013 will be ruling in the range of Rs 83-88 per kg and good quality seeds will fetch Rs 90 and more. There is scope for increase in price in July but farm level storing of gingelly is a difficult task and the entire produce may be lost if not properly stored. Hence farmers are recommended to sell the harvested gingelly without storing for the above said prices. For details contact:- Domestic and Export Market Intelligence Cell, Centre for Agricultural and Rural development Studies, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore - 641 003. Phone: 0422 – 2431405 For Technical Details please contact:- Professor and Head, Department of Oil Seeds, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore-641 003. Phone: 0422-2450812 Public Relations Officer