Shriram Bioseed Genetics - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Shriram Bioseed Genetics Home Shriram Bioseed Genetics Biotechnology company specializing in hybrid seeds of superior genetics. Headquartered in Hyderabad Sanjiv Sharma DCM Shriram Consolidated Limited (DSCL) acquired Bioseed in 2002 to form Shriram Bioseed Genetics. Bioseed is a biotechnology company specializing in research and development, field and lab testing, data review,  production, farm management and farmer interaction. Bioseed is headquartered in Hyderabad but has pan-Asia presence. Bioseed has operations in Vietnam and The Philippines. They also have presence in Indonesia, Thailand, Bangladesh, Laos, Cambodia, Nepal and China. R&D The company has its own R&D center that focusses on the production of hybrid  seeds of superior genetics. Their main focus is biotic and abiotic stress tolerance of seeds. Bioseed has 9 breeding stations and more than 30 testing stations. They have 8000 germplasm. Mr. Sharma informs, “The Bioseed laboratory has produced path-breaking results in the fields of hybrid seeds, transgenic seeds and GM crops, sowing new trends in farming prosperity. The use of molecular markers increases heterosis, accelerates the breeding cycle and even protects intellectual property rights. Genetic modifications create strains with new traits: insect and fungal resistance and stress tolerance against drought and salinity.” [hidepost] The company has a strategic partnership with global biotechnology research company, KeyGene, Netherlands. “This will further strengthen the company’s research capability. Using KeyGene’s ‘Green Gene Revolution’ technology and unique trait platforms for lead discovery, molecular mutagenesis and accelerated breeding, Bioseed has the know-how to identify and deploy naturally occurring genes with novel traits,” he adds. Quality Assurance Production facilities in Hyderabad India, the Philippines and Vietnam are governed by quality protocols and the guidelines prescribed by the International  Seed Testing Association. Each facility has received International Organization of Standardization 9001 certification. An ERP system integrates production, processing, quality assurance, inventory management, distribution and sales. Bioseedhas received DSIR recognition for technology development. Agriculture & Industry Survey spoke to Mr. Sanjiv Sharma is head – sale and marketing (cotton & FC) about Bioseed’s various programs and initiatives. Sawa Lakh se EkLadaun When asked about their program Sawa Lakh se EkLadaun, Mr. Sharma explains, “An ever-increasing farmer suicide despite increasing hybridization was the key motivator behind idea evolution. It lead to a mission named Sawa Lakh se EkLadaun with a vision of educating 1.25 lakh farmers of Maharashtra about segmentation and management practices.” The program is limited to Maharashtra only.The company deployed agriculture graduates who were trained on segmentation and crop management. The team was assisted with laptops with a facility of online interaction with crop scientists when required. The presentation was designed in an interactive fashion which made farmers involved during the meet and helped them in clarifying the doubts. “The team used to visit a village where influential farmers with 8 other farmers were available for knowledge sharing. On an average 3 meetings were conducted in a village educating 25 farmers on best practices. The small group of farmers has made the interaction personal in nature and brought forward the customized solutions. Team Bioseed was behind the creation and final implementation of the program,” adds Mr. Sharma. The program was funded from the company’s marketing budget. He adds, “As farmer had a tendency to select the product based on its final yield without taking care of its accurate fit (segmentation), probability of ending into poor yield is high. The need of increasing awareness on segmentation & management was felt to run the program.” Response According to Mr. Sharma the response has been good. “The satisfaction levels were so high that the mission information started spreading across the villages, reflecting about the beneficial information provided during the meets. The spread was so swift, which was interpreted by the calls received by customer care center of the company. The calls were from the villages which were not covered in the mission, requesting for similar. “This move will increase the brand equity of  Bioseed amongst the farmer community and will place us much ahead in the Industry,” maintains Mr. Sharma. The farmers interacted during the mission of  Sawa Lakh Se EkLadaun is added to the customer base for interaction through customer care centre. “The centre takes information on date of sowing and schedules the interaction based on crop life cycle. Farmers are benefited by the upfront information on biotic and a biotic stress prevalent in the region which might have caused severe damage to the standing crop. The centre provides information on pest andnutrient management for improving yield levels. In addition to this information the centre also shares success stories of farmers catering to the same region. It helps in spreading best practices of farmers which can be easily replicated by other farmers, thereby developing a farmer portal where practices can be shared for achieving optimum yield levels,” says Mr. Sharma. The goal of the program was to increase in farm productivity levels with a reduction in losses is the ultimate goal of the program. UDAAN Project Speaking about the company’s UDAAN project Mr. Sharma says, “Seed Industry is one of the best examples where lack of awareness about right product had given varied results leading to customer dissatisfaction and thereby applying brakes on technology transfer.Project UDAAN will try to bridge the information gap and help marketer to develop a strategy which can lead to increased level of customer satisfaction.” He further explains the objectives of the project, “Project UDAAN envisages situation where an agronomist can interact with farmers at multiple locations helping information dissemination on specific agronomy adoption and thereby increasing productivity levels. It will help in multiplying limited resources available in terms of qualification and experience. It envisages a real time situation where farmer can share their feedback with fellow farmers situated at distant locations through an e-portal. It will also attract government participation for increasing awareness on specific agronomy, increasing productivity levels and serving the agriculture growth figures by 2020.” Mr. Sharma has over 21 years of work experience. He is PG Diploma in Management (Marketing), PG Diploma in Sustainable Rural Development from Hyderabad University and B.Sc. (Agriculture). Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Sanjiv Sharma, Head – Sale & Marketing ( Cotton & FC), Shriram Bioseed Genetics ( A Division Of DSCL ) Plot No.206, Road No.14, Jubilee Hills, Hyderabad – 500033 Phone : +914023555801/802/805 Mobile : +919666686495 E : sanjiv.sharma@shrirambioseed.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Shriram Bioseed Genetics Related – articles, consultants, downloads Nunhems India – specializing in vegetable genetics and services Mahodaya Hybrid Seeds Yaaganti Seeds – hybrid seeds Nuziveedu Seeds – specializes in hybrid seeds You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia