The Cashew Export Promotion Council Of India|cashew supplier in India|cashew producer Archives   |  Polls   |  Contact Toggle navigation CEPCI Introduction About us Products Cashew Kernel Cashewnut Shell Liquid Export Assistance Statistics careers Gallery Photo Gallery Video Gallery Commercial Info Cashew Kernels Cashew Kernels Specifications Cashew Grades Cashew Nut Shell Liquid Useful links Expoters Meet - Organised by Cashew Export Promotion Council of India Expoters Meet - Organised by Cashew Export Promotion Council of India Cashew Export Promotion Council of India Cashew Export Promotion Council of India Prev Next Social Update Cashew Export Promotion Council of Ind... more CASHEW INDIA... more New testing from INI TECHNOLOGIES... more Test data from INI TECHNOLOGIES... more Welcome to The Cashew Export Promotion Council of India More The Cashew Export Promotion Council of India(CEPC) was established by the Government of India in the year 1955, with the active cooperation of the cashew industry with the object of promoting exports of cashew kernels and cashewnut shell liquid from India. By its very set up, the Council provides the necessary institutional frame-work for performing the different functions that serve to intensify and promote exports of cashew kernels and cashewnut shell liquid. The Council provides the necessary liaison for bringing together foreign importers with member exporters of cashew kernels. The enquiries received from the foreign importers are circulated amongst Council members. The Council also extends its good offices in settling complaints amicably in the matter of exports/imports either on account of quality and /or variation in fulfillment of contractual obligations..... Latest News More January 27, 2015 CEPCI Participating in the SIAL Fair Statistics More Export of Cashew Kernels From India During 2012-2013 to 2013-2014 Products More Cashew Kernel Cashewnut Shell Liquid Members Login Forgot Password Events More CEPCI Event 2 The Cashew Expo 10 February, 2014 CEPCI Event 1 The Cashew Expo 10 February, 2014 Gallery More Video Gallery Trade Enquiry Call us: +91 474 2742704 OR Click here to submit your query. MEMBER AREA Member Login New Membership Assistance to Members Associate Members Quick Links Associate Member Directory Exporters Directory CEPCI Bullitin Publication And Promotion Material Recipies More Braised Chicken with Cashew Strir Fried Eggs With Cashew Spicy chicken with cashewnuts Circular More Home Privacy Policy Disclaimer Refund & Cancellation Copyright © 2014. All Rights Reserved by The Cashew Export Promotion Council of India Website Design , Website Development , Web Hosting by INI Technologies Pvt Ltd, Cochin, India