Not Exactly Rocket Science - : Not Exactly Rocket Science CURRENT ISSUE SUBSCRIBE DIGITAL EDITIONS RENEW | GIVE A GIFT BACK ISSUES DIGITAL PRODUCTS CUSTOMER SERVICE THE MAGAZINE BLOGS HEALTH & MEDICINE MIND & BRAIN TECHNOLOGY SPACE & PHYSICS LIVING WORLD ENVIRONMENT PHOTOS RSS ABOUT THE MAGAZINE DEPARTMENTS RECENT OUR BLOGS RECENT TOPICS RECENT TOPICS RECENT TOPICS RECENT TOPICS RECENT TOPICS RECENT TOPICS RECENT PHOTO GALLERIES MAGAZINE BLOGS TOPICS PHOTOS SEARCH RSS MENU SEARCH LOGIN LOGOUT THE MAGAZINE BLOGS HEALTH & MEDICINE MIND & BRAIN TECHNOLOGY SPACE & PHYSICS LIVING WORLD ENVIRONMENT PHOTOS LOGIN LOGOUT NEWSLETTER RSS CUSTOMER SERVICE BLOGS D-brief | The Crux | Body Horrors | Citizen Science Salon | Collide-a-Scape | ImaGeo | Inkfish | Neuroskeptic | Out There | Science Sushi | Seriously, Science? | Field Notes | Not Exactly Rocket Science Goodbye Discover, hello NatGeo, please change your links and RSS feeds By Ed Yong | December 17, 2012 6:47 am And so it ends. I joined Discover on 26 th March 2010, and it’s been a fantastic run. But tomorrow, I migrate over to my new habitat at National Geographic , to join Carl Zimmer, Virginia Hughes and Brian Switek in the new Phenomena collective. Thanks to everyone at Discover for their support during a great run, and I’m sure that the new folks, and the new bloggers like Keith Kloor, will continue the magazine and website’s great legacy. In the meantime,  I hope that all of you will help me christen my new abode. The site has been built over the last week and the transition should be pretty seamless. All of my old posts have been ported over, as have all the comments bar those of the last few weeks. So, without further ado, here are the important details: The new URL is: http://phenomena.nationalgeographic.com/blog/not-exactly-rocket-science/ The new feed is: http://phenomena.nationalgeographic.com/blog/not-exactly-rocket-science/feed/ Both of these links are not currently working – they’ll go live on tomorrow, Tuesday, probably at 9am ET. Blog transitions are always annoying things, and there’s always a proportion of readers who get lost in the jump. If you’ve enjoyed what I’ve written here, could you please help by drumming up some interest in these first days and weeks. Update bookmarks and feeds, tell your friends and family… anything you feel happy to do. It’s all appreciated. See you there. CATEGORIZED UNDER: Personal I’ve got your missing links right here (15 December 2012) By Ed Yong | December 15, 2012 11:00 am For new readers, this collection of “missing links” rounds up fascinating stuff I find around the internet, and appears every Saturday. It’s separated into Top Picks (the best stuff), Science/News/Writing (science writing), Heh/Wow/Huh (silliness, satire, photos, videos), and Journalism/Internet/Society (a miscellany of my other interests). If links are broken, let me know in the comments. Top picks “Restless genes” by David Dobbs, about the genetics and other factors behind the human urge to explore, is one of the best science stories of the year, let alone the week. It’s beautifully written without sacrificing nuance. I know David personally, and I know how much he agonises about capturing the complexity of the science that he covers. And when someone does that, and puts in the work, you get results like this. Giant crabs are marching on Antarctica. Douglas Fox narrates their invasion. “Dear Cancer , I beat you aged 8 & today I got my PhD in cancer research” – By Vicky Forster Great gut-wrenching piece of writing about the difficult decisions faced by parents of a 23-week-old baby A very cool experiment: scientists transform fish fins into sort-of-but-not-really hands . By Carl Zimmer. Alexis Madrigal, Becca Rosen, and Megan Garber tell you about the year in technology . Essential. You may have heard about mirror neurons . That’s because they’re the most ridiculously hyped concept in neuroscience. Here’s the reality, from Christian Jarrett. Jeff Ingram repeatedly gets total amnesia, but his wife is his memory. Amazing story. NASA’s going to punch the moon with robots Impressive: conservationists have eradicated all rats from Rabada Island in the Galapagos. By Henry Nicholls. The Bizarre, Beetle-Biased World of Social Insect Exploitation A superb post by Dana Hunter on Mt St Helens’ legendary explosion. And there’s apparently a “ volcanal explosivity index “… Here’s everything you need to know about the new coronavirus from the Middle East, by Maryn McKenna , Helen Branswell , and Declan Butler (with a great interactive) . Scientist gets stung by box jellyfish , recovers after days in pain, then finds a treatment. By Christie Wilcox. This piece by Brian Switek , on a hypothesis that puts life on land 65myrs early, is a great example of critical reporting. Also note: it’s a Nature news story that takes down a Nature paper. Editorial independence FTW! When is grieving a sickness ? Controversy over psychiatry’s new rules for bereavement and depression, ably covered by Brandon Keim. Carl Zimmer: an example to us all. Check out his Reddit AMA on parasites and more. Which comes first as we age : ill health or declining bacterial communities in our guts? Virginia Hughes investigates. Remarkable! A 120-Year-Old Mechanical Device that Perfectly Mimics the Song of a Bird. Stem cell scientists are taking the piss: brain cells made from urine Parasites in your skin is the new Jesus on toast – a case of photoshopping parasites into existence ? By Neuroskeptic. “It’s like watching a natural Manhattan breaking apart in front of your eyes.” – birth of an enormous iceberg ! Read More CATEGORIZED UNDER: Links Massive bug hunt reveals 25,000 arthropod species in a Manhattan-sized forest By Ed Yong | December 13, 2012 1:00 pm Megasoma elephas, courtesy of Thomas Martin, Jean-Philippe Sobczak & Hendrik Dietz Panama’s San Lorenzo forest reserve is around the size of Manhattan. For two years, this small area was host to 102 scientists, working together to count everything that crept and crawled. They came from 17 countries, and converged upon a half-hectare of the forest, about the size of half a rugby pitch. They dug into the soil, and ascended into the 40-metre-tall treetops with ropes, balloons, and a giant crane. They unleashed fogs, set up sticky traps, and hacked into pieces of wood. Together, they were part of the largest ever systematic attempt to answer a disarmingly simple question: in a patch of tropical rainforest, how many species of insects and other arthropods are there? After collecting the critters in 2003 and 2004, and analysing the material for eight years, they got an answer: 6,144 species in that patch of forest. Using computer simulations to scale that up, they estimate that the entire 6,000-hectare Manhattan-sized forest is home to around 25,000 arthropod species. Read More CATEGORIZED UNDER: Ecology , Insects , Invertebrates The two faces of depression – two studies switch off symptoms in mice, but in opposite ways By Ed Yong | December 12, 2012 12:00 pm In a lab at Stanford University, a mouse is showing signs of depression. For around 10 weeks, it has experienced a series of irritations, from bouts without food or water, to erratic sleep patterns. Now, its motivation is low—when picked up by the tail, it makes few attempts to escape, and it doesn’t try to explore new spaces. It’s also less willing to sip from a sugary liquid– a sign that it gets less pleasure from normally pleasurable activities . It is never easy to assess the mental health of an animal, but this mouse is clearly showing some of the classic symptoms of depression. But not for long. Earlier, Kay Tye and Julie Mirzabekov altered the mouse so that a flash of light can activate a small part of its brain—the ventral tegmental area (VTA), near the bottom of the brain and close to the midline. A burst of light, and the mouse’s behaviour changes almost instantly. It struggles when held aloft, it explores open areas, and it regains its sweet tooth. A burst of light, and its symptoms disappear. But on the other side of the country, at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Dipesh Chaudhury and Jessica Walsh are doing the same thing to completely different effect. Their mice have been altered in a similar way, so that light can also switch on their VTA neurons. But these rodents have endured a shorter but more intense form of stress—10 days of being placed in cages with dominant, aggressive rivals. Because of the resulting attacks, some of them have developed depressive symptoms. Others are more resilient. But when Chaudhury and Walsh flashed the VTAs of these mice, resilient individuals transformed into susceptible ones. Both studies used the same methods to trigger neurons in the same part of the brain… and got completely different effects. In Tye and Mirzabekov’s experiment, depressed mice resumed their normal behaviour. In Chaudhury and Walsh’s study, the resilient mice showed more depressed symptoms. Read More CATEGORIZED UNDER: Mental Health , Neuroscience and psychology I’m moving my blog to National Geographic next week, and look who’s coming too! By Ed Yong | December 11, 2012 9:17 am For the last 2.5 years, I have enjoyed a cosy symbiosis with Discover, providing bloggy sustenance in exchange for shelter, like many a gut bacterium. But in a week’s time, this happy relationship will come to an end. Next week – most likely on Tuesday 18th December, but to be confirmed – Not Exactly Rocket Science will be moving to National Geographic , as part of a small and brand-new collective of science blogs called Phenomena . Phenomena will include three of the most accomplished science writers working today: Carl Zimmer (The Loom), Brian Switek (Laelaps), and Virginia Hughes (starting a brand new blog, Only Human). I love these people and their work, and seeing this group come together behind the scenes has been like watching Nick Fury recruit the Avengers. Read More CATEGORIZED UNDER: Personal