System of Rice Intensification - Videos and Audiofiles SRI International Network and Resources Center   Home About Us Projects SRI News Events Latest Additions Contact Us About SRI Methodology FAQs Origin of SRI Other Crops Countries and Regions Asia | Africa | Americas Information Resources SRI Websites / Groups Research Practical Information Other Publications Photo Gallery Videos Presentations Marketing Past Conferences Spanish documents Home > Videos and Audiofiles SRI VIDEOS AND AUDIOFILES - (by Topic and by Country ) SRI TOPIC PLAYLISTS - YouTube ONLY * (on the SRICornell channel for all countries and on the SRICornell2 channel for India videos)   SRI EQUIPMENT LANGUAGES/AREAS OTHER SRI TOPICS NON-RICE CROPS  -   All Equipment   -   French  -   Principles / Instruction  -   SRI for Other Crops (SCI)  -   Manual Equipment  -   Spanish  -   Motivational  -   Sugarcane (SSI)  -   Motorized Equipment  -   Malaysia (Malay)  -   Demonstrations  -   India- Other Crops (SCI)  -   All Weeders  -   India (6 languages)  -   Farmer Experiences    -   Transplanters  -   Africa  -   Organic SRI INTERVIEWS/PRESENTATION  -   Direct Seeders  - 1st W. Africa SRI Workshop  -   Land Preparation  -   SRI Interviews  -   Markers / Other  - WAAPP Project (W.Africa)  -   [See ALL PLAYLISTS]  -   Conference Presentations       * Note: See also ALL YOUTUBE PLAYLISTS . However, the above YouTube playlists do not include videos hosted by World Bank, VOA, Vimio or other videos that are not also uploaded on YouTube. However, these can be found in the country listings directly below. VIDEOS BY COUNTRY - ALL sources (including YouTube, Vimeo, Water Channel, etc and others. Playlists above are YouTube ONLY) Benin Cuba Kenya Nepal Tanzania Bhutan Ecuador Korea Nigeria Thailand Burkina Faso Ghana Liberia North Korea Togo Burundi Haiti Madagascar Pakistan US/International Cambodia India Malaysia Philippines Vietnam China Indonesia Mali Rwanda GENERAL Costa Rica Iraq Morocco Senegal LATIN AMERICA Sri Lanka   ALL VIDEOS (by country) GENERAL 2008. Overview of SRI — Improving Rice Productivity and Achieving Water Savings . 12:22 min. Produced by the World Bank Institute as a Multimedia Toolkit and part of the Achieving More with Less: SRI — A New Way of Rice Cultivation project. World Bank Institute website. [ English , French and Spanish language educational training video by the World Bank Institute and intended for policy and decision makers, managers of development projects, and other stakeholders explaining the key elements, history, benefits and constraints of SRI, specifically in reference to the Philippines, and with consideration of the implications of SRI for mitigating the effects of water shortages and climate change going forward.  A YouTube version was posted on April 16, 2012, on the ChrisandNizasvideos channel.] 2008. A Guide Based on SSIA, an SRI Application from the Philippines . 15:25 min. Produced by the World Bank Institute as a Multimedia Toolkit and part of the Achieving More with Less: SRI — A New Way of Rice Cultivation project. World Bank Institute website. [ English , Spanish and French language educational training video by the World Bank Institute and based on one of the field applications of SRI, using the practices from the Philippines, where SRI is locally referred to as Sustainable System of Irrigated Agriculture , or SSIA.  This in-depth video explains the key elements of   SRI, and provides a step-by-step practical guide for farmers (including land preparation, seedling   preparation, transplanting, intermittent irrigation, rotary weeding and organic fertilization) to learn about and practice organic or conventional SRI methods.  Equipment demonstrations and explanations are also included.] Audio: 2008 (July 7). Reports of Gains Bring Attention to Rice-Growing Methods . Produced by Voice of America English News. VOA website. [English language radio broadcast on Voice of America (VOA) News explaining the principles and benefits of SRI according to Cornell University Professor Norman Uphoff and other experts.] BENIN 2012 (August 23). First West Africa SRI Workshop, Ouagadougou, 8/26-27/12: Daniel Ah Messe (Benin) (French). 2:24 min. Produced by SRI-Rice. sricornell channel, YouTube. [Comments (in French) by Daniel Ah Messe, SRI farmer from Dogba, Benin, while attending the First West Africa System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Workshop, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, July 26-27, 2012.] BHUTAN 2009 (October 13). Bhutan Agriculture Scientists Learn Paddy Cultivation Technique . 2:05 min. Produced by ANI. Ani page, Rediff. [English language video in which a seven-member team of agricultural scientists from Bhutan witness firsthand the benefits of SRI, most notable increased yields, when visiting farmers in Tripura, India.] BURKINA FASO 2012 (August 23). First West Africa SRI Workshop, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso - Atamana Dabire (French). 2:55 min. Produced by SRI-Rice. sricornell channel, YouTube. [Comments (in French) - Atamana Dabire, Burkina Faso, discusses SRI in Burkina Faso at the First West Africa System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Workshop, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, July 26-27, 2012.] 2012 (August 23). First West Africa SRI Workshop, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso - Gaoussou Traore (French). 4:42 min. Produced by SRI-Rice. sricornell channel, YouTube. [Comments (in French) - Dr Gaoussou Traore, Workshop Leader and Coordinator of the National Center of Specialization on Rice of Mali (NCOS/WAAPP), discusses the First West Africa System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Workshop, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, July 26-27, 2012.] BURUNDI 2012 (March 3). SRI in East and Southern Africa . 8:09 min. Produced by Flooded Cellar Productions.  FloodedCellar channel, YouTube. [English and tribal language (with English subtitles) videos about the history, principles, and farmer-to-farmer spread of SRI from Madagascar into Rwanda and Burundi, featuring farmer testimonials.] CAMBODIA Video: 2014 (February 3). System of Rice Intensification SRI transplanting . 5:06 min. FIDR Cambodia channel, YouTube. [Khmer with English subtitles] Video: 2013 (June 13). SRI 2013: Dr Yang Saing Koma - "Experiences with SRI in Cambodia 2000-2013" . 1:05:51 min. Noorazimah Taharim channel, YouTube. [Keynote speech at the 2nd National SRI Conference in Malaysia, June 2013.] Video: 2013 (March 22). Cambodian agriculture - The System of Rice Intensification - SRI and using fertilizer. 24:35 min. khmersexystars channel, YouTube. [from a Khmer language TV show.] 2012 (June 24). System of Rice Intensification . 45:01 min. veasna nida channel, YouTube. [Khmer language video about SRI in Cambodia. CEDAC is featured] 2011 (August 16). System of Rice Intensification in Cambodia . 6:11 min. Produced by Oxfam America. Cambodianmediagroup channel, YouTube. [English language video by Oxfam America and its partners explaining the principles and benefits of SRI as practiced in Cambodia, including the use of organic inputs, affordability by small holder farmers, and increased yields, and featuring farmer testimonials.] 2010 (January 9). SRI Farming in Cambodia . 10 min. Produced by Hermit Cave Films. Permascience channel, YouTube. [A Khmer language (with English subtitles) instructional video guiding viewers through each step of SRI production in Cambodia, from seed-soaking to harvest. This is a shortened version of the video originally created by Mind's Eye Productions for CEDAC, The Cambodian Center for Study and Development in Agriculture. The longer version Of SRI Farming in Cambodia (on YouTube since Dec. 12, 2009) is available in 5 parts: ( Part 1 : 5:47 min; Part 2 : 6:54 min; Part 3 : 8:48 min; Part 4 : 6:32 min; Part 5 : 8:07 min.).] System of Rice Intensification . 45:00 min. Produced by CEDAC. The Water Channel website. [A Khmer language instructional video by the Cambodian Center for Study and Development in Agriculture (CEDAC) explaining and demonstrating the steps of SRI production in Cambodia and featuring farmer testimonials.] 2008. Do You Speak SRI? 36:31 min. Produced by Mind's Eye Production for Oxfam America and CEDAC. The Water Channel website. [A Khmer language (with English subtitles) video illustrating the steps of SRI as practiced in Cambodia and promoted by Oxfam America and the Cambodian Center for Study and Development in Agriculture (CEDAC). Contact CEDAC for more information on the contents of this video.] 2008 (November 6). Systéme de Riziculture Intensive — Cambodge: Le Riz du L'espoir . 15:13 min. Produced by Corinne Lalo. Tefy Saina website. [French language video illustrating the benefits, steps and equipment of SRI as practiced in Cambodia, featuring farmer testimonials and a comparison of traditional and SRI rice production. Also available in Vietnamese (14:59 min.).] CHINA Video: 2013 (March 25). System of Rice Intensification Practices - 农广天地]水稻强化栽培技术 . 24:38 min. CCTV channel 7 (Agriculture Channel), China [This Chinese SRI adaptation, known as the Triangular SRI system, suggests transplanting single seedlings from plastic trays at 2- to 4-leaf stage in a triangular pattern (3 hills to a unit, forming a small triangle with 6~10 cm between each other; 25~50cm between each unit). AWD and a mix of compost and inorganic fertilizer are used]. COSTA RICA 2013 (May 22). Iniciativa del SICA en Costa Rica . 16 min. Produced by Jorge Acosta. SICA América Latina Facebook page. [Un miniclip en la regíon indígena Bribri en Talamanca Costa Rica.] CUBA 2012 (June 3). Sistema Intensivo de Cultivo Arrocena (SRI) . 13:59 min. Produced by Dr. Rena Perez, Ministry of Sugar, Cuba. SRICornell channel, YouTube. [Shortened Spanish language video explaining and demonstrating SRI as practiced in Cube, featuring conversations with Cuban farmers using SRI methods. A full-length version is also available (36:15 min.). Although the YouTube version was uploaded in 2012 as indicated above, the original video was produced six year earlier.]] ECUADOR 2012 (August 14). Sistema Intensificado de Cultivo de Arroz SRI - SICA en Ecuador (Español). Part 1 (17:47 min) and Part 2 (17.47 min). Produced Jorge V. Gil Chang. sricornell channel, YouTube. [Sistema Intensificado de Cultivo de Arroz (SRI - SICA en Español) en Ecuador: Introducción y validación en Ecuador. Primera reunión, Asociación 25 de Abril.] GHANA 2015 (May 5). System Rice intensification Project launched in the Northern Region 15 . 2:55 min. Noah Nash channel, YouTube 2015 (April 6). Ghana Rice Inter Professional Body's System of Rice Intensification Project . 23:06 min. SRI-Rice channel, YouTube . [A segment on a project by the Ghana Rice Inter Professional Body that was funded by govt.'s Skills Development Fund to improve rice production in order to reduce imports. The SRI segment, which starts at min. 4:30, reports yield increased from 2 to 8 tons for some.] 2012 (August 23). First West Africa SRI Workshop, Ouagadougou, 8/26-27/12: Gina Odarteifio (Ghana) . 6:22 min. Produced by SRI-Rice. sricornell channel, YouTube. [Comments by Gina Odarteifio, Chief Executive Officer, AMSIG Resources, Accra, Ghana, while attending the First West Africa System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Workshop, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, July 26-27, 2012.] HAITI 2014. (March 26). SRI Transplanting . Produced by Zhoucen Feng. 0:54 min. SRI in northern Haiti channel, YouTube. [iF Foundation SRI project in northern Haiti] Audio: 2012 (January 12). 16:56 min. USAID's Shah Assesses Pace Of Haiti Recovery. Produced by National Public Radio (NPR); hosted by Neal Conan. National Public Radio website. [Audio of an interview of Rajiv Shah, USAID Administrator by Neal Conan on National Public Radio, discussing the flow to and efficacy of international aid in Haiti, and mentioning the promotion of SRI in the country to promote food security and improved Haitian livelihoods.] 2011. System of Rice Intensification - Haiti Video . Produced by Better U Foundation, Better U Foundation website [Jim Carrey travels to Haiti to support SRI and other efforts.] 2011 (September 8). A Simple Formula . 3:26 min. Produced John McKenzie Media LLC, in collaboration with Chemonics. ChemonicsInt channel, YouTube. [English language video about the adoption and spread of SRI in Haiti, grounded in the formula 50% less water + 90 % less seed = 200 % more rice, as taught by the Watershed Initiative for National Environment Resources (WINNER), a project funded by USAID and implemented by Chemonics International.] INDIA [We have collected over 100 videos in 10 languages from India...] Go to separate India Videos page!! There are too many to list here. Most of the India videos are also available on the India Video YouTube Playlist (SRICornell2 channel) India videos are organized by the following categories: All India videos Motivational Instructional Demonstrations Equipment Audio System of Crop Intensification [wheat (SWI), sugarcane (SSI), or other crops (SCI) INDONESIA Video: 2013 November 19). Padi Sistem SRI. 25:04 min. zanit fatham channel, YouTube. Radio clip: 2013 (April 11). Indonesian farmers grow organic rice successfully . 3:23 min. Produced by Radio Australia, Radio Australia website. [Interview by Amy Bainbridge with Saeful Bahri, farmer; Eda Trisnati, farm worker; Emily Sutanto, entrepreneur, about organic SRI production and export in Tasik Malaya, W. Java, Indonesia.] 2011 (Dec. 14) [new link as of 6/11/12] Petani Berjaya di Aceh Jaya (Victorious Farmer of Aceh Jaya) . 27:21 min. Produced by Caritas Czech Republic. idepfoundation channel, YouTube. [Indonesian language video about the NGO Caritas Czech Republic's (CCR) work with farmers in Aceh Jaya Regency, Aceh Province, Indonesia to introduce SRI and sustainable innovations.] 2010 (July 27). Songs about SRI . 9:43 min. Produced by Victor Lee. Victorgarlandlee channel, YouTube. [Local language (with English subtitles) song trumpeting the benefits of SRI and featuring images of SRI as practiced in Bahasa, India.] 2009 (January 10). Rice Cultivation in Bali & The System of Rice Intensification (SRI) . 9:50 min. Produced by the Paradigm Shift Project, Toronto, Canada. ParadigmShiftProject channel, YouTube. [English language video about efforts by the local Balinese organization – Tri Hita Karana Bali – to spread the SRI method and organic practices in Bali, featuring farmer testimonials and the expressed need for increased trainings and workshops about SRI.] 2009 (June 17). ADRA SRI Video . [English — Part I : 6:48 min; Part II : 8:49 min; Part III : 9:17min.] [Bahasa Indonesian — Part I : 6:48 min.; Part II : 7:42 min.; Part III : 9:02 min.; Part IV : 8:37 min.] [Korean — Part I : 8:59 min.; Part II : 10:39 min.; Part III : 5:14 min.]. Produced by EyetoEye Video for ADRA. Danafastforward channel, YouTube. [Educational training videos in English, Bahasa Indonesian or Korean providing in-depth instruction about SRI methods and principles, including organic practices, as promoted by the Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA) in Indonesia.  Also features farmer testimonials and information about   SRI weeders and other equipment.  This professionally made video is available for use by the public, with the proviso that ADRA be acknowledged as the producer.] 2007 (republished July 23, 2010 on YouTube). System of Rice Intensification — Step by Step Implementation Manual.  [English — Part I : 9:59 min; Part II : 10:00 min; Part III : 9:00min.] [Bahasa Indonesian — Part I : 9:57 min; Part II : 9:15 min; Part III : 9:35min.]. Produced by the Ministry of Public Works and Victor Lee; directed by Victor Lee with substantial input from Shuichi Sato (DISIMP/Nippon Koei team leader). Victorgarlandlee channel , YouTube. [English and Bahasa Indonesian language educational training videos from the Decentralized Irrigation System Improvement Project (DISMP) in the eastern region of Indonesia and including clips from the Organic SRI Harvest Ceremony on July 30, 2007, explanation of the key principles of SRI, a step-by-step guide for farmers to learn about and adopt organic and conventional SRI methods, and farmer testimonials about the benefits of SRI.  Videos also feature demonstrations of SRI equipment including markers and weeders.] 2007 (republished July 23, 2010 on YouTube).  Organic SRI: Technical Guidelines . [English — Part I : 10:00 min; Part II : 9:14 min; Part III : 9:03min.] [Bahasa Indonesian — Part I : 9:58 min; Part II : 9:50 min; Part III : 9:59min.]. Produced by the Ministry of Public Works and Victor Lee; directed by Victor Lee with substantial input from Shuichi Sato (DISIMP/Nippon Koei team leader). Victorgarlandlee channel , YouTube. [English and Bahasa Indonesian language videos explaining the principles of organic SRI and science behind the increased yields of those who adopt it, as well as providing a step-by-step guide for farmers to learn about and practice organic SRI methods.  The implications of SRI for addressing climate change and improving global food security are also considered.] 2008 (December 31). NOSC — Nagrak Organic SRI Center . 1:12 min. Produced by the Nagrak Organic SRI Center (NOSC). FLIXYA website. [Bahasa Indonesian language video showing the SRI demonstrations plots of the Nagrak Organic SRI Center (NOSC) in Sukabumi, Indonesia.] IRAQ 2011 (August 10). Salah Al-Deen Clip with Dr. Khidir Hameed on the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) . 11:25 min. Provided by Dr. Khidir Hameed. SRICornell channel, YouTube. [Arabic language video of a television clip featuring Dr. Khidir Hameed's work in System of Rice Intensification (SRI) and other rice projects in Iraq.] 2011 (August 9). Al Diyar TV Clip with Dr. Khidir Hameed on the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) . 1:49 min. Provided by Dr. Khidir Hameed. SRICornell channel, YouTube. [Arabic language video of a television clip featuring Dr. Khidir Hameed’s work in System of Rice Intensification (SRI) and other rice projects in Iraq.] 2011 (August 9). Al Ghadeer TV Clip with Dr. Khidir Hameed on the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) . 15:17 min. Provided by Dr. Khidir Hameed. SRICornell channel, YouTube. [Arabic language video of a television clip featuring Dr. Khidir Hameed’s work in System of Rice Intensification (SRI) and other rice projects in Iraq and focusing on the use of a modified rice transplanter for SRI.] 2010 (March 22). The System of Rice Intensification (SRI) in Iraq . [ Part 1 : 8:56 min; Part 2 9:44 min; Part 3 : 2:57 min.]. Produced by Khidir A. Hameed and Flaih A. Jaber at the Al-Mishkab Rice Research Station (MRRS), Najaf, Iraq. SRICornell channel , YouTube. [Arabic language video by researchers at the Al-Mishkab Rice Research Station about the development and practice of SRI in Iraq, with most Iraqi footage coming from Al-Muthanna Province. Video is also available as a single video, SRI in Iraq , from Farmer-Centered Research and Development Program at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.] 2010 (January 6). Paddy Mechanization . 3:09 min. Produced by Khidir A. Hameed and Flaih A. Jaber at the Al-Mishkab Rice Research Station (MRRS), Najaf, Iraq. SRICornell channel , YouTube. [Video with English text by the Al-Mishkab Rice Research Station (MRRS) illustrating the key principles of the SRI method, such as seed soaking and nursery development, with the use of mechanization for seeding, land preparation, transplanting.] KENYA 2013. (October 1) Recap: Bees, Chickens, Rice, Antibiotics . 24:27 min. Shamba Shape-Up S3E13/Series 3, Episode 13. Produced by MEDIAE.org. [This video, which is an episode of the Kenyan TV show Shamba Shape-Up, is available in English and Swahili . The section on SRI is the first 7:20 minutes of the episode.] 2013 (July 13). System of Rice Intensification (SRI): Growing more rice with less.. . 9:41 min. Produced by Bancy Mati. Bancy Mati channel, YouTube. [A film about SRI in Kenya has won first prize at the 2nd African Agricultural Film Festival in Accra, Ghana] KOREA 2009 (May 24). System of Rice Intensification . [ Part I : 8:59 min; Part II : 10:39 min;   Part III : 5:14 min.]. Produced by the Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA). Danafastforward channel, YouTube. [Korean Hangul language educational training videos providing in-depth instruction about SRI methods and principles, including organic practices, as promoted by the Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA) in Indonesia.  Also features farmer testimonials and information about SRI weeders and other equipment.  This professionally made video is available for use by the public, with the proviso that ADRA be acknowledged as the producer.] LIBERIA 2014 (March 7). Interview with Elizabeth Bimba on SRI (Liberia). 2:39 min. SRI-Rice Channel, YouTube. [Elizabeth Bimba talks about how and why she is adopting the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) in Zubah Town, Paynesvilles, Monrovia, Liberia] 2014 (March 7). Interview with Robert Bimba about SRI in Liberia. 5:24 min. SRI-Rice Channel, YouTube. [Robert Bimba talks about how he helped establish SRI in Liberia] 2014 (March 14). SRI Farmer in Liberia. 2:32 min. SRI-Rice Channel, YouTube. [A rice farmer in Liberia talks about his experience on farming with SRI techniques.] 2014 (March 14). CARI Researchers in Liberia . 3:37min. SRI-Rice Channel, YouTube. [Researchers from CARI, Central Agricultural Research Institute, talk about the SRI-experience in Liberia] 2014 (March 14). Sam Bimba talks about the CHAPS SRI plots in Liberia. 4:16 min. SRI-Rice Channel, YouTube. 2014 (March 7). Single row manual weeder demo in Liberia. 0:19 min. SRI-Rice Channel,YouTube. [ A weeder sent to Liberia from the USA for trials with the System of Rice Intensification.] MADAGASCAR 2 013 (October 1). Madagascar's alternative rice farming . 2:53 min. Produced by Deutsche Welle. Vid-life.org. [This video uses footage from videos made by FloodedCellar videos in conjunction with IFAD and SRI-Rice.] 2012 (August 17). A Madagascar success story for the International Fund for Agricultural Development . 3:16 min. TV2Africa channel, YouTube. [Broadcast from TV2 Africa that includes a shortened version of a Floodedcellar video about SRI farmers in IFAD projects southern and eastern Africa. The clip focuses on a farmer from Madagascar.] 2012 (March 3). SRI in East and Southern Africa . 8:09 min. Produced by Flooded Cellar Productions.  FloodedCellar channel, YouTube. [English and tribal language (with English subtitles) video about the history, principles, and farmer-to-farmer spread of SRI from Madagascar into Rwanda and Burundi, featuring farmer testimonials.] 2011 (February 6). Madagascar on My Mind — Megatransect . [ Part 1 : 5:23 min; Part II : 5:32 min; Part III : 2:36 min.]. Produced by Meredith Sorensen. Iknowtrash channel, YouTube. [English language slide-show about four former Peace Corps volunteers who walked the length of Madagascar in 2004, teaching SRI methods and principles to farmers along the way.] 2011. The Natural Revolution: From the Roots Up . Produced by Better U Foundation, Better U Foundation website [Jim Carrey travels to Madagascar to support System of Rice Intensification efforts.] 2011. Self Reliance . Produced by Better U Foundation, Better U Foundation website [Jim Carrey's work supporting SRI in Madagascar through the efforts of the Better U Foundation that he founded.] 2008. SRI: Le pépinière du frère Hubert . 21:39 min. Produced by Corinne Lalo, Jean Yves Clavreul, and Nicolas Duriez. The Water Channel. Audio: 2008 (December 16). SRI, Systéme de Riziculture Intensive . 19:30 minutes. Produced by Radio France Internationale; reported by Nicholas Duriez. Radio France Internationale website. [French language radio-broadcast explaining the principles of SRI and describing its adoption and success in Madagascar.]  2008. Systéme de Riziculture Intensive (SRI) . 7:58 min. Produced by Corinne Lalo. Nicolasduriez Channel, YouTube. [French language explaining SRI methods and showing SRI as practiced in Madagascar, featuring farmer testimonials and comparison with traditional rice production methods and paying special attention to organic practices.] MALAYSIA There are over 130 videos about SRI in Malaysia, too many to list here. To access these videos, see the iamnoor channel on YouTube ( http://www.youtube.com/user/iamnoor/videos ) 2014 (January 7). Kronologi Ringkas SRI Kg. Sungai Pinang: Dari Tumpat ke SRI Lovely Kedah . 4:36 min. Febri Doni Channel, YouTube. [In Bahasa Malaysia - Two workshops - in Kelantan and Kedah provinces in Malaysia during Dec. 2013] MALI 2013 (December 6). Reinforcing food security in Timbuktu. 3:56 min. Abt Associates channel, YouTube. [IICEM, USAID/Mali's cornerstone economic growth program under the U.S. government's Feed the Future initiative, talks about SRI, rice inputs and markets in Timbuktu.] 2012 (August 23). First West Africa SRI Workshop, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso - Gaoussou Traore (French). 4:42 min. Produced by SRI-Rice. sricornell channel, YouTube. [Comments (in French) - Dr. Gaoussou Traore, Workshop Leader and Coordinator of the National Center of Specialization on Rice of Mali (NCOS/WAAPP), discusses the First West Africa System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Workshop, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, July 26-27, 2012.] 2012 (August 23). First West Africa SRI Workshop, Ouagadougou, 8/26-27/12: Minamba Bagayoko (Mali) . 1:26 min. Produced by SRI-Rice. sricornell channel, YouTube. [Comments about SRI by Dr. Minamba Bagayoko, Scientist, IER, Niono, Mali, while attending the First West Africa System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Workshop, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, July 26-27, 2012.] 2012 (August 23). First West Africa SRI Workshop, Ouagadougou,