Jallianwala Bagh Martyr's Memorial, Amritsar Home » Punjab » Tourism » Jallianwala Bagh   Punjab Tourism Gurudwaras In Punjab Punjab Tourist Circuits Punjab Wildlife Temples in Punjab Punjab Forts Palaces in Punjab Other Attractions Other Religious Points पंजाब का नक्शा Punjab Punjab Map Cities in Punjab Districts of Punjab Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Punjab Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Punjab Places to visit in Punjab Wildlife Sanctuaries Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Sex Ratio Map Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Mineral Map Agriculture Map Punjab Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Telephone Directory Government and Politics Geography and History Handicrafts People Culture and Festivals Pin Code Universities In Punjab       Jallianwala Bagh Jallianwala Bagh used is a place of great significance, sorrow and historical tragedy. It is witness to one of the most cruel massacres of the pre-Independence era, and hence has become the symbol of national importance and remembrance. About Jallianwala Bagh Jallianwala Bagh is a public garden located in Amritsar, Punjab in India. In the pre-Independence era, public rallies were organized on the grounds of Jalianwala Bagh. Inside the garden, a memorial was built in 1951. This was in remembrance of the innocent people who died in the 1919 massacre. Later on, a flame in honor of the martyrs was added. Since then, it has become the center of political and humanitarian significance. Dignitaries around the world, whether of political or social significance, have visited the place and offered their regrets and respect including Queen Elizabeth II in 1997. It remains to date a heartfelt and extremely sad memory in the hearts of Indians throughout the world. History Jalliawala Bagh Massacre During the era of struggle against the British rule in 1919, a British lady by the name of Miss Marshella Sherwood, was cornered by an Indian mob and beaten. She was rescued by the father of one of her pupils, and taken to safety. The local British Commander General Dyer, ordered that every Indian man had to crawl on his hands and knees to cover the distance of the street on which he is travelling. Orders were also issued to beat Indian men if they came within lathi range of any British patrolman or soldier. To protest the atrocities, abuse and insults ordered by General Dyer, on 13th April 1919, the day of the traditional and joyous festival of Baisakhi, thousands of men, women and children gathered on the grounds of Jallianwala Bagh to peacefully voice their protests. Approximately an hour after the meeting started, General Dyer, along with his armed soldiers and two armored vehicles full of machine guns, blocked the few narrow exits of the garden, and ordered indiscriminate and unprovocative firing on thousands of non-violent Indians, including women and children. As a result of this horrific action, thousands were killed. The official figure released by the British stood at 379. The unofficial estimate of the innocent deaths stands at 1000 approximately, which many still refuse to believe as the size of the crowd was between 10,000-15,000 people. Symbol of Sacrifice The Jallianwala Bagh is a symbol of the freedom struggle. Steps were taken to address the grief and loss of people by building up a trust in 1920 by the Indian National Congress. A monument to symbolize the sacrifices of innocent Indians killed in the massacre was built and was open to public in 1961, after an inauguration by the then President of India Dr. Rajendra Prasad, exactly 42 years after the date of the tragedy. The memorial was designed by Mr. Benjamin Polk, an American architect. A lantern made of stone is lit on all four sides of the monument with words of homage encrypted to salute the sacrifice of the martyrs. Jallianwala Bagh is originally a big garden covered by tall concrete walls on all the four sides, with very few narrow entrances. The garden is surrounded by residential houses and buildings on all the sides. Before the tragedy of the massacre, it was an ordinary space with boundary walls. Timings The monument in the garden is open for the public to view and visit. People can visit the garden on all seven days of the week. The timings of the visits are from 6:00 am to 9:00 pm in the summer and 7:00 am to 8:00 pm in the winter. Location Jallianwala Bagh is situated in the city of Amritsar. It is a prominent city of the northern state of Punjab in India. The city is also home to the Golden Temple, a significant Sikh place of worship. How to Reach The city of Amritsar is well connected to other parts of the country as well as to international destinations by several modes of transport. Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport is just 11 kilometers away from Amritsar, and airlines from the major cities of the world ply here. A robust railway network and daily trains to many major cities of India make travel easy. Also, Amritsar is well-connected by road. Daily buses ply from New Delhi, Chandigarh and many other destinations. The intra-city transportation is also strong with auto-rickshaws easily available. Last Updated on : 14/08/2013 Places to Visit in Amritsar Golden Temple Wagah Border Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Durgiana Temple Ram Bagh Ram Tirath Mata Temple Tarn Taran Sahib Faridkot Fort Govind Garh Fort Massacre Memorial Baba Atal Rai Tower Bathinda Fort             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule