Bahawa Giant Nandini-pomegranate cultivation AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Tree Farming - Sivakumar Bahawa Giant Nandini-pomegranate cultivation Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Bahawa Giant Nandini-pomegranate cultivation LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… May 1st, 2014 #1 shanmuga06 Join Date Aug 2007 Posts 1,606 Bahawa Giant Nandini-pomegranate cultivation Dear Mr. Shiv Kumar, Thank you very much for solving my queries, it is very informative and appreciated. I will b in touch. Thanks again. Best Regards Atul Godha On Mon, Apr 28, 2014 at 11:33 PM, Sivakumar <priyagar06@yahoo.co.in> wrote: Sent from my iPad On 01-Mar-2014, at 9:34 pm, Atul Godha <atulinsearch@gmail.com> wrote: Dear Mr. A. Shiv Kumar, We are interested to grow Pomegranate for commercial purpose on our land of 2 hectare. I got your mail id from internet that's why I am contacting you. We are interested to grow "Bhagwa" quality" in Udaipur distt. Rajasthan. Kindly sort our few queries : 1. What is the difference between Bhagwa and Bhagwa Giant Nandhini. Which one is the best. The Bhagwa and Bhagwa Giant Nandini are the best varieties since the Bhagwa Giant Nandini was promoted from the Bhagwa.But ours Bhagwa Giant Nandini will slightly different from the Bhagwa like more yield (30%),size of fruits are bigger than Bhagwa fruits and virus tollerence than existing Bhagwa.In Bhagwa the flower ratio will be only 40% of female flowers but in Bhagwa Giant Nandini will gives more female flowers (60%).The fruits of the Bhagwa Giant Nandini will very sweeter,more juicy content and eye catching rich red colour than Existing Bhagwa. 2. Soil requirement with ph level. Our soil ph level is 7.3 & 7.4 Normally the pomegranate will grow in any barren lands.The ph level of the soil for pomegranate cultivation is up to 8. 3. Can we add entirely new soil in the holes with manure. Yes you can do soil filling with fertile soil or red soil with manure for high yield. 4. What color soil we should use with what ph level ? Normally red soil is very opt fill up the holes with the ph level up to maximum level will be 7.5 The ph level 7.5 to 8 also good.So your land is suitable for pomegranate cultivation. 5. Water quality and its ph level. Our water ph level is 7.8 & 7.88 The water quality is not a vital role in pomegranate but the saline water is not suitable for pomegranate.The EC (electro connectivity of the water is maximum 1 6. Size of pits & Spacing ? The size of the pits for pomegranate will be 2 feetx2 feet x 2 feet .the spacing dimension will be Row to Row will be 12 feet and plant to plant will be 8feet(12'x8') 7. Can we dig big size pits to avoid the doubt of the poor quality of soil underground for the good life and good production ??? The minimum size for the pit will be 2'x2'x2'.We can cultivate any kind of soil. 7. Size of plant. The size /height of the plant will be maximum two to two and half feet 8. Quality of Fertilizer and manure to be used. If you want to do the pomegranate cultivation in inorganic method the usual chemical fertilizer like urea,DAP,Muriate of potash,little bit sulphate for shining the fruit and getting the rich colour.By doing the pomegranate cultivation in organic method kindly prefer the vermicompost,well riped farmyard manure(cowdung),neem cake products like soil application,foliage application (spray the neem cake diluted solution on the leaves of the tree for controll the pests,fungi attacks) and panchakavvia (prepared by cow drop outs ) as vitaliser and fast growing. 9. Ratio of soil and manure. The ratio of chemical manure each thirty grams per tree every three months or as required by the tree or recomanded by the fertilizer shop or reputed company.In organic method you provide half kilo vermicompost ,200 grams neem cake or ten kilo well riped farmyard manure along with existing excavated soil during the initial stage of planting the pomegranate saplings. 10. Medicine & fertilizer to add at the time of plantation. At the time of plantation kindly apply the furidon ten grams each pit along with soil mixture for inorganic method.By organic method you can apply 200 grams neem cake per pit along with soil mixture,in addition please add the Tricoderma derma,Sudomonus and VAM bio fertilizers for fungicide for controlling the root rots and robust growth of plants. 11. Disease and its precautions. There is no much more disease in pomegranate plants.But the main ultimate Disease will be blight bacteria attacks and virus domination .But these were how it's happened and no more suitable remedies were not taken by the scientists.But this kind of disease will not available in our "Bahawa Giant Nandini"in much less%.So that we can controll by organic method.Normally the organic grown plant very sturdy and have much more resistance power than inorganic grown plants. 12. Methods to get the maximum quality production. Proper watering,weeding out the unwanted plants in the pomegranate field,systematic pruning if required or if you feel that the tree will looks like very density.But pruning will not required in the initial periods I.e four years. 13. After how much times we can get the first production. You can allow the tree for yielding after minimum two and half years since the flowers will come immediately .So you can remove the flowers for two of years.Then only the plant will grow with more branches as well as siding the plants .The first yield will starts on completion two years. 14. How many times in a year we can get the fruits. The pomegranate have two season one is on season and off season.In the summer we can get more fruits (on season) ,in the winter we can less fruits (off season) in big size.In the rainy season we can fruits in little quantity but it will not get good price.In pomegranate we can get through out year in little quantity . 15. How many fruits we can get from one tree per year. Ten kilos per tree(450 plants will be required for one acre) 16. Can you market OR link us up for Domestic / International market. The marketing viability will be done by your self.Now a days the pomegranate is having vital role in fruit marketing.Our "Bahawa Giant Nandini " will very opt for export. 17. Cost of Production. The cost of the "Bahawa Giant Nandini" sapling be ₹ 75/-per plant. 18. , much regular man power required for 2 hectare. The total man power will required for one acre minimum 3 to 5 per acre through out year . 19. Life of one Bhagwa plant. Ten to fifteen years I would be very much keen to hear your answers at the earliest. Thanks and Regards Atul Godha Mobile : 094147 86847 Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 06:31 PM .