Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Centres Centres for integration The Central office plays the integration role across themes, geographic locations, functionsetc. through innovative integrating mechanisms and events. It provides strategic support to the newthematic institutions promoted and help them to establish themselves. The central office also takes the responsibility for resource mobilization and its management, strategic planning, policy advocacy at higher levels and legal compliances. The central office plays the integration role across themes,geographic locations, functions etc. through innovative integrating mechanisms and events. It provides strategic support to the new thematic institutions promoted and help them to establish themselves. The central office also takes the responsibility for resource mobilization and its management, strategic planning, policy advocacy athigher levels, legal compliances etc. It has set up specialized Centres for Human Resource Development, Development Communication, Policyand Planning, and Finance for the above activities as well as the different themes and thematic institutions. DHAN has a number of integrating mechanisms that besides bringing in a common culture, vision among all the members also builds the leadership capacity. Some of them are the Strategic Forum, Consultative Forum, retreat, task forces and working groups for specific purposes.They contribute to the institution building processes and collective leadership. DHAN Foundation has a number of integrating mechanisms that besides bringing in a common culture, vision among all the members also builds the leadership capacity. Some of them are the Strategic Forum, Consultative Forum,retreat, task forces and working groups for specific purposes. They contribute to the institution buildingprocesses and collective leadership. The Programme leaders, Regional Coordinators and anchors of the Centres met every month to review operational issues and plans and to workout mechanisms for integration across themes and institutions. Knowledge building workshops were organised on select themes with them. The Consultative Forum met twice during the year. It has reviewed all the programmes of DHAN collective. The Strategic Forum met several times during the year to review the growth and set the direction for the future growth. The eleventh Annual Retreat was organized at Adilabad, with the TribalCommunities. DHANites stayed in the villages understood the heritage of tribal culture and reflected on their self, institutional growth and achievements. Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthrophy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved