Comments for ngogateway.com Comments for ngogateway.com making world a better place Comment on Packard Foundation gives Grants to NGOs by Blog about human anatomy Awesome post. Comment on Gram Parivartan Kendra by Paul Ponniah Dear Sir, II, for Jeevan Sagar Trust, are working for skill training and rural development for youths, I am in need of funds, it will be fair to support sinking org. by sharing knowledge and funds as token of recognizance of our work. The quest is because small org, if encouraged they will grow. With regards, Paul Ponniah Mobile: 09341174197 Comment on Manav Sewa Charitable Society by Paul Ponniah Fine work for the Cause. Comment on About Us by Paul Ponniah Interesting work for the advertising of NGO Network in supporting us. I for Jeevan Sagar Trust, registered with your esteemed org, but not knowing hope to create a better follow up. Paul Ponniah Comment on Amma Nanna Charitable Trust (ACT) by Paul Ponniah Thank you for the info about the great work been done towards the needy, I desire to do the same but unable to do so because of lack of funds, searching for our needs. Paul Ponniah Jeevan Sagar Trust. Comment on sadguruseva charitable trust by Dr Sadasivan Congratulations for being a rewarding NGO!I am fund sourcer for a rehabilitation home for the mentally challenged girls and women in the south of the nation-called Savi&#039;s Home for MR.Getting funds is no problem but how it gets spent is important.Quite often the donor doesn&#039;t get informed about how his donation has been spent.Why not account for the donations you receive and send the donor some statement of your expenses,so he can help you grow?. Comment on Lucknow Mahila Sewa Trust (LMST) by Dr Sadasivan Hi dear Farida Jalees, Your organization is actually doing something good for the local underprivileged women of course but why can&#039;t you take this movement across India please? Comment on List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs by J.Jones subash Dear Sir/madam, Sub: Request to furnish the guideline and the application form to apply for grant Requested-Regarding. RSWS is a charitable, non-governmental voluntary registered organization Registered under Society Registration Act.XXI of 1860, dated on 20th January 2003. We are involved in socio-economic upliftment of the rural poor who are below the poverty line people in the mandal of peddapanjanni and palamaner mandal in chittoor District. Our programme are aimed at family Welfare Programme, Children Welfare, Women’s Development, Health, Education, Agriculture, Adult Education, Vocational Training for women and youth, Youth Leader Training, Cultural programme, Sports, To provide education Training and Rehabilitation of the Disabled, HIV/AIDS Awareness, Environment and community rural and urban development etc., I therefore request you to support our projects in serving the needy of the people in the rural areas. Kindly send us your news letter and other information about your agency. Anticipating your early reply, Yours sincerely, J.Jones Subash CEO-RSWS 2-851,S.V.Colony, Kongareddypalle, Chittoor-517 001. Andhra Pradesh South India Mobile No: 91 00 9849975346 Comment on Grants to Indian NGOs by Paul Hamlyn Foundation by abhijit Good day to you, We too were looking for fund for some social work to help needy and poor people, widows and orphans. We are presently running trust named ‘Samina Sabbir Rural Ayurvedic &amp; Yog Medical Edu. Research Trust’ since2003.Registered under sociiety and trust act, Income tax 12A, 80(G) (v)(vi),FCRA. We have organised free medical health camp and treatment. We have hospital in which we treat poor people with economical rate. .We have put our details on our website- http://www.ssmedicaltrust.org. MY TRUST ACCONT NO- ICICI BANK- BRANCH – KALYAN , MUMBAI.- FCRA ACCOUNT NO- 020301006781.Indian donor saving accountPayment Gateway Account ICICI Bank-020301006697 SWIFT CODE- ICICNBBXXX, BRANCH -KALYAN. TRUST ACCOUNT NAME- SAMINA SABBIR TRUST FCRA. We are in need of Donation for our trust to start multi speciality hospital &amp; medical college. Please help me. CURRENT CONTACT ADDRESS- SAMINA SABBIR RURAL AYURVEDIC &amp; YOG MEDICAL EDU. RESEARCH TRUST. At post Saralgoan. Tal Murbad. Dist Thane. Pincode-421401MAharashtra. India. (Donate of some of ur annual income to Social Organization and get 50% income Tax Benefit!! ) Contact :- Ku. Abhijit Ghude ( Member ) +91-09270400047 Comment on List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs by manoj satapathy Dear sir, Please provide details grant and projects guidelines.