Mukesh Ambani Biography, Mukesh Ambani Business Profile. Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Top Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Kumar Mangalam Birla Dhirajlal Hirachand Ambani Gautam Adani Indu Jain Jamsedji Tata Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Ratan Naval Tata Shiv Nadar Sunil Bharti Mittal Adi Godrej Anil Agarwal Chandru Raheja Yusuf Hamied Cyrus Ponawalla Grandhi Mallikarjuna Rao Naresh Goyal JRD Tata KP Singh Senapathy Kris Gopalkrishnan Kalanithi Maran Narayan Murthy Pankaj Ramanbhai Patel Rahul Bajaj Ramesh Chandra Subhash Chandra Subroto Roy Gautam Thapar Uday Kotak Top Leaders You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Business-leaders » Who is Mukesh Ambani? Who is Mukesh Ambani? Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  23  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 Mukesh Ambani Factsheet Name Mukesh Ambani Born on 19 April 1957 Place of Birth Aden, Yemen Educated from University of Bombay, Stanford University Works for Reliance Industries Valued at US $27 billion Position Chairman and Managing Director of Reliance Industries Married to Nita Ambani Father Dhirubhai Ambani Mother Kokilaben Mukesh Ambani is the Managing Director and Chairman of Reliance Industries Limited (RIL). He is a member of the Employees Stock Compensation Committee and the Chairman of Finance Committee of the same organization. In 2010, he was included in Forbes' list of "68 people who matter most." He is regarded as one of the wealthiest individuals in the country – in fact he was rated by Forbes as the richest person in India in 2014 and the 39th richest person in the world as of 2015. In 2014, he was on the 40th spot. His net worth has been estimated at 20.1 billion dollars. In 2014, Ambani was ranked 36 on Forbes’ list of the world's most powerful people. He is responsible for coming up with the Jamnagar petroleum refinery in Gujarat, which is the biggest grassroots petroleum refinery around the world. Ambani is also the biggest shareholder of Reliance Industries, which is a Fortune Global 500 company. It is estimated that he holds 44.7% shares in the company. RIL is also one of the leading Indian companies in terms of market value. He is also the owner of Mumbai Indians, who compete in the Indian Premier League. Ambani has been on the board of directors of Bank of America Corporation as well as the Council of Foreign Relations’ International Advisory Board. He was also a member of the Credit Committee and Compensation & Benefits Committee of Bank of America. He has also played the role of the Chairman of the Board at the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, which is regarded as one of the top Indian business schools. Ambani has served on the Board of Governors of the Institute of Chemical Technology. He has previously been the Vice Chairman of Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited and is currently the Chairman of the Board at Reliance Petroleum. He also operates as the Chairman of the Audit Committee of Reliance Retail Limited. He is the Chairman of Reliance Exploration and Production DMCC. He is also the President of Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University in Gandhinagar, Gujarat. About Mukesh Ambani son of Dhirubhai Ambani Mukesh Ambani's Family Mukesh Ambani was born on 19 April 1957. His father was famous industrialist Dhirubhai Ambani and his mother is Kokilaben Ambani. His younger brother is Anil Ambani, another well-known industrialist. He has two sisters – Nina Kothari and Deepti Salgaonkar. During the 1970s, the entire Ambani family stayed at a modest apartment with a couple of bedrooms in Bhuleshwar, Mumbai. Later on, they shifted to Sea Wind in Colaba, a block of 14 flats, which were all owned by the Ambanis. This was where both the Ambani brothers lived along with their families. Ambani is currently married to Nita Ambani. They have one daughter – Isha and two sons – Akash and Anant. They are currently staying at Antilla, which has 27 storeys. The house is worth a billion dollars and is said to be the world’s costliest home. Mukesh Ambani's Education Ambani was a student at the Hill Grange High School, which is located at Peddar Road. This was where he met Anand Jain, who would go on to become a close associate in the future. Ambani obtained a Bachelor of Engineering in chemical engineering from the Institute of Chemical Technology, Matunga, under the University of Bombay. After that, he attended Stanford University for an MBA programme but did not complete his education over there as he wanted to join Reliance, which was then a small yet quickly growing enterprise. Career of Mukesh Ambani It was in 1981 that Mukesh Ambani joined the family business. It was Dhirubhai Ambani who had started Reliance. Mukesh Ambani started the expansion of the company’s activities from just textiles to areas as diverse as polyester fibres, petroleum refining and petrochemicals. Very soon, he moved on to oil and production and exploration of natural gas. Later on, he also started the Reliance Infocomm Limited, which was rebranded as Reliance Communications Limited. It focused primarily on communications and information technology programmes. At present, Reliance Industries Limited also has the rights to the natural gas obtained in the Krishna-Godavari Basin. Ambani is also looking at expanding the 4G broadband wireless and retail services offered by Reliance with a view to become one of the top 50 companies of the world. The petroleum refinery started by Ambani at Jamnagar can produce 660 thousand barrels of oil in a day. Mukesh Ambani's Awards and Recognition Over his illustrious life, Ambani has received a number of awards. He received the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year award from Ernst & Young India in 2000. In 2010, he was awarded the Global Vision Award at The Awards Dinner by Asia Society. In the same year, he was also conferred the Business Leader of the Year by NDTV India and Businessman of the Year by Financial Chronicle. The University of Pennsylvania bestowed on him the School of Engineering and Applied Science Dean’s Medal in 2010 and the Business Council for International Understanding gave him the Global Leadership Award in 2010. The MS University of Baroda has also awarded him an honorary Doctor of Science degree in 2010. The Harvard Business Review has also ranked him the fifth best performing CEO of the world among the top 50 CEOs of the world. Last Updated on May 13, 2015 More Indian Leaders Top Business Leaders About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED