Places to Visit in Vaishali and Tourist Destinations near Vaishali Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Travel to Patna Shopping in Patna How to Reach Patna Hotels in Patna Flights to Patna Patna Distance Chart Patna Airport Map Patna Metro Map Places to Visit in Patna State Secretariat Building Darbhanga House Sinha Library Padri Ki Haveli Moin-ul-Haque Stadium Pathar Ki Masjid Begu Hajjam Mosque Imarat-E-Shariya Sadaqat Ashram Gandhi Maidan Nagholkothi Qila House Phulwari Sharif Shaheed Smarak Khuda Baksh Oriental Library Tourist Destinations Near Patna Travel to Nalanda Travel to Bodhgaya Travel to Vaishali Travel to Rajgir About Patna Patna Map Patna Weather Travel to Bihar Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Bihar Places to Visit in Bihar Home » Patna » Places Near Patna » Places to Visit in Vaishali Places to Visit in Vaishali Places to See in Vaishali Vaishali is a small village in Bihar with a tremendous tourism potential. According to the historians, Vaishali is one of the first democratic republics of the world. Recent excavations has brought Vaishali in the limelight and the historical and archaeological importance of the area has resurfaced. Located at an altitude of 52 meters, the best time to visit the lovely place is between the months of October and March. Vaishali is a great place of enormous tourist interests. The main places to see in and around Vaishali are: Ashokan Pillar Category : History & Culture built by the great ruler Ashoka, the pillar is an extensively polished single piece of red sandstone, with a bell shaped capital and 18.30 meters in height. The top of the pillar comprise of a life size lion figure. The small tank beside the pillar is called the Ramkund. Bawan Powar Temple Category : Religious an ancient temple built during the Pala period. The temple contains excellent images of hindu gods. Buddha Stupa Category : Religious It is said that one eighth of Buddha's sacred ashes is enshrined in this Stupa inside a stone casket. Shanti Stupa Category : History & Culture another beautiful and serene Stupa, which is built by the Buddha Vihar Society. Kundalpur Category : Religious A holy place for the Jains, it is believed that Mahavira spent his first twenty two years of life in this place. Other fascinating spots are: Raja Vishal Ka Garh Abhiskek Puskaran Budha Stupa II Vaishali Museum Choumukhi Mahadeva World Peace Pagoda Vaishali is connected by all the means of transport. At Patna, about 70 kms from Vaishali is the nearest airport. This place is also well connected by railway lines and roads. Last Updated on : 25/09/2013 Travel to Bihar Travel to Bihar Travel to Bodhgaya Travel to Nalanda Travel to Vaishali Travel to Rajgir Travel to Patna Places to visit in Bihar Places to visit in Bihar Places to visit in Bodhgaya Places to visit in Nalanda Places to visit in Patna Places to visit in Rajgir About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule