Rajasthani Recipes | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Rajasthani Recipes Mava Kachori September 30, 2014 When it comes to Indian breakfast, the choices are aplenty, but to celebrate in a nice way requires something special. Kachori has been one of these special dishes. You might have tried different ones from the market mostly filled with aaloo or pyaaz, what if we fill something special in these kachoris too? That’s why I made these Mava Kachori. Coming straight from Rajasthan, these are absolutely perfect for your special breakfast and do wonders to [...] by Neha Breakfast , Festival and Celebration Cuisines , Food , North Indian , Street Food No Comments Rajasthani Kabuli September 25, 2014 Jodhpur, a town in western Rajasthan, can still boast of a lot of traditional culture. Whether it is the dress of the people, celebration of festivals or the food, these traditions have carried on since a long time. Today I picked up one such traditional recipe from this place called Rajasthani Kabuli. This rice dish is made by mixing some vegetables, dahi, dry fruits etc into a fairly rich preparation. Resembling a typical Indian vegetarian pulao, it [...] by Neha Food , Main course , North Indian , Vegetarian 1 Comment Pitod Ki Subzi – A Rajasthani Dish September 21, 2014 I wonder often what to cook specially at times when I’m running with a near empty fridge, well some dishes do come to a rescue in this situation. Pitod Ki Subzi is one such dish which can be relished not only by your family but guests too. This dish is made mostly with besan and can be made fairly quickly. It is different from gaate ki subzi but gives a great taste and an amazing look [...] by Neha Food , Main course , North Indian No Comments Jaiphali Aaloo September 10, 2014 Spices have played an important role in the Indian cuisine. Time and again I keep getting surprised by discoveries of new flavours from the usage of different spices. This time, it’s the nutmeg powder along with fennel seeds (saunf) giving a refreshing taste to potatoes in Jaiphali Aaloo. This dish comes from the State of Rajasthan and is perfectly chosen out for an everyday meal. Very easy and simple to make this can change the [...] by Neha Food , Main course , North Indian , Vegetarian 1 Comment Chane Urad Dal Ki Kachori Recipe February 13, 2014 Kachori’s are very famous in the Northern part of India. They can be served all the ways like a snack, in breakfast or even main course. They can be served with tea or coffee with some green chutney or with aaloo ki subzi as you like. I remember the holiday times when we used to either buy kachori’s from a nearby halwai shop or at times cook them at home. These are generally made with [...] by Neha Breads , Breakfast , Festival and Celebration Cuisines , Food , Main course , North Indian , Street Food , Vegetarian No Comments Moong Dal Ka Mogar Recipe February 11, 2014 Eating habits of a particular region is largely dependent on the local agricultural produce, due to the logistical constraints, the regions traditionally set up their own culture, own cuisine etc. Lentils are abundantly grown in Rajasthan specially Marwar region and hence the dishes made out of lentils are very famous in this region. Moong Dal Ka Mogar is one such very popular dish from the Marwar region of Rajasthan. Dry mogar is used as a [...] by Neha Food , North Indian , Vegetarian 2 Comments Churme Ke Laddu Recipe January 1, 2014 Churme Ke Laddu is a delicious dish from the state of Rajasthan and is made with coarse wheat flour and desi ghee with loads of dry fruits. It is more so loved in the winter season and once made, they can be stored for a few days. They go well as a dessert however I just keep them out for the day and my family just loves to eat it through the day as and [...] by Neha Desserts and Sweets , Food , Kids Special No Comments Dal Baati December 28, 2013 Today let our dreams travel towards western India and learn to make one of the most famous dish from this region, Dal Baati is a signature dish from Rajasthan. Dal is made using various different lentils, however typical tradition is to mix five different kind of dal to prepare this dish, it is served with balls called Baati made with wheat and hardened. It is served with hot desi ghee and the taste just cannot [...] by Neha Food , Main course , North Indian , Vegetarian No Comments Mirchi Vada November 17, 2013 If you are longing for a tongue tingling snack, then wait no further, as Mirchi Vada is the perfect snack for you. Mirchi Vada or stuffed green chilies coated with batter of gram flour and deep fried, can be made at home in no time and goes well with spice-lovers. This dish comes from the northwestern state of Rajasthan. The green chilies are usually stuffed with boiled potatoes; however, you can create your own fillings for a special [...] by Neha Food , North Indian , Starters , Street Food , Vegetarian No Comments 1 2 3 Next Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? parmindersingh on Time to feel the heat of Delhi University Admission for session 2015-16 Dheerendra yadav on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits sudheer motla on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd pardeep singh on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits suchithra p s on Human Trafficking in India must end Nimesh Vyas on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012