News — College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Search OKSTATE.EDU... Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Academic Depts Ag Economics Ag Education, Communications & Leadership Animal Science Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resources Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences Multidisciplinary Programs Environmental Sciences Master of International Agriculture Program Future Students Student Services Visitors CASNR Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Now Be an OSU Cowboy! Undergraduate Admissions Graduate College College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Navigation Home Academic Departments Future Students Student Services CASNR Scholarships Applications Study Abroad Farm to Fork News Events Alumni Employers Faculty Resources Personnel Request for Information Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Search Advanced Search…   Login You are here: Home / News Info College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources News CASNR News Berryhill to Compete at College National Finals Rodeo May 29, 2015 For the second consecutive year, Thompson Berryhill, agricultural economics senior at Oklahoma State University, will attend the College National Finals Rodeo June 14-20 to pursue the title of national champion. Berryhill to Compete at College National Finals Rodeo - Read More… Farm machinery focus of LA artist’s paintings at OSU Museum of Art May 27, 2015 Los Angeles artist Karen Carson unveils her large-scale paintings depicting the gargantuan machines that are familiar sights in rural America and revered icons of agricultural in the exhibit “Movers and Shapers: Combines, Tractors, and Swathers,” at the OSU Museum of Art from June 1 to August 29. An opening reception with the artist and curator, including a question and answer session, is set for June 1, from 5 – 7 p.m. Farm machinery focus of LA artist’s paintings at OSU Museum of Art - Read More… CASNR names outstanding senior, outstanding freshman and seniors of distinction May 26, 2015 Duncan, Oklahoma, natives, Jessica Neal and Allison Christian, have been named Oklahoma State University’s College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Outstanding Senior and Outstanding Freshman for 2015. CASNR names outstanding senior, outstanding freshman and seniors of distinction - Read More… CASNR Students recognized with CORD Award May 25, 2015 In addition to their degree, 13 spring 2015 Oklahoma State University graduates from the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources were recognized for serving the university and the Stillwater community through participation in the Creating Opportunities for Responsible Development program, or CORD. CASNR Students recognized with CORD Award - Read More… CASNR Students Graduate with Honors May 24, 2015 The Oklahoma State University Honors College presented its degrees and awards to 178 students during a hooding ceremony in April in the Student Union Ballroom. The degree is the highest that can be presented with the undergraduate degree and students donned the Honors College hood during OSU’s commencement ceremony. Of those recognized, 24 were students from the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources. CASNR Students Graduate with Honors - Read More… OSU Student Named Udall Scholar May 22, 2015 Oklahoma State University student Maeghan Murie of Cleveland, Okla., has been selected as a Udall scholar, making her the recipient of one of the nation’s most prestigious undergraduate awards. Murie, a junior majoring in chemistry and biochemistry and molecular biology, joins the ranks of 14 former winners from OSU who received the scholarship, which awards up to $5,000 annually to defray the cost of undergraduate education while honoring the legacies of Morris and Steward Udall. Of those from OSU who have received the award, eight in addition to Murie have been students in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources. OSU Student Named Udall Scholar - Read More… OSU breaks ground on Charles and Linda Cline Equine Teaching Center May 11, 2015 Oklahoma State University equine students will soon be able to attend classes, conduct lab work and build experience all in one convenient location thanks to the addition of the Charles and Linda Cline Equine Teaching Center. OSU held a groundbreaking ceremony on April 30 at the site of the new multimillion-dollar facility, which will be open for classes next spring. The facility will continue to build on the rich history of OSU’s world-class equine program. OSU breaks ground on Charles and Linda Cline Equine Teaching Center - Read More… New food safety option available through OSU food science degree May 05, 2015 A new food safety degree option available through Oklahoma State University’s College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources will provide widespread benefits, from students looking toward a viable career to the food industry and consumers. New food safety option available through OSU food science degree - Read More… OSU student researcher says Cherokee traditions propel her to study disease prevention Apr 24, 2015 Amber Suena Anderson’s full name means “golden beyond tomorrow,” and the Cherokee Nation citizen takes this meaning to heart. It is a philosophy she has refined and solidified during her five years as a biochemistry and molecular biology student in Oklahoma State University’s College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources. OSU student researcher says Cherokee traditions propel her to study disease prevention - Read More… OSU animal science arena renamed in honor of ‘Dr. Tot’ Apr 21, 2015 Oklahoma State University’s Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources has renamed the OSU Animal Science Arena in memory of Robert E. Totusek, longtime head of the division’s department of animal science. The new official name was unveiled during April 11 ceremonies at the facility, located on McElroy Avenue west of the university’s Stillwater campus. OSU animal science arena renamed in honor of ‘Dr. Tot’ - Read More… Alumni Board to host annual CASNR Alumni Reunion & Gala, May 2 Apr 20, 2015 The College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Alumni Board will host the annual CASNR Alumni Reunion and Gala on May 2 at 6 p.m. in Click Hall at the ConocoPhillips Oklahoma State University Alumni Center in Stillwater, Oklahoma. Alumni Board to host annual CASNR Alumni Reunion & Gala, May 2 - Read More… Meat Animal Evaluation Team wins another championship Apr 06, 2015 Winning a national championship is hard to do. Winning back-to-back championships is more difficult that eating soup with a fork, but that is exactly what the Oklahoma State University Meat Animal Evaluation Team just did. Meat Animal Evaluation Team wins another championship - Read More… Damron honored as Food Systems Leadership Fellow at APLU Meeting Apr 02, 2015 Steve Damron, College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources assistant dean, was recently recognized for completing the Food Systems Leadership Institute executive leadership program, an intensive two-year program designed for experienced leaders in academia, government and industry. Damron honored as Food Systems Leadership Fellow at APLU Meeting - Read More… Bayne selected to attend USDA student diversity program Apr 01, 2015 Oklahoma State University’s Nicole Bayne, a junior agribusiness, pre-law student from Bakersfield, California, was recently selected to participate in the U.S. Department of Agriculture Outlook Forum Student Diversity Program in Arlington, Virginia. Bayne selected to attend USDA student diversity program - Read More… CASNR Week Brings Students Together in Celebration Mar 31, 2015 The College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources at Oklahoma State University will be hosting CASNR Week, Apr. 6-9. The annual event serves as a celebration of the students, faculty and staff in the college and as a way to commemorate the history, activity and impact of CASNR on the OSU campus. CASNR Week Brings Students Together in Celebration - Read More… CASNR to Host Alumni Panel Apr. 7 Mar 31, 2015 The Oklahoma State University College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources will host the CASNR Alumni Panel April 7 at 7 p.m. in Agricultural Hall, room 101. CASNR to Host Alumni Panel Apr. 7 - Read More… CASNR graduate student wins 3MT regional competition People’s Choice Award Mar 31, 2015 Amanda Curtis, an Oklahoma State University animal science master’s degree student, won a People’s Choice Award at a Conference of Southern Graduate School’s Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Regional Competition March 8 in New Orleans. Curtis presented her thesis topic, “Alternative to antibiotics.” CASNR graduate student wins 3MT regional competition People’s Choice Award - Read More… OSU Water Week set for March 23-27 Mar 23, 2015 Oklahoma State University is hosting OSU Water Week March 23-27 on its Stillwater campus, highlighting the importance of conservation practices and science-based knowledge in helping to protect the availability and quality of Oklahoma’s and the world’s water resources. OSU Water Week set for March 23-27 - Read More… CASNR 3MT® - Three Minute Thesis Competition Mar 23, 2015 The College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources is pleased to invite you to the 2015 CASNR 3MT® - Three Minute Thesis Competition on March 25, 2015 in Ag Hall 101. Our graduate students will complete for cash prizes and a chance to represent our college in the Oklahoma State University 3MT® Finals. CASNR 3MT® - Three Minute Thesis Competition - Read More… Three College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources seniors receive top honors from the Alumni Association Mar 18, 2015 Three seniors from the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources have been named 2015 Outstanding Seniors by the Oklahoma State University Alumni Association. Three College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources seniors receive top honors from the Alumni Association - Read More… OSU to issue 40-gallon water-use challenge Mar 18, 2015 Oklahoma State University will kick off its March 23-27 OSU Water Week activities by calling for students, staff, faculty and community, county and state residents to take part in the 40-gallon water-use challenge. OSU to issue 40-gallon water-use challenge - Read More… Hickman presented with award for outstanding achievement in research Mar 06, 2015 Karen Hickman, an OSU Department of Natural Resource Ecology and Management professor, received the Outstanding Achievement Award for Research and Academia by the Society for Range Management. Hickman presented with award for outstanding achievement in research - Read More…