Bedside Tables Manufacturer & Exporters OHS General Trading LLC United Arab Emirates List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory OHS General Trading LLC Member Since : 2014 | Country : United Arab Emirates Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Leather Towel Basket, Leather Service Directory, Leather Amenity Box Company Information Ohs general trading llc dubai is serving the needs of the hotel industry in assisting owners and hotel operators, division heads and procurement heads in areas of budget, purchasing, coordination for os&e requirement. Ohsgt at the same time, assists in ff&e requirements in order process, equipment purchased as nock down with fit-outs with local companies to save on carriage and freight. Our services span all segments of the hospitality section for luxury and resort hotels to select service, mid-scale hotels. We provide the complete solution of hospitality services furnishing and equipment services, assist from design to installation. We cater to quality demanded by designers and operators at the price that owners want. Our success is measured by the money we save our esteemed clients. our policy and method of operation recognizes that it is extremely important for a hotel project to ensure that all goods are procured at the highest quality. It is equally important however, to obtain these items at the best price possible to maximize an owner’s return on their investment and value for money Company Facts Business Type : Manufacturer / Exporters / Wholesale Suppliers Year of Estd. : 2010 Company Turnover : USD 0.5 to 1 Million Approx. Ownership : Corporation/Limited Liability Company Business Markets : China / India / Mea/ Mauritius/ Maldives / Seychelles / Srilanka Website : http://www.ohsgtllc.com Featured Products/Services Bedside Tables Banquet Chairs Outdoor Kitchen Products Wicker Products Cloth Hangers Bathroom Scales Bathroom Slippers Ironing Tables Tea Trays Search Contact Details Mr. William Fernandes Telephone : +971-42364566 Fax No : +971-42364567 Mobile Phone : +971-506581941 » More detail Hot Products » Banquet Chairs » Banquet Tables » Bathroom Mirrors » Bathroom Scales » Bathroom Slippers » Bedside Tables » Brochure Display Stand » Cleaning Cart » Cloth Hangers » Crowd Control Stanchions » Free Standing Ashtrays » Garbage Bags » Hotel Rollaway Beds » Housekeeping Trolley » Iron Safes » Ironing Tables » Laundry Bags » Leather Amenity Box » Leather Amenity Tray » Leather Blotter View more products Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com