Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana | Department of Financial Services | Ministry of Finance X X Tweets by @PMJDY X Hindi Screen Reader Access PMJDY Mission Financial Literacy RTI Contact Us Bouquets Bank Login Home Circulars Progress Report Press Release Who's Who Follow @twitterdev Branch-Locator National Toll Free 1800 11 0001 1800 180 1111 Objective of "Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY)" is ensuring access to various financial services like availability of basic savings bank account, access to need based credit, remittances facility, insurance and pension to the excluded sections i.e. weaker sections & low income groups. This deep penetration at affordable cost is possible only with effective use of technology. PMJDY is a National Mission on Financial Inclusion encompassing an integrated approach to bring about comprehensive financial inclusion of all the households in the country. The plan envisages universal access to banking facilities with at least one basic banking account for every household, financial literacy, access to credit, insurance and pension facility. In addition, the beneficiaries would get RuPay Debit card having inbuilt accident insurance cover of र 1 lakh. The plan also envisages channeling all Government benefits (from Centre / State / Local Body) to the beneficiaries accounts and pushing the Direct Benefits Transfer (DBT) scheme of the Union Government. The technological issues like poor connectivity, on-line transactions will be addressed. Mobile transactions through telecom operators and their established centres as Cash Out Points are also planned to be used for Financial Inclusion under the Scheme. Also an effort is being made to reach out to the youth of this country to participate in this Mission Mode Programme. For More Details Please Click Scheme Details Terms of Use Accessibility Options Site Map Privacy Policy Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Copyright Policy Hyperlink Policy Feedback Website is developed & managed by IDBI Intech Ltd Hosted by National Informatics Centre (NIC) and contents provided by the Department of Financial Services , Govt. of India. This site can be best viewed in Firefox 3.5 and above, IE 8 and above, chrome 18 and above. To check your browser version click here