Arunachal Pradesh Tourism Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Arunachal Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Travel Agents Tourist Places in Arunachal Pradesh Picnic Spots Museums Pilgrimage Adventure Sports Ita Fort Buddha Temple Ganga Lake Polo Park Tawang Gompa Bumla Pass Apatani Villages Kile Pakho Taley Wildlife Sanctuary Cities to Visit in Arunachal Pradesh Along Travel Itanagar Travel Tawang Travel Ziro Travel Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels About Arunachal Pradesh History Geography Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Arunachal Pradesh Tourism Arunachal Pradesh Tourism Arunachal Pradesh Tourist Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Arunachal Pradesh tourism implies a vivid tour throughout the territory of Arunachal Pradesh. Arunachal Pradesh is known as the 'nature's treasure trove'. Therefore, tourism in Arunachal Pradesh calls for a delightful tour across the enchanting valleys, romantic peaks, beautiful districts and scintillating rivers. Arunachal Pradesh is known as the 'Land of the Dawn-lit Mountains'; tourists from across the world come to Arunachal Pradesh to see the picturesque beauty of the territory. Arunachal Pradesh is situated at the foothills of Himalayas; it is this picturesque setting of Arunachal Pradesh that attracts a large number of tourists to come to Arunachal Pradesh. Moreover, the places of interest that deserve a special mention in tourism of Arunachal Pradesh are: Buddhist Temple – The Buddhist Temple is a stupa which largely reflects the Tibetan influence in Arunachal Pradesh. The location of Buddhist Temple is such that it provides a scintillating view of the city of Itanagar. Jawaharlal Nehru State Museum – The Jawaharlal Nehru State Museum holds a wonderful collection art and architecture, musical instruments, religious articles, textile, ornaments, weapons, etc. The Museum remains open on all days, except Monday, for the tourist to visit and the Museum and explore the majestic past of the land. Ita Fort – Ita Fort is an old fort, which is situated at Papum Pare district. The three gates on the three sides of the fort is said to be built by the Ahom rulers and it is estimated that about 80 lakhs bricks and 45 cubic meters of stone were used to build the Fort. Besides, the aforesaid site, some of the other sites that play a vital role in tourism at Arunachal Pradesh are: Mouling National Park Bhishmaknagar Fort Buddhist Gompa Namdapha National Park Malinithan Tipi Orchidarium Parasuram Kund, etc. Moreover, due to easy accessibility of Arunachal Pradesh to and from the different parts of India, is also instrumental towards enhancing the prospects of Arunachal Pradesh tourism. The availability of the different modes of transport like buses, cars, taxis, railways, air planes, etc. has largely enhanced tourism in Arunachal Pradesh. Hotels of Arunachal Pradesh Initially untouched Arunachal Pradesh today is slowly and steadily evolving as a tourist hub. With the rising influx of tourists, both foreign and domestic, numerous hotels have started dotting the Union Territory. Arunachal Pradesh is home to a number of luxury, deluxe and budget hotels that are known for their hospitality and services. Arunachal Pradesh is a northeastern state of India. The literary meaning of Arunachal Pradesh is the 'land of the dawn lit mountains' and 'Land of the rising sun'. The state is famous for its virgin natural beauty. The capital and the largest city of the state is Itanagar. Established in the year of 1987, Arunachal Pradesh is an apple of discord between India and China. Administrated by India, the territory of the state is also claimed by the neighboring country. More Detail... Places To Visit in Arunachal Pradesh Steps Around the Ita Fort Buddhist Center Gompa Itanagar Guide Idyllic Kazu Village Along Orange Town Tawang Gompa Monastry National Parks of Arunachal Pradesh Namdhapa National Park in Miao Mouling National Park in Jengging Wild Life Sanctuaries in Arunachal Pradesh Pakhui Wildlife Sanctuary Itanagar Wild life Sanctuary Dr. D. Ering Memorial Wildlife Sanctuary More Detail... Last Updated on : September 6, 2014 Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Travel to Along Travel to Bhalukpong Travel to Bomdila Travel to Itanagar Travel to Tawang Travel to Ziro Places to visit in Arunachal-pradesh Places to visit in Itanagar Places to visit in Tawang Places to visit in Ziro About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule