Punjab Map Home » Maps » Punjab » Punjab Map   Punjab पंजाब का नक्शा Punjab Map Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bathinda Ferozepur                    more Districts of Punjab Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Punjab Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Punjab Places to visit in Punjab Wildlife Sanctuaries Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Punjab Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Telephone Directory Government and Politics Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Geography and History Handicrafts People Culture and Festivals Pin Code Universities In Punjab       Punjab Map Map of Punjab Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Punjab Map showing National highway, Railways, Major Roads, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Punjab Location Map Punjab Districts Map Punjab Rivers Map Punjab Road Network Map Punjab Rail Network Map Punjab is situated in the northwestern corner of the country. It is bound on the north by the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir , on the east by Himachal Pradesh and the Union Territory of Chandigarh , on the south by Haryana and Rajasthan , and on the west by Pakistan. The city of Chandigarh is the administrative capital of Punjab. Agriculture is the main occupation of the people of Punjab and forms the backbone of the State economy. The principal industries include the manufacture of textiles, sewing machines, sporting goods, starch, fertilizers, bicycles, scientific instruments, electrical goods, and machine tools, and the processing of sugar and pine oil. Punjab is one of the most prosperous states in the country. The state of Punjab is known as the home of Sikhism. The state of Punjab has as many as 22 districts. The largest district in Punjab in terms of area is Firozepur covering an area of 5865 sq km and Nawan Shehar with an area of 1258 sq km is the smallest district in the state of Punjab. The district map of Punjab will aid you to understand the city in a better way and improve your knowledge of the geography of Punjab. The other districts of Punjab are Amritsar where the Golden temple is located, Barnala, Bathinda, Firozpur, Fatehgarh Sahib, Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, kapurthala, Ludhiana, Mansa, Moga, Mohali, Muktsar, Patiala, Pathankot, Rupnagar, Sangrur, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Tarn Taran. Punjab is divided into three regions namely Malwa, Majha and Doaba. Malwa region of Punjab covers as many as 11 districts. The major districts under this region are Ludhiana, Bhatinda, Mohali, Sangrur and Patiala. Districts like Amritsar, Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran constitute the Majha District of Punjab. Doaba region of Punjab include districts like Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahar and Kapurthala. Punjab State Information Capital Chandigarh Date of formation 26. Jan. 1950 Governor Shivraj Patil Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal Tourist attractions Golden Temple, Jallianwalla Bagh, Rock Garden, Leisure Valley Festivals Lohri, Baisakhi, Gurpurab Major dance and music forms Bhangra dance and music Arts and crafts Phulkari or flower embroidery; wood inlay of Hoshiarpur on black shisham wood. Languages Punjabi Size 50,362 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 27,743,338 Rivers Beas, Sutlej, Ravi, Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Bir Moti Bagh, Bir Bhunderhari, Bir Dosanjh State animal Blackbuck State bird Eastern goshawk State tree Shisham Major crops Wheat, gram, barley, oil seeds Factoids Sikhism, founded by Guru Nanak, is a dominant religion in Punjab. The word Sikh' means a 'learner'. The first person to give Punjab its independence was Banda Singh Bahadur. No. of District 22 Last Updated on : May 19, 2015 Travel to Punjab Travel to Amritsar Travel to Ludhiana Places to visit in Punjab Places to visit in Amritsar Places to visit in Ludhiana Pushpa Gujral Science City Jallianwala Bagh Martyr's Memorial Gurudwara Kiratpur Sahib Dera Baba Nanak Goindwal Sahib Sheesh Mahal Gurudwara Anandpur Sahib Harmandir Sahib             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule