Terms of Use » Central Silk Board Loading... Screen Reader Access Who's who | Contact Us | Intranet Login Central Silk Board Ministry of Textiles - Govt of India Home About Us Vision & Mission Mandate Organization chart Composition of the Board Act & Rules Citizen's charter FAQ Silk-Sericulture Silk Sericulture Silks of India Services R & D Training Seed Production Consultancy Schemes Central Sector Centrally Sponsored MKSP Projects for Tasar MGNREGA with CDP NER Textile Promotion Statistics Silk Flash Silk Bulletin Silk Exports & Imports Publications Indian Silk Books Videos Annual Report Downloads RFD Note on sericulture Training Calendar Evaluation Reports Regd. Stake holders Silk Exporters Minutes of Meetings Gallery   Terms of Use Disclaimer This website is designed, developed and maintained by Central Silk Board, a statutory body under the Ministry of Textiles, Govt. of India. Though all efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy and currency of the content on this website, the same should not be construed as a statement of law or used for any legal purposes. Incase of any ambiguity or doubts, users are advised to verify / check with the Department(s) and / or othersource(s), and to obtain appropriate professional advice. Under no circumstances will this Department be liable for any expense, loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any expense, loss or damage whatsoever arising from use, or loss of use, of data, arising out of or in connection with the use of this website. These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Indian Laws. Any dispute arising under these terms and conditions shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of India. The information posted on this website could include hypertext links or pointers to information created and maintained by non-Government / private organisations. Central Silk Board is providing these links and pointers solely for your information and convenience. When you select a link to an outside website, you are leaving the Central Silk Board website and are subject to the privacy and security policies of the owners / sponsors of the outside website. Central Silk Board, does not guarantee the availability of such linked pages at all times. Central Silk Board, cannot authorise the use of copyrighted materials contained in linked websites.  Users are advised to request such authorisation from the owner of the linked website. Central Silk Board, does not guarantee that linked websites comply with Indian Government Web Guidelines. Copyright Policy Materials featured on this site may be reproduced free of charge in any format or media without requiring specific permission.  This is subject to the material being reproduced accurately and not being used in a derogatory manner or in a misleading context.  Where the material is being published or issued to others, the source must be prominently acknowledged.  However, the permission to reproduce this material does not extend to any material on this site, which is explicitly identified as being the copyright of a third party.   Authorisation to reproduce such material must be obtained from the copyright holders concerned. Privacy Policy Central Silk Board does not automatically capture any specific personal information from you, (like name, phone number or e-mail address), that allows us to identify you individually. If the Central Silk Board requests you to provide personal information, you will be informed for the particular purposes for which the information is gathered and adequate security measures will be taken to protect your personal information. We do not sell or share any personally identifiable information volunteered on the CSB website to any third party (public/private). Any information provided to this website will be protected from loss, misuse, unauthorized access or disclosure, alteration, or destruction. We gather certain information about the User, such as Internet protocol (IP) addresses, domain name, browser type, operating system, the date and time of the visit and the pages visited.  We make no attempt to link these addresses with the identity of individuals visiting our site unless an attempt to damage the site has been detected. Linking Policy Central Silk Board do not object to you linking directly to the information that is hosted on our site and no prior permission is required for the same. However, we would like you to inform us about any links provided to our site so that you can be informed of any changes or updation therein.  Also, we do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on your site.  CSB pages must load into a newly opened browser window of the user. Sitemap Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2015 Central Silk Board. All Rights Reserved.   This is the official Website of Central Silk Board, a statutory body of Government of India under the Ministry of Textiles Last updated: 12/11/2013