Lalu Farm - rare variety of aromatic organic rice - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Lalu Farm – rare variety of aromatic organic rice Home Lalu Farm – rare variety of aromatic organic rice Shares experience on conversion from conventional to organic farming. Grows rare variety of aromatic rice organically Lalu Farm is paddy farm where Mr. Naresh Agarawal produces aromatic rice organically. Farm has rich soil which is ideal for growing rare rice varieties. Farm located in Dudukathenga village, Kalahandi District, Odisha was initial a conventional farm but now it is converted into an organic farm. When asked why organic farming, he says, “Chemicals have numerous side effects on a crop and alter the natural aroma of rice.” Mr. Agarwal feels soil in organic farming has its own natural flavor. “Initially it was very difficult to get good yield. Production dropped drastically from 12 quintals/acre to hardly 5 quintals/acre.” Agricultural officers appointed in the village area suggest farmers to utilize chemical based preventive measures to protect the farm from rodents and weeds hence farmers follow them but Mr. Agarawal sticks to organic farming. He says, “I manage all farming inputs sourced from 22 cows and 8 buffalos at my farm. There is water tank near my farm. In summer when water dries up in the tank I take the dry mud settled in the bottom of the tank and spread it in my paddy fields. I also compost kitchen and dairy waste to use it at the farm. In my locality cow-dung is cheaply available @200/ tractor trolley.” Farm has neem trees all around that is source for pest management. “I protect my farm from pest attack using neem leaves. Further, generally paddy farmers keep more water in their fields which leads to growth of pests where as I do the right opposite. I never stock more water. Planting seedling densely also attracts pest as crop is devoid of sunlight,” he shares. Only desi seeds are used at the farm. “Desi seeds are best for healthy farming. In hi-breed seeds each plant gets 40-60 shoots that makes fields dense and 6 to 8 “water in ground. For months together the bottom layer remains without any sunlight resulting to pest attack which is then followed by pesticide spray spoiling entire crop,” he shares on why farmer is forced to use pesticides. Odisha has its special rice varieties namely Kudrat, Kalkati (also known as Maharaji) and Ketki Jua. These are rare rice varieties, “I am preserving and continue growing these rice variants because I want to conserve the legacy of my family and region and also this is my hobby. All these are ancient variety generally grown by landlords for occasional consumption but these days’ it is rarest of rare,” says Mr. Agarawal and adds, “Farmers do not share the seedling of these rare rice varieties.” The paddy crops grow about 5 to 6 feet height when grown organically. “Due to its height it is very sensitive to stormy wind. Further, harvesting needs much more attention. For its’ extra length it requires to cut the crop twice,” he says. The harvested paddy and processed rice is packed carefully and stocked in well-ventilated place. To sell rice in mandi is tedious task. Odisha Government have fixed reasonable price but in reality farmer gets paid less due to officials and middleman mutual understanding, “Offered price for paddy is @1460/quintals but farmers get only @1000/quintal,” highlights Mr. Agarawal and says, “Paddy purchasing officers trouble farmers in name of paper work like water tax received, valid land documents, identification proof, bank account, an early enrollment and clearances of dues.” Documents are needed then why trouble, he elaborates, “Water tax colleting authority is revenue inspector. His office is mostly closed. Once in awhile office opens at 10 AM then 12 noon again closes for lunch and at 3 PM the officials call it day. When to process the documents? Next requirement is valid land document which practically is an impossible task. Voter’s card is accepted as ID card but if original is lost then no hopes for farmer. Earlier enrollment, it is informed to the brokers who bring their family and friends on priority.” Painful story of farmer does not end here, “If farmer takes his paddy stock in mandi it will not be weighed for days together as preference will be given to brokers,” he adds. It is hard decision in India to be a farmer no matter what government is in power, “Yet we are managing,” says Mr. Agarawal. Given up on the mandi sales Mr. Agarawal decided to process his paddy on his own and bought the harvestor. He is getting satisfactory result from the paddy harvestor, “60% rice is obtained from 100kg paddy.” Paddy husk is reused to fire clay bricks. Mr. Agarawal says, “I am presently finding it difficult to sell my aromatic rare rice varieties. I am doing organic farming but I cannot label by produce as organic as my farm is not certified yet. So I am planning to get into value addition by making snack varieties using rice however I am looking forward for bulk buyers who are interested in buying my rare rice variants.” Contact details- Mr. Naresh Agarawal Mobile: 9853226625 Email: naagrawal81@gmail.com Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Lalu Farm – rare variety of aromatic organic rice Related – articles, consultants, downloads Godson Organic Farm Thumbal SRI Farmers Association – Intensive rice farming Sri Venkateswara Modern Rice Mills – third generation continues tradition Gaurav Farm You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water