Farm Made Coconut Palm Sugar - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Farm Made Coconut Palm Sugar Farm Made Coconut Palm Sugar Buy directly from supplier Request Price Description Product Description Farm Made Coconut Palm Sugar is Nature’s Perfect Sweetener.Unlike regular sugar,coconut palm sugar is low on the glycemic index,high in the nutrients and has 16 vital amino acids. Just use it like you would normally use sugar,it is a perfect 1:1 ratio. Because it is low glycemic,you wont get that “Sugar Crash” other sweeteners gives you.it tastes great and your body will thank you. Coconut sugar is claimed to be a complete 1:1 replacement for sugarcane based sugar. It has a caramel flavour to it. It tastes very different from sugars available in the market. “Our coconut sugar is produced without any preservatives and additives. It is 100% natural. The difference between our sugar and the sugars available in the market is that the raw material we use for making coconut sugar is collected in controlled and protected condition, it is insect and dust free, which is not the case in most of plam sugars currently available in the market,” informs Mr. Raam. “Coconut sugar is the only product which is ready for sale and we have started marketing it in organic shops. Soon it will be available in metro cities,” he adds. All the products are tested at various stages as per the food processing protocols. Commercial sale of coconut sugar is expected to take place mostly before March 2015. It shall be sold under the brand name Farm Made Naturals. If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: UPF2 . Category: Processed Items . Tag: coconut sugar . Social share Related Products Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Processed Items Pickles Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Processed Items Dairy Whitener Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Processed Items Ghee Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Processed Items Curry leaf powder for idli, dosa and rice mix Rs.130.00 Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Processed Items Organic Fresh Curry leaf Rs.12.00 Free Buy directly from supplie Request Price Quick View Processed Items Skimmed Milk Powder Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics irrigation magazine medicinal plants net pots npk organic fertiliser packaging pl