IIM, Ahmedabad - Management program in contract farming - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop IIM, Ahmedabad – Management program in contract farming Home IIM, Ahmedabad – Management program in contract farming Management program in contract farming Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, crafts management program exclusively for contract farming. The Institute has conducted studies on contract farming and fresh food supermarkets to document the experiences of firms and farmers. This program is an effort to share those experiences with the executives associated with contract farming and procurement activity. The objective is to develop a broader understanding of the concept and develop skills in designing and implementing contract farming on a sustainable basis. The reason why the Institute started the program ‘Managing Contract Farming’ is because, “Indian agribusiness is changing after the amendment to the APMC Act at the state levels which permits contract farming. Agribusiness companies and agencies are looking at it seriously, and some of them have already undertaken it for large number of crops across the country, including MNCs,” says Professor Sukhpal Singh, Program Coordinator and adds, “The food safety issues and the legal restrictions on corporate (captive) farming make it imperative to undertake contract farming for export and quality-conscious domestic markets, as open markets i.e. wholesale APMC markets are not able to provide quality and cost effectiveness.” The first program was offered in 2009, and it is being offered every year once. The 2016 offering will be the 7th edition. Every year there is participation of more than 20 executives. The conceptual clarity, empirical research based case study and case based discussions, field visit, video films, guest speakers, participant experience sharing and role play exercise are the unique features of the program. It focuses on managerial aspects of contract farming, that is how to examine the need for contract farming, selecting area and farmers, managing quality and price issues, default (side selling) reduction, contract design, policy aspects of APMC Act related to contract farming in different states, and other country experiences which are the major focus areas of the program. In program delivery, Professor Singh is the main faculty. Guest faculties with hands-on experience of planning and managing contract farming projects with MNCs and researchers with contract farming specialization also take a few sessions for sharing their insights and interaction with participants. “Participants visit the field and interact with contract farming agency and its contract farmers which make it a ‘seeing is believing’ experience. Many of them have never seen a contract farming situation like a contract crop, its processing, and the farm and post harvest practices like grading, and so on,” shares Professor Singh. The Program focuses on specific sectors like fresh produce and organic, besides the mainstream crops and sectors. The Program content includes discussion on different contract farming models. He explains, “There are various models varying from bipartite to tripartite and multi-partite like involving banks and farm supply companies or NGOs which are shared for their relevance in different situations. The failures and successes of different models are also highlighted.” The participants are made aware that there is no single model of contract farming and it varies across crops and purpose of contract farming. It is a dynamic process as it changes with change in market structure and level of competition. Suitability of model depends on the nature and extent of market failure in a given crop or commodity sector. Quality monitoring and delivery is another feature of the program content. “It emphasizes on design of good contract agreement which reduces adverse selection and moral hazard problems and, therefore, possibility of default- quantity or quality. It also discusses a menu of options to reduce defaults,” shares Professor Singh. At the end of the program the participants have a clear understanding of contract farming concept and its rationale besides the ability to appreciate the APMC Act provisions. “Exposure to design aspects of contract and its negotiation with growers are cornerstones of the skills provided. The participants work in groups on contract agreement design and a strategy for its implementation in a given set of crops where they apply the course learning and present it before the teaching faculty and the peer groups in the program,” says Professor Singh. It is a five day executive development program and does not have placements. It is to build organizational capacity for contract farming in the sponsoring agencies. Professor Sukhpal Singh has almost two decades of research work on contract farming and has many books and research paper on the subject to his credit. Contact details Professor Sukhpal Singh, Program Coordinator Indian Institute of Management Vastrapur, Ahmedabad 380015, Gujarat, India Ph: 079 66324855 Email: sukhpal@iimahd.ernet.in Web: http://www.iimahd.ernet.in/institute/contact.html Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > IIM, Ahmedabad – Management program in contract farming Related – articles, consultants, downloads Rainbow Agro Enterprises – Contract farming Experience in contract farming Ashrams Bio Health – Contract farming Contract Farming of Medicinal Plants You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water