Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana | Department of Financial Services | Ministry of Finance X X Tweets by @PMJDY X Hindi Screen Reader Access PMJDY Mission Financial Literacy RTI Contact Us Bouquets Bank Login Home Circulars Progress Report Press Release Who's Who Follow @twitterdev Branch-Locator National Toll Free 1800 11 0001 1800 180 1111 Accessibility Statement We are committed to ensure that the Department of Financial Services website is accessible to all users irrespective of device in use, technology or ability. It has been built, with an aim, to provide maximum accessibility and usability to its visitors. As a result this website can be viewed from a variety of devices such as Desktop / Laptop computers, web-enabled mobile devices; wap phones; PDAs, etc. We have put in our best efforts to ensure that all information on this website is accessible to people with disabilities. For example, a user with visual disability can access this website using assistive technologies, such as screen readers and screen magnifiers. We also aim to be standards compliant and follow principles of usability and universal design, which should help all visitors of this website. This website is designed using HTML 4.01 Transitional to meet Guidelines for Indian Government Websites and also adheres to Level AA of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 laid down by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Part of the information in the website is also made available through links to external Websites. External Websites are maintained by the respective departments who are responsible for making these sites accessible. Department of Financial Services is working towards making its website accessible for persons with disabilities, however currently some of the pages of the website are not accessible.   Related Links Learn about Accessibility features Accessibility Options Learn about Accessibility Help Learn about Screen Reader Access Learn about Speech Recognition Support Terms of Use Accessibility Options Site Map Privacy Policy Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Copyright Policy Hyperlink Policy Feedback Website is developed & managed by IDBI Intech Ltd Hosted by National Informatics Centre (NIC) and contents provided by the Department of Financial Services , Govt. of India. This site can be best viewed in Firefox 3.5 and above, IE 8 and above, chrome 18 and above. To check your browser version click here