Salient Features of the Model Act on Agricultural Marketing MARKETING  INFRASTRUCTURE  &  AGRICULTURAL   MARKETING  REFORMS                                                                  Salient Features of the Model Act on Agricultural Marketing CONTENTS : BACKGROUND SALIENT FEATURES ABOUT MODEL ACT ( PREFACE ) CHAPTER-I PRELIMINARY Short title, extent and commencement Definition CHAPTER-Il ESTABLISHMENT OF MARKET Notification of intention of regulating marketing of notified Agricultural Produce in specified area Market yards, sub-market yards, consumer /farmers market  and private market Notification of intention to alter limits of or to amalgamate or to split up market areas to de-establish a market Procedure subsequent to notification under section 6 Effect of alteration of limits Power of State Govt. to issue consequential order with respect to constitution, etc. of market comittees on alteration of limitis, amalgamation or splitting up    CHAPTER-III CONSTITUTION OF MARKET COMMITTEE Establishment of Market Committee and its incorporation Vesting of property of Local authority in Market Committee Acquisition of land for Market Committee  Appointment of officer-in-charge of Market Committee pending constitution of  first Market Committee Constitution of the Market Committee  --Constitution of the Market Committee --Division of Market area for constituencies and reservation of seats --Qualification to vote and to be representative of agriculturist. --First meeting, terms of officer, resignation by Chairman, Vice Chairman or Member and vacancy in their office.  --Chairman and Vice-chairman of Market Committee --Election of Chairman and Vice-Chairman Resignation by Chairman and Vice-chairman and vacancy in their office No confidence motion against Chairman and Vice-chairman Seizure and taking possession of record and property of Market Committee under certain conditions   CHAPTER-IV CLASSIFICATION OF MARKET AND SPECIAL MARKET vClassification of Market Special Market and Special Commodity Market Constitution of the Market Committee for special market Chairman and Vice Chairman for special market Executive committee for special market Chief Executive of Market Committee of special market, Functions and power CHAPTER-V CONDUCT OF BUSINESS AND POWERS AND DUTIES OF MARKET COMMITTEE Meeting etc. of the Market Committee  Powers and duties of the Market Committee Publishing and circulation of arrival with rates Appointment of sub-committee and delegation of powers   Power to borrow  Compounding of offences Power to write off irrecoverable fee, etc. Power to remove encroachment on market yard U se of weighing instruments, weights and measures, Their inspection and seizure Mode of making contract   Act of Market Committee etc. not to be invalidated     CHAPTER-VI STAFF OF MARKET COMMITTEE Chief Executive Officer of Market Committee Appointment of staff by the Market Committee CHAPTER-VII CONTRACT FARMING Procedure and Form of Contract Farming Agreement   CHAPTER - VIII REGULATION OF TRADING Regulation of marketing of notified agriculture produce    Sale of notified agricultural produce in market  Terms and procedure of buying and selling Power to levy market fees (Single point levy) Permission for transportation of notified agricultural Produce  Registration of functionaries Establishment of private yards & direct purchase of agricultural produce from agriculturist (Direct purchasing from producer) Establishment of Consumer/ Farmer Market (Direct sale by the producer) Grant /renewal of license of private yard, consumer/ farmer market and weighman Power to cancel or suspend license/registration Appeal  Redressal of dispute between Private market or Consumer market and Market Committee Prohibition of trade allowances other than prescribed under this Act. Power to order production of account and entry, inspection and seizure  Submission of annual account by licensee/Registered functionaries and assessment of market fee.  Assessment of market fee on his own motion by the chief market Executive officer, payable to Market Committee by license /registered functionaries.   Power to stop vehicle and inspect store Power to grant exemption from market fee                                    CHAPTER-IX BUDGET AND MARKET COMMITTEE FUND Preparation and sanction of budget Market Committee Fund Application of Market Committee fund   CHAPTER-X STATE AGRICULTURAL MARKETING BOARD CONSTITUTION, FUNCTIONS AND POWERS Establishment of the State Agricultural Marketing Board  Incorporation of Board   Constitution of the State Agricultural Marketing Board Members of the Board Appointment of Managing Director, officers & Employees of the Board  Term of office of the non-official members of the Board Term of official members Allowance to member of the Board  Filling of casual vacancy  Resignation of members Disqualification of the member of the Board       Appointment of sub-committee Superintendence of the Board. Functions and powers of the Board Regulations Marketing Development Fund Payments incurred by the Board  Contribution towards the Board Borrowing by issue of bonds or stocks Utilization of Marketing Development  Fund Audit of Accounts of the Board    Delegation of powers Supervision and control of the Chairman/Chief Executive Functions and powers of the Managing Director   Conduct of business of the Board  Powers and Functions of the Director of Marketing Board   Powers of Chairman  of Board   CHAPTER-XI PENALTY Penalty for contravention of Act, Rules and By-laws Recovery of market dues Cognizance of offences   CHAPTER - XII CONTROL Inspection of markets and inquiry into the affairs of Market Committee Powers to remove a member of the Market Committee Supersession of the Market Committee   Consequence of supersession of Market Committee Supersession of Board.                  Consequences of supersession of Board  Power of Director or Managing Director to direct Market committee for amending Bye-laws Power of the Director to prohibit execution or further execution of resolution passed or orders made by the Market Committee  Power to call for proceeding of Market Committee by Managing Director/ Director Liability of Chairman, Vice-Chairman, members and employees for loss, Waste or misappropriation etc  Power of State Government to amend schedule Power of State Government to give direction  Recovery of sums duo to Board or  Market Committee   Chairman, Vice-Chairman, members, officers and servants etc. of Market Committee and Board to be public servants Delegation of powers Bar to Civil suit and protection to person acting in good faith Bar to suit in absence of notice Duty of local authorities to give information and assistance Act not to be invalidated by informality, vacancy etc.   CHAPTER-XIII RULES AND BYE-LAWS Power to make rules Power to make bye-laws   CHAPTER - XIV REPEAL AND SAVING Repeal and Savings Power to remove difficulty Addendum on Contract Farming Agreement and it's Model Specifications ADDENDUM ON CONTRACT FARMING AGREEMENT  AND ITS MODEL SPECIFICATION   CONTENTS OF A MODEL CONTRACT FARMING AGREEMENT           Background   Agricultural Markets in most parts of the Country are established and regulated under the State APMC Acts. The whole geographical area in the State is divided and declared as a market area wherein the markets are managed by the Market Committees constituted by the State Governments. Once a particular area is declared a market area and falls under the jurisdiction of a Market Committee, no person or agency is allowed freely to carry on wholesale marketing activities. The monopoly of Government regulated wholesale markets has prevented development of a competitive marketing system in the country, providing no help to farmers in direct marketing, organizing retailing, a smooth raw material supply to agro-processing industries and adoption of innovative marketing system and technologies. An efficient agricultural marketing is essential for the development of the agriculture sector as it provides outlets and incentives for increased production, the marketing system contribute greatly to the commercialization of subsistence farmers. Worldwide Governments have recognized the importance of liberalized agriculture markets. Task Force on Agricultural Marketing Reforms set up by the Ministry has suggested promotion of new and competitive Agricultural Market in private and cooperative sectors to encourage direct marketing and contract farming programmes, facilitate industries and large trading companies to undertake procurement of agricultural commodities directly from the farmer’s fields and to establish effective linkages between the farm production and retail chains. There is a necessity to integrate farm production with national and international markets to enable farmers to undertake market driven production plan and adoption of modern marketing practices. If agricultural markets are to be developed in private and cooperative sectors and to be provided a level competitive environment vis-à-vis regulated markets, the existing framework of State APMC Acts will have to undergo a change. The State has to facilitate varying models of ownership of markets to accelerate investment in the area and enable private investment in owning, establishing and operating markets. Working of existing Government regulated markets also need to be professionalized by promoting public private partnership in their management. Appropriate legal framework is also required to promote direct marketing and contract farming arrangements as alternative marketing mechanism. Therefore, there is a need to formulate a new model law for agricultural market.   Salient Features 1.The Title of the Act is changed to highlight the objective of development of agricultural marketing in addition to its regulation under the Act. Accordingly, the Preamble of the Act is redrafted to provide for development of efficient marketing system, promotion of agri-processing and agricultural exports and to lay down procedures and systems for putting in place an effective infrastructure for the marketing of agricultural produce. (Section-1) 2.Legal persons, growers and local authorities are permitted to apply for the establishment of new markets for agricultural produce in any area. Under the existing law, markets are setup at the initiative of State Governments alone. Consequently, in a market area, more than one market can be established by private persons, farmers and consumers. (Section-3) 3.There will be no compulsion on the growers to sell their produce through existing markets administered by the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC). However, agriculturist who does not bring his produce to the market area for sale will not be eligible for election to the APMC. (Section-14) 4.Separate provision is made for notification of ‘Special Markets’ or ‘Special Commodities Markets’ in any market area for specified agricultural commodities to be operated in addition to existing markets. (Section-20) 5.The APMC have been made specifically responsible for: ensuring complete transparency in pricing system and transactions taking place in market area; providing market-led extension services to farmers; ensuring payment for agricultural produce sold by farmers on the same day; promoting agricultural processing including activities for value addition in agricultural produce; and publicizing data on arrivals and rates of agricultural produce brought into the market area for sale. Setup and promote public private partnership in the management of agricultural markets. (Section -26 & 27) 6.Provision made for the appointment of Chief Executive Officer of the Market Committee from among the professionals drawn from open market. (Section-36) 7. A new Chapter on ‘Contract Farming’ added to provide for compulsory registration of all contract farming sponsors, recording of contract farming agreements, resolution of disputes, if any, arising out of such agreement, exemption from levy of market fee on produce covered by contract farming agreements and to provide for indemnity to producers’ title/ possession over his land from any claim arising out of the agreement. (Chapter-VII) 8.Model specification of contract farming agreements provided in the Addendum to the model law. 9.Provision made for direct sale of farm produce to contract farming sponsor from farmers’ field without the necessity of routing it through notified markets. (Chapter-VII) 10.Provision made for imposition of single point levy of market fee on the sale of notified agricultural commodities in any market area and discretion provided to the State Government to fix graded levy of market fee on different types of sales. (Section-42) 11.Licensing of market functionaries is dispensed with and a time bound procedure for registration is laid down. Registration for market functionaries provided to operate in one or more than one market areas. (Section-44) 12.Commission agency in any transaction relating to notified agricultural produce involving an agriculturist is prohibited and there will be no deduction towards commission from the sale proceeds payable to agriculturist seller. (Section-44(6)) 13.Provision made for the purchase of agricultural produce through private yards or directly from agriculturists in one or more than one market area. (Section-45) 14.Provision made for the establishment of consumers’/ farmers’ market to facilitate direct sale of agricultural produce to consumers. (Section-46) 15.Provision made for resolving of disputes, if any, arising between private market/ consumer market and Market Committee. (Section-50) 16.State Governments conferred power to exempt any agricultural produce brought for sale in market area, from payment of market fee. (Section-56) 17.Market Committees permitted to use its funds among others to create facilities like grading, standardization and quality certification; to create infrastructure on its own or through public private partnership for post harvest handling of agricultural produce and development of modern marketing system. (Section-59) 18.For the Chairmanship of State Agricultural Marketing Board, two options provided namely Minister in-charge of Agricultural Marketing as ex-officio or alternatively to be elected by the Chairman/ members of Market Committees. (Section-63) 19.The State Agricultural Marketing Board made specifically responsible for: (i)  setting up of a separate marketing extension cell in the Board to provide market-led extension services to farmers; (ii) promoting grading, standardization and quality certification of notified agricultural produce and for the purpose to set up a separate Agricultural Produce Marketing Standards Bureau. (Section-73) 20.Funds of the State Agricultural Marketing Board permitted to be utilized for promoting either on its own or through public private partnership, for the following: market survey, research, grading, standardization, quality certification, etc.; Development of quality testing and communication infrastructure. Development of media, cyber and long distance infrastructure relevant to marketing of agricultural and allied commodities. (Section-79)   MODEL ACT The  StateAgricultural Produce Marketing (Development & Regulation Act, 2003)   9th September 2003   PREFACE   Agricultural marketing is witnessing major changes world over, owing to liberalization of trade in agricultural commodities. To benefit farming community for the new global market access opportunities, the internal agricultural marketing system in the country needs to be integrated and strengthened. In this context, Government of India in the Ministry of Agriculture appointed an Expert Committee on 19 th December 2000 followed by an Inter Ministerial Task Force to review the present system of agricultural marketing in the country and to recommend measures to make the system more efficient and competitive. The Committee and the Task Force in their Reports of June 2001 and May 2002 respectively, have suggested various reforms relating to agricultural marketing system as well as in policies and programs for development and strengthening of agricultural marketing in the country. The reports have noted that the situation of control over agricultural markets by the State has to be eased to facilitate greater participation of the private sector, particularly to engender massive investments required for the development of marketing infrastrure and supporting services. The recommendations contained in these Reports were discussed at the National Conference of State Ministers organized by the Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India at Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi on 27 th September 2002 and later by a Standing Committee of State Ministers constituted for the purpose under the chairmanship of Sri Hukumdeo Narayan Yadav, Union Minister of State for Agriculture on 29 th January 2003. In the Conference as well as the Standing Committee, State Governments expressed the view that reforms in the agricultural marketing sector were necessary to move away from a regime of controls to one of regulation and competition. In view of liberalization of trade and emergence of global markets, it was necessary to promote development of a competitive marketing infrastructure in the country and to bring about professionalism in the management of existing market yards and market fee structure. While promoting the alternative marketing structure, however, Government needs to put in place adequate safeguards to avoid any exploitation of farmers by the private trade and industries. For this, there was a need to formulate model legislation on agricultural marketing. The Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India accordingly set up a committee under the chairmanship of Shri. K.M. Sahni, Additional Secretary, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation to formulate a model law on agricultural marketing in consultation with the States. Other members of the Committee are Shri Jamini Sharma, Principal Secretary, Govt. of Madhya Pradesh, Shri. Shivajirao Deshmukh, Secretary (Cooperation & Marketing) , Govt. of Maharashtra, Shri. S. Bhalerao, Principal Secretary (Cooperation and Marketing) Govt. of Andhra Pradesh, Shri. V.Ramnath and Shri. A.K. Goel , Director General, National Institute of Agricultural Marketing, Jaipur and Shri. P.K. Agarwal, Joint Secretary (Marketing) as Member Secretary of the Committee. The present Model Legislation has been drafted by the Committee after holding discussions with the State officials at Bhopal on 3 – 4 th May, 2003, at Pune on 22-23 rd May 2003, at Shillong on 31 st May 2003 and at Srinagar on 7 th June, 2003. The draft legislation was thereafter discussed with the State Governments at the National Institute of Agricultural Marketing, Jaipur on 11 th and 12 th June 2003 and finalized. The participating Sates included representatives from the State of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. The draft model legislation was fully discussed by the Committee at Pune on 8th and 9th September 2003 and finalized. The draft model legislation titled the State Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) Act, 2003, provides for establishment of Private Markets/ yards, Direct Purchase Centres, Consumer/Farmers Markets for direct sale and promotion of Public Private Partnership in the management and development of agricultural markets in the country. It also provides for separate constitution for Special Markets for commodities like Onions, Fruits, Vegetables, Flowers etc. A separate chapter has been included in the legislation to regulate and promote contract-farming arrangements in the country. It provides for prohibition of commission agency in any transaction of agricultural commodities with the producers. It redefines the role of present Agricultural Produce Market Committee to promote alternative marketing system, contract farming, direct marketing and farmers/consumers markets. It also redefines the role of State Agricultural Marketing Boards to promote standardization, grading, quality certification, market led extension and training of farmers and market functionaries in marketing related areas. Provision has also been made in the Act for constitution of State Agricultural Produce Marketing Standards Bureau for promotion of Grading, Standardization and Quality Certification of Agricultural Produce. This would facilitate pledge financing, E-trading, direct purchasing, export, forward/future trading and introduction of negotiable warehousing receipt system in respect of agricultural commodities. The Committee would like to place on record the painstaking efforts made by Dr. R.M. Kharche, Managing Director, Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board (MSAMB), Shri. Manohar Dubey, Deputy Secretary , Academy of Administration, Govt. of Madhya Pradesh, Bhopal, Shri. Shridhar Bangal, General Manager, MSAMB, Smt. Swati Tambhale, Law Officer, MSAMB, Shri. G.H. Dhankar, Deputy Agricultural Marketing Adviser and Shri. Lallan Rai, Assistant Agricultural Marketing Adviser from the Directorate of Marketing & Inspection (DMI) in drafting the Model Legislation. The Committee would also like to place on record the legal assistance provided by Shri. G.S. Shelke, Advocate & Solicitor, Mumbai in drafting model agreement for contract farming. The Committee hopes that the model legislation will enable nationwide integration of agricultural markets, facilitate emergence of competitive agricultural markets in private and cooperative sectors, create environment conducive to massive investments in marketing related infrastructure and lead to modernization and strengthening of existing markets.   (K.M. Sahni) Chairman  New Delhi  Dated 9 th September 2003.                                                                                                                                                                          Shri. Jamini Sharma, Principal Secretary Govt. of Madhya Pradesh Shri. A.K. Goel, National Institute of Agricultural Marketing, Jaipur   Shri Shivajirao Deshmukh, Secretary Cooperation & Marketing, Government of Maharashtra Shri P.K.Agarwal, Joint Secretary & Agricultural Marketing Adviser Govt. of India Shri S. Bhalerao, Principal Secretary, Cooperation & Marketing, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh Shri K.M.Sahni, Additional Secretary, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation Govt. of India   S. Bhalerao, Shri. K. M. Sahni, Principal Secretary,Additional Secretary, Cooperation & Marketing,Department of Agriculture Govt. of Andhra Pradesh& Cooperation, Govt of India.   THE MODEL ACT THE_STATE AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE MARKETING{ DEVELOPMENT & REGULATION }ACT, 2003   An Act to provide for improved regulation in marketing of agricultural produce, development of efficient marketing system, promotion of agri-processing and agricultural export and the establishment and proper administration of markets for agricultural produce in the State of __________________.and whereas, it is expedient to put in place an effective infrastructure for marketing of agricultural produce and lay down procedures and systems thereto, Be it enacted by the __________________ State Legislature in the fifty third year of the Republic of India as follows :-   CHAPTER - I Preliminary   Short Title             Extent and              commencement 1. (1) This Act may be called “The _____________State Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) Act, 2003   (2) It extends to the whole of __________________  (State)   (3) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.   Definition 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires Definition (1) “Agricultural Produce” means all produce and com­modities, whether processed or unprocessed, of agri­culture, horticulture, apiculture, sericulture, livestock and products of livestock, fleeces (raw wool) and skins of animals, forest produce etc. as are specified in the schedule or declared by