Metro Maps India Home » Maps » Metro Maps   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views About India India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan Assam Madhya Pradesh more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services India Maps Store Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels Current Events India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       Metro Maps Metro Cities Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing Metro Cities Map Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The metro trains are high-capacity public transports which are generally seen in urban areas. They are electric railways which operate on right-of-way and cannot be accessed by pedestrians or any other vehicle. The metro services work on designated lines and run between stations using electrical units on railway tracks. Some metros also run underground services. The first metro in India, Kolkata Metro, began its operations in 1984. The Delhi Metro is the first metro with the modern system and began its operations in 2002. It is the third metro with rapid transit system after Kolkata and Chennai rapid metro system. The operations for the first privately-owned and operated Rapid Metro Rail of Gurgaon began in November 2013. Currently, the metro services are operating in a very few cities, but the number is likely to rise in future with the metro projects underway in many cities. Here, you can find the maps for both currently functional and upcoming metros in different cities of the country. You can enlarge the map by clicking on a particular city's map. The map explains the detailed information about the metro routes in the concerned city. It describes the presently functional and the proposed routes. The routes also specify the names of the metro stations that fall under them. WBST120315 EBAKB160315 Mumbai Metro Map Bangalore Metro Map Chennai Metro Map Delhi Metro Map Gurgaon Metro Map Hyderabad Metro Map Kolkata Metro Map Lucknow Metro Map Jaipur Metro Map Ahmedabad Metro Map Chandigarh Metro Map Kochi Metro Map Patna Metro Map Noida Metro Map Noida Metro Map Nagpur Metro Map Last Updated on : May 16, 2015            