Wildlife Sanctuaries in Uttarakhand, National Parks of Uttaranchal Home » Maps » Wildlife » Sanctuaries and National Parks of Uttarakhand   Uttarakhand उत्तराखंड का नक्शा Uttarakhand Map Cities in Uttarakhand Dehradun Haridwar Nainital Mussoorie Almora                    more... Travel to Uttarakhand Nainital Tourism Mussoorie Tourism Haridwar Tourism Dehradun Tourism Rishikesh Tourism Places to visit in Uttarakhand Jim Corbett National Park Wildlife Sanctuaries Districts of Uttarakhand Road Map Railway Map River Map Tehsil Map Physical Map Uttarakhand Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Uttarakhand Forests Industrial Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History Geography Information Newspapers Hotels in Uttaranchal Nainital Hotels Srinagar Hotels Mussoorie Hotels Haridwar Hotels Dehradun Hotels Rishikesh Hotels                    more... Society Important Numbers Education Universities in Uttarakhand Government Uttarakhand Images Haridwar Location Map Mussoorie Tourist Map Tourist Map of Rishikesh Uttaranchal Hills Map District Map in Hindi Pin Code International Yoga Festival in Rishikesh       Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks of Uttarakhand Sanctuaries and National Parks of Uttarakhand Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the location of Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks of Uttarakhand. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The fascinating locales of the national parks of Uttarakhand are brimming with the noble presence of wildlife that reflects incredible diversity. But the flora is also not left far behind as these national parks at Uttarakhand are dowered with an entire caboodle of trees, flowering-plants, shrubs, herbs, climbers and many more intriguing varieties that will beyond a shadow of a doubt dazzle you. On most occasions, the national parks are reserve pieces of luscious landscapes that fall under the jurisdiction of a particular Government belonging to a nation. The most significant and vital postulate that austerely demarcates the national parks from other wildlife preserving centers is the fact that any sort of human intrusion or dreaded pollution are sternly taboo. The 'Northeast Greenland National Park' holds the desirable record of being the most spacious amongst all the national parks dispersed across the entire planet. India also homes some of the most spectacular and well-engineered national parks that attract eco-tourists from all distant nooks of the globe. Besides being a picturesque locale and a tourist hub, Uttarakhand's national parks perform the important feat of preserving the endangered species of wild beasts that are on the brink of comprehensive extinction from the face of this earth. They also serve as the breeding grounds for the various animals that are aptly shielded from the jeopardy of poaching and several other illegal practices that constantly hover over their heads. The most significant and eminent national parks in Uttarakhand that possess world acclaimed fame are Corbett National Park, Rajaji National Park, Valley of Flowers National Park any many more. Corbet National Park The Corbet National Park is perfectly cradled on the foothills of the magniloquent knolls of the Himalayan range that shields the northern fringe of the country of India. The Corbet National Park made its magnanimous presence felt in the year 1936 under the designation of 'Hailey National Park'. The Corbet National Park also proudly cherishes the coveted title of being the maiden National Park on Indian turf. Traversing across a humongous length of approximately 201 square miles, the Corbet National Park has acquired its name from the late Jim Corbett who consecrated the latter half of his life aiming towards the amelioration of this park. The Corbet National Park in Uttarakhand has earned a nationwide acknowledgment for putting together the baronial act of nurturing tigers, ever since its very dawn. As a matter of fact, the Corbet National Park gave impetus to 'Project Tiger' that has enacted the most crucial role in preserving the sanctity of these majestic beasts in India. The major attractions at the Corbet National Park of Uttarakhand are mentioned below :- Tigers Deer belonging to four different taxonomic categories. Wild Boar Leopards Jungle Cat Fishing Categories Sloth Bear Black Bear Wild Dog Himalayan Palm Civet Indian Grey Mouse Common Otter Blacknaped Hare Porcupine Elephants Gharials Goat Antelopes or 'Ghorals' Langur Rhesus Monkey Another fascinating lineament that demarcates the Corbet National Park at Uttarakhand from its contemporaries are the jeep and elephant safaris. Rented jeeps can be obtained from Ramnagar, KMVN Tourist Lodge. Elephant rides of two hours duration are also available. Valley of Flowers National Park The Valley of Flowers National Park is positioned in the lap of the Bhyundar Ganga in the Garhwal region of the Himalayas and extends across a throbbing area measuring approximately 87.5 square kilometers. The Valley of Flowers National Park achieved the status of being a national park in the year of 1982. The vibrant and intriguing beauty of the delectable Valley of Flowers National Park is so rejuvenating that legend has it. They were even referred in the Sanskrit epics like the Ramayana and Mahabharata. But owing to a freak of nature, the Valley of Flowers National Park lost its position in the map until a mountaineer of British origin, Frank Smith again rediscovered it. He was inundated to such a point on witnessing the enthralling floral stock swaying in the meek breeze that he termed it "Valley of Flowers". The Valley of Flowers National Park in Uttarakhand is besieged by the 'Ratban Parvat' which is adorned in pristine snow, the 'Nar Parvat' and the 'Kunt Khal' that demarcates its periphery from the fringe of the adjacent Badrinath valley. The glory of the Valley of Flowers National Park is further augmented by the serene presence of the Pashupati river that spans across the entire length of the valley. Rajaji National Park The Rajaji National Park came into its glorious existence in the year 1983. The Rajaji National Park draws its designation from the celebrated freedom fighter, Sri C. Rajgopalachari who was affectionately referred to as 'Rajaji'. A sum total of three sanctuaries namely Dehradun Siwaliks, Motichur and Chilla were coalesced to constitute the Rajaji National Park. The major attractions of the Rajaji National Park are listed below :- Elephant Leopard Jungle Cat Himalayan Yellow Throated Marten Sambhar Cheetal Barking Deer Wild Boar Sloth Bear Langur Ghoral Monitor Lizard Python Civet King Cobra Gangotri National Park The Gangotri National Park is nestled in the cozy dominion of Uttarakhand in India. The Gangotri National Park covers a luscious landscape that measures a mind-boggling 1553 square miles which is a momentous accomplishment in itself. The mammoth dimensions of the Gangotri National Park makes it the most sought-after abode of an entire caboodle of wild beasts. Since, the Gangotri National Park is so massive, the wild creatures do not face any sort of inconvenience regarding their respective territories. The terrain of the Gangotri National Park of Uttarakhand is marked by the ominous presence of heavenly delectable coniferous trees that further augments the sheer brilliance of this national park. In fact the conifers vanquish a hefty stretch of the plot alloted to the Gangotri National Park. The crystal clarity of the placid glaciers gift a whole new dimension to the Gangotri National Park. The view of the unadulterated snowy glaciers silhouetted against the luscious back drop of the opulent hay lands truly takes ones breath away in awe. In fact, the meadows constitute a healthy portion of the Gangotri National Park. The prominent species of trees that are found in the Gangotri National Park in Uttarakhand are listed below:- Chirpine Deodhar Fir Spruce Oak Rhododendron Nalanda Devi National Park Positioned in the dominion named Chamoli in Uttaranchal, the Nalanda Devi National Park is aptly beleaguered by a spectacular array of dazzling hillocks that include Trishul, Dunagiri, Nanda Devi and Bethartoli. The entrance of visitants in the premises of the Nalanda Devi National Park was sternly forbidden from the year 1982 in order to conserve its biological multifariousness. But very recently, some eco-tourists have procured special permission to explore this mesmerizing locale and observe wildlife amidst nature's splendor. Being well dispersed over a sprawling landscape that measure approximately 630 square kilometers, the Nalanda Devi National Park also houses a wide variety of flora that mainly constitutes birch, rhododendron, fir and juniper. The Nalanda Devi National Park is also home to an astonishing 312 varied floral taxonomic categories including 17 extremely uncommon species. The temperature at the Nalanda Devi National Park of Uttarakhand seldom rises above the 25.9 degree centigrade mark during the charring months of the summer season. However, the temperature takes a deep plunge during the months of the winter season when it hovers around the 12.5 degree centigrade mark. The major attractions of the Nalanda Devi National Park at Uttarakhand are listed below :- Bharal Himalayan Tahr Serow Goral Snow Leopard Himalayan Black Bear Brown Bear Leopard Common Langur Himalayan Musk Deer Brown Deer Govind Pashu Vihar The Govind Pashu Vihar of Uttarakhand achieved the recognition of being a coveted wildlife sanctuary in the year of 1955. Being an appendage of the Upper Tons Valley, the Govind Pashu Vihar is well-scattered across an area approximately measuring 957.9 square kilometers. Previously reckoned as 'Tons', the Govind Pashu Vihar also has a rich and eminent history that has transformed it into one the most sought-after destinations for the tourists craving to spend some quality time in the midst of opulent wildlife. The temperature that prevails at the Govind Pashu Vihar in Uttarakhand is more or less devoid of any sort of annoying fluctuations as it reaches a maximum of only 25.1 degree centigrade during the pleasant summer season. But the winters could easily send a shiver down your spine as the temperatures drops to 10 degree centigrade. The major attractions of the Govind Pashu Vihar of Uttarakhand with respect to the flora are listed below:- Chir Pine Cedar Oak Blue Pine Silver Fir Spruce Yew Oaks Maples Walnut Horse chestnut Hazel Rhododendron Last Updated on : 05 April 2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule