 About us | Access Agriculture Skip to main content Access Agriculture Login | Register Home About us What we do Who we are Governing Board Advisory group Why we started How we started Partner organisations Sponsors Core sponsors Associates Contribute and make a difference Using this site How to use this website Submitting videos Translating videos Radio stations DVD packs information Useful technical information FAQ Contact us Forum Quotes Job Vacancies Awards User facts World map Video use Impact studies User login E-mail * Password * Create new account Request new password Languages English Français Custom FAQ Search All languages Adioukrou Adja Arabic Ateso Attié Bambara Bangla Baoulé Bariba Bassa Berba Bomu Buli Burmese Chichewa Dagaari Dagbani Dendi Dioula Ditammari Ebrié English Ewe Fon Frafra French Gonja Gourmantche Hausa Hindi Idaatcha Ife Indonesian Kabye Kannada Khmer Kikuyu Kiswahili Kpelle Krio Kusaal Lao Lobiri Luganda Lugbara Luo Malagash Mende Moba Mooré Nago Nepali Persian Peulh Fulfuldé Portuguese Runyakitara Sena Sisaala Spanish Temne Thai Twi Vietnamese Wolof Yao Yoruba Zarma Home About us Our Vision To be a global leader enabling south-south exchange on and access to quality audio-visual training materials to secure sustainable livelihoods of smallholder farmers and users of natural resources. Our Mission To facilitate and build capacity for the production and translation of quality farmer-to-farmer training videos into local languages. To improve access of youth, women, smallholder and marginalised farmers and users of natural resources to relevant knowledge through networks, partnerships, appropriate information and communication technologies and feedback mechanisms. To help improve rural advisory services and agricultural education systems, help them value farmers’ knowledge and innovations, and encourage joint learning on sustainable agriculture and natural resource management. Our Values Respect and value local knowledge and innovations Value the environment and ecosystems Professional and effective, informed by relevant science Creative, flexible and innovative Sensitive to gender Quality and ethics Passion     Who we are Access Agriculture is a group of passionate people devoted to promoting effective agricultural training videos for the benefit of farmers and rural businesses. To develop local language versions, mass multiply and disseminate agricultural training videos, Access Agriculture collaborates with more than 200 communication professionals across the globe. It was started by Paul Van Mele of Agro-Insight and Phil Malone and Josephine Rodgers of Countrywise Communication, who have a combined experience of more than 80 years of agricultural media productions. Executive Secretary and East Africa co-ordinator Bob Muchina  read Government and Economics at the University of Nairobi, proceeded to the Kenya Institute of Mass Communication and obtained an MA in Communication from the University of Pittsburg. He pioneered the Marketing Society of Kenya and honed his journalistic skills at the global charity, World Vision. He views the promotion of sustainable agriculture premised upon information streaming at three levels: a lateral sharing of farm experiences; an extending linkage between research and the farmer; and a collaboration between financial institutions and the entrepreneur farmer. Regional co-ordinator for West and Central Africa Florent Okry  studied agricultural sciences at the University of Abomey-Calavi, Benin and obtained a PhD in Social Sciences at Wageningen University, the Netherlands. He has worked for more than 12 years with national and international organisations in agricultural research and development throughout West Africa during which he conducted field research, evaluated rural learning interventions and supported multi-stakeholder projects. Florent has a keen interest in local knowledge and development dynamics. Since 2005 he has been engaged in shaping and assessing interventions dealing with farmer-to-farmer training videos in diverse contexts.   Regional co-ordinator for South Asia Saravanan Ray  has a PhD in Agricultural extension from the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore, India. He is working as an Associate Professor (Communication) and in charge of the School of Social Sciences at the Central Agricultural University (CAU) in Meghalaya, India. He teaches and guides research for post-graduate students in the agricultural extension discipline. He has 10 years of field extension experience and implementing ICTs for Agricultural Extension projects for developing sustainable agriculture among marginal tribal farmers of the most disadvantaged region of India.   Treasurer Josephine Rodgers  has an MA in Mass Communications from the University of Leicester in the UK, as well as a degree in Agricultural Science. Since 1985, Josephine has worked with her company Countrywise Communication throughout the world with local extension professionals on communication challenges and training local teams to create award-winning programmes on agriculture, food and rural development. She has worked extensively with national and local broadcasters to develop multi-language programmes. Having been responsible for the financial affairs of Countrywise and other organisations, Josephine has taken up the role of treasurer within Access Agriculture. Chairman Paul Van Mele  studied Tropical Agriculture at the University of Ghent, Belgium and obtained his PhD from Wageningen University. Since 1993 he has managed and backstopped agricultural R&D projects in Africa, Asia and Latin America with an emphasis on sustainable agriculture and farmer training. Paul has published widely, and enhanced impact on rural communities through farmer-to-farmer video and networking. In 2010 he swapped his senior research management position in the CGIAR to start his own enterprise, Agro-Insight. In 2012, together with Countrywise Communication, he established the international NGO, Access Agriculture, for which he acts as chairman. Communication Advisor Phil Malone  is a geographer and an ex-BBC radio broadcaster. For well over 25 years, Phil has advised senior government officials on communication throughout the former Soviet Union, the Middle East, Africa and Asia. He has worked with professionals in many industries to help them communicate more effectively. Much of Phil’s expertise includes assisting with the drawing up and implementation of national and international communication strategies for the health, agricultural, food and rural development sectors. Phil supports the overall communication strategy of Access Agriculture. Advisory Board Niels Röling obtained a masters degree in rural sociology from Wageningen University and a Ph.D. in communication from Michigan State University. He has worked in Nigeria, the US, Kenya, and his native country The Netherlands. He is emeritus professor of Communication and Innovation Studies at Wageningen University. He is interested in innovation platforms for creating enabling institutional contexts for smallholder development. He is committed to smallholder development as the most effective and most sustainable option for global food security. As an advisory board member he sees Access Agriculture as making a vital contribution to the pluralist approaches required.   Chris Dabbs started his first company in 2001, a viral marketing company, along with Dave Vout, the creative mind behind Tomb Raider. Two years later, he co-founded Creative Tank, a digital agency servicing the agency world. In 2006, he started Streaming Tank, specifically based at offering video streaming services. It has a client base including Fremantle Media (X Factor and Got Talent), the BBC, AT&T, Starbucks, all of the fashion weeks, The Economist, Gucci, Christies, Nokia and Aviva. It is the primary live streaming partner for Coca-Cola worldwide, technical advisor and partner for Google/YouTube Live, and Myspace. Hala Yousry graduated from Cairo University and works as an Associate Professor and Head of Rural Sociology Department at the Desert Research Center in Egypt. She is Head of the Country Chapter, North African Representative and Board Member at African Forum for Agriculture Advisory Services (AFAAS). She was the African Regional Representative for Civil Society and Stakeholders at UNEP and is a member of the Women Steering Committee for RIO+20. Her area of interests varies from rural development to social aspects of climate change, combating desertification and biodiversity. Dominique Hounkonnou is an agronomist (graduated at Gembloux, Belgium), with a PhD in Social Sciences (from Wageningen University). He worked in agricultural extension in Benin for 10 years and at CTA (the ACP-EU Centre for agricultural and rural cooperation, Wageningen) for 12 years. He now works as a consultant in local development, and with the Berceaux d’Afrique foundation, which he created with some friends to support local development groups. He strongly believes that the future of Africa depends, to a large extent, on how efficiently the leaders and support organisations can build from local development dynamics. Nicolas Lambert has a degree in Business Administration from the Catholic University of Mons in Belgium; he spent part of his curriculum at the University of Leuven and at The University of Laval in Québec, Canada. Nicolas has worked for more than 15 years in marketing for food and beverages multinationals in Europe, including for Unilever, AB-InBev and the Belgian branch of Heineken (Alken-Maes). Nicolas is currently Strategy Director at Darwin BBDO in Brussels, an advertising agency. He also teaches International Marketing at the Louvain School of Management. Nicolas was Marketeer of the year in Belgium in 2010. Why we started Agricultural advisory services in developing countries face many challenges, one of which is to respond meaningfully to farmers’ diverse demands for advice on crop, livestock, fish, processing, business, finance and marketing issues. With limited resources advisors struggle to reach the millions of farmers . Across countries, research institutes, universities, NGOs, extension services, companies, radio stations and farmer-based organisations are going to considerable efforts to find or develop suitable training materials for their staff and the farmers with whom they work. An on-line survey in 2011, organised by The Global Forum for Rural Advisory Services (GFRAS), the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI) Platform and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), indicated that farmers mainly rely on outside agencies for watching agricultural training videos. Farmers would watch videos on their own with their family or neighbours if video disc distribution mechanisms were in place - and farmers are willing to pay for video discs and video shows if they felt it would benefit their business . About 85% of the more than 500 respondents found local languages very important for farmer training videos. To ensure that videos are sharable and of use to the global community of extension service providers and farmers, producing many poor quality local language videos is not cost-effective. Organisations are willing to translate and use videos made in other countries if they are relevant and of good quality, and if video scripts are available . Therefore, the establishment of an authoritative organisation that supports the on-line viewing, downloading and physical distribution of quality agricultural training videos will answer a real demand. How we started In 2012, two media companies, Agro-Insight and Countrywise Communication, joined hands to set up the international NGO Access Agriculture , with the aim to promote the sharing and use of agricultural training videos in developing countries . To establish the Access Agriculture web-platform, we receive technical backing from another world-leading company, Streaming Tank. Agro-Insight is a company established in 2010, based in Belgium. Its director has worked in public-sector agricultural research and development in Asia and Africa for the past 20 years. Agro-Insight is spearheading the zooming-in, zooming-out method that leads to the development and wide-scale dissemination and use of quality farmer-to-farmer training videos. Countrywise Communication , established in 1985, is a multi-award winning UK-based company specialising in video and multimedia production and training for agriculture, food and rural development. It has worked across the globe for the private sector, governments and public sector agencies, and has rich experience in assisting the production of local language versions of quality training videos. Streaming Tank is a UK-based company that specialises in live video streaming, WebTV, and rich media design and technology. Being technical advisors to YouTube, Streaming Tank prides itself in creating an enabling environment through Access Agriculture for people in developing countries with limited internet connectivity to still be able to watch and download training videos. Initial funding for Access Agriculture has come from Agro-Insight and Countrywise Communication with additional financial support from the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) and helpful advice from many other organisations.       Categories Cereals Barley Maize Oats Other Rice Sorghum & Millet Wheat Roots, Tubers & Bananas Banana & Plantain Cassava Cocoyam Other Potatoes Sweet Potatoes Yam Vegetables Cabbages Carrots Chilli Peppers Courgettes & Marrows Cucumber Leafy Vegetables Onions & Garlic Other Peppers Pumpkin & Squash Tomatoes Pulses Beans Chick Peas Cowpeas Groundnuts Lentils Other Pigeon Peas Soya Beans Fruits & Nuts Apples Avocado Banana Cashew Nuts Citrus Coconut Dates Figs Grapes Mangoes Melons Olives Other Papaya Pineapple Shea Nuts Other Crops Bissap (Hibiscus) Cocoa Coffee Cotton Ginger Herbs & Spices Jute Mushrooms Oil Palm Other Rooibos Rubber Sugar Cane Tea Livestock Animal Health Camels Cattle Donkeys & Horses Extensive Pastoralism Goats Grassland Management Other Pigs Poultry Sheep Fish Fish Farming Other Processing Shrimp Farming Integrated Pest Management Beverage Crops Cereals Fruit & Nuts Oil Crops Other Crops Pulses Roots, Tubers & Bananas Vegetables Sustainable Land Management Agroforestry Conservation Agriculture Cross-Slope Barriers Forest Management Integrated Crop-Livestock Management Integrated Soil Fertility Management Other Pastoralism & Rangeland Rainwater Harvesting Smallholder Irrigation Smallholder Irrigation Management Mechanisation Business Skills Administration Skills Conflict Resolution Farm Management Financial Management Gender Group Formation & Cohesion Health & Safety Input Buying Leadership Marketing Networking Other Processing Storage Methods Extension Methods Farmer Field Schools Other Participatory Plant Breeding Participatory Research Participatory Varietal Selection Plant Health Clinics Seed Production & Dissemination Other Agriculture & Health Beekeeping Biodiversity Conservation Climate Change Adaptation Food Safety Other Silk Production Vermi Composting Water Management Agtube Sponsored by