India Tax, Taxation in India, Service Tax, Corporate Tax Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI India Tax Employee Provident Fund Income Tax Return India India income tax rate Tax system in india Income tax calculator india India government tax India Tax deduction Tax planning india Property tax india India Tax Exemption Tax Saving Mutual Funds india Service tax in india Tax Forms Tax Haven Tax Exemption Inheritance Tax Endowment Tax Tax Saving Bonds Tax Saver Benefit Plan Tax Saver Fixed Deposits Direct Tax Code Tax Deductions in India Capital gain tax in india Double taxation india Gift tax in india Import Tax in India Custom Duty in India Corporate Tax Rate in India Entertainment Tax in India Important Concepts Regarding Tax Structure in India Types of Tax Income Tax in India India NRI Tax Tax Planning in India Tax Saving Options in India Tax Rebate in India Tax Saver Funds Tax Saver Schemes Payment of Income Tax Congestion Tax in India Young Investors Retirement Benefit Plans You would like to see India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » India-tax » India Tax India Tax Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  8  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 India Tax Latest News And Updates Higher tax collections to help improve fiscal deficit: Jaitley May 25, 2015 05:58 PM Finance Minister Arun Jaitley on Monday said that direct tax collections for the current financial year were likely to increase by 14-15 percent, enabling the government to improve upon its fiscal deficit target of 3.9 percent. In his address to the annual conference here of senior officials of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), Jaitley praised the income tax department for achieving a 9 percent growth in the last financial year and said: "It goes to the credit of the direct taxes department that even when the economy was recovering from a slowdown last year, when many did not expect tax collections to rise significantly, direct tax collections did rise by more than 9 percent, which brought us very close to the revised targets." Source: IANS Jaitley, I-T brass meeting Monday on non-adversarial tax regime May 25, 2015 10:12 AM Finance Minister Arun Jaitley will on Monday address tax commissioners and director generals of income tax at their annual conference in New Delhi that will deliberate, among other things, on strategies for providing a non-adversarial tax regime. The two-day conference will also be attended by Minister of State for Finance Jayant Sinha and Revenue Secretary Shaktikanta Das, and addressed by two guest speakers - NITI Aayog vice chairman Arvind Panagariya and Bharat Forge Ltd. chairman Babasaheb Neelkanth Kalyani, a finance ministry statement said. Source: IANS Four north Indian states agree on uniformity in tax rates May 22, 2015 10:33 AM The north Indian states of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Thursday agreed on achieveing uniformity in tax rates, a Delhi government statement said. The consensus was brought in a meeting of finance ministers of these states at the Delhi Secretariat on Thursday. "There should be uniformity in rates of VAT on all goods, especially the goods in which trade diversion takes place, with minimum difference in the sale price," the statement said. Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, his Punjab counterpart Sukhbir Singh Badal along with the finance ministers of Punjab, Haryana and Himanchal Pradesh took part in the meeting. Source: IANS Tamil Nadu probing tax suppression, Rs.1,522 crore evasion May 19, 2015 10:21 AM Tamil Nadu's commercial tax department is investigating into tax suppression and evasion to the tune of Rs.1,522 crore, an official statement said on Monday. The government is also taking action based on the result of audit and inspection with a total revenue effect of Rs.5,178 crore. In a statement issued in Chennai on Monday, the government 315 files have been opened with prima facie tax suppression of Rs.894 crore during 2014-15. The figure is based on the data collected from other states. In addition, verification of inter-state data by territorial circle offices resulted in detection of tax evasion of Rs.628 crore in 205 cases (in terms of tax dues and penalty), thus reaching the amount of Rs.1,522 crore. Source: IANS New income tax return forms to be modified: Jaitley May 13, 2015 10:11 AM The government has decided to modify the new Income Tax Return (ITR) forms following concerns raised over them last month, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley told parliament on Tuesday. "The government has received representation on the new return forms notified on April 15, 2015 and taking into account concerns raised, the government has decided to modify the return forms," Jaitley told the Rajya Sabha in a written reply. The Central Board of Direct Taxes had notified new norms and the attendant forms that, among other issues, requires an assessee to furnish all bank details, accounts opened or closed in the year with the closing balance, as also the sources of funds for expenses in an overseas travel. Source: IANS About India Tax This country has got a well structured and simplified taxation system, wherein an authoritative segregation has been done among the Central Government, the different State Governments as well as the Local Bodies. The Department of Revenue under the Government of India's Ministry of Finance is solely responsible for the computation of tax. This department levy taxes on individuals or organisations for income, customs duties, service tax and central excise. However, the agriculture based income taxes are levied by the respective State Governments. Local bodies have got the power to compute and levy taxes on properties and other utility services like drainage, water supply and many others. The past 15 years have witnessed tremendous reformations of the taxation system in India. Apart from the rationalization of the rates of tax, simplification of the different laws of taxation has even been done during this period. However, the process of tax rationalization is still in progress in the Republic of India. Income Tax Slab 2015-16 Individual resident aged below 60 years (i.e. born on or after 1st April 1955) or any NRI/ HUF/ AOP/ BOI/ AJP* Sno. Income Slabs Tax Rates i. Where the taxable income does not exceed Rs. 2,50,000/-. NIL ii. Where the taxable income exceeds Rs. 2,50,000/- but does not exceed Rs. 5,00,000/-. 10% of amount by which the taxable income exceeds Rs. 2,50,000/-. Less ( in case of Resident Individuals only ) : Tax Credit u/s 87A - 10% of taxable income upto a maximum of Rs. 2000/-. iii. Where the taxable income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000/- but does not exceed Rs. 10,00,000/-. Rs. 25,000/- + 20% of the amount by which the taxable income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000/-. iv. Where the taxable income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000/-. Rs. 125,000/- + 30% of the amount by which the taxable income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000/-. Surcharge: 10% of the Income Tax, where taxable income is more than Rs. 1 crore. (Marginal Relief in Surcharge, if applicable) Education Cess:  3% of the total of Income Tax and Surcharge. * Abbreviations used: NRI - Non Resident Individual; HUF - Hindu Undivided Family; AOP - Association of Persons; BOI - Body of Individuals; AJP - Artificial Judicial Person   For the individuals, who are residents of India and of the age of sixty years or more but less than eighty years at any time during the previous year,— S.NO. Income Slabs Tax Rates i. Where the total income does not exceed Rs. 3,00,000/-. NIL ii. Where the total income exceeds Rs. 3,00,000/- but does not exceed Rs. 5,00,000/- 10% of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 3,00,000/ iii. Where the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000/- but does not exceed Rs. 10,00,000/- Rs. 20,000/- + 20% of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000/-. iv. Where the total income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000/- Rs. 120,000/- + 30% of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000/-. For the individuals, who are residents of India and of the age of eighty years or more at anytime during the previous year,— S.NO. Income Slabs Tax Rates i. Where the total income does not exceed Rs. 5,00,000/-. NIL ii. Where the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000/- but does not exceed Rs. 10,00,000/- 20% of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000/-. iii. Where the total income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000/- Rs. 100,000/- + 30% of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000/-. Types of Tax There are different kinds of taxes, which are prevalent in the nation. The computation of those taxes varies from one tax to another, depending on the nature of a particular tax. Following are some of the major taxes in India: Capital Gains Tax: Payable on the capital gains that are received after the asset sales, this tax is a direct tax levied by the Central Government of India. Corporate Tax: Levied by the India Government, this type of direct tax involves the payment of tax by the companies based within the Indian Republic on their worldwide income. Service Tax: This tax is computed on some specific services, which are provided in the country. The tax is levied at 10 % rate with an additional education cess at the rate of 2 %. Custom Duty: Governed as per the Customs Act, 1962 as well as the Customs Tariff Act, 1975, the imported goods in this nation attract basic and additional custom duty. Excise Duty: According to 1944's Central Excise Act and 1985's Central Excise Tariff Act, this duty is levied on the manufacturing of goods. Personal Income Tax: This tax in the Indian Republic includes every kind of income, which is computed and levied by the Union Government. The income from agriculture is not levied or collected by the India Government though. Value Added Tax: Value Added Tax or V. A. T. has been implemented in most of the states in place of the Sales Tax from 1st April, 2005. Such a tax is levied while selling movable goods. Wealth Tax: Applicable on all the Indian citizens, this tax is levied as per the Wealth Tax Act, 1957. Apart from the ones mentioned above, there are many other taxes, names of some of which are as follows. Among them, some taxes are even solely levied by the State Governments or Local Bodies: Asset Transfer Tax or Stamp Duty Building Tax or Property Tax Dividend Tax Entry Tax or Octroi Tax Fringe Benefit Tax Fuel Tax Poll Tax Last Updated on 2/16/2012 >> More About India Tax India Tax Information Budget 2010 Tax Proposals EPZ and Tax Incentives Save tax with mutual funds Tax Saving Fixed Deposits Tax Saving Infrastructure About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED