Natural Wonders | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > India at a Glance > Natural Wonders Natural Wonders This section links Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents Natural Wonders   Information on Keoladeo Ghana National Park in Rajasthan Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about Keoladeo Ghana National Park provided by Rajasthan Tourism Department. Users can get information about the park, opening timings, entry tariff for national and foreign visitors and variety of birds and endangered species available. Access to climate, area and how to reach is given. Users can also access online booking. Information on national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in Mizoram Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Information on national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in Mizoram is provided by Tourism Department of the state. Users can get information about national parks and wildlife sanctuaries like Ngengpui wildlife sanctuary, Khawnglung wildlife sanctuary, Dampa tiger reserve, etc. Detailed information about the Murlen national park, Tawi wildlife sanctuary, Thorangtlang wildlife sanctuary, etc. is also available. Details about the forest type, important species and area of the national park or sanctuary are provided. Contact details are also given. Information on beaches of Andaman and Nicobar Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Information on beaches of Andaman and Nicobar is given by Tourism Department of Andaman and Nicobar. Details on beaches near Port Blair such as Corbyns Cove Beach, North Bay Beach, Munda Pahar Beach, Wandoor Beach, Collinpur Beach, etc. are provided. Information on beaches in other islands such as Radhanagar Beach, Harminder Bay Beach, Karmatang Beach and Ramnagar Beach is also available. Information on National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries of Assam Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   The Tourism Department of Assam has provided information on National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries in the state. Users can find details on National Parks (NP) such as Kaziranga NP, Mansa NP, Nameri NP, etc. Information on Wildlife Sanctuaries such as Garampani, Laokhowa, Bornadi, Chakrasila, etc. is given. Details about area in sq. kms, main attractions of the National Parks and Sanctuaries, nearest towns, how to reach, best season for visit, contact person and telephone numbers are provided. Information on wildlife sanctuaries of Sikkim Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Users can find information on wildlife sanctuaries of Sikkim. This information is provided by the Tourism and Civil Aviation Department of Sikkim Government. Detailed information on the Kanchendzonga National Park (KNP), Fambong Lho Wildlife Sanctuary, Maenam Wildlife Sanctuary, Varsey Rhododendron Sanctuary, etc. is provided. Information on Islands at Andaman & Nicobar Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Detailed information on the Islands at Andaman and Nicobar Islands is provided. You can get information on many beautiful Islands such as Neil Island, Havelock Island and beaches. Book tour for Maharashtra wildlife sanctuary and reserves