Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    About Us    Mission Mission Gaining an increased understanding of living organisms with a view to increasing its application in the grain industry. Developing a strong human resource capacity for the processing industry. Providing a sound scientific basis for decision making in food security, safe environment and addressing the concerns of the consumers. Generate and upgrade the scientific knowledge in the area of food grains for maximizing, conservation and utilization of food grains. Value addition to the food grains and development of food products with safety through the application of newer technologies by R&D work. Assist the existing industries for better performance in terms of efficient functioning, by-product utilization and effluent management. Promote growth of new food industry, entrepreneurship, upgrading the skill of industrial manpower and management by imparting training programme. Storage of grains, insect pest management and safeguarding the quality of food grains and products. Shelf-life improvement of food grains/products by packaging and improved technology. Environmental protection and work safety measures in food industries No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com