Social Welfare — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Social Welfare Share Info Social Welfare This section provides information related to women and child development, welfare of SC, ST, minorities, differently abled, senior citizens and other under-served communities. Empowering marginalized and vulnerable communities. The Indian government has established an extensive social welfare system. Several programmes designed for betterment and enhancement of quality of life for SC, ST, BC, Minorities, women, etc stand proof to it. Sensitize common man about ongoing schemes and programmes. Every citizen need to be aware about his / her entitlements, relevant schemes and programmes being implemented by Central and State Governments so as to access and benefit from them. Collective action for social change. Innumerable success stories narrate the potential of collective action to break social barriers that result in a socially just and equitable society. One such notable action is the Self-Help Group movement in India, now established as a proven model to promote women empowerment. Video on India - A Welfare State Double click on film to view full screen The Indian Constitution establishes a welfare state. This is clear from the salient features in the Preamble and the Directive Principles of State Policy (DPSP). In this spirit, India is making a determined attempt to fulfil its ideal of a welfare state not only in principle but also through economic planning, thus securing to the Indian citizens justice—social, economic and political. Some articles of the Indian Constitution which directs the government towards a welfare state: The State shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting as effectively as it may a social order in which justice, social, economic and political, shall inform all the institutions of the national life (Article 38). That the citizen, men and women equally, have the right to an adequate means of livelihood; (Article 39a). The State shall endeavour to secure, by suitable legislation or economic organisation or in any other way, to all workers agricultural, industrial or otherwise, work, a living wage, conditions of work ensuring a decent standard of life and full enjoyment of leisure and social and cultural opportunities and, in particular, the State shall endeavour to promote cottage industries on an individual or co-operative basis in rural areas (Article 43). The State shall, within the limits of its economic capacity and development, make effective provision for securing the right to work, to education and to public assistance in cases of unemployment, old age, sickness and disablement, and in other cases of undeserved want (Article 41). The State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation (Article 46). In this spirit, striving towards the similar objectives, this portal provides state specific content and information in Indian languages on entitlements, schemes, programmes and institution details related to women, children, SC, ST, OBC, Minorities, Senior Citizens, differently-abled and others. Women and Child Development This section covers various policies, organisations and other legal aspects related to women and child development. Scheduled Tribes Welfare The topic briefs about various schemes, institutions and policies and acts related to welfare of Scheduled Tribes. Scheduled Caste Welfare The section covers polices, institutions, acts and legal aspects related to the scheduled caste welfare. Backward Classes The section covers acts, polices and schemes and organisations related to backward classes. Unorganised Sector The section covers schemes and other aspects related to unorganised sector. Financial Inclusion This section covers aspects related to basics of finance, investments, savings, insurance and loans. Minority Welfare This section covers laws, acts, policies, schemes, institutions and other aspects related to Minority welfare. Differently-abled Welfare This section covers laws, schemes, policies, acts, institutions and other aspects related to differently-abled welfare. Senior Citizen Welfare This section covers about laws, schemes, policies, acts and institutions related to senior citizen welfare. Rural Poverty Alleviation This section covers laws, schemes, policies, acts and institutions related to rural poverty alleviation. Urban Poverty Alleviation This section covers laws, policies, acts, schemes and institutions related to urban poverty alleviation. NGOs / Voluntary Sector This section covers policies, funding opportunities and best practices related to NGO sector. Disaster Management This section covers policies, acts and best practices related to disaster management in the country. Fight against Social Evils This section covers common social evils which every individual needs to take steps in order to make India a better place to live. rajnish prasad rajesh Apr 28, 2014 12:09 PM sir kindly let me know the details about the integrated rural development program of india so that it will be beneficial for me to prepare my assignments. thank you. reema Jul 01, 2014 11:18 AM sir it is a good initiative but its implementation should b reinforced honestly !!""" pritam Aug 05, 2014 10:55 AM it is very good site Post Your Suggestion (If you have any comments / suggestions on the above content, please post them here) Name Your Message   Type the word given below Navigation Women and Child Development Scheduled Caste Welfare Scheduled Tribes Welfare Backward Classes Welfare Unorganised Sector Welfare Differently- abled Welfare Community power Financial Inclusion Unorganised Sector Minority Welfare Senior citizens Welfare Rural Poverty Alleviation Urban Poverty Alleviation NGO-Voluntary Sector Disaster Management Fight against social evils Skill development Social Security Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme Discussion Forum - Social Welfare Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector See More.... Energy Energy Basics Energy conservation Energy efficiency