TNAU Agritech Portal :: ATIC Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact Us TNAU Agritech Portal :: Agricultural Technology Information Centre Introduction For serving the interests of the farming community, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, under the Innovation in Technology Dissemination component of National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) a series of strategic investments are made to introduce programmes and institutional adjustment at national, state, district, block and village level and operational changes in the methodology in which the extension workers are trained, interact with farmers and communities, communicate information and coordinate with the private sector. As a part of this strategy, Agricultural Technology Information Centres (ATIC) are established in 40 centres located in ICAR Institutes and State Agricultural Universities for serving the farming community on a 'single window system' concept. TNAU ATIC Agricultural Technology Information Centre (ATIC) was started during the year 1999 under the National Agriculture Technology Project (NATP) in the Directorate of Extension Education. The Centre provides information on agriculture technologies in addition to providing other inputs like seeds, plant materials, etc. including advisory services through single window system. The ATIC is intended to providing formal management mechanism between the scientists and technology users. Objectives Agricultural Technology Information Centre is functioning in single window delivery system. To provide agricultural technologies and farm advisory services to the farmers. To find out the farmers problems in field conditions and provide appropriate solution. Functions Agricultural Technology Information Centre’s sales counter is opened for the benefit of farmers at entrance of botanical garden of TNAU. To retail the seeds of vegetables, greens and crop boosters, coconut tonic, tree killer, honey, fungicides and compact discs of TNAU technologies. The availability of above products can be checked in agri-tech portal. To guide the farmers who comes exposure visit to the university to various departments. To answer the queries of farmers  instantly through telephonic conversations For Further Details Name and address of the ATIC Agricultural Technology Information Centre Directorate of Extension Education Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore-641 003, Tamil Nadu. Phone : 0422-6611315 Email : dee@tnau.ac.in Updated on March 2015   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact Us © 2009 -15 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.