Adventure in Arunachal Pradesh Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Tourism » Arunachal Pradesh Adventure   Tourism of Arunachal Pradesh Getting There Getting Around Destinations Pilgrimage Adventure Museums Gardens and Picnic Spots Tours Travel Agents Tour Operators Excursions अरुणाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Map Tawang city map Itanagar city map Naharlagun city map Along Map Districts of Arunachal Pradesh Roads Rivers Tehsils Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Places to visit in Arunachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Sports in Arunachal Pradesh Ita Fort in Arunachal Pradesh Ganga Lake in Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Location Physical Map Arunachal Pradesh Forest Map Lat Long Geography Handicrafts Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels Government & Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Arunachal Pradesh History Arunachal Pradesh Mineral Map Society Information Economy Pin Code       Arunachal Pradesh Adventure Arunachal Pradesh adventure sports is one of the major attractions of the state. The most popular sports associated with adventure at Arunachal Pradesh are trekking, river rafting, fishing, angling and archery. The other sports practiced in the rugged place of Arunachal Pradesh are boating, camping, biking and golfing. Trekking is one of the most popular sports of Arunachal Pradesh. One can trek in the jungles or the mountains of the state. Arunachal Pradesh boasts of the best forest trekking opportunities in entire India. Rafting is another important sport Related to adventure in Arunachal Pradesh. The rivers of Arunachal Pradesh well known for river rafting are Bhareli or Kameng and Siang or Brahmaputra. Another river called the Subansiri or Kayaking also has rafting facilities. However, the best option for rafting in the state is the Brahmaputra. Fishing is one of the prominent sports in the state. The rivers of Arunachal Pradesh that offer a good fishing experience are the Siang River, the Bhoroli river and the Lohit river. The chief angling spot in Arunachal Pradesh is Pasighat. Angling is most entertaining in the Mahseer. The water bodies of the place house colorful varieties of trout. Some anglers prefer the jungles of Arunachal Pradesh for angling. Archery is the sport associated with the festival of Losar in March or February. Three basic methods of playing the game are slow and fast shooting, team competition and individual competition. Camping is enjoyed the most in Chandu, Bomdila and Tawang. Other than the above sports, biking and golfing are the other sports Related to adventure within Arunachal Pradesh, though they are practiced at a much smaller scale. Last Updated on : 09 March 2013   Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh   Itanagar Hotels             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule