Uttarakhand Bambo Fiber Development Board May 29, 2015 подарки оптом Киев сувениры оптом Киев бизнес сувениры Киев бизнес подарки Киев сувенирная продукция оптом футболки оптом подарки для женщин киев подарки для мужчин киев стеклянные двери стеклянные перегородки Home Bamboo Species Flowering Prioratized Species in Uttarakhand Plantation Natural Fibers Species Research & Development Industrial hemp Natural Fibers Products Products Handicrafts Furniture Utility Items Himalayan Nettle Products Projects Programs Bamboo Plantation Natural fiber Development Research & Development Community Mobilization SITE MAP FAIL (the browser should render some flash content, not this). Himalayan Nettle Main Menu Home About Us Activities Partnership F. A.Q.s Contact Us Photo Gallery Board Members NBM GUIDELINES Others Events Publications RTI - PIOs Uttarakhand Bamboo and Fiber Development Board Uttarakhand Bamboo and Fiber Development Board, as the name reveals, was established with the objectives of creating livelihood opportunities with the help of bamboo and natural fiber species in the rural areas of Uttarakhand state.  Bamboo has age old relations with the Uttarakhand state.  Where the common Lathi bamboo ( Dendrocalamus strictus ) is prevalent in the lower reaches of the state, the ringal, the reed like small bamboo variety, is abundantly present in the higher mountain areas.  Ringal used to be widely utilized in manufacturing of hukkah before independence for which a large quantity of ringal used to be extracted from the forests. read more...   Himalayan Nettle – the Fiber of the Future? Fibre-yielding plant, Himalayan nettle (Girardinia diversifolia), is found to be occurring abundantly in the Garhwal region of Uttarakhand. It was lying unexplored until 7-8 years back, when on realizing its potential in the field of textiles, many organizations in the region initiated Research and Development activity on the possibilities of handloom based product development in nettle.Research and Development in this field, is mostly aimed at generating livelihood opportunities for the rural people of Garhwal. While the Himalayan communities in Uttarakhand, traditionally associated with extracting fibres from nettle and hemp for rope-making, are no longer practicing the craft, Bhotia weaver community, at Mangroli village, Chamoli (UBFDB cluster) has learnt and mastered the technique of nettle fibre processing. read more...   apartments Dnepropetrovsk hotels Dnepropetrovsk apartment in Dnepropetrovsk hotel in Dnepropetrovsk спецодежда оптом купить спецодежду спецодежда Киев спецодежда рабочая одежда оптом рабочая форма оптом рабочая форма рабочая одежда Latest Updation Natural fiber Development PARTNERSHIP Dendrocalamus Membranaceous Himalyacalamus falconeri Dendrocalamus strictus Dendrocalamus asper Green & Biodegradable Bamboo fiber is a unique biodegradable textile material. As a natural cellulose fiber it can be 100% biodegraded in soil by microorganisms and sunshine. The decomposition process does not cause any pollution in the environment.Bamboo fiber is praised as the natural, green and eco-friendly new-type textile raw material of the 21st century. Properties like softness, anti-bacteria, great lustre and hand add to the benefits.   Postal Address Utta rakahnd Bamboo and Fiber Development Board Watershed Management Directorate Campus Indira Nagar Forest Colony, PO -  New Forest DehraDun Uttarakhand – 248006 Tel: +91-135-2760897  Fax: +91-135-2761155 E-Mail ID: info@ubfdb.org     Powered by     Falcon Solution and Services - Visit Us !