Travel to Mangaluru (Mangalore): Destinations, Hotels, Food, Transport and Tour Guide Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Mangalore Travel About Mangalore How to Reach Shopping Mangalore Hotels Airport Map Flights to Mangalore Travel Agents Weather Places to Visit in Mangalore Kadri Manjunath Temple St. Aloysius Church Light House Hill Garden Ullal Dargah Mangalore Beach St. Mary Beach Suratkal Beach Ullal Beach Karinjeshwara Kudroli Gokarnatheswara Seemanthi Bai Government Museum Kukke Subhramanya Paradise Isle Beach Resort Mangalore Pilgrimage Surathkal Beach New Mangalore Port Sultan Battery Summer Sands Beach Resort Kadri Manjunatha Temple Bappanadu Sharavu Mahaganapathi Temple Light House Hill Garden Kairali Om Beach Resort Kadri Manjunatha Mangala Devi Kateel Durgaparameshwari St. Aloysius Chapel Kudroli Mosque Places of Interest in Karnataka Mangalore Excursions Tourist Destinations Near Mangalore Belur Travel Hampi Travel Halebid Travel Coorg Travel Bangalore Travel Mysore Travel Udipi Travel Dharmastala Travel Polali Travel Puttur Travel Karnataka Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Karnataka Places to Visit Home » Mangaluru » Travel to Mangaluru Travel to Mangaluru (Mangalore) Mangaluru Tourism Mangalore is located in the state of Karnataka in south India and is situated at the estuaries of the Netravati and Gurupur Rivers on the Arabian Sea coast. Mangalore is also the largest city on the Karnataka coast and is a popular place to break journey, relax and indulge in a bit of shopping. The city has a large, mixed university population which gives it an air of progressiveness. The city of Mangalore derived its name from the local Hindu deity Mangaladevi, the presiding deity of the Mangaladevi Temple. Legend has it that Matsyendranath, the founder of the Nath tradition arrived in the area with a princess called Premila from Kerala. After converting her to the Nath sect, Matsyendranath renamed her Mangaladevi. After her death the Mangaladevi Temple was built in her honour at Bolar in Mangalore. The charming city of Mangalore is nestled between the Arabian Sea and the Western Ghats; lying on the backwaters at the convergence of the Netravati and Gurupura Rivers with the surrounding areas comprising of hills and valleys. It is the physical features of the city that have gifted Mangalore unprecedented charm and beauty. On of the most attractive features of Mangalore is that it is a unique blend of culture, religion and relaxation and is home to some really beautiful beaches that attract tourists from all over the world. Best Time to Visit Mangaluru The best time to visit Mangalore is from September to February as the weather during these months is very pleasant as compared to the summer months that can be extremely hot. When Visiting Mangalore make sure you spare four to five days as there are a lot of attractions here that you would not like to miss. How to Reach Mangaluru Being a popular city in Karnataka, Mangalore is very well connected to other arts of the country by a strong network of rail, road and air. 'How to Reach Mangalore' guides you with various means and ways to reach this city with ease. The city of Mangalore has one of the chief ports of the state of Karnataka. By Air Mangalore's Bajpe Airport is 10 km away from the heart of the city and connects Mangalore city to the rest of the country by air. By Rail Mangalore is an important rail junction on the Southern Railways and the city is very well connected to all major cities in India. Mangalore Central and Mangalore Junction are the major railway stations of the city. Here are some important trains that connect to Mangalore. By Road Mangalore is connected by the NH 48 and NH 17 to other parts of the country. Mangalore's bus terminal is known as Mangalore Bus Station. KSRTC (Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation) buses of Kerala and Karnataka connect all major cities in Kerala and Karnataka to Mangalore. There are Volvo bus services that are available from Mangalore to Bangalore, Chennai and Trivandrum. Bus fare is about Rs. 4 per person, per kilometer. Here are some important bus services to Mangalore. Shopping in Mangalore Shopping in Mangalore Mangalore, being a business hub, houses plenty of shopping options for all kind of travellers. Mangalore has a wide variety of options for shoppers, be it the city's glitzy shopping malls that caters to the tastes of modern travellers or vibrant local bazaars reflecting the true colors of the city. What to Buy? Gold and silver jewellery specially designed in the Mangalorean style are very popular in the city. Pure silk sarees available here are worth spending on. Intricately carved ivory and sandalwood decorative pieces will serve as a great souvenir to be gifted or as a showpiece for your own house. You may also purchase handicraft items and furniture among other items especially from the local markets. Where to Shop? Badagupet, Maruthi Veethika, Sanskrit College Road and Tenkapet are some important shopping centres in the Mangalore. Some of Mangaluru's famous shopping malls are: Shopping Malls Address City Centre Mall KS Rao Road, Mangalore, Karnataka- 575001 Empire Mall M G Road, Mangalore, Karnataka- 575001 Bharath Mall Bejai Kavoor Rd, Lalbagh, Mangalore, Karnataka- 575001 Mischief Mall K S Rao Road, Hampankatta, Mangalore, Karnataka- 575001 Places to See in Mangalore Sultan Battery Kadri Manjunath Temple St. Aloysius Church Light House Hill Garden Ullal Dargah Mangalore Beach St. Mary Beach Suratkal Beach Ullal Beach More on tourist attractions of Mangalore Last Updated on : 28/09/2013 Travel to Karnataka Travel to Bangalore Travel to Belagavi Travel to Belur Travel to Coorg Travel to Halebid Travel to Hampi Travel to Mangalore Travel to Mysore Travel to Sringeri Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Belur Places to visit in Coorg Places to visit in Halebid Places to visit in Hampi Places to visit in Mangalore Places to visit in Mysore About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule