Official Website:: Indian Veterinary Research Institute A+   |   A   |   A- About IVRI Preface Milestone Mandate Past Directors IVRI Administration Research Milestone Organogram Link & Collaboration Honours & Awards Location Map Contact Directory Research Joint Directorate of Research Preface from Joint Director(Research) Mandate Activities Research Projects Patents Technologies Transfered Technologies for Transfer Contact Details Academic IVRI Deemed University Message from Joint Director(Academic) Deemed University Administration Academic Session Cources Offered MVSc PhD National Diploma Admission Procedure For Sponspred Candidate Fellowship Medals & Awards Facilities Available University News IVRI Alumini Divisions Animal Health Divisions Division of Animal Biotechnology Division of Bacteriology & Mycology Division of Biological Products Division of Epidemiology Immunology Section Division of Medicine Division of Parasitology Division of Pathology Divison of Pharmacology & Toxicology Division of Standardization Division of Surgery Division of Veterinary Public Health Division of Virology Animal Production Divisions Animal Genetics Div. Animal Nutrition Div Animal Reproduction Division Livestock Production & Management Section. Division Physiology & Climatology Divison of Temprate Animal Husbandray Basic & Social Sc. Divisions Biochemistry & Food Sc. Section BEMI Section Extension Education Div Liv. Eco., Statistics & IT Div. Liv. Products & Tech. Div Sections ARIS Cell Bioinformatics Centre Centre Data Cell Communication Centre Engineering Section Farm Section Farm Machinery and Power Workshop Institute Technology Management Unit (I.T.M.U.) Laboratory Animal Resources Feed Technology Unit Germ Plasm Centre Humal Hospital National Library for Vety. Science Wildlife Section Games & Sports Section राजभाषा अनुभाग Extension Joint Directorate (EE) Preface Objectives Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Infrastructure/Facilities Research Projects Scientific Staff Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - Single Delivery Window Kisaan Mela 2011 Training Programmes Contact Details Disease Diagnosis Joint Directorate (CADRAD) Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Scientific Staff Training Programme Contact Details Services Biological Products Diagnostics & Examination Vety. Polyclinic Livestock Products Disease Diagnosis Vermi Biocomposting Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - IVRI Single Window ITMU-Technology Transfer IVRI Publications Campuses Regional Campus Bangaluru Regional Station Kolkata Regional Station Mukteswar Regional Station Palampur Loading » About IVRI About IVRI Deemed University University Building IVRI Izatnagar Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) was established on 9th December, 1889 as an Imperial Bacteriological Laboratory at Pune IVRI Deemed University (Maharashtra) and was later-on shifted to Mukteswar (Kumaon, Uttrakhand) in 1893. Mukteswar was chosen because of its suitability for research on infectious diseases. Subsequently, for extending the activities of the Institute, Izatnagar, Bareilly (UP) campus was established in 1913 for large scale production of sera and vaccines. It gradually expanded to the present size with its headquarters at Izatnagar (UP) and campuses at Mukteswar (Nainital, Uttrakhand), Bangalore(Karnataka), Bhopal (MP) and regional stations at Palampur (HP), Srinagar (J&K) and Kolkata (WB). At present, there are 21 Divisions and 6 Sections specialized in various disciplines/areas. Research conducted in the Institute in the areas of animal health, production and technology with multidisciplinary approach has paid rich dividends. The research contributions have facilitated development of new biologicals used for diagnosis, prevention, cure and control of many devastating diseases of livestock and poultry, increased production of milk, meat, eggs and other animal products. Upgradation of livestock and poultry with increased production potential, overcoming the shortage of animal feeds by better utilization of existing feed resources and substitution of conventional feeds IVRI Deemed University by cheaper agro-industrial by-products are other significant contributions. Post-graduate teaching and training programmes started in 1900 at the Institute when training was imparted to field veterinarians, civil and army personnel on various aspects of animal health-care. Later, Associateship of IVRI and National Diploma courses were added as a part of post-graduate teaching programme. However, with the establishment of Post-Graduate College of Animal Sciences in 1958, the Institute has been providing quality education at masters' and doctoral levels in 22 and 19 disciplines respectively. The Institute has been conferred the status of Deemed to be University with effect from 16th November, 1983 under Section 3 of the University Grants Commission Act (1956). The first academic session as Deemed University started on 15.1.1985. The administrative control of the Institute is vested with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). The Institute has been attracting a large number of foreign students, specially from developing countries. Scholars have been deputed to this Institute from different Countries for various short and long-term training programmes, diplomas and degree Courses. Besides the above courses, the institute has also been IVRI Deemed University conducting various short term National and International Training Programmes, Short Courses and Summer Institutes from time to time to make the professional workers familiar with latest development in veterinary and animal sciences. The Institute has also been recognised as the Centre for Advanced Studies in Animal Nutrition, and Animal Physiology and Centre of Excellence in Animal Biotechnology by Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. The Institute, spread over an area of 307 hectares, has a well established National Library of Veterinary Sciences, Animal and Fodder Farms, Boys and Girls' Hostels, Bank and Post Office facilities at its Izatnagar campus. It is located at a distance of 250 Km from New Delhi, and about 8 km from Bareilly Jn. and 1 km from Izatnagar Railway Station. Foreign Student Training at IVRI The Deemed University has established a tradition of its own with its long heritage as a school of higher learning with a number of awards and excellent placement opportunities for students both within and outside the country. Students from abroad are also opting for and being admitted in this Deemed University. They apply for M.V.Sc. and Ph.D. Programmes through ICAR-CARP Plan, Indo-Cultural Exchange Programme & DARE etc. Students from Sri Lanka, Vietnam, South Africa, Iran, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Nepal have been awarded the degrees under these programmes. Some participants from Canada, Afganistan, Philippines, Mauritius, Indonesia, Cuba, Myanmar, Thailand etc. participated in Short Term Training Courses in the last five years. Thus this Deemed University is also catering to the educational needs of other countries and contributing in the process of globalization. Authorities (Deemed University) The Director is the Principal Executive academic officer of the Institute and exercises powers similar to the Vice-Chancellors of other Universities in University affairs. The Joint Director (Academic)cum Dean, is responsible for the organization and implementation of the teaching programmes and coordination of post-graduate studies and research in all disciplines of the Deemed University. The Registrar is responsible for maintenance of all records related to performance of the students, assistance in admissions and for establishment matters and general administration in the Deemed University.