Manali City Map Home » Maps » Himachal Pradesh Map » Manali Map   Himachal Pradesh Cities Map Manali Shimla Dharamshala Dalhousie Kasauli Chamba Kullu                        more.. हिमाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                 (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel to Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Himachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Subhash Baoli Shivkul Sankat Mochan Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una Hotels in Kangra              more... Assembly Polls HP Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities in Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh Colleges       Manali Map City Map of Manali Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Manali city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Himachal Pradesh   Chamba City Map Dalhousie City Map Dharamshala City Map Solan City Map         Kasauli City Map Kullu City Map Manali City Map Shimla City Map     other cities of Himachal Pradesh  >>   Travel Map of Himachal Pradesh   Manali Travel Map Shimla Travel Map         One of the important hill stations of the state of Himachal Pradesh is Manali. It is located at a height of 6,398 ft., near the northern end of the Kullu Valley. It is at a distance of about 250 kilometers, from the state's capital Shimla . Manali is a town of the Kullu district, with a total population of around 30,000. The place has a rich culture and heritage as it is known as the home of Saptarshi. Geography: The town is located at 32°10'N 77°06'E. The town is located at a height of 6,398 ft. Demographics: The town of Manali has a cosmopolitan culture as people from all over India have settled here. 64% of the inhabitants are males while 36% are females. The average literacy percentage of the town is 74% which is far higher than the overall national average of 59.5%. Categorically the male literacy percentage is 80% while the female literacy rate is 63%. Climate: Manali has a predominantly cold climate. During the summers even the climate is somewhat cool. Round the year, the temperature is in the range of 4 degree centigrade to 30 degree centigrade. During summer, the standard temperature ranges between 14 degree centigrade and 20 degree centigrade and in the winters, the temperature is in the range of -7 degree centigrade to 10 degree centigrade. Rainfall varies between 24 mm (0.94 in) in the month of November to 415 mm (16.3 in) in the month of July. On average terms some 45 mm of rainfall is expected in the winter and spring. It increases to around 115 mm in the summer months. The total annual rain on an average is 1,520 mm. Around 15 years back, there used to be snowfall in Manali, a prime attraction for the tourists in the months of December. Over the last decade or so, the snowfall in the region takes place in January or February. Etymology: The name Manali has been given with regards to the Brahmin lawmaker Manu, who defined the laws of Manu, the earliest work of the "Dharmasastra", the textual tradition of Hinduism. Manali exactly means "the abode of Manu". The Manali is also known as the "Valley of the Gods". History: The valley was mostly inhabitated by rakshas or nomadic hunters in the past times. The next natives of the place were the shepherds from Kangra Valley who took up agriculture as their main occupation. "Naur" or the "nar", one of the exclusive castes to be found in the Kullu valley are one of the earliest natives of the region. Apple trees which were not among the native flora of the region were brought to the place by the British. Plum, pear along with apple is one of the most cultivated fruits in the region and thus a good source of income to the agriculturists. Tourism in Manali: Manali is a major tourist destination and is one of the most popular hill stations among the tourists. The tourism in the region increased specially since the 1980s after the ascend in the terrorism activities in the neighboring Kashmir. Visitors to Manali contribute to nearly one fourth of the total tourists that visit the State of Himachal Pradesh. The region provides options for adventure sports like skiing, hiking, mountaineering, paragliding, rafting, trekking, kayaking, mountain biking etc. One of the unique attractions in the place is a sport named Yak skiing, for which Manali also featured as "Best of Asia" for "Extreme Yak Sports" in Time magazine. Also many hot springs, places of pilgrimage, Tibetan Buddhist temples are there to visit. Transport: Connectivity by roads is very well developed in the region. Manali is connected to Delhi by National Highway-21 and National Highway-1, which connects to Leh. The rail communication is not that easy as the nearest is at Chandigarh, Pathankot and Kalka. Joginder Nagar is the nearest narrow gauge rail track. The airport which is nearest to the region is at Bhuntar, which is at a distance of approximately 50 kilometres. Manali is one of the most important cities of the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. It is a very popular tourist attraction as well. The appeal of Manali lies in the River Beas that flows through the Himalayan valleys. This place derived its name from the word 'Manavalaya' which means the abode of Manu. In Hindu mythology Manu is believed to be the universal law giver. He was the only survivor of a natural calamity and the whole human race was fathered by him. The beautiful hill station of Manali still maintains its mystic charm in the environs. On your first visit to Manali of Himachal Pradesh you are bound to be enchanted by the calm and serene ambiance created by the marriage of the River Beas, the green Himalayan valleys and the colorful apple orchards. You can enjoy the vibrant mood of the local people in the several Hindu temples and of course in the market place. In Manali the beauty of the Kullu Valley and the Rothang Pass can be rediscovered if you go for some adventurous activity like River Rafting or Heli Skiing. The heaven like natural beauty of Manali has earned it the title of the "Valley of the Gods". Last Updated on : 19/04/2013 Cities in Himachal Pradesh Chamba Dalhousie Dharamshala Kangra Kasauli Kullu Manali Shimla Solan   Manali Tour   Apple Orchards Beas River Hidimba Devi Temple Museum of Himachal Culture and Folk Art Nature Park Old Manali Rohtang Pass Adventure Sports at Solang Nala Solang Nala from Manali Vashisht Temple Travel to manali Adventure Tours Honeymoon in Manali Honeymoon Packages Hadimba Temple Rohtang Pass Solang Valley Nehru Kund Arjun Gufa Manali Zoo Kazab Wildlife Parks Museums Lahaul Spiti Naggar Manali Tourism Manali Tourist Attractions Manali Tourist Office Manali Excursions Manali Snowfall Manali Climate Manali Wildlife Parks Manali Honeymoon Packages Manali Tour Operators Manali Tourist Season Manali Temples Manali Museums Manali Heritage Manali Zoo Manali Spa Manali Restaurants Shopping in Manali             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule