Farm machinery focus of LA artist’s paintings at OSU Museum of Art — College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Search OKSTATE.EDU... Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Academic Depts Ag Economics Ag Education, Communications & Leadership Animal Science Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resources Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences Multidisciplinary Programs Environmental Sciences Master of International Agriculture Program Future Students Student Services Visitors CASNR Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Now Be an OSU Cowboy! Undergraduate Admissions Graduate College College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Navigation Home Academic Departments Future Students Student Services CASNR Scholarships Applications Study Abroad Farm to Fork News Farm machinery focus of LA artist’s paintings at OSU Museum of Art Events Alumni Employers Faculty Resources Personnel Request for Information Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Search Advanced Search…   Login You are here: Home / News / Farm machinery focus of LA artist’s paintings at OSU Museum of Art Info College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Farm machinery focus of LA artist’s paintings at OSU Museum of Art Los Angeles artist Karen Carson unveils her large-scale paintings depicting the gargantuan machines that are familiar sights in rural America and revered icons of agricultural in the exhibit “Movers and Shapers: Combines, Tractors, and Swathers,” at the OSU Museum of Art from June 1 to August 29. An opening reception with the artist and curator, including a question and answer session, is set for June 1, from 5 – 7 p.m. “Movers and Shapers: Combines, Tractors, and Swathers,” on display at the OSU Museum of Art from June 1 to August 29. Los Angeles artist Karen Carson unveils her large-scale paintings depicting the gargantuan machines that are familiar sights in rural America and revered icons of agricultural in the exhibit “Movers and Shapers: Combines, Tractors, and Swathers,” at the OSU Museum of Art from June 1 to August 29. An opening reception with the artist and curator, including a question and answer session, is set for June 1, from 5 – 7 p.m. Carson lives part time in rural Montana and her artwork explores new ways of dealing with the grandeur of that setting. Known for her fearless experimentation, she has created various series that deal with some of the most powerful forces of nature, including forest fires, waterfalls, and windstorms. In Movers and Shapers, she turns to the gigantic motorized masters of nature that have replaced much of the hands-on labor of farming. “With virtuosic brushwork and vibrant color, she celebrates these hulk-like machines, relishing their lumbering bodies, wide stances and geometric appendages,” writes curator Michael Duncan. Jokingly calling them “my big boyfriends,” Carson presents these monsters from a female point of view as humorous portraits of masculine vanity. With a sly sense of humor, she humanizes their forms, sublimating their aggressive power so they appear as friendly, almost sensual giants. Carson’s exhibit is organized by the OSU Museum of Art and curated by Duncan, art critic and independent curator in Los Angeles. She is represented by the Rosamund Felson Gallery in Los Angeles. Major support for the exhibition and catalogue has been provided by the Elizabeth Firestone Graham Foundation, P & K Equipment (Stillwater, Oklahoma), and the OSU Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources. The OSU Museum of Art will host the programs below, related to the exhibition. All are free to the public and no RSVP is required. Opening Reception and Artist/Curator Q&A Monday, June 1, 5 – 7 pm (Q&A begins at 6) Family Days Saturday, June 13, 11 am – 4 pm Saturday, July 11, 11 am – 4 pm Saturday, Aug. 8, 11 a.m. – 4 p.m. Artist Workshop Saturday, Aug. 29 CONTACT: Jordan Hays | OSU Museum of Art  | Jordan.Griffis@okstate.edu | 405-744-2783 About the OSU Museum of Art For more information about the OSU Museum of Art, visit  http://www.museum.okstate.edu or call 405-744-2780.  The Postal Plaza Gallery is located at 720 S. Husband Street in downtown Stillwater. All exhibitions and programs are free. Hours are Monday – Saturday, 11 am to 5 pm; open until 8 on Thursdays; closed Sundays and OSU holidays.  Exhibitions and programs at the Oklahoma State University Museum of Art are sponsored by OSU Founding Patrons, OSU/A&M Board of Regents, OSU Foundation, and the Oklahoma Arts Council. For more information about the OSU Museum of Art, visit museum.okstate.edu or call 405-744-2780. Oklahoma State University is a modern land-grant university that prepares students for success. OSU is America’s Brightest Orange. Through leadership and service, OSU is preparing students for a bright future and building a brighter world for all.  As Oklahoma’s only university with a statewide presence, OSU improves the lives of people in Oklahoma, the nation, and the world through integrated, high-quality teaching, research, and outreach. As America’s Healthiest Campus, OSU is committed to the health and well-being of its students, employees and the community. OSU has more than 36,000 students across its five-campus system and more than 25,000 on its combined Stillwater and Tulsa campuses, with students from all 50 states and around 120 nations. Established in 1890, OSU has graduated around 255,000 students to serve the state of Oklahoma, the nation and the world. Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Accessibilty Safety Legal and Trademarks Webmaster © 2015 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved