Energy requirement in goats AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Goat Farming - Mohsin Shaikh Energy requirement in goats Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Energy requirement in goats LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… November 28th, 2014 #1 smy82482 Join Date Mar 2012 Posts 2,324 Energy requirement in goats All breeds (and crosses), sexes, and ages of goats require the same basic nutrients: protein, energy, minerals, vitamins, and water. The daily diet must contain adequate protein because no other nutrient can substitute for it. On the other hand, energy needs may be met with dietary carbohydrates (starches and/or fiber) or fats or even from excess protein. Nutrients are required by the goat for maintenance, growth, pregnancy, milk production and fattening. Maintenance requirements are used for basal metabolism (maintain body temperature and support vital functions) and for physical activity. The daily maintenance requirements may range from 50 to 100% of total daily nutrient requirements, depending on whether the animal is also growing, lactating, gestating, or fattening. Maintenance requires much more energy than protein; contrarily, growth and pregnancy (particularly the last 6-8 weeks) require more protein than energy. Lactation requires large quantities of both protein and energy, while fattening requires much energy but little protein. Purposefully fattening a goat is uneconomical in two ways: first, it takes 2.25 times as much feed to put on a kilogram of body fat and, secondly, the current market discriminates heavily against overly fat goats. Muscular, well-conditioned goats are desirable; excessive external and internal fatty goats has no demand in local markets except at the tome of Eid,once in a year.So the breeders who wants to sale their goats on regular purpose for meat and for breeding,have to produce muscular goats instead of fatty goats. Regards, DR.Shaikh International Goat Farm Expert. Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 06:10 PM .