Faculty of Law | University of Mysore Top_Menu Tenders RTI Gallery ePrints@UOM Contact Us University of Mysore Navigation About UOM Emblem NAAC CBCS Syllabus Administration Chancellor Pro-Chancellor Vice Chancellor Registrar Registrar (Evaluation) PMEB - Director CDC - Director Finance Officer Administrative Officer Authorities Syndicate Academic Council Finance Committee Faculty & Departments Faculty of Arts Faculty of Science and Technology Faculty of Commerce Faculty of Education Faculty of Law Institutes P G Campuses Facilities Library You are here Home » Faculty of Law Faculty of Law The department of Studies in Law was established in 1973. It is in the forefront in Southern India in providing higher legal education and research studies. It offers two years (4 Semester) KK.N., Programme with Optional branches such as Constitutional Law, International Law and Business and Trade Law. Research for Ph.D. in Law is also conducted under ther auspices of the department. LL.M. study at Mysore is known for high component of training in research in Law, which the candidate has to fulfit by dissertation work. Some of the student dissertations are published. The department of studies in law is also know for intensive and high quality of teaching and students from various States and even from countries like Kenya, Tanzania and Tibet seek admission. It is equipped with good library, computer and other facilities. L.L.M.,  B.A. L.L.B. 5 year integrated course M.Phil :  Law PG Diploma :  Human Rights & Duties Education, Intellectual Property Rights and Information Technology Law. Departments Law About UOM History Emblem CBCS Accreditation Admissions P G Courses Constituent Colleges Institutes Research Centre Academics Departments Courses Notifications Application Processing -  Online Programs Contact Us Address Directory CampusMap 2015Powered by © Zocampus (Q Ventures Pvt Ltd)                                                                              VICE-CHANCELLOR'S DESK      TENDERS      NEWS      EPRINTS@UOM      CONTACTUS