Epicurious.com: Recipes, Menus, Cooking Articles & Food Guides Browse Recipes My Recipes (0) Log in Sign Up Hi, epicurious user Browse Recipes Log In | Sign Up Hi, epicurious user Epicurious Recipes & Menus Expert Advice Ingredients Holidays & Events Community Video STRAWBERRIES! I want to cook Submit or get inspired! Loading Potato Salad Potato Salad Problems (And How to Fix Them) By Tommy Werner / 05.28.15 gallery Southern One-Pot Wonders From Down South By Tommy Werner / 05.28.15 article No Recipe Required The Secrets to Cooking Crispy-Skinned Salmon By Anna Stockwell / 05.28.15 article Groceries How to Rock Spring Onions By Janet Rausa Fuller / 05.28.15 article Cookbook Cheatsheet Mastering Middle Eastern Flavors in the Honey & Co. Cookbook By Matt Duckor / 05.28.15 Most Popular The Kitchen Tool That Makes Every Baked Good Look Perfect 4 Unexpected Ways to Use Olive Oil Get Fresh With Mint The Fastest Way to Chill a Bottle of Wine 17 Ways Honey Can Make Your Day Recipes Essential Guides Social Our Newest Recipes 0 Cherry, Pistachio & Coconut Cake Epicurious 1 Cauliflower "Shawarma" Epicurious 2 Fettuccine with Asparagus, Beet Green Pesto, and Poached Egg Epicurious 3 Mediterranean Rice Noodles HarperCollins 4 Grilled Steak Salad with Beets and Scallions Bon Appétit Recipe of the Day Roast Chicken with Rhubarb Butter and Asparagus Sweet and sour rhubarb butter seasons the meat as it roasts, and doubles as a sauce for the asparagus in this spring chicken dish. View Recipe SIMPLE SEAFOOD Salmon recipes everyone will love. or BRILLIANT BIRDS Our quickest, easiest chicken recipes. Essential Guides Summer Cooking Build Better Coffee Cookbook All-Stars Knife Guide Blackboard Special Summer Cooking Summer Cooking The unofficial kick-off to summer calls for burgers, kebabs, corn on the cob, strawberry shortcake—and a lot of drinks to wash it all down. Sensational Salads Recipes, techniques, dressings, and the surprise ingredient you're probably leaving out. Better Burgers Stop. Hamburger Time. Tequila Tipples Margaritas are great, but there's whole world of tequila cocktails out there. Share this Guide Share “ Summer Cooking ” on Facebook Share “ Summer Cooking ” on Twitter Share “ Summer Cooking ” on Pinterest Share “ Summer Cooking ” on Google+ Email “ Summer Cooking ” Build Better Coffee 18 Coffee Roasters You Need to Know You've already jumped from Folger's to Starbucks. What's next? These Third-Wave coffee roasters devote near-religious levels of obsession to their beans, and the payoff is right there in the cup. The Coffee Cake That Actually Tastes Like Coffee This cake tastes just like a double-shot cortado with extra foam. You know, in a good way. What Happens When the King of Coffee Quits Drinking It? We asked Duane Sorenson , the founder and CEO of Stumptown and ten-cup-a-day coffee drinker, to kick his habit cold turkey. While attending the country's largest coffee trade show. This is what happened. 5 Reasons Your Coffee at Home Isn't Fresh These common mistakes could be messing up your home-brewed pot of joe. Share this Guide Share “ 18 Coffee Roasters You Need to Know ” on Facebook Share “ 18 Coffee Roasters You Need to Know ” on Twitter Share “ 18 Coffee Roasters You Need to Know ” on Pinterest Share “ 18 Coffee Roasters You Need to Know ” on Google+ Email “ 18 Coffee Roasters You Need to Know ” Cookbook All-Stars Cookbook All-Stars Our Spring cookbook package focuses on the latest (we've picked 30 new books to get excited about!) and the greatest—that is, the books that changed the way we cook forever. The Best Cookbook Recipes of All Time Some recipes turn out great. But some are as reliable—and wise—as old friends. 9 Restaurant Cookbooks We Actually Cook From These books were made for cooking (and not just sitting pretty on your coffee table).