Hyderabad Expressway, P V Narasimha Rao Elevated Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway » Hyderabad Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Hyderabad Expressway Map of Hyderabad Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Hyderabad Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The city of Hyderabad will be given some relief of its traffic problems owing to the presence of two expressways in the city. These expressways will ensure that people living in congested areas in the city breathe a sigh of relief. One of these expressways is already serving the city and the other one will soon be functional. The expressways are: PV Narasimha Rao Elevated Expressway Borrowing its name from the ninth Prime Minister of India, this expressway has been serving the city of Hyderabad since 2009 when it was first opened for public use. The expressway stretch up to 11.6kms in length and connects the city of Mehdipatnam to the international airport in Hyderabad. Some of the other cities which the expressway connects to are Laxmi Nagar, Attapur, Hyderguda, Rajendra Nagar, Upperpally. The maximum speed limit for the heavy vehicles at the expressway is 60kms/h. However, the speed limit is restricted to 40kms/h at the dangerous turns. Entry of vehicles with goods is restricted at the expressway along with cyclists, two wheelers, pushcarts and bullock carts. Also, overtaking at this expressway is strictly prohibited. Rajiv Elevated Expressway Proposed to be constructed with a massive budget of around 540 crore, Rajiv elevated Expressway project has been shelved for the time being due to high project cost. It had to be 30kms long expressway connecting the busy Secunderabad and Shamirpet route. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule