Thailand | AgricultureInformation.com - Thailand Home Post your Message Main Site – India Other Global Sites AgricultureInformation.com - Thailand Roi Et Group Produces tapioca and modified starch Company grows and procures raw material with umpteen efforts to produces tapioca starch and modified starch for domestic and international markets. Also promotes the correct tapioca farming. Company has been concentrating on the production process in part of environmental friendly especially on wastewater management. The waste water from the production process will be treated with high technology system that the water can be recycled in using for agriculture with no pollution effect. Organizations Saha Chito Manufactures and exports biomass fuel in Thailand. Procures raw material from Thailand agricultural network. Specializes in charcoal, pellets and briquette from agricultural waste such as sawdust, coconut shell, corncob and rice husk. Exports agricultural waste include, but not limited to, palm kernal shell, palm kernal meal, yellow corn, coconut shell among many others. Thai Sugar Mill – sugar manufacturers and exporters Produces raw sugar, refined ordinary and pure white sugar for domestic as well as overseas market. In addition, the company also takes part in the process of creating an added values for the by products such as sugar cane left over, residule of the sugar and molass, filter sugar cake etc. Bangsai Agricultural Center – Promotes soilless cultivation of vegetables Bangsai Agricultural Center is a 'Demonstration Farm' for hydroponic practices. Based at Bangkok, Thailand the farm is involved in research and development of new practice of soilless culture for more than 6 years. It claims their new found farming practice requires less capital investment and all kind of vegetable can be easily grown under every condition of climates and locations with uncomplicated process and simple maintenance. In addition the vegetables produced are 100 % non-toxic. It is located in Bangkok, Thailand. News Thailand plans to double buffalo population within next 5 years - ThaiVisa News May 29, 2015 DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION FIJI NEWS SUMMARY 28/05/15 5:30PM - The Jet Newspaper May 28, 2015 80-square-mile Long Beach area under quarantine following discovery of guava ... - Long Beach Press Telegram May 28, 2015 Migrant workers treated like "slaves" in South Korea's agricultural industry - Channel News Asia May 28, 2015 Thailand 'stable': Moody's - The Nation May 28, 2015 Cyber-spy tracking SMBs in India, Thailand and the US - Times of India May 28, 2015 EDITORIAL: PM Bainimarama Walking The Talk In Japan And Thailand - Fiji Sun Online May 28, 2015 UN body says fewer are suffering from hunger in Asia-Pacific - SunHerald.com May 28, 2015 McAuliffe will give dozens of diplomats a taste of America's diversity - Washington Post May 28, 2015 Organic rice from Thailand targets Mideast markets - Gulf Times May 2, 2015 Chai and Bamboo are victims in a failed system - The Seattle Times May 28, 2015 An innovative mango cultivation - The Daily Star May 28, 2015 NR demand risks SE Asia 'biodiversity' - Tire Business May 28, 2015 Migrant workers treated like "slaves" in South Korea's agricultural industry - Channel News Asia May 28, 2015 Women fuel farming across region, country - Illinois Farmer Today May 28, 2015 CP Foods eyes India shrimp plant, focuses Thai ops on head-on Asia sales - Undercurrent News May 27, 2015 Thai farmers still troubled - Winnipeg Free Press May 24, 2015 Happiness Eludes Divided Thailand as Farmers Struggle - Bloomberg May 21, 2015 Thai Union has no appetite to go upstream into salmon farming - Undercurrent News May 20, 2015 Organic rice from Thailand targets Mideast markets - Gulf Times May 2, 2015 News Thailand set to become regional bioenergy hub - Bangkok Post May 29, 2015 CP Foods eyes India shrimp plant, focuses Thai ops on head-on Asia sales - Undercurrent News May 27, 2015 Avanti, Thai Union shrimp JV will combine value-added knowhow with booming ... - Undercurrent News May 25, 2015 Agri research key to inclusive growth - Inquirer.net May 24, 2015 Foreign investment update - Lexology (registration) May 21, 2015 NAB to open branch in Beijing - Sydney Morning Herald May 21, 2015 LEAD Program helps build leaders in the Nebraska agricultural community - Fremont Tribune May 20, 2015 Exports to China are struggling and we need to do better - Brisbane Times May 20, 2015 Federal Budget: Funding to capitalise on free trade deals - ABC Online May 12, 2015 Agrocorridors key to unleashing Africa's agribusiness potential - New Vision May 7, 2015 Businesses Plant Group – supplies plant material Offers collectibles for botanical gardens, research projects and floricultural industry development. Plants available for sale are heliconia, ginger, calathea, orchids, palms, aquatic plants and fruit trees. Comany also supplies biofuel seeds. Thai Foods Poultry Farm Engaged into poultry and pig farming business Produces and distributes broiler chicks to the farmers through contract farming system. Operates poultry breeder farming for the purpose of producing hatch-eggs. Company started the business of hatchery and breeding program in 2001. Also maintains and operates pig farm in Vietnam. Vita Food Factory – food processors Established in 1989, company produces and distributes canned tropical fruits and vegetables. It is also in manufacturing of frozen vegetables and dehydrated fruits. Most of the products are exported. Company has engaged over 3,000 workers utilizing the modern equipment of latest technology found in the food industry today. Adams Organic Farm Producer and supplier of organic fruits and vegetables Company is the offshoot of Adams Enterprise Limited (AEL) which has been certified by United States and European Union and Japan to their organic standards. The Adams Organic Farm started producing internationally-certified organic fruits and vegetables in 2009. Chokchai Farm – crossbreed HF dairy farm Dairy farm has crossbreed Holstein Friesian (about 93%) and a native Thai species (7%). There are 3,000 head of dairy cattle at the farm that produces 22 tons of raw milk per day with an average of 18 kilograms of milk per cow per day. The raw milk is processed into quality dairy products for the consumer market. Farm has three divisions: feed management, breeding development, and veterinary healthcare management. There is a grazing system for the animals before first lactation, and a feedlot system for the mature milk-producing cows. Farm is located at Nakhon, Ratchasima, Thailand. Info Wikipedia – Agriculture in Thailand The agriculture in Thailand is highly competitive, diversified and specialised and its exports are very successful internationally. Rice is the country's most important crop; Thailand is a major exporter in the world rice market. Wanted I require info on agriculture related exhibitions in Thailand For Sale Thai commodities – engaged in herbs and spices Started as trading company supplying herbs ,spices and agricultural products to international market. Now it expands with producing value added products. It is engaged in processing finished products of ginger in type of sengiri, hiragiri, migingiri and mini pack; cutting dries herbs and spices into course cut, fine cut (tea bag cut) and powder; drying material by solar drier system; freezing ginger and all kind of vegetable in cold storage and testing material in moisture content, oil content, and sifting to classify the cutting sizes by our laboratory. Excellent Thai Fruit – fresh fruit supplier Manufacturers, suppliers and exporter of fresh fruits from Thailand. Products are distributed to many countries worldwide, mainly in Europe, Canada, Japan and other Asian countries,with experience over 15 years, company guarantees good quality upon arrival. Doichang Tea Organic tea plantation where tea leaves are plucked by hand, processed and packed in company's own factory. Sale distribution is also carried out from the factory to various outlets. Due to the absence of poisonous chemical substance, the Doi Chang tea drink is unique in taste as it lingers in the mouth even long after consumption. Sudara Organic Rice – specializes in jasmine aromatic rice Established in Nov 7,2007 farm grows selective varieties of organic rice. In all there are 13 different kind of rice in its product list. Amongst it specializes in jasmine aromatic rice and parboiled rice. Farm is located at Chomthong, Bangkok, Thailand. Otento (Thailand) Co – promotes Japanese farm culture Provides guidance and shares techniques of Japanese farming culture. It was set up on March 6, 2007, in order to develop agricultural business in Thailand in harmony with Japanese farm techniques. We are the group company with agricultural producer’s cooperative corporation “ Wagoen“, leading agricultural cooperative corporations in Japan. Wagoen creates the modern model of agricultural business in Japan. News – Picked by Editor Drought likely to hit Thai rice business Drought likely to hit Thai rice business Government takes measures to reduce estimated loss Thailand is expected to experience worst drought in more than a decade in 2015. Government takes measures to alleviate drought and allocates around 6.8 billion baht for the forecasted problem. It plans to reduce rice grown area by about 4.44 million hectares by growing other cash crops mainly sugarcane. Shrimp import from India on rise to meet demand in Thailand Many major packers from Thailand and Vietnam are buying shrimp from India. Thai government has a very lengthy inspection process for imported shrimp, it implies packers won't import unless they really have to. Demand of shrimp is on constant rise as farmers in Thailand are having off-season and also facing lack of shrimp raw material. It also has been heard, the purchasing volume for China and Vietnam is likely to increase after Chinese New Year because there has been a speculation for shortage of shrimp in China by March. As a result the demand for shrimp is likely to go up.