The COAPCL Approach | Chetna Organic Skip to main content Search this site Login Register Home About Us Vision & Mission Organisational Structure Board of Directors Operational Area Achievements Thrust Areas Building Sustainable Institutions Integrated Farming Systems Natural Resources Management Improving Livelihood Options Value Chain Development Food Security and Nutrition Seed Sovereignty Gender Mainstreaming and Child Welfare Programs Green Cotton (New Program) Seed Guardians (New Program) Chetna Organic & Fair Trade Cotton Intervention Program Enhancing the capacities of the producer organizations for market development Jackpot Community Development Program Indo-German Watershed Development Project Integrated Watershed Management Program (IWMP) Peace By Peace Cotton Project Orissa Tribal Empowerment and Livelihoods Program Plus (OTELP+) Pratima Organic Growers Groups – ProCotton Program Convergence of Agriculture Initiatives in Maharashtra (CAIM) Revitalizing Rainfed Agriculture Network (RRA) Impact Partners COAPCL About COAPCL The COAPCL Approach Organisation Structure Co-operatives with Chetna Organic Roles and Responsibilities Products Services Systems & Certifications href ="#" Internal Control Systems Traceability in Chetna Organic Support/Relations Current Status Contact Us You are here Home » COAPCL » About COAPCL The COAPCL Approach COAPCL is working to helping farmers help themselves… When a small cotton farmer goes to sell his harvest in the market, he usually has a vague idea about the fair and “right” price for his produce. An information asymmetry and lesser bargaining power forces him to a middleman’s price demands undermining his crop quality, weight, price and hence, overall value.     To allow farmers have greater control over all the stages of production, they need an approach that works on collective action and a niche market development. This is much documented in the co-operative movement in India.     Currently we work in three states: Maharashtra, Orissa and Andhra Pradesh but we are currently exploring avenues to work in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, West Bengal and Chattisgarh. Chetna Organic not only promotes organic farming, but also builds a supply chain which is owned by farmers. COAPCL was founded to take care of the marketing woes of farmers (though the mainstay remains cotton) and to provide training and capacity-building of farmer communities. Chetna Organic now represents the belief of more than 10,000 farmers out of which 6550 are producing certified organic cotton and the rest are in the transition phase.   The effort goes into inviting farmers to switch over to organic farming… It is a multi-staged process: First, we meet the farmers. We explain them about the benefits of organic cotton cultivation. From the group, we work with the more enterprising farmers in the pilot phase. As the other farmers see the result for themselves, it acts as a self-propagating reinforcement. For instance, in Orissa, membership began with 11 members and has now grown to include more than 50,000 farming households organized into Self Help Group(SHG)s and four cooperatives.   Our current plan is to consolidate the position in our areas of intervention by maintaining the quality of the cotton being produced. We have enough of market interest in the wake of greater awareness of non-pesticide and organic benefits to the consumer; additionally, being responsible and fair-trading are important parameters for many a conscious and discerning customers.     The access to quality non-GMO seeds.…     The access to quality non-GMO organic seeds is indeed a challenge. Initially, there were Companies that were offering non-GMO seeds. However, when they stopped the production, we started facing an acute shortage.       