mKisan:Help Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access हिंदी में Follow us on Twitter USSD About USSD USSD Application Register for USSD Pull SMS About Pull SMS Structure & Codes IVRS About IVRS IVRS Dashboard Agent Rating Call Response Push SMS About Push SMS Search SMS Database Ksewa About KSEWA Register for KSEWA Login for KSEWA List of Services KCC About KCC KCC Locations Features of KCC KCC Nodal Officers Query Escalation Process Implementation of Escalation Process Involvement of States KCC Dashboard Buyer Seller About Buyer Seller Platform Buyers Login New Buyer Registration Mobile Apps About Mobile Apps Downloads Reach Us Queries on Portal Feedback/Grievance You are here : Home > Help Search About mKisan Dashboard Registration for SMS Accolades RSS Twitter Help Sections of this website The website has different sections like About the site, Dashboard and Register for SMS. These provide information about the web application, details of all messages/advisories sent by all users so far and how farmers can register themselves for different services. USSD Unstructured Service Data is a service which can be used by farmers and all other stake holders for fetching information without presence of internet on their mobiles. RTI Link to different documents for RTI. Sitemap Gives the basic structure of the website. Accessibility Help Use the accessibility options provided by this Web site to control the screen display. These options allow increasing the text size and changing the contrast scheme for clear visibility and better readability. Changing the Text Size Changing the size of the text refers to making the text appearing smaller or bigger from its standard size. There are three options provided to you to set the size of the text that affects the readability. These are: Large: Displays information in the large font size. Medium: Displays information in a standard font size, which is the default size. Small: Displays information in the small font size. To change the text size: Select or Image Displayed on the top of the page. Changing the Contrast Scheme Changing the contrast scheme refers to applying a suitable background and text contrast that ensures clear readability. There are two options provided to you to change the contrast scheme. These are: High contrast: Applies the black color as the background and suitable colors to the text on the screen to improve readability. Standard contrast: Brings the screen back to its original appearance. Using the Search Facility Simple search will be available on home page from where user can search on basis of content and keyword available in documents/reports/picture/press release/news. Searching Tips When searching, don't enter plural forms such as "press releases" because the server will only find documents with releases (plural) in the title or keywords. If you enter release (singular), the server will list entries with both release and releases. All searches are case-insensitive. That is, words are looked for regardless of capitalization. Document Type Download PDF content Adobe Acrobat Reader (External website that opens in a new window) Word files Word Viewer (in any version till 2003) (External website that opens in a new window) Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Word (for 2007 version) (External website that opens in a new window) Excel files Excel Viewer 2003 (in any version till 2003) (External website that opens in a new window) Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Excel (for 2007 version) (External website that opens in a new window) PowerPoint presentations PowerPoint Viewer 2003 (in any version till 2003) (External website that opens in a new window) Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for PowerPoint (for 2007 version) (External website that opens in a new window) Flash content Adobe Flash Player (External website that opens in a new window) Audio Files Windows Media Player (External website that opens in a new window) Home About Us Help RTI Terms and Conditions Copyright Policy Hyperlinking Policy Privacy Policy Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation,Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India Page Last Updated on : 10 October, 2014