India's farmers start to mechanize amid a labour shortage - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop India’s farmers start to mechanize amid a labour shortage Home India’s farmers start to mechanize amid a labour shortage Move increases productivity and provides opportunities for manufacturers Each fall at harvest time, Leela Dhar Rajput used to hire 25 farm hands to work from dawn to dusk every day for a week bringing in the rice crop on his 20 acres of land in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. This year, he plans to use a combine harvester instead. With the machine and the help of two or three men, he expects to finish the job in a single day. Indian agriculture is belatedly engaged in a mechanical revolution, boosting productivity in a sector that has long relied on cheap, surplus labor to tend crops in the world’s second most populous country. Job opportunities in factories and services, plus the government’s rural job-creation program guaranteeing 100 days of employment a year on public-works projects, have drained the pool of workers in villages. “I just can’t find enough people to do the hard work in the fields anymore,” says Mr. Rajput, 48 years old, whose farm is Madhya Pradesh. The labor shortage has created a potentially vast opportunity for farm-equipment makers in one of the last major bastions of old-fashioned cultivation. Second-quarter tractor sales in India rose around 25% from a year earlier. For the year ending March 31, New Delhi-based research firm Crisil predicts sales will rise 18%. And international companies such as Deere DE +0.01% & Co. of the U.S., Fiat Industrial SpA’s CNH Global unit and Indian manufacturers, including Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., are looking to capitalize on the shift. “The outlook for the farm-equipment sector is very strong because of increasing adoption,” says Ajay Srinivasan, a Crisil analyst. He predicts the market will expand at least 10% annually for the next five years. Deere recently opened a new factory in the same state as Mr. Rajput’s farm to add tractor-making capacity. It also has two Indian plants that make harvesters and irrigation equipment. The Moline, Ill., company started financing operations in India last year, lending to farmers and dealers so they can buy its equipment. “We see the current trends continuing—population will increase, income levels will increase, the need for mechanization and irrigation will continue and access to financing for equipment will be important,” says spokesman Ken Golden. Mahindra, already the world’s largest tractor company, recently invested $45.5 million to build Asia’s largest tractor factory in southern India with a capacity of 100,000 vehicles a year. The company is also boosting production of other farm equipment, such as combine harvesters, and it plans to launch rice transplanters, the equipment used to move rice shoots from nursery beds and plant them in fields. “We are really working on this segment,” says Rajesh Jejurikar, chief executive of the company’s tractor and farm-mechanization division. Mahindra has also set up a research and development facility in the southern city of Chennai to come up with new products, including larger tractors. And it has set up 160 centers to encourage farmers to mechanize. The farm-labor shortage is likely to get worse as India expands its rural-work program, known as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Under the program, villagers dig ditches for irrigation and help build roads and other infrastructure. “Nobody really wants to stand under the sun for 10 hours and work at a farm,” says Nikhil Nanda, a managing director at Escorts Group, an Indian maker of agriculture and construction equipment. He adds that population and labor shifts have led to a changing farm landscape. As people move to cities, more of India’s small holdings are being combined into larger holdings, making mechanization more attractive and leading to greater use of larger-horse-power tractors. “We find that a lot of collaboration has started taking place, whether in the family or neighboring land of another farmer,” Mr. Nanda says. Escorts is also working to adapt machinery so that it is more useful for farmers tending crops ranging from sugar cane to grapes. New types of machinery are already being used to mechanize the once highly labor-intensive harvesting of coconuts in Kerala, where hordes of workers once climbed palm trees to collect the fruit. Increasingly, remote-controlled machines are being used to do the job, says Siby J. Monipally, who owns coconut and rubber plantations. He says the equipment cuts harvesting times in half and has helped bring more women into the workforce by making the work less demanding physically. Source : The Wall Street Journal Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > India’s farmers start to mechanize amid a labour shortage Related – articles, consultants, downloads Ratnagiri Impex – farm equipment and machinery You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water