Contribute to Clean Ganga Fund | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > Contribute to Clean Ganga Fund Contribute to Clean Ganga Fund Ministry of Water Resources Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Users can make a contribution to Clean Ganga Fund online. You need to provide your personal details such as full name, address, state name, country name, email id and mobile number, etc. to make a payment to the Clean Ganga Fund. Detailed information about the Clean Ganga Fund and Namami Gange Programme is also provided. Related Links Website of Central Water Commission Ministry of Water Resources Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Central Water Commission is a premier technical organisation in the field of water resources and is functioning as an attached office of the Ministry of Water Resources. Information on activities of the Commission such as Core Activities, Farmers Participatory Activities, etc. are available. Users can download reports, acts and rules, guidelines, manuals, civil list, seniority list, etc. Water Resource statistics are also available. Central Water and Power Research Station Ministry of Water Resources Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Users can get information related with the Central Water and Power Research Station in Pune. One can find details about hydrology and water resource, earth sciences, river engineering and hydraulic instrumentation centre etc. Important links to the Ministry of Water Resources, National Portal of India, National Water Academy and the Central Water Commission etc. are also available. Website of Ministry of Water Resources Ministry of Water Resources Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Ministry of Water Resources is responsible for laying down guidelines and programmes for the development and regulation of the country's water resources. Find information on water related problems like quality specification for drinking water, floods, droughts, water contamination etc. Details about status of development such as Irrigation Development at the time of Independence, Plan Development, Hydro-Electric Power, Domestic Water Supply, Navigation, etc. are given. Information on programmes, schemes, training programmes, guidelines, minor irrigation census, Bharat Nirman, etc. is also available. Programmes and schemes of Ministry of Water Resources Ministry of Water Resources Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find schemes and programmes of Ministry of Water Resources. Get details of programmes for Ganga wing, Brahmaputra and Barak wing (B&B), Accelerated Irrigation Benefit Programme (AIBP), Command Area Development & Water Management (CADWM) and Farmers Participatory Action Research. Users can also find details on hydrology project, rain water harvesting, repair, renovation and restoration of water bodies, artificial recharge to ground water through Dugwell, etc. Budget of Ministry of Water Resources Ministry of Water Resources Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get access to budget of Ministry of Water Resources. Users can access and download details related to demands of grants and performance budget. Outcome budget is available from 2006 onwards in English and Hindi. Hydro-Meteorological Data Dissemination Policy by Ministry of Water Resources Ministry of Water Resources Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   <