No 1 No.21002/12/2011-Fy(Ind) Government of India Ministry of Agriculture Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & fisheries Dated 28th November, 2014 Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi PUBLIC NOTICE All Indian entrepreneurs, who intend to do fishing in the Exclusive Economic Zone of India i.e., the area beyond and adjacent to the territorial waters, and the limit of such zone is two hundred nautical miles from the baseline, will have to obtain Letter of Permission (LOP) from Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. 1. The LOP will be issued to all eligible Indian entrepreneurs who satisfy the following conditions: i) Grant of LOPs would be considered only to resource specific deep-sea fishing vessels (DSFVs) of following categories: a. Tuna Long Liners, b. Purse Seiners, c. Trap/Hook & Line vessels, d. Squid Jiggers, e. Pelagic/Mid Water Trawlers, and f. Pole & Line. ii) The DSFVs owned/being acquired are of over all length 15 meters and above. iii) The mode of acquisition can be, a) outright purchase; b) deferred payment; and c) Joint Venture with not less than 51% Indian equity. iv) Any vessel upon transfer of ownership be any method of acquisition including deferred payment shall be considered as an fully owned Indian fishing vessel. v) A maximum of 04 Tuna Long Liners/Mid-Water Pelagic Trawlers per company will be permitted for issue of LOPs. In addition to that, the entrepreneurs can apply for any other categories as mentioned at point i) above for additional number of vessels. However, in case of full payment made by the entrepreneur for first 04 vessels, additional 04 tuna long liners/mid-water pelagic trawlers may also be permitted. vi) A processing fee @ Rs. 10,000/- per DSFV has to be furnished along with the application in the form of Demand Draft payable to Pay & Accounts Officer, Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture, New Delhi. vii) Applicant Company/firm should have minimum paid up capital of Rs.10.00 lakhs to apply for up to 2 DSFVs. In case of additional two DSFVs permitted for grant of LOP, the paid up capital should be @ Rs. 5.00 lakhs per each additional DSFV proposed. 2 viii) In case of application for setting up Joint Venture with foreign equity collaboration, the company/firm has to produce evidence of at least 51% Indian Equity. ix) In addition, the entrepreneurs has to abide by the Guidelines prescribed for operation of deep-sea fishing vessels in the Indian EEZ dated 12th November, 2014 and provide the undertakings as required. 2. The eligible applicants will be initially issued Provisional LOP for a period of one year, which will be converted into LOP on submission of following : a) Submission of proof (i.e., Bill of Entry) showing import of DSFV. b) Proof of registration of vessel with the Indian Mercantile Marine Department (MMD) or any designated authority as per applicable laws. c) Evidence of payment made towards the cost of the vessel. In the event of non furnishing of the above documents, the provisional LOP will be automatically cancelled. 3. The LOP will be valid for a period of five years from the date of issue. The LOP after the period of its five year validity can be extended for another five year on fulfillment of following conditions: a) Submission of proof that the entire payments towards the cost of the vessels have been made. b) No major violation of LOP conditions/guidelines have been proved. There will be no bar on number of such extensions, provided that the above conditions are fulfilled. 4. In addition to above, any other conditions/modifications may be applicable as may be specified from time to time. 5. The Inter Ministerial Empowered Committee on Marine Fisheries (EC) would consider proposals complete in all respect, on merit and in accordance with the approved fleet plan. 6. Interested entrepreneurs may apply to in the prescribed format, as Annexed: 3 FORMAT OF APPLICATION FOR LETTER OF PERMISSION A. Company Details: 1. Name of the Company/Firm 2. Address of Company/Firm with Pin Code 3. Tel/Fax Nos./E mail of the Company/Firm 4. Project Report alongwith the commercial feasibility and economical viability analysis with the following enclosures: i. Board of Directors /Partners along-with their Bio-Data, Photo, Address & Tele/Fax Nos/E mail. ii. Copy of Certification of Registration of the Company/Firm iii. Memorandum of Articles of Association of the Company/Partnership-deep of Firm iv. Copy of latest Balance Sheet of the Company duly certified by a Chartered Accountant along with CA’s registration number v. Authorized capital of the Company vi. Paid up Capital of the Company/Firm B. Source /Mode of acquisition of vessel(s) with full address, telephone/fax no. /E. mail of the owner(s) in their letter head, copies of their registration /certificate of incorporation details, number of vessels owned by them, their bank account No. and Bankers details C. Particulars of fishing vessels a. Name of vessel, type of vessel and fishing gears b. Certified copy of registration certificate of vessel c. Year of construction and reconstruction (if any) of vessel d. Overall length (OAL) / registered length e. Gross tonnage and Net / registered Tonnage f. Horse Power of main engine g. Certified copy of latest Annual Survey Certificate h. Certified copy of sea worthiness certificate i. Fish hold capacity in Cu meters and tones j. Crew capacity k. Copy of GA drawing of the vessel l. Copy of Radio Licence Certificate along with call sign m. Price of the vessels in US$ and Indian Rupees List of Documents: In addition to above mentioned details, following documents are required: (i) Photocopy of Sale Deed/Buyer-Seller Agreement certified by CA (ii) Terms of payment for acquisition (iii) Copy of Buy Back Agreement, Technical Service Agreement, etc. (if any) (iv) Undertaking in the format as prescribed in the Guidelines dt. 12th Nov 2014. (v) Statement of number of foreign and Indian crew proposed to be employed on each vessel, and phasing out of foreign crew along with the period by which they will be completely phased out.