Amritsar to Wagah Border Home » Amritsar » Excursions from Amritsar » Amritsar to Wagah Border   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Amritsar to Wagah Border A short trip from Amritsar to Wagah Border would take one to the international border of India and Pakistan. Located at a distance of just 28 km from the main city of Amritsar, it is easily accessible by good motorable roads in cars and buses. Every evening, as it nears the sundown, hundreds of tourists flock this historical place to see the majestic changing of guards accompanied by the hoisting and retreat of the respective national flags. The border security forces of India and Pakistan undergoes the elaborate process jointly through an interesting ceremony. Wagah frontier is the only open border accessible legally by India and Pakistan. There are special buses that arrange trips everyday to this site from Amritsar to Wagah Border . Soldiers from both the countries of India and Pakistan march amidst the rising nationalistic feeling in the 'Beating the Retreat' ceremony. The highly skillful ceremony is impressive and one of its kind in India. Wagah being an important army outpost has Amritsar and Lahore as the major cities in its nearest proximity on either side of the international border. A white line that came along with the partition in 1947 by the Britishers demarcates the border between the neighboring countries about a yard apart. The soldiers drill with pounding long strides on the grounds as the two iron gates are shut with a final handshake. The ceremony invokes nostalgia among the visitors and offers something that one cannot afford to miss as a short excursion from Amritsar. Last Updated on 14 January 2011 Excursions from Amritsar Anandpur Sahib Fort Gurudwara ber Sahib Amanat Khan Serai Dharmshala Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule