Aparna Popat: Profile, Biography and Records India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Sports » Aparna Popat   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Aparna Popat Aparna Popat, who was born in the year 1978 in the month of January in Mumbai, Maharashtra had been ranked 16th among the world badminton players in 1999. Although Aparna Popat was born in Mumbai she shifted to Bangalore, which boasts of better training facilities. The Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy is the place where Aparna Popat got her training. Before joining this Academy in the year 1994, Aparna Popat was training under Anil Pradhan who was a National Doubles Champion. Aparna Popat was the winner of the 1998 French Open. Also, in the same year Aparna Popat bagged a silver medal for her outstanding performance in the Commonwealth Games held at Kuala Lumpur. One of the major achievements of Aparna Popat is that she had been the unprecedented champion of National Women's Singles title for eight consecutive years. Although Aparna Popat faced many upheavals in her career yet she is determined to make it to the top of international line of players. The conviction and enthusiasm of Aparna Popat has made her one of the excellent women shuttlers of India who as the aim of reaching to the best of international badminton league. Last Updated on : February 3, 2014   Related Links   Famous Badminton Players of India Anup Sridhar Prakash Padukone Saina Nehwal Aparna Popat Pulella Gopichand Dipankar Bhattacharya Chetan Anand Parupalli Kashyap P. V. Sindhu             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule