Travel to Manali - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Manali Travel Tourist map Shopping How to Reach City Map Hotels in Manali Kullu Travel Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Kullu Places to Visit in Kullu Manali Hadimba Temple Rohtang Pass Solang Valley Nehru Kund Raghunath Temple Bijli Mahadev Temple Arjun Gufa Zoo Wildlife Parks Museums Tourist Destinations Near Kullu Manali Lahaul Spiti Katrain Travel Naggar Travel Kasol Travel Manikaran Travel Shimla Travel Vashisht Travel Mandi Travel Kaza Travel Adventure Tours Honeymoon in Manali Honeymoon Packages About Manali Geography & History Weather Travel to Himachal Pradesh Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Home » Manali » Travel to Manali Travel To Manali Tourist Map of Manali Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the important tourist locations in Manali. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Manali Tourism A beautiful hill station in Himachal Pradesh, nestled in between snowy mountains and thick forests, flanked by the Beas River, Manali is truly a travellers paradise. Situated at an altitude of 1950 meters, Manali offers stunning views of the Pir Panjal and Dhauladhar range of mountains, which are considered to be the dwelling place of Gods and Goddesses. Legend has it that Manali was founded by an ancient sage Manu whose ark found its resting place here after a great flood. Manali, which literally means "the resting place of Manu" is a popular tourist destination and offers a welcome respite from the heat of the plains during the summer months. Best Time to Visit Manali The best time to visit Manali is from September to June: How to Reach Manali By Air Bhuntar, which is located 50 km from Manali is the closest airport to Manali. The Bhuntar airport is well connected by flights to Delhi. There are tasi services available between Bhuntar and Manali. By Train One of the most convenient and faster ways to reach Manali is to avail the broad gauge trains. Trains to Manali take you to the nearest station broad gauge railway stations of Kalka, Chandigarh and Pathankot. Some of the trains that run from these stations are: Kalka Howrah Mail connecting Kalka and Howrah Shatabadi Express Kalka-New Delhi Shatabadi Express Chandigarh-New Delhi One can reach Manali from these stations reached by road. By Road Traveling to Manali by road is one of the easiest ways to reach the beautiful destination. You can plan your trip accordingly by going through the list which provides information on the distance of Manali from major Indian cities: Manali - Mandi 110 km Manali - Delhi - 570 km Manali - Leh 475 km Manali - Manikaran 085 km Manali - Dalhousie 385 km Manali - Rohtang Pass 051 km Manali - Dharamshala 235 km Manali - Kaza 200 km Manali - Palampur 200 km Manali - Pathankot 325 km Manali - Kasauli 275 km Manali - Chamba 402 km Manali - Udaipur 150 km Manali - Chandigarh 320 km Manali - Shimla 260 km Manali - Keylong 115 km Manali - Trilokinath 150 km Shopping in Manali The best place to go shopping in Manali is The Mall, where you will find traditional shawls, rugs, caps and footwear. Other places around The Mall where you will find interesting items to shop are Thai Market, Hong Kong market, Tibetan Market, Dragon shopping complex etc. The Old Manali market is also a good place to buy fresh fruit jams, juices and pickles. Don't forget to bargain as shopkeepers here quote an extremely high price. Manali Cuisine A typical thali of Himachali food would comprise of rice, rotis, curried vegetables, madra (a curd based dish), lentils and sweet rice. Find Hotels in Manali Travel Tips for Manali If you are an adventure enthusiast, the best time to visit Manali will be during May to October, when the snow has melted. On the other hand if skiing is what you are looking for then the best time to Visit Manali will be from October to February when there is ample snow fall in Manali. The best way to explore Manali is on motor bike, which can be hired on a reasonable rate. But try this option only if you know your way around. There are always buses and autos for those not comfortable getting around on motor bikes. If you are visiting Manali during the winter, carry light cotton clothes. If you are going to Manali in the winter then make sure you carry thick woolen sweaters, scarves, gloves and socks as it can get very cold. Avoid visiting Manali during the monsoon as the chances of landslides are high. For any further travel assistance you can always contact the Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation on the Mall Road. Their phone number is 01902-252175 places to see in Manali Buddhist Monasteries Old Manali Hadimba Temple Rohtang Pass Solang Valley Nehru Kund Last Updated on : 29/08/2013 Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Dalhausi Rohtang Pass Chamba Places to visit in Dharamsala Travel to Dalhousie Places to visit in Kullu Manali Hamirpur Naggar Travel to Dharamshala Travel to Shimla Places to visit in Shimla Chail Kangra Travel to Kullu Travel to Manali Manali Tourism Manali Tourist Attractions Manali Tourist Office Manali Excursions Manali Snowfall Manali Climate Manali Wildlife Parks Manali Honeymoon Packages Manali Tour Operators Manali Tourist Season Manali Temples Manali Museums Manali Heritage Manali Zoo Manali Spa Manali Restaurants Shopping in Manali   Manali Tour   Apple Orchards Beas River Hidimba Devi Temple Museum of Himachal Culture and Folk Art Nature Park Old Manali Rohtang Pass Adventure Sports at Solang Nala Solang Nala from Manali Vashisht Temple About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule