Central Institute of Fisheries Nautical Engineering and Training (CIFNET) Skip to main contents | Accessibility Options | Screen Reader Access मुख्य सामग्री पर जाएं | अभिगम्यता के विकल्प Home About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Guidelines Dairy Development Fishery Fodder Large Ruminants(Bovine) Livestock Extension Livestock Insurance Livestock Health Piggery Development Poultry Small Ruminants Threatened Breeds Trade Bovine Breeding Trade Conferences Statistics Animal Husbandry Statistics Livestock Census Fisheries Poultry Reports Forms Grievances Public Grievances Contact Us Sunabeda Suratgarh Andeshnagar Breeds Chiplima breeds Dhamrod breeds Hessarghatta breeds Sunabeda breeds CHRS-centre names Suratgarh Breeds Tenders English हिन्दी में Welcome to Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries पशुपालन, डेयरी और मत्स्य पालन विभाग में आपका स्वागत है Search : खोजें : Home / Central Institute of Fisheries Nautical Engineering and Training (CIFNET) Central Institute of Fisheries Nautical Engineering and Training (CIFNET)             The Government of India, in 1959 constituted a Committee on “Fisheries Education” for assessing the manpower requirements of the fisheries sector and to suggest measures for building up trained manpower for promoting fishery developmental activities.  CIFNET (earlier known as Central Institute of Fisheries Operatives), was thus established in 1963 on the recommendations of the above mentioned Committee to meet the trained manpower needs of ocean going fishing vessels and that of fishing industry.  The name was later upgraded consistent with its functions as ‘Central Institute of Fisheries Nautical and Engineering Training’ (CIFNET).  Subsequently, two units of CIFNET were established, one at Chennai in 1968 and another at Vishkhapatnam in 1981, for meeting the additional requirement of manpower necessitated by the expansion of the fishing fleet.             CIFNET is the only National Institute of its kind in south east Asia providing organized training for creation of trained technical manpower like Skipper, Fishing Second Hand, Master Fishermen, Engineer, Engine Driver, etc. to man sophisticated deep sea fishing vessels venturing into exploitation of the vast and rich living resources of the Exclusive Economic Zone and also shore technicians to run the associated shore installations.             At the time of establishment there were only 2 regular courses of 24 months duration with the hostel facility for the students.  These two upgraded regular courses i.e. MFC and VNC of 18 months duration is with an intake capacity of 192 students. In addition, to the above 2 regular courses the 4 year degree course i.e. BFSc(NS)  under the affiliation of CUSAT, Kochi also has been started during 2005 with an intake capacity of 80 students.             Apart from the above 2 courses this Institute is conducting several short term courses continuously for professional college students, serving officials and private entrepreneurs.  On an average 500 students are trained in these short term courses at CIFNET, Kochi only. Mandate:             The objectives of the Institute encompasses on fisheries development, particularly on the training of manpower for fisheries.  They are elaborated below: To create technical manpower for the operation of Ocean going fishing vessels and to run infrastructural establishments. To create trained manpower to manage fishery establishment. To provide training for technical teachers for manning the fishermen training centres attached to Maritime States and Union Territories.   Contact details: The Director, CIFNET, Fina Arts Avenue, Cochin-682016. Phone: 0484-2351493 / 2351790 Fax: 0484: 2370879 Website: www.cifnet.nic.in Help | Terms of Use | Site Map | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer | Hyperlinking Policy | Privacy Policy | Archives | Contact Us This website belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ©  2014 All rights reserved. Designed,Developed & Hosted by NIC