India | World Bank Blogs English Español Français عربي Русский 中文 EN Español Français العربية Русский 中文 Home About Data Research Learning News Projects & Operations Publications Countries Topics Home About Data Research Learning News Projects & Operations Publications Countries Topics World Bank Blogs World Bank Blogs Home Bloggers Tags Choose Blog All Blogs Africa Can... All About Finance América Latina & Caribe Arab Voices and Views: Middle East and North Africa Development Impact Development in a Changing Climate Development Marketplace East Asia & Pacific on the rise Education for Global Development EduTech End Poverty in South Asia Energy Eurasian Perspectives Future Development Governance for Development Growth and Crisis Information and Communications for Development Investing in Health Jobs & Development Latin America Let's Talk Development Nasikiliza Open Data Opinions People Move People, Spaces, Deliberation Political Risk and Emerging Markets Private Sector Development Blog Prospects for Development Public Private Partnerships Sustainable Cities The Trade Post Transport for Development Voces Voices Water Youthink in English Youthink en français Youthink en español India Picture Trade: How we can visualize intra-regional trade in South Asia and beyond Submitted by Siddhesh Kaushik On Wed, 05/27/2015 Tweet Widget Google Plus One Linkedin Share Button Add comment Intra-regional trade constitutes less than 5 percent of total trade in South Asia, according to World Bank analysis . Economic cooperation remains low , despite the Agreement on a South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA). The region’s low level of intra-regional trade is a puzzling phenomenon , and it’s left many interested folks asking questions. Which regions trade more amongst themselves? What are the top products being exported or imported? Who are the top exporting and importing countries in a particular region? Here is a visual representation of regional trade in South Asia in WITS that can help quickly unpack some of these questions as they relate to the region.    South Asia, Export by Region (Click on + sign on left to view country breakdown) After the jump, we break down these numbers and show how you can explore the viz.  Read more » Tags: WITS Trade The World Region South Asia India Afghanistan Nepal Bhutan Nepal one month after the earthquake Submitted by Johannes Zutt On Sun, 05/24/2015 Tweet Widget Google Plus One Linkedin Share Button 1 Comment Kathmandu after the first earthquake It has been a month since a 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit central Nepal on April 25. What happened next?    Having experienced a real threat of death, many survivors manifested avoidance (“I don’t want to talk about it!”), hyper-vigilance (“What’s that noise? Is the ground moving?”), intrusive thoughts (“What if the next big one may come while I’m asleep …?”) -- classic stress reactions.   Many Bank staff have had many sleepless nights as the aftershocks continued, more than 250 to date above a magnitude of 4, thirty above 5, four above 6, and—just when we first thought that life was becoming normal again—a 7.3 on May 12.   That one came like the first one, in the middle of the day, but it felt like an unwelcome nighttime guest, full of foreboding.  People ran into the streets screaming, or silly giddy on realizing that they had survived another one—but even more terrified at what would come next.  More people died; more buildings collapsed.  People who had moved back into their houses moved out again.  Read more » Tags: 2015 Nepal Earthquake Disasters Europe and Central Asia South Asia India Nepal Education and Employment: The big push needed for India’s youth Submitted by Raghbendra Jha On Thu, 05/21/2015 Tweet Widget Google Plus One Linkedin Share Button 6 Comments When looking at recent data, it is hard to escape the conclusion that although India has enjoyed high economic growth this has largely been jobless economic growth. It is imperative for there to be a big push in the areas of education and employment in India. This is the most significant policy challenge facing the Indian economy. Read more » Tags: India South Asia Education Jobs and Development Poverty Reduction: Sorting Through the Hype Submitted by Berk Ozler On Mon, 05/18/2015 Tweet Widget Google Plus One Linkedin Share Button 4 Comments After seeing PowerPoint slides of the preliminary findings over the course of more than a year, it’s nice to be able to report that the six-country study that is evaluating the “ultra-poor graduation” approach (originally associated with BRAC) is finally out. Read more » Tags: multi-site RCT sustainable poverty reduction BRAC Agriculture and Rural Development Poverty Pakistan Peru India Ethiopia Honduras Ghana India, China and our growth forecasts Submitted by Kaushik Basu On Thu, 05/07/2015 Tweet Widget Google Plus One Linkedin Share Button 4 Comments Last month, the World Bank and IMF both put out predictions that, this year, India would overtake China in terms of GDP growth rate. This caused a flutter and was widely reported around the world. How robust is this prediction and what does it really mean? First, this is not as monumental a milestone as some commentators made it out to be. China has had one of the most remarkable growth runs witnessed in human history, having exceeded an annual growth of 9% from 1980 to now. Four decades ago its per capita income was close to India’s, but now it is four times as large as India’s. None of all this is going to change in a hurry. With this caveat in mind, it is a year in which India deserves to feel good. It is expected to top the World Bank’s chart of growth rates in major nations of the world. This has never happened before. Before 1990, India did occasionally grow faster than China, mainly because China’s growth gyrated wildly during the pre-Deng Xiaoping period. It was, for instance, minus 27% in 1961, when Mao Zedong’s Great Leap Forward resulted in the world’s biggest famine, and it was 17% and 19% in 1969 and 1970, respectively--a relief in the wake of the Cultural Revolution. Fluctuations of this magnitude would be intolerable to India’s polity. Read more » Tags: India's growth China's growth Global Economy South Asia East Asia and Pacific India China Food for thought Submitted by Kalyan Panja On Wed, 05/06/2015 Tweet Widget Google Plus One Linkedin Share Button 1 Comment Webcast Replay Appetizer of grasshoppers, seaweed soup, and as the main course, man-made burgers on the grill. Been twisting the nose? Yet we should get used to similar menus . According to UN estimates, to feed the 2.5 billion additional people, according to some forecasts, who will populate the Earth in 2050, we will need to double world food production , reduce waste, and experiment with food alternatives. Read more » Tags: Climate-Smart Agriculture nutrition food security Spring Meetings 2015 Blog4Dev Agriculture and Rural Development The World Region United States Nigeria India Exploring Digital India's transformative plans Submitted by Rajendra Kumar On Mon, 04/20/2015 Tweet Widget Google Plus One Linkedin Share Button Add comment In August 2014, the Government of India approved Digital India, an ambitious national program aimed at