Aizawl City Map Home » Maps » Mizoram » Aizawl City Map   Mizoram मिजोरम का नक्शा Mizoram Map Aizawl City Map Agriculture Map Districts of Mizoram Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Mizoram Location Travel to Mizoram Places to Visit in Mizoram Wildlife Sanctuaries Museums in Mizoram Caves in Mizoram Physical Map Forest Map Information of Mizoram Culture of Mizoram Lat Long Geography and History About Mizoram Government Language Assembly Poll Sex Ratio Pin Code       Aizawl City Map City Map of Aizawl Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Aizawl city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Aizawl Aizawl, capital of Mizoram, one of the seven sister north- eastern mountainous states of India, is located at latitude 23°30' N and longitude 92°.15' E in the northern part of the state. The city, located on a ridge, is spread over 3576 square kilometers and is at an elevation of 3715 feet. The picturesque city overlooks green hills and river valleys, and has a number of lakes in the vicinity. The temperature here ranges between 30°C in summer to 11°C in winter. The city gets heavy rains in the monsoon with average rainfall around 208 cms. With a population of 325,676, Aizawl is the largest city in the state, as well as a district headquarter. Roads are the life line of the city. Parts of Mizoram state are still very remote although Aizawl is connected to the rest of the country by National Highway 54 which passes in the north of the city. This connects Aizawl to Silchar in Assam and Shillong in Meghalaya , and ends at Tuipang in Mizoram. Aizawl has no rail head and this important highway connects the city to the nearest railhead at Silchar in Assam. The Mizoram State Guest House and the Tourist Lodge are located in the north of Aizawl city, near the NH 54. The BVT taxi stand is in the east of the city. Religious and Educational Institutions in Aizawl Aizawl, being the largest city in the state, is the religious and cultural center of the state. As the majority of Mizos are Christians, the city is dotted with several churches along with several educational institutions run by the churches. Some of the important churches are Ramhlun North Baptist Church Ramhlun Salvation Army Church Ramhlun North Presbyterian Church Ramhlun Venglai Press Church Presbyterian Church Zarkwat Church Electric Veng Church Bethelehem Presbyterian Church Bungkwan Vengthlang Church Upper Republic Church Armed Veng Church Republic East Presbyterian Church Republic Veng Seventh Day Church Shalom Baptist Church Mizo and English are the main languages spoken in the city and are also the medium of education, though Hindi and Bengali are also spoken. Mizoram state has one of the highest literacy rates (87%) in the country and the number of schools and colleges located all over Aizawl city reflects the importance of education for the Mizos. The Mizoram Board of School Education office is in the north. Some of the educational institutes in the city are Mount Caramel School, Rosebud school, Government Hrangbana College, Govt. Bethelehem Vengthlang High School, Bungkawn High School, Govt Aizawl College, Mizoram Institute of Comprehensive Education, Pachhunga College As the Mizos are sports enthusiasts, the city also has a number of sports complexes such as the Chanmari West Indoor Stadium, the CSA basketball court, PUC Sports complex, and the Tuikhuahtlang Basketball court. Important Landmarks Chaltlung Bazaar in the north of the city Lalbuala Shopping Complex R B Complex Millennium Mall in the center of the city Mizoram Police Run is an important landmark in the center of the city. The Police Headquarters is in the south. Civil Hospital Radio Transmitting Center in the west of the city. Solomon Cave is one of the main shopping areas. The AIR FM station in the south A G Office Presbyterian Girls Hostel Working Girls Hostel Last Updated on : 28/08/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule