Places to Visit in Rajasthan and Tourist Destinations near Rajasthan Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Rajasthan Travel Tourist Map Shopping Hotels in Rajasthan Resorts in Rajasthan Food How to Reach Places to Visit in Rajasthan Albert Hall Museum Jal Mahal Hawa Mahal Jantar Mantar Ranthambore National Park Sariska National Park Bandeshwar Temple Rani Satiji Temple Galta Temple Amber Fort The City Palace Kumbhalgarh Fort Mehrangarh Fort Bandeshwar Temple Cities to Visit in Rajasthan Ajmer Travel Barmer Travel Bharatpur Travel Bikaner Travel Bundi Travel Chittaurgarh Travel Fatehpur Travel Jaipur Travel Jaisalmer Travel Jodhpur Travel Kota Travel Kumbhalgarh Travel Mandawa Travel Mount Abu Travel Mukundgarh Travel Nawalgarh Travel Pushkar Travel Ranakpur Travel Samode Travel Sawai Madhopur Travel Shekhawati Travel Udaipur Travel Neemrana Travel Forts and Palaces Amber Fort Jaigarh Fort Kumbhalgarh Fort Mehrangarh Fort Nahargarh Fort The City Palace Rajasthan Hotels Ajmer Hotels Jaipur Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels more... About Rajasthan Weather History Culture Events in Rajasthan Desert Festival Bikaner Camel Festival Pushkar Festival Jaipur Literature Festival Summer Festival more... Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Maps » Rajasthan » Places to Visit in Rajasthan Places to Visit in Rajasthan The state of Rajasthan is the largest in India in terms of area and is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the country, for both domestic and international tourists. Rajasthan is known for its great natural beauty and its golden desert along with historic Forts and Palaces, art and culture. The state is also part of the Golden Triangle, which includes the cities of Delhi and Agra. Tourism in Rajasthan is flourishing, as every third foreign tourist visiting India also visits Rajasthan. The ancient palaces of Jaipur, beautiful and romantic lakes of Udaipur, the desert and sand dunes of Jaisalmer, the Jain temples at Mount Abu, the colourful cattle fair at Pushkar and the grand Umaid Bhavan Palace of Jodhpur, to name a few, are some of the key attractions of the state and draw a lot of tourism to it- to the extent that tourism accounts for 80% of Rajasthan’s Gross Domestic Product. Many old and neglected Forts and Palaces have been converted into Rajasthan heritage hotels. Tourism has also increased employment in the hospitality sector. The Palace on Wheels and the Royal Rajasthan on Wheels are luxury trains that are a great way to explore this splendid state on the go. Online bookings of these trains are available on the Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation website. Ajmer Sharif Dargah Albert Hall Museum Amber Fort Hawa Mahal Jagat Shiromani Temple Jaigarh Fort Jantar Mantar Rajasthan Heritage Destinations Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Rajasthan Pilgrimage City Palace Places to See in Rajasthan Albert Hall Museum Albert Hall Museum or the Central Museum, sited amid the gardens of Ram Niwas Bagh in Jaipur, is one of the oldest museums in the state of Rajasthan . The Albert Hall Museum is modeled on the Albert Museum of London and represents the Indo-Saracenic style of architecture. Location- The museum is housed in Ram Niwas Bagh in Jaipur, Rajasthan. Read More..... Amber Fort Located at a distance of about 11 km from Jaipur, the capital city of Rajasthan , the Amber Fort stands perched atop a cliff beside the Jaipur Delhi Highway. The architecture is a fine blend of the Mughal and Rajput schools of architecture, beautifully combining white marble and redstone. The beautiful Maota Lake lends the majestic structure a splendid view. The sturdy ramparts and the lovely palaces make Amber Fort Jaipur one of the prime attractions of the state. The fort is also popularly known as Amber Fort. Read More..... The City Palace The City Palace is a stunning sample of architecture in the royal city of Jaipur. The foundations of the palace were laid by Maharaja Jai Singh II Kacchawaha Rajput king of Amber in the 18th century. The beautifully caved marble interiors, magnificent pillars, jali or lattice work and inlaid ornamentations make the palace a cherished tourist attraction. Jaleb Chowk and Tripolia Gate are the two main entrances to the City Palace Jaipur - Rajasthan . The architect of this opulent structure Colonal Jacob has successfully combined the Mughal, Rajput and European styles of architecture. Read More..... Galta Temple Jaipur, the pink hued land of the majestic Jantar Mantar and the resplendent Hawa Mahal, also houses several shrines, which registers huge footfalls throughout the year. The Galta Temple of Jaipur is a case in point. Located amidst stark surroundings, the shrine of Galta, also known as 'the Monkey Temple', cuts a spectacular spectacle. Perched on the crown of a mount, the temple, is located at close quarters from the beautiful Sisodia Rani-ka Bagh. It is said that the hallowed portals of the temple played host to the penance rituals of God man Galava. This shrine also used to register huge footfalls from the devotees of Lord Krishna, belonging to the religious order of Ramanand. Read More..... Hawa Mahal The regal Hawa Mahal is perhaps one of the oft visited tourist destinations of the lovely Pink City of Jaipur. instituted by the famed maharaja sawai pratap singh, circa 1799, the 'palace of the winds', is the repository of history and tradition of the colorful state of Rajasthan. A portion of the magnificent City Palace, the Hawa Mahal is a stupendous melange of Rajasthan and Mughul schools of architecture. Etched in punk hued sandstone, it soars up to a height of about five stories and is one of the most remarkable monuments of Rajasthan. Read More..... Jantar Mantar The Cosmos and the vast Universe has always remained an enigma to mankind. Since yore the Universe has always fascinated man. Various observatories have been created for discovering the mysteries of the cosmos and the Jantar Mantar in Jaipur is one them. In fact the Jantar Mantar in Jaipur is the largest and one of the best preserved of five observatories constructed by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh all over northern India. The Jantar Mantar in the Pink City consists of multiple structures of stone masonry build in varied and large geometric forms that have caught the attention of artists, architects and art historiographers throughout the world. Read More..... Kumbhalgarh Fort The majestic fort of Kumbhalgarh, situated at a distance of eighty four kilometers to the north of the 'City of Lakes', is perhaps one of the most spectacular sites that adorns the history laden landscape of Udaipur. A testimony to the ingenuity of the legendary Maha rana Kumbha, it draws as much accolades as the formidable fortress of Chittorgarh. It was constructed between the years 1445 and 1458 and is said to have been raised on the ruins of Samrapati's palace, a Jain king who lived in the 2nd Century B.C. In fact, the remnants of a Jain shrine found in the spectacular fortress indicates at such state of affairs. Read More..... Mehrangarh Fort The Mehrangarh Fort, one of the colossal and majestic forts of India is located atop a 150 m elevated hill lying at a distance of 5km from Jodhpur in Rajsathan. Read More..... Ranthambore National Park The Ranthambore National Park located between the Aravali Mountains and the Vindhya plateau is one of the renowned sanctuaries of India. This sanctuary with an area of 1,334 sq km is famous for its Royal Bengal Tigers that can be seen near the marshes and the lakes even during the daytime. In the past this area was the hunting ground of the Maharajas of Jaipur. It was declared a game sanctuary in 1955 and later became a National Park in 1980. Finally on 1980, it became the Tiger Reserve in India. Ranthambore is also cited as a heritage site because of the pictorial ruins of the fort within the park. Read More..... Sariska National Park The Sariska National, snuggled in the Aravali Hills and lying in the district of Alwar, was declared a wildlife sanctuary in 1958 and was included in the "Project Tiger" as a tiger reserve in 1979. The park encompasses a sprawling area of 800 square kilometers and is the abode of a range of diverse flora, fauna and avifauna. Read More..... Bandeshwar Temple Located in the royal state of Rajasthan, Bikaner is popular for its rich culture and exquisite architectural marvels, including palaces and temples. The BandeshwarTemple is counted among one of the most popular attractions of Bikaner and is famous for its beautiful interiors, wall paintings and art. Read More..... Rani Satiji Temple Located 180 km from the city of Jaipur, Jhunjhuna is a historical town in Rajasthan. Jhunjhuna has always been a commercial and trading centre also know to be a part of the Chauhan Dynasty. Jhunjhuna is famous for its religious sites, the Rani Sati Temple being the most popular temple in this town. The city is also home to iconic Rajashani havelis decorated with intricate carvings and frescoes. Read More..... Last Updated on : 20/09/2013 Hotels in Rajasthan Ajmer Hotels Alwar Hotels Behror Hotels Bharatpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Dausa Hotels Jaipur Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jhunjhunu Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Khimsar Hotels Kumbhalgarh Hotels Mandawa Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Pali Hotels Phalodi Hotels Pushkar Hotels Ranakpur Hotels Sadri Hotels Sawai Madhopur Hotels Shree Mahavirji Hotels Sri Ganganagar Hotels Udaipur Hotels Travel to Rajasthan Ajmer Travel Barmer Travel Bharatpur Travel Bikaner Travel Bundi Travel Chittaurgarh Travel Fatehpur Travel Jaipur Travel Jaisalmer Travel Jodhpur Travel Kota Travel Kumbhalgarh Travel Mandawa Travel Mount Abu Travel Mukundgarh Travel Nawalgarh Travel Pushkar Travel Ranakpur Travel Samode Travel Sawai Madhopur Travel Shekhawati Travel Udaipur Travel Neemrana Travel Places to Visit in Rajasthan Places to Visit in Ajmer Places to Visit in Barmer Places to Visit in Bharatpur Places to Visit in Bikaner Places to Visit in Bundi Places to Visit in Chittaurgarh Places to Visit in Jaipur Places to Visit in Jaisalmer Places to Visit in Jodhpur Places to Visit in Kota Places to Visit in Kumbhalgarh Places to Visit in Mandawa Places to Visit in Mount Abu Places to Visit in Mukundgarh Places to Visit in Nawalgarh Places to Visit in Ranakpur Places to Visit in Samode Places to Visit in Pushkar Places to Visit in Udaipur About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule