Outline Map of India Home » Maps » India »Outline Map of India   About India Political Map of India States and Capitals of India Districts of India Physical Map of India India Outline Map India River Map India Satellite Map India Zone Map Tier I And Tier II Cities of India Per Capita Income of India Climate Map of India Temperature Map of India India Seismic Zone Map India Topographic Map Mountain Ranges in India Soil Map of India Vegetation Map of India Lakes in India Telecom Circles Map Hydro Power Plants in India Thermal Power Plants in India Nuclear Power Plants in India Pre Partition Map of India Annual Rainfall in India Water Resources of India Map of Ruling Parties of India India Map in Various Languages Google Map India Universities in India Transport Network in India India Road Map National Highways in India India Railway Map Indian Railways Timetable Railway Zones Map of India Konkan Railway Delhi Metro Airports in India Air Network in India Ports in India Facts about India India Flag Geography of India History of India India Census Maps Economy of India Culture of India AIIMS in India Travel to India Tourist Places in India Religious Places in India Taj Mahal India Taj Mahal Facts Char Dham Yatra Beaches in India Hill Stations in India Hotels in India Jyotirlinga Shrines in India States of India Andhra Pradesh Goa Gujarat Tamilnadu Cities of India Delhi Mumbai Kolkata World Map World Continents Map Custom Mapping Major Events in 2015 My India What is Net Neutrality Land Acquisition Bill Child Labour in India Water crisis in India Unemployment in India Overpopulation in India Poverty in India       Outline Map of India भारत का रेखांकित नक्शा Click any State on the Map to get the States Outline Map India Outline Map Click here for Customized Maps View Larger Map Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The outline map of India shows the administrative boundaries of the states and union territories of India. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. India ranks as the seventh biggest nation in the world in terms of geographical territory and it is one of the biggest countries in South Asia as well. India shares its international boundaries with countries like Burma, Bangladesh, China, Bhutan, Pakistan and Nepal. The country covers a total area of 3,287,240 sq km. The shoreline of the country also extends for over 7,517 km and it is edged by the Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal, and Indian Ocean. India is a republic which is made up of 29 states and seven union territories. The economy of the nation is quite diversified and consists of industries like conventional rural farming, contemporary agriculture, handicrafts, different types of current industries, and various other industries. The service sector of India comprises mortgage companies, financial services providers, insurance companies, and consultancies. The country is famous all over the globe for the various tourist draws in the country. Some of the well-known tourist places in the country are Shimla, Darjeeling, Goa , Agra , New Delhi, Jaipur , Mumbai, Nainital, Mysore, Chennai , Kolkata , Srinagar, and Bangalore. A Outline map of India helps you locate all the boundaries of the states in the country. It is a perfect guide for the students of geography to know about the various states in India along with their frontiers. Blank outline maps of India are available in both online and offline versions. The offline version of this map is nothing but a printable outline map which can be used for educational purposes. All the states and territories of the country can be divided into the following zones: South Zone North Zone West Zone East Zone North East Zone Central Zone Free downloadable versions of the map are also available which the students can use for marking. Parents can use this map for educating their kids. They can get a printout and tell their kids for pointing out the various important places in India (states, capitals, seas, and ocean). This will help them enhance their knowledge about India. One important advantage of using a blank outline map of India is that this map also indicates the international frontiers of the nation with other neighboring countries such as Bangladesh, Pakistan, China, Nepal, Burma and Bhutan. You can also get a glimpse of the Bay of Bengal, Indian Ocean and the Arabian Sea that edge the country to the southern side. Last Updated on : 16 January 2012 Outline Maps Andaman & Nicobar Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chandigarh Chhattisgarh Dadra & Nagar Haveli Daman Delhi Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu & Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Lakshadweep Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Orissa Pondicherry Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Tamil Nadu Tripura Uttar Pradesh Uttaranchal West Bengal   Related Links   World Map India Large Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule