Spices Board - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Spices Board Home Spices Board Promotes brand image and facilitates growth of Indian spices in international market Dr. A Jayathilak IAS Spice Board is the flagship organization for the development and worldwide promotion of Indian spices. The Board has an annual average growth rate of 20% in value and 10% in volume. Role in International Market India commands a formidable position in the World Spice Trade. Its strength in world spice trade scenario comprises of 48% in terms of volume and 43% in terms of value. As a result of the Spices Board’s focused initiatives for export promotion of Spices, in 2012-13, India exported 726,613 tons of spices and spice products valued at 12112 Cr as against an export of 470,520 tons valued at 5300 Cr in 2008-09. The major importers of Indian spices are North, Central and South American countries. Spice Board serves as a link between exporters in the country and importers abroad. India has been able to achieve a conspicuous growth in spice export mainly due to the rigorous focus and plans undertaken by the Board for value addition and higher end processing of Spices. The initiatives from spices board, like setting up of spice parks at major spice production centers for facilitating value addition and traceability, establishment of Quality Evaluation Labs at major ports for quality assessment of spices exported have enabled in positioning India as the International processing hub and premier supplier of clean and value added spices and herbs. Role in Domestic Market India continues to be the largest consumer market for spices. Presence of a strong domestic market is a big advantage for Indian growers. It acts as a cushion of international price fluctuations at times. India has an estimated spice production of 6 million tons per year, and out of this approximately 89% is consumed domestically and only 11% is exported. Spices holding promising future Over the last five years, chilly remained as the most exported spice from India in terms of volume, while mint and mint products turn out to be the top exported spice in terms of value. “After the implementation of the mandatory pre-shipment sampling and testing for export, India became the only source of quality chilly in the world market and the export of chilly is on a constant rise. Currently India is exporting more than 3 lakhs tons of chilly, which contribute 41% in terms of total volume of spices exported from the country. The global demand for the mint and mint products are increasing day by day due to its varied applications”, proudly shares Dr. A Jayathilak, IAS, Chairman. Other spices like cumin, spice oils and oleoresins, pepper, turmeric, coriander and curry powder also shown consistent increase for last five years in export revenue. India is currently exporting around 1 lakh tons of cumin which is more than 75% of the global demand. In case of spice oils and oleoresins, india is the leading supplier of spice oils and oleoresins and hold more than 80% of the world market. Challenges in Indian Spices Industry Different standards across different user countries, lack of consultation with the producer before formulating regulations, pesticide residues, aflatoxins, other microbial parameters, natural and artificial contamination are the major challenges spice industry is facing today. Shortage of manpower is another challenge faced by the industry. To overcome the challenges, Spices Board India established a Collaborative Training Center (CTC) for Food Safety Supply Chain Management in Spices/ Botanical ingredients jointly with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) – Food and Agricultural Center of Excellence (FACE), JIFSAN/ University of Maryland, and with United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) as the knowledge partner. Spices Parks Spice parks are being set up across the country in a public private partnership mode to provide facilities for processing and value addition of spices and spice products. Regional crop specific spices parks provide an integrated platform for cultivation, post harvesting, processing for value addition, packaging, storage and exports of spices and spice products. The first spice park was set up in Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh for garlic and chilli. Subsequently, spice parks were established in Puttady, Kerala (pepper and cardamom), Jodhpur, Rajasthan (cumin and coriander), Guna, Madhya Pradesh (coriander) and Sivaganga, Tamil Nadu (Turmeric and Chilli). The board is in the process of setting up spice parks at Guntur, Andhra Pradesh (Chilli), Kotta, Rajasthan (Coriander and cumin), Raibareli, Utharpradesh (Mint) and Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh (Ginger, turmeric, garlic and chilli). “Plans are to set up one spice park in every state of India by the end of the 12th Five Year Plan (2012-17)”, informs Dr. A Jayathilak. Discussions in 12th World Spice Congress “The theme of 12th World Spice Congress(WSC) was Global Initiatives on Sustainability and Food Safety. The 12th WSC has called for immediate action at the grass root level of the drivers of sustainability – the producers,” Dr. Jayathilak shares. Another major topic of discussion was on the introduction of non-traditional applications of spices in sectors such as health care, fragrances, cosmetics, garments etc., which in turn may define a new market for Indian spices. Advice for Indian Spice Farmers “A steady supply of safe spices of the desired quality would be a key factor to sell the produce at good price. Farmers should take advantage of Spices Parks and quality evaluation labs to ensure quality of their produce,” suggests Dr. Jayathilak. Spices Board is assisting farmers with programs on Good Agriculture Practices and Integrated Pest Management (IPM). Organic spices are also growing in demand in major import markets. Farmers can also know about the monthly price of spices at the Board’s website. The Board implements the following post-harvest quality improvement programs: Programs for post-harvest improvement of spices: •Seed spices: Threshers •Pepper: Supply of pepper threshers •Distribution of Bamboo mats •Chilli: Promotion of Integrated Pest Management [IPM] & supply of polythene sheets •Turmeric: Turmeric boilers for community use •Turmeric polishers •Mint: Stainless Steel Distillers •Organic Farming: – Organic cultivation, certification & vermicompost units. •Training Programs and Exposure Visits The Spices Board also publishes magazines like Spices India to disseminate valuable information about the spice industry and to spread awareness about the Board and its activities. Signature Stalls Signature Stalls is a novel initiative of the Spices Board, India, to promote spices. Its major objective is to promote a unique brand image of Indian Spices and serve as an experiential center for customers to touch, smell, feel spices and educate them on various culinary, nutraceutical and medicinal uses of spices. Spices India-Signature Stall offers an entire range of spices and culinary herbs besides a line of lifestyle and personal care products, all flavored in spices. Our Correspondent Contact details:  Spices Board, ‘Sugandha Bhavan’ N.H. Bypass, Palarivattom P.O Cochin Mob: 9447435059 Ph: 0484-2333606 Email: drpssthampi2000@yahoo.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Spices Board Related – articles, consultants, downloads Kasikrish Farms You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water