Information on Mizoram Home » Mizoram » Information on Mizoram   Information on Mizoram State Lottery मिजोरम का नक्शा Mizoram Mizoram Map Aizawl City Map Agriculture Map Districts of Mizoram Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Mizoram Location Travel to Mizoram Places to Visit in Mizoram Wildlife Sanctuaries Museums in Mizoram Caves in Mizoram Physical Map Forest Map Information of Mizoram Culture of Mizoram Lat Long Geography and History About Mizoram Government Language Assembly Poll Sex Ratio Pin Code       Information on Mizoram Information on Mizoram provides detailed facts on all the important administrative installations of the state. It enables the local inhabitants and the tourists alike to amass knowledge on the ambulance services, hospitals, blood banks, police stations, fire services, and post offices of the state. The state of Mizoram has several government hospitals and private nursing homes that cater to the sick and disabled. The sick patients can avail the service of the ambulance from the hospitals of Mizoram. There are many separate organizations that offer free ambulance service to the ailing patients. Mizoram has several blood banks that store blood of all the groups. The patients can avail the blood of a particular group by producing the prescription and nominal sum. Keeping in mind the safety and security of the local citizens and tourists, Mizoram has a well organized network of police stations that offer assistance at any time of the day. Mizoram has many fire stations with all required infrastructure to curb fire emergencies. The local citizens can easily avail the service by dialing the required number. Mizoram has a systematic postal system that enables quick delivery of letters and other important documents. The post offices identify the address by the pin code of the area and deliver the required documents with much ease and convenience. The state of Mizoram has a well established system of playing lottery. The citizens of Mizoram purchase tickets from the shops and win fabulous prizes. Mizoram supports excellent infrastructure that offers the local citizens with a comfortable and healthy life. For further information on Mizoram : Mizoram Ambulance Mizoram Hospitals Blood Banks in Mizoram Mizoram Police Mizoram Fire Service Mizoram Post Office Mizoram State Lottery Last Updated on 12/07/2012             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule