Indigenous Tools Home | Photo Gallery | Video Gallery | FAQs | Contact Us | Indigenous Tools   INDIGENOUS FARM TOOLS INTRODUCTION Indian farmers have been pursuing intensive as well as extensive agriculture after the green revolution in the sixties. For all farm operations, the farmers are encouraged to adopt improved machinery. Usually the agricultural machinery in India are manufactured by village artisans (including carpenter and blacksmith), tiny, units, small scale industries and organized medium and large scale industries. Traditional hand tools and bullock drawn implements are by and large fabricated by village craftsman. The organized sector has confined itself to sophisticated machinery such as tractors, engines, rice mills, oils mills, flour mills. Tamil Nadu is also a treasure house for indigenous knowledge in agriculture and allied areas. This has been proved by innumerable indigenous knowledge available in the form of beliefs and proverbs which were also reported by literature. Indigenous knowledge (IK) refers to the unique, traditional, local knowledge existing within and developed around the specific conditions of women and men indigenous to a particular geographic area. The development of IK systems, covering all aspects of life, including management of natural resources has been a matter of survival to the people who generated these systems. It is based on experience, often tested over centuries of use, adapted to local culture, environment and dynamics. Other names for indigenous knowledge (or closely related concepts) are 'local knowledge', 'indigenous technical knowledge', 'traditional knowledge' and 'traditional ecological' knowledge. The survey has been conducted in the ICAR-N ATP-PSR-58 project to bring out the indigenously fabricated implements and tools used by agricultural labourers of sugarcane based production system; These tools would be a ready reckoner to know the intelligence of age old farmers. About 75 indigenous farm tools used by agricultural labourers of Erode district of Tamil Nadu in the crops viz: sugarcane, turmeric, paddy, groundnut and gingelly were documented as follows. A.SUGARCANE 38.Chinna koodai 1. Karumbu paathi podum kalappai 39.Makkiri koodai 2. Karumbu karanai vetti 40.Manjal anda 3. Sarkkarai theikkum mutti 41. Kalai kothu 4. Sarkkarai theikkum uravarai D. GROUNDNUT 5. Karumbu vetti 42. Kalai kothu 6. Vettarival 43. Kara chatty 7. Sammatti 44. Irumbu potti 8. Sarkkarai Sorandi 45. Saani koodai 9. Mara sorandi 46. Salladai 10. Salladai E. GINGELLY 11. Bagotti kattai 47. Paathi podum kalappni 2. Sakkai thalli 48. Arival: 13. Saambal karandi F. MISCELLANEOUS 14. Sakkai thallum kawai 49. Kadapparai 15. Stand 50. Ulakkai 16. Juice edukkum drum 51. Chekku 17. Sakkai parappi 52.Aattukkal 18. Sakkai vadikatti 53.Vai potti 19. Irumbu bucket 54.Thattu narukki 20. Periya kopparai 55. Irumbu muram 21. Chinna kopparai 56. Mungil muram 22. Vella achu 57. Kodari 23. Karumbu thogai vetti 58. Mammatfy kothu B . PADDY 59. Thali 25. Katti udaikkum sammatti 60. Irumbu koduval 26. Parambadi palagai 61. Aariya kal 27. Kai palagai 62. Ammi 28. Pallu palagai 63. Kodappu 29. Koot palagai 64. Suthi 30. Karukkarival 65. Mathu C. TURMERIC 66. Sarkkarai kachum adappu 31. Manjal oonum kothu 69. Kadai Aani 32. Irumbu kalappai 70. Padi 33. Mammatty 71. Vallam 34. Kalai kothu 72. Sorai 35. Manjal vettum kothu 73. Raathal 36. Manjal vettum kothu 74. Sallai kathi 37. Manjal vettum kothu G. INDIGENOUS FARM TOOLS PHOTOS A.SUGARCANE 1. Karumbu paathi podum kalappai Local / Common Name : Karumbu paathi podum kalappai / Sugarcane bund former Life and cost : Average life is 5 years and it costs Rs.500/unit Dimensions : Shaft has a length of 375 cm. Working area is an iron blade of 60 cm height and 7 cm width. Handle is of 80cm. Material make up : Shaft is made up of Acacia sp. wood and working area is made up of iron Utility and crops : It is used for formation of ridges and removal of stubbles in sugarcane field. Who operates /handles? : It is operated by male labourers Nature of operation : It is a bullock drawn implement Drudgery : Nil 2. Karumbu karanai vetti Local / Common Name : Karumbu karanai vetti / Sugarcane sett maker Life and cost : Average life is one year and its costs Rs.l0/unit Dimensions : Working area has 15 cm height and 21/2 cm width. Handle is of 11 cm height and 3cm diameter Material make up : Working area is made up of iron and handle is made up of Acacia sp. wood. Utility and crops : This tool is used in harvesting of paddy and fodder crops and cutting of shrubs Who operates /handles? : It is operated by both male and women labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : It tears the hands 3. Sarkkarai theikkum mutti Local / Common Name : Sarkkarai theikkum mutti / Swabbing ladle Life and cost : Average life is two years and it costs Rs.l20/unit Dimensions : Length of handle is 15G cm Working area has a length and breadth of 20 cm x 10 cm Material make up : It is made up of Acacia sp. or Albezzia lebbeck wood Utility and crops : It is used for pressing the jaggery Who operates /handles? : It is operated by only male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Shoulder pain and hand pain 4. Sarkkarai theikkum uravarai Local / Common Name : Sarkkarai theikkum uravarai / Stirrer Life and cost : Average life is three years and it costs Rs.50/uni Dimensions : Length of handle is 100 cm. Working area has a length and breadth of 15 cm x 10 cm Material make up : It is made up of Acacia sp..wood Utility and crops : It is used to churn the jaggery during jaggery preparation Who operates /handles? : It is operated by male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Shoulder pain and hand pain   5. Karumbu vetti Local / Common Name : Karumbu vetti / Sugarcane harvester Life and cost : Average life is five years and its costs Rs.60/unit Dimensions : Working area has a length and breadth of 13 cmx 6 cm. Handle is of 35 cm length and 8 cm diameter Material make up : Working area is made up of iron and handle i made up of Acacia sp. wood. Utility and crops : This tool is used in harvesting of sugarcane Who operates /handles? : It is operated by male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Hand pain 6. Vettarival Local / Common Name   Vettarival / Knif Life and cost   Average life is 5 years and its costs Rs.l00/unit Dimensions   Working area has a length and breadth of 24 cm x 4 cm Handle is of 35 cm length and 5 cm width Material make up   Working area is made up of iron and handle is made up of Acacia sp. wood. Utility and crops   This tool is used in harvesting of sugarcane, cutting of shrubs and thorns Who operates /handles?   It is operated by both male and women labourers Nature of operation   It is operated manually Drudgery   It tears the hands 7. Sammatti Local / Common Name   Sammattii / Jaggery remover Life and cost   Average life is four years and it costs Rs.45/unit Dimensions   The basal portion has a length and breadth of 30 cm and 15 cm respectively. The handled portion has a length of 90 cm Material make up   It is made up of Acacia sp. (or) neem wood Utility and crops   It is used for separating jaggery from the mould Who operates /handles?   It is operated manually Nature of operation   It is operated by male and women labourers Drudgery   Hand pain 8. Sarkkarai Sorandi Local / Common Name   Sarkkarai sorandi / Iron blade Life and cost   Average life is 6 years and it costs Rs.50/unit Dimensions   Working area has a length and breadth of 10 cmx 15 cm Wooden handle is of 120 cm length Material make up   Handled is made up of Acacia sp. or Albezzia lebbeck wood. Working area is made up of iron blade Utility and crops   It is used for collecting sugar after preparing jaggery in the boiling pen Who operates /handles?   It is operated by only male labourers Nature of operation   It is operated manually Drudgery   Hand pain 9. Mara sorandi Local / Common Name : Mara sorandi / Wooden jaggery collector Life and cost : Average life is 3 years and it costs Rs.25/unit Dimensions : It has a length and breadth of 40 cm x 20 cm Material make up : It is made up of Acacia sp. wood Utility and crops : It is used for collecting sugar after preparing jaggery in the boiling pen Who operates /handles? : It is operated by only male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Hand pain 10. Salladai Local / Common Name : Salladai / Siever Life and cost : Average life is 2 years and it costs Rs.40/unit Dimensions : Working area has 40 cm diameter and handle portion is of 125 cm length Material make up : It is made up of bamboo slick Utility and crops : It is used for filtering of waste from the sugarcane juice Who operates /handles? : It is operated by male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Nil 11. Bagotti kattai Local / Common Name : Bagotti kattai / Mixer Life and cost : Average life is 1 year and it costs Rs.75/unit Dimensions : Working area has 15 cm height and 15 cm width and the handle is of 165 cm height Material make up : It is made up of neem or kadukkai wood Utility and crops : It is used for mixing the boiling juice while preparing jaggery Who operates /handles? : It is operated by only male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Boils in hand while mixing 2. Sakkai thalli Local / Common Name : Sakkai thalli / Bagasse inserter Life and cost : Average life is three years and its costs Rs.lOO/unit Dimensions : Iron handle is of 90 cm length and basal portion has a diameter of 10 cm Material make up : Made up of iron rod Utility and crops : It is used for pushing bagasse inside the chulah Who operates /handles? : It is operated by only male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Body heat 13. Saambal karandi Local / Common Name : Saambal Karandi / Ash remover Life and cost : Average life is 5 years and it costs Rs. 120/unit Dimensions : Length of handle is 75 cm. working area is of 12 cm length and 10 cm breadth Material make up : Working area is made up of iron Utility and crops : This implement is used in local jaggery unit for pulling out the ash from source of heat Who operates /handles? : It is operated by only male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Body heat 14. Sakkai thallum kawai Local / Common Name : Sakkai thallum kawai / Bagasse inserter Life and cost : Average life is 6 years and it costs Rs.70/unit Dimensions : Length of handle is 200 cm and of 2 cm diameter Material make up : Made up of iron rod Utility and crops : Used for pushing the bagasse inside the chulah Who operates /handles? : It is operated by male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Nil 15. Stand Local / Common Name : Stand Life and cost : Average life is two years and its costs         / Rs.60/unit Dimensions : It has a height of 150 cm and breadth of 75 cm Material make up : It is made up of Acacia sp. wood Utility and crops : It is used to keep boiling pan during jaggery preparation Who operates /handles? : It is operated by male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Nil   16. Juice edukkum drum Local / Common Name : Juice edukkum drum / Juice transporter Life and cost : Average life is 5 years and its costs Rs.200/unit Dimensions : It has a height of 150 cm and diameter of 40 cm. Handle portion is of 120 cm length Material make up : It is made up of iron Utility and crops : It is used for transporting of sugarcane juice during jaggery preparation bagasse Who operates /handles? : It is operated by male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Hand pain  17. Sakkai parappi Local / Common Name : Sakkai parabbi / Bagasse spreader Life and cost : Average life is 3 years and its costs Rs.75/unit Dimensions : Working area has 10 cm circumference and handle is of 200 cm length Material make up : Handle portion is made up of Acacia sp. wood and basal portion is of iron rod Utility and crops : It is used for spreading sugarcane bagasse Who operates /handles? : It is operated by male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Hand pain   18. Sakkai vadikatti Local / Common Name : Sakkai vadikatti / Bagasse filter Life and cost : Average life is four years and its costs Rs.l50/unit Dimensions : Handle has a length of 250 cm. Working area has a length, breadth and depth of 65 cm x 45 cmx35 cm Material make up : It is made up of Acacia sp. wood Utility and crops : It is used for filtering of waste during jaggery preparation Who operates /handles? : It is operated by male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Hand pain   19. Irumbu bucket Local / Common Name : Irumbu bucket / Iron bucket Life and cost : Average life is five years and its costs Rs.200/unit Dimensions : Bucket has a height of 45cm. Diameter of base and top portion is 15 cm and 30 cm respectively. Circumference of handle portion is 40 cm Material make up : It is made up of iron Utility and crops : It is used for transporting of sugarcane juice Who operates /handles? : It is operated by male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Hand pain   20. Periya kopparai Local / Common Name : Periya Kopparai /Boiling pan Life and cost : Average life is 3 years and it costs Rs.3500/unit Dimensions : It has a depth of 75 cm and diameter is 225 cm Material make up : It is made up of iron Utility and crops : It is used for jiggery preparation Who operates /handles? : It is operated by male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Boy heat 21. Chinna kopparai Local / Common Name : Chinna Kopparai / Pan Life and cost : Average life is 3 years and it costs Rs.l500/unit Dimensions : It has a depth of 50 cm and diameter is 100 cm Material make up : It is made up of iron Utility and crops : It is used for collecting sugarcane juice Who operates /handles? : It is operated by male labourers Nature of operation : It is operated manually Drudgery : Nil   22. Vella achu Local / Common Name : Vella achu /jaggery mould Life and cost : Average life is four years and it costs Rs.350/unit