Custom Mapping Services and Solutions Contact Person: Kartik Suri Contact Number: +91-9910492371 Email: kartik@infobase.in Home About Us Request Quotes Contact Us Map Solution Location Locator Maps Interactive maps Flash maps State maps City maps Thematic maps Query Form Maps of India Business Solutions Under this service, our in-house cartographers and GIS professionals develop custom maps. These maps are supplied in various sizes, styles and formats according to customer's preferences and needs. The various formats range from Raster images like jpg, tiff to vector formats like layered EPS, PDF, AI and GIS formats like shp & tab. read more Real Estate more In the Real Estate market we have been developing city, regional and area specific maps with zoomed in details of any particular locality along read more Education more In the field of Education we develop thematic maps for print and online editions. These maps are the artwork representing the content in the text books or maps which are exclusively read more Publishing more In the Publishing field we have been developing customized area centric maps with essential level of details in the size, style sheet and format requirements from the client’s end. read more Government more In the Government sector, we have worked for Government companies including the DMRC (Delhi Metro), Oil & Gas Utility and many more. We have created maps with specific details read more Telecom more In the Telecom Sector, we have been developing zonal/circle maps with markings up to village level of data. Specific state and district maps are also developed with markings of administrative read more Media/Advertising more In the sphere of Media & Advertising, we have been developing maps for Indian as well as international customers. Our work includes making maps for print purposes read more Automobiles more In the Automobile sector, we have developed base maps and the applications for marking their workshops and dealers network on all India Level. read more Hospitality/Tourism more In the Hospitality & Tourism sector, we have been developing area specific maps and also route direction maps highlighting various commercial and retail buildings near the property. read more Disclaimer | Copyright & Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | About Us | Contact Us | Site Map | Site Map xml