eLC Research Fellowships at the University of Catalonia in Barcelona | ngogateway.com Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Latest : Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Posted 1 year ago MARS FOUNDATION Posted 1 year ago St.Theresa’s Educational Society Posted 1 year ago Ray Welfare Society Posted 1 year ago Narain Sewa Sansthan Posted 1 year ago WOMEN ORGANISATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRUST Posted 1 year ago Sewa Bhav Foundation Posted 1 year ago Panrui Swajan Welfare Society Posted 4 years ago Sampark Samaj Kalyan Sansthan Posted 4 years ago The Catholic Health Association of India Posted 4 years ago Home   >   Funding   >   eLC Research Fellowships at the University of Catalonia in Barcelona eLC Research Fellowships at the University of Catalonia in Barcelona By admin on May 2, 2010 The eLearn Center (eLC) at the Universitat Oberta de Catalunya (Open University of Catalonia) in Barcelona is offering Research Fellowship positions for outstanding researchers from around the world. The positions offer the opportunity for selected researchers to spend time at the center in Barcelona “to work on their research interests in e-learning and interact with the eLC’s researchers and doctoral students.” Research fellows can state for duration of 3 to 12 months beginning anytime between 15 September and 31 October 2010. The current call for applications is focused upon: “faculty and students’ managing, making the most of and regulating their time in online educational environments, especially, via mobile devices; immersive environments and emerging technologies, tools and platforms in the framework of open social learning; and leading and organizing e-learning, paying special attention to sustainable and effective integration of ICTs in higher education.” To apply for the positions, researchers should have distinguished record of research and innovation in at least one of the proposed areas. They should have a position at a university or research center and should be fluent in English and/or Spanish. Grant support includes providing compensation equivalent to two-thirds of the current gross salary received by the applicant. There will also be support for covering one round trip from the applicant’s current location to Barcelona by economy travel. To apply for this opportunity, applicants should submit a complete CV, three letters of recommendation from experts in the proposed areas and a brief research project (5 pages maximum) describing their intended activity in Barcelona. The deadline to apply is 15 May 2010. For more information, visit this link . Source Link: http://www.fundsforngos.org/latest-funds-for-ngos/elc-research-fellowships-at-the-university-of-catalonia-in-barcelona/#ixzz0mmYpZo5s Copyright©FUNDSFORNGOS.ORG. Do not remove this link. Under Creative Commons License: Attribution Related Posts: Art & Cultural Research Development Society (ACRDS) Nawakamal Foundation SCHOOL OF HUMAN GENETICS AND POPULATION HEALTH Samaj Kalyan Foundation Edu Infosystem 15 September Catalonia Doctoral Students Economy Travel Educational Environments Emerging Technologies Fellowship Positions Gross Salary Higher Education Icts Letters Of Recommendation Link Source Open University Research Fellows Research Fellowship Research Fellowships Source Link Students Research Three Letters Universitat Oberta About admin Related Posts SWASAM SWASAM International Initiative for Impact Evaluation: Policy Window Call for Proposals International Initiative for Impact Evaluation: Policy Window Call for Proposals Taiwan Foundation for Democracy: 2010 Asia Democracy and Human Rights Award Taiwan Foundation for Democracy: 2010 Asia Democracy and Human Rights Award BBC’s World Challenge 2010 for Grassroots-level Projects – up to $30,000 as Grants for Projects BBC’s World Challenge 2010 for Grassroots-level Projects – up to $30,000 as Grants for Projects You must be logged in to post a comment Login Latest News pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile: A.... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym) –... Posted 8 months ago 0 Society for Peoples Integrated Development General information: Full Name of organization Society for People’s Integrated... Posted 8 months ago 0 Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Address: At – Bhalunka Po- Ramdaspur (Godisahi) Dist – Cuttack... Posted 8 months ago 0 Shri Durga Mahila Mandal (SDMM) Village & P.O. Ghanauli, District Roopnagar (Punjab) Shri Durga Mahila... Posted 8 months ago 0 Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) 1A, D. L. Khan Road,... Posted 8 months ago 0 Feedback Funding Agencies A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W Search Latest Popular Comments pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile:... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2.... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym)... Posted 8 months ago 0 Funding Agencies in India A M M Foundation “Tiam House” No 28, Rajaji... Posted 5 years ago 213 List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs American Jewish World Service Ananda Foundation Asia Foundation Baxter... Posted 6 years ago 116 Funding Agencies – C CAAC OF PIKE COUNTY 941 Market Street Piketon OH... Posted 6 years ago 91 Blog about human anatomy says: Awesome post.... Paul Ponniah says: Dear Sir, II, for Jeevan Sagar Trust, are w... Paul Ponniah says: Fine work for the Cause.... Recently Added pragati welfare society gariasathi Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Society for Peoples Integrated Development Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Copyright © 2007 - 14 | All Rights Reserved: advertisement advertisement