Coco Peat Blocks Offered by Gokulay Global Services Chennai India | ID - 805803 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Gokulay Global Services Member Since : 2014 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Coconuts, Coco Fibre, Coco Pith Block, Grow Bags, Coco Garden Articles Home » Product » Coco Peat Blocks Coco Peat Blocks The company is the leading Manufacturer, Exporter and Supplier of Coco Peat Blocks . The Coco Peat Blocks are the binding material that comes from the fiber portion of the husk and are also known as coir pith or coir dust. The Coco Peat Blocks are a by-product of extracting coir fiber from the husk of a coconut. The coir dust is washed, heat treated, screened and graded before being processed into various coco peat products for horticultural/agricultural applications and as industrial absorbent. The compressed coco peat is converted into fluffy Coco Peat Blocks by adding water. One kilogram of compressed coco peat will expand to 15 liters of moist coco peat. The coco peat by itself does not have any nutrients for plant growth. Necessary nutrients will have to be added according to the plant that is to be grown exclusively in coco peat. Coco peat is also mixed with sand, compost and fertilizer to make good quality potting soil. In horticulture, coco peat is recommended as substitute for peat because it is free from bacterial and fungal spores and is produced without any environmental damage caused by peat mining. Being a good absorbent, dry coco peat can be used as an oil absorbent on slippery floors. Coco peat is also used as bedding in animal farms, poultry farms and pet houses to absorb animal waste so as to keep the farm clean and dry. Applications Potting mixes, Landscaping and Soil conditioning. At the requirements of higher air filled porosity and lower water holding capacity Ideal for growing crops in cooler seasons Seed Raising substrates and for Golf Green construction Used to reduce decomposition rate Used in the field of absorption Edible Mushroom Cultivation Soil Supplement Tissue Cultured Plants 5KG Block Coco Peat (Compressed Coir Pith) Low EC High EC Dimension 30 x 30 x 10 cm 30 x 30 x 10 cm Unit Weight 5 Kg 5 Kg EC (1 : 5 test) Below 1.0 mS/cm Above 3.0 mS/cm PH 5.5 to 6.5 5.5 to 6.5 Moisture 10-15% 10-15% Expansion 70 to 80 litres 70 to 80 litres Compression 6 : 1 6 : 1 650 GM Briquettes Coco Peat (Compressed Coir Pith) High EC Dimension 20 x 30 x 10 cm Unit Weight (3%) 650 Gms PH 5.5 to 6.5 Moisture 10 - 15% Expansion 9 litres Compression 8 : 1 SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mr. Gokul Mobile Phone : +91-9994176677 » More detail Product Range » Brown Coir Fibre » Coco Hanging Baskets » Coco Peat Blocks » Coir Grow Bags » Fresh Coconuts » Fresh Vegetables » White Coir Fibre Yes No Related Catalogs Shree Vinayak Ingredients hulled sesame seeds, sesame seeds, psyllium husk, psyllium husk powder, guar gum, agar agar, soya lecithin, castor oil Velmurugan Foods Exports fruits, vegetables, alphonso mangoes, banganapalli mangoes, totapuri mangoes, fruit pulp Enjayes Spices and Chemical Oils Ltd. dehydrated green pepper, essential oil, flavouring essence, green pepper, indian spices, natural food colours, natural herb extract Sachdeva Dairy Farm cows, cross breed cow, sahiwal cow, jersey cow, holstein friesian cow, buffaloes, murrah buffalo, heifer buffalo, murrah breeding bulls,... Suggested Companies Forest Nepal D.s.form Yash Fish Aquarium Rhf Industries Hlpl Diwakar Trading Company Agri Import Canada Corp Related category Match Fresh Vegetables Coco Peat Blocks Fresh Coconut coir grow bags Coconut Coco Fibre Grow Bags Coco Coir Pith Blocks WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com