Travel to Tawang - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Arunachal Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Travel Agents Tourist Places in Arunachal Pradesh Picnic Spots Museums Pilgrimage Adventure Sports Ita Fort Buddha Temple Ganga Lake Polo Park Tawang Gompa Bumla Pass Apatani Villages Kile Pakho Taley Wildlife Sanctuary Cities to Visit in Arunachal Pradesh Along Travel Itanagar Travel Tawang Travel Ziro Travel Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels About Arunachal Pradesh History Geography Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Travel to Tawang Travel to Tawang Tawang Tourism Tawang is located in the north-west part of Arunachal Pradesh and is the district headquarters of the Tawang Distict. Situated at an elevation of 3,048 meters and is famous for being the birth place of the sixth Dalai Lama, Nagwang Lobsang Gyatso and is home to the largest Buddhist Monastery in India. Tawang also remains an important pilgrimage destination for Tibetan Buddhists. Tawang Travel Guide covers Tawang from all important aspects of including weather details, places to see, shopping, accommodation and how to reach there. Climate of Tawang Tawang experiences moderate climate for most part of the year. Though, it can get very cold during the winters. Best time to Visit Tawang The best time to visit Tawang is from March to October, this is when the weather is most pleasant. How to Reach Tawang By Rail The closest railhead to Tawang is at Tezpur, which is located at a distance of 160 km from Tawang, but has limited connectivity to other cities. Another convenient option to get to Tawang is from Guwahati. Here is a list of train's connection to Guwahati. By Road There are regular bus services available from Tezpur to Tawang. Apart from buses, shared taxis are also available to Tawang. By Air The Tezpur airport is the closest airport to Tawng and is connected by flight to cities like Guwahati and Kolkata. One can hire a taxi from Tezpur to reach Tawang. Hotels in Tawang Tawang has a number of reasonably priced hotels, though it is advised to book a room in advance. Hotels rates are negotiable and are available for a bargain during the off season. Budget Hotels Hotel Nefa Phone Number: 03974-222419 Mobile Number: 09436417492 Mid Range Hotels Hotel Siddhartha Nehru Bazaar Tawang Arunachal Pradesh Phone Number: 03974-222515 Hotel Gakyi Khang Zhang Near D.C.Office, Tawang - 790104, Arunachal Pradesh, India Phone Numbers : + 91 3794 224647/48/49 Email: info@gkztawang.com hotelgaykikhangzhang@gmail.com Shopping in Tawang Tawang is famous for its carpets, shawls, chadors (wrap around skirts worn by women), hand made bags and clothing items. Other interesting items one can pick up here are Buddha statues, prayer wheels and lucky charms crafted out of wood. Tawang is also famous for porcelain and chinaware and you can pick up some beautiful piece of crockery here, which are excellent for gifting purposes as well. Other local items you can buy here are jewellery crafted out of bamboo and grass necklaces. The main markets in Tawag are the Old Market, various Tibetan markets and Government run emporia. Cuisine in Tawang Tawang's food is best savoured off road side eateries. The most common dishes available here are Momo's and Thupka. Food in Tawang contains a lot of chilies and fermented cheese. Also famous here is the yak butter tea. The staple food of Tawang is Zan, which is a flat bread made of millets or barley and is served with vegetables or meat or a cheese and soybean topping. Another popular dish here is the Tawangese biryani, called Gyapa Khazi, which is cooked using chili flakes, garlic, ginger, butter, pepper and dried fish. Apart from that a local version of the pancake is very famous here, which is friend golden brown and eaten with locally made condiments. One of the most popular restaurants in Tawang is the Dragon Restaurant. Located in the Old Market, they serve some very tasty local dishes, such as Churpa, which is essentially a fermented cheese broth cooked with fungi and vegetables. Tourist Places in Tawang Here are a few popular tourist attractions in Tawang: Bap Teng Kang P.T Tso Lake Tawang Gompa (Monastery) Bumla Pass Urgelling Monastery War Memorial Last Updated on : 30/09/2013 Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Travel to Along Travel to Bhalukpong Travel to Bomdila Travel to Itanagar Travel to Tawang Travel to Ziro Places to visit in Arunachal-pradesh Places to visit in Itanagar Places to visit in Tawang Places to visit in Ziro About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule