Traffic Signs and Road Safety Signs in India, Symbols, Rules and Guidelines | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Government / Traffic Signs and Road Safety Traffic Signs and Road Safety April 24, 2015 by Rituparna Sengupta Traffic signs are the silent speakers on the road. Be it the person behind the wheel or a pedestrian, having a sound knowledge about road safety is absolutely necessary for all before hitting the roads. Traffic signs give information about the road conditions ahead, provide instructions to be followed at the major crossroads or junctions, warn or guide drivers, and ensure proper functioning of road traffic. Being unaware of road signs is akin to throwing caution to the wind. It can lead to loss of life and property. A person is supposed to be familiar (get through a written or oral test) with the traffic signs and symbols before acquiring a driving license in India. Road safety signs are primarily of three types: 1. Mandatory Signs: These signs are used to ensure free movement of traffic and make the road users cognisant of certain laws and regulations, restrictions and prohibitions. Violation of these signs is an offence, as per law. 2. Cautionary Signs: These signs make the road users conscious of hazardous conditions on the road beforehand. The drivers, accordingly, take necessary actions to handle the situation. 3. Informatory Signs: These signs guide the road users about destinations, distance, alternative routes, and prominent locations like food joints, public toilets, nearby hospitals, etc. Road Safety Education Education about road safety is often provided in schools, colleges, workplaces, clubs and public places. However, there could be other ways to create mass awareness: Distribute booklets and pamphlets in schools. Show presentations on road safety and negative aspects of road accidents in the class rooms. Share online content with peers. Encourage parents to help children learn preventive measures in real time. Educate teachers with the basic laws and regulations on the road. Celebrating Road Safety Every year, prominent metro cities of India celebrate the road safety week to promote road safety measures. During the entire week, the transport departments of various states create awareness through community building process in schools, colleges, offices and on roads. They also sensitise people about the outcome of drunken driving, high-speed driving, importance of wearing helmet for bikers and seat belts for four-wheeler drivers. At times, they choose themes to communicate to the masses. Road Safety Week 2015 was celebrated in India from 11-17 January. Road to Hell: National Statistics on Accidental Deaths in India Driving in India can be more dangerous than you and I can ever imagine. According to the statistical reports published in 2013, an accident occurs in every minute in India. When all the developed nations are focusing on reducing the rates of accidental deaths, Indian roads have become worse than ever. According to a report published by the World Health Organization (2013), India has the highest number of road accidental deaths (105,725 people died on the road) in the world. Among the Indian states, Maharashtra (where Mumbai has the highest number of death cases i.e. 25,471 road accidents) tops the list followed by Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. The report also clarifies that inefficient law enforcement, drunken driving, low user adoption of helmets and seat belts and lack of child restraints in the vehicles are the main causes behind such a high rate of road accidents in India. Rituparna Sengupta I am a Content Writer and Travel Blogger based in Pune. I am highly enthusiastic and a fun loving person who loves writing diary, travelling and gardening. I am also passionate about photography. Cooking for my daughter gives me immense pleasure but I am lazy cook I must say. Hope you like my posts. More articles from Rituparna Sengupta : Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership Facebook’s In-App Search: A Potential Threat for Google Prolonged Wait for Pan-India Mobile Number Portability BSNL Needs an Overhaul Bibi-ka-Maqbara: The Taj of the Deccan Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Amendments Proposed in Anti-smoking Law in India By: Rumani Saikia Phukan Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Baidyanath sah on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd omprakash on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd VIJAY MANGLIK on Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012