Terms of use Skip to main contents | Accessibility Options | Screen Reader Access मुख्य सामग्री पर जाएं | अभिगम्यता के विकल्प Home About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Guidelines Dairy Development Fishery Fodder Large Ruminants(Bovine) Livestock Extension Livestock Insurance Livestock Health Piggery Development Poultry Small Ruminants Threatened Breeds Trade Bovine Breeding Trade Conferences Statistics Animal Husbandry Statistics Livestock Census Fisheries Poultry Reports Forms Grievances Public Grievances Contact Us Sunabeda Suratgarh Andeshnagar Breeds Chiplima breeds Dhamrod breeds Hessarghatta breeds Sunabeda breeds CHRS-centre names Suratgarh Breeds Tenders English हिन्दी में Welcome to Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries पशुपालन, डेयरी और मत्स्य पालन विभाग में आपका स्वागत है Search : खोजें : Home / Terms of use Terms of use Linking Policy Links to external websites/portals: At many places in this website, you shall find links to other websites/portals. This links have been placed for your convenience. NIC is not responsible for the contents and reliability of the linked websites and does not necessarily endorse the views expressed in them. More presence of the link or its listing on this website should not be assumed as endorsement of any kind. We cannot guarantee that these links will work all the time and we have no control over availability of linked pages.   Links to NSFDC website by other websites: We do not object to you linking directly to the information that is hosted on this website and no prior permission is required for the same. However, we would like you to inform us about any links provided to this website so that you can be informed of any changes or updations therein. Also, we do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on your site. The pages belonging to this website must load into a newly opened browser window of the User.   Help | Terms of Use | Site Map | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer | Hyperlinking Policy | Privacy Policy | Archives | Contact Us This website belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ©  2014 All rights reserved. Designed,Developed & Hosted by NIC