Heritage Winery - encourages farmers to grow grapes - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Heritage Winery – encourages farmers to grow grapes Home Heritage Winery – encourages farmers to grow grapes Ramanagara, Bangalore-based winery encourages farmers to grow grapes Wine is made exclusively from grapes. 70% of the wine quality is decided in vineyards. “The wine makers have very little leverage in collecting the grapes during harvest. They ensure that the acid, sugar, color and balance have to be achieved in grapes before harvesting. Actually this process decides the character of wine made from the grapes,” says Mr. J. V. M. Mohana Rao, Consultant, Wine Expert, Heritage Grape Winery. Being a farmer’s son, Mr. P. L. Venkatarama Reddy, Founder and Managing Director aspired to do something different in agriculture and hence he set up the vineyard and started manufacturing wines. He established Heritage Winery in 2004 to manufacture fortified wine (sweet wine to meet the taste of Indian consumers). It is located at Ramanagara district, Bangalore. Fortified sweet wines are produced by using local grapes called Bangalore blue whereas French wine/table wine by using three types of French variety grapes grown in and around of Bijapur, Bangalore, and also at company’s own vineyard. Wines are sold under two brands namely, Heritage Red Wine and Heritage 2000 Premium Red Wine. “At Heritage Wines we are using red grapes for making red wines (Bangalore Blue, Cabernet, Shiraz) while for white wine we use Chenin blanc. Basic difference is, red grapes will have a color (Anthocenin) and tannin (Ogaru), and both are very good for health. In white wines we do not have any color, and the wine will be straw yellow color,” shares Mr. Rao. All over the world almost 70% of wine consumed is made of red grapes. Red wine made out of blue (black) grapes is more in demand. Annually 2500-3000 tons of grapes are crushed to make wines at Heritage Winery. “In our own vineyard spread in 6 acres, we produce only about 30-40 tones. The basic purpose of our vineyard is to educate our visitors about the vineyard and physically show them wine cultivation. Rest of the grape quantity is procured directly from farmers and also from middleman,” informs Mr. Rao. The company prefers to buy directly from farmers’ the entire quantity but it is not practically possible as Bangalore blue grape growing farmers have small land holding (1 or 2 acres). In addition the farmers need to have facility to supply grapes in storing crates sent through their own/hired transport vehicles directly to the winery. “It is commercially not viable for individual farmer to send his grape harvest in trucks to the winery. Moreover, we accept a minimum of 7 tonnes of grapes at a time and so we have to buy from middleman,” he says and adds, “Alternatively we encourage 2-3 farmers to pool their grape produce and supply directly to the winery.” Heritage Winery has a few such farmers who jointly supply grapes directly at the winery. Grape quality check is conducted by qualified wine makers and chemists based on different parameters in compliance with the wine variant. Basic requirement is that grapes must be disease-free. When asked about organically produced grapes, Mr. Rao says, “Organic grapes farming in India is still in a basic stage, where the volumes are too low. We have learnt that even in Europe organic farming wine has just started, it is in initial phase.” Most of the local grapes are grown in and around Doddaballapur, Hosakote and Nandi Valley. Heritage Winery is able to get local grapes (Bangalore blue) throughout the year. “Farmers get annually two crops of Bangalore blue grapes unlike the French grapes that is harvested only once in a year,” he shares and points out, “We have a minimum of 4 collections in a week, 20-30 collections in a month and 280-360 collections in a year.” Farmers are paid according to the mutually accepted rate and terms of payment through bank cheque. The winery fixes buying rates for grapes in two ways, “Annual contract at fixed rate, no changes made thereafter irrespective of market price fluctuation. Secondly, farmers are paid as per market rate, for this no contract is made,” informs Mr. Rao. Once the grapes are collected from farmers, it is crushed the same day (within 2-4 hours from delivery at winery). “We have adequate storing facility of grape juice in stainless steel tank,” he adds. Heritage Winery looks for 30 % growth every year which implies grapes requirement also increases steadily. “We are encouraging new farmers to grow grapes by giving them needed technical assistance,” shares Mr. Rao and advices, “Most of the farmers are growing the French variety without tie-up with winery for buy back. Unless they have an agreement it is difficult for the farmer to sell this grape variety in market. Hence we are inviting farmers to grow grapes and supply to us. To increase awareness, grape farmers are called for vineyard visit to show them the entire operation. This program is done in co-operation with Karnataka Wine Board of Government of Karnataka.” Sharing the future plans, Mr. Rao concludes, “We are planning to introduce wine in French oak barrels very soon. To do so, we are constructing underground cellars for maturation of wine in controlled temperature.” Heritage Winery introduced ‘Wine Tour’, a popular feature in all wine producing countries. The tour is conducted to explain grape processing to make wines. Training program for students of Hotel Management, Micro Biology, Bio Technology and other Science graduates is also conducted. Many of the students take the opportunity to visit the winery through their colleges to get the best information on fermentation and wine production. Contact details- Heritage Grape Winery Pvt Ltd No.115/86, Gangedoddi Village, Chekkere Post, Malur (H), Channapattana Taluk, Ramanagar District Ph: 080 26602667 Mob: 99726 66600 98450 03734 Email: heritage_blr@hotmail.com Web: http://www.heritagewinery.in/ Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Heritage Winery – encourages farmers to grow grapes Related – articles, consultants, downloads Mchoose.com – marketing support for farmers Dr. Suresh Mane – plant growth formulations You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water