Real Estate in Agra Home » Agra » Real Estate in Agra   Agra Weather Pin Code STD code   Agra Travel Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Jama Masjid Travel to Agra Places to Visit in Agra Hotels in Agra Restaurants in Agra Flights to Agra Trains to Agra Buses from Agra Airport Travel Agents Distance Chart   Agra Education Schools Agra Map City Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Taj Ganj Map Agra Localities Dayal Bagh Delhi Gate Sanjay Place Civil Lines Sikandra Pratap Pura Taj Nagari more... Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Cities in Uttar Pradesh Noida Lucknow Allahabad Kanpur Agra more.. Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                    (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map       Real Estate in Agra Real Estate in Agra shows huge potential. Real Estate in Agra, Uttar pradesh is a veritable goldmine both for the investor and the end user of the property. The term 'Real Estate' in Agra implies land in the Agra metropolitan region with anything that is attached to the land-including building structures and its fittings. Real Estate is currently undergoing a boom in Agra city. Real estate experts predict that: The retail industry in Agra will expand by 40 percent more than its existing size during the next five years. Organized retail will grow 15 percent in the Agra metropolitan region. Real Estate in Agra will witness tremendous development of retail and its associated benefits. Currently organized retailing adds up to only 2 percent in Agra-the city which generates most of its revenues from tourism. India's expanding economy is also helping real estate in Agra to develop to its full potential. The economy is booming primarily due to the export of services from India to the developed countries. The outsourcing boom has increased the quantity of disposable income from the Indian population, which in turn has led to the construction of innovative shopping malls and high end residential complexes. A significant proportion of the Indian population lives in urban areas; this creates a demand for residential properties in Agra city. The premium residential property addresses include value added extras like round the clock security, power back-up,market and shopping malls inside the building complex. Real Estate in Agra is also drawing investment from established Indian developers. Last Updated on 01/06/2013 About Agra Pin code STD code Weather Manufacturers and Exporters             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule