Upper Ganga Canal Expressway, Map of Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway » Upper Ganga Canal Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Map of Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Upper Ganga Canal Expressway is an Rs 8719 crore proposed expressway by the UP Government. It would be an eight- lane access controlled expressway on the right bank of the upper Ganga canal. The expressway would link Sanauta bridge in Bulandshahar district to Purkazi in Muzzafarnagar district near the UP and Uttarakhand border. The Uttar Pradesh Industrial development authority (UPEIDA) has proposed to develop this expressway. Originally called the Hindon expressway, this expressway had run into trouble with land acquisitions along the Hindon River. Subsequently, in 2009, the UP government changed the original route to align it with the Upper Ganga canal instead of the Hindon River and routing it through Muzzaffarnagar and Roorkee instead of through Saharanpur. The route was also shortened by 80 kilometers. The 150 kilometer long Expressway will start from Bulandshahar. This town is close to and well connected with the National Capital Area regions of Noida, Greater Noida and with Ghaziabad. All these areas are well developed urban nodes in UP. The satellite suburbs of Noida and Greater Noida have the biggest residential and industrial complexes in the regions. There is an aviation and transport hub planned around Greater Noida. Greater Noida also has a direct link to Agra through the Yamuna Expressway. The Upper Ganga Canal expressway will connect these areas to west UP via Meerut. The route will cross Bulanshahar, Gautam Budh Nagar (Greater Noida), Ghaziabad, Meerut, Muzzafarnagar and Saharanpur districts of UP. The expressway ends at Uttarakhand border and so will offer a direct connect to Haridwar in Uttarakhand from Noida and Greater Noida . Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule