National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development Board राष्ट्रीय तिलहन एवं वनस्पति तेल विकास (नोवोड)  बोर्ड   कृषि एवं सहकारिता विभाग, कृषि मंत्रालय, भारत सरकार 86 , सेक्टर 18 , संस्थानीय क्षेत्र  गुड़गाँव - 122015 (हरियाणा)   NA TIONAL OILSEEDS AND VEGETABLE OILS DEVELOPMENT (NOVOD) BOARD Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India 86, Sector - 18, Institutional Area Gurgaon - 122 015 (Haryana)       Terms & Conditions   This website is designed, developed and maintained by National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board, (Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation), Government of India. Though all efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy and currency of the content on this website, the same should not be construed as a statement of law or used for any legal purposes. In case of any ambiguity or doubt, users are advised to verify/check with the NOVOD Board and/or other source(s), and to obtain appropriate professional advice. Under no circumstances will this National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board be liable for any expense, loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any expense, loss or damage whatsoever arising from use, or loss of use, of data, arising out of or in connection with the use of this website. These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Indian Laws. Any dispute arising under these terms and conditions shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of India. The information posted on this website could include hypertext links or pointers to information created and maintained by non-Government/private organizations. National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board is providing these links and pointers solely for your information and convenience. When you select a link to an outside website, you are leaving the National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board website and are subject to the privacy and security policies of the owners/sponsors of the outside website. National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board neither guarantees the availability of such linked pages at all times nor authorizes the use of copyrighted materials contained in linked websites. Users are advised to request such authorization from the owner of the linked website. National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board does not guarantee that linked websites comply with Indian Government Web Guidelines.             This website is designed, developed and maintained by National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board. Copyright Policy Hyper Linking Policy Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Contact us Help Home