 Government of India, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture Skip to Main Content | Screen Reader Access | | | | हिंदी में | Follow us on Twitter Home Acts & Rules Citizen Charter RFD Schemes & Guidelines Schemes Info Guidelines Write to Us CPGRAMS Feedback & Grievance Miscellaneous Parliament Questions Recruitments Tenders Reach Us Contact Us Telephone Directory You are here : Home > Miscellaneous > Parliament Questions About Us Divisions DAC Organisation Presentations Reports and Publications Programmes & Schemes Agriculture Contingency Plan Circulars and Notifications CACP FAQs RTI e Governance Projects Related Links Parliament Questions The Parliament of India, representing as it does all politically organized shades of public opinion at the national level, occupies a preeminent and pivotal position in the country's constitutional set-up. It has also, over the years, carved out for itself a unique place in the esteem and affection of the people as the forum through which they articulate and realize their grievances and aspirations and seek solutions to their problems. The Constitution of India provides for a bicameral Parliament consisting of the President and two Houses known as the Council of States (Rajya Sabha) and the House of the People (Lok Sabha) Lok Sabha Lok Sabha is composed of representatives of the people chosen by direct election on the basis of the adult suffrage. The maximum strength of the House envisaged by the Constitution is 552, which is made up by election of upto 530 members to represent the States, upto 20 members to represent the Union Territories and not more than two members of the Anglo-Indian Community to be nominated by the Hon'ble President, if, in his/her opinion, that community is not adequately represented in the House. The total elective membership is distributed among the States in such a way that the ratio between the number of seats allotted to each State and the population of the State is, so far as practicable, the same for all States. Click Here for Loksabha Questions Rajya Sabha The ‘Council of States’ which is also known as Rajya Sabha, a nomenclature that was announced by the chair in the House on the 23rd August, 1954 has its own distinctive features. The origin of the second Chamber can be traced to the Montague-Chelmsford Report of 1918. The Government of India Act, 1919 provided for the creation of a ‘Council of State’ as a second chamber of the then legislature with a restricted franchise which actually came into existence in 1921. The Governor-General was the ex-officio President of the then Council of State. The Government of India Act, 1935, hardly made any changes in its composition. Click Here for Rajyasabha Questions Home Archives Vigilance RTI Download Forms Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This site is best viewed on IE 8 and Higher Versions This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation Ministry Of Agriculture, Government of India Page Last Updated on : 14 January, 2015