Design and supply of COLDSTORE for Fruits, Vegetables,Flowers,Ripening Chambers AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale Design and supply of COLDSTORE for Fruits, Vegetables,Flowers,Ripening Chambers Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Design and supply of COLDSTORE for Fruits, Vegetables,Flowers,Ripening Chambers LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 18 Hours Ago #1 shanxno1 Join Date May 2015 Posts 1 Design and supply of COLDSTORE for Fruits, Vegetables,Flowers,Ripening Chambers We at Enthalpist,are pioneers in the field of Refrigeration and Airconditioning,we can offer soultions for preservation of perishable commodities,like Fruits ,vegetables,meat,Flower,mushrooms,dairy products,etc,.We also deal with ripening chambers ,seed storage ,High /Low Relative Humidity/Temperature Rooms. Our Speciality will be to provide an economical solution to the farming community thereby helping them on higher return on investment. You can be assured of an effective utility of space with our design converging to a cost effective cold storage. You can reach us on the follwing contact: Shankar.M Enthalpist, Bangalore Mobile:+917022618841 Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 12:39 PM .