Directorate of Agriculture - Govt. of Goa, India - Right to Information   Sitemap          Help Skip to navigation | Skip to main content   HOME ABOUT US MAJOR CROPS FAQ DOWNLOADS NEWS & EVENTS PUBLICATIONS ACTS & RULES GALLERY CONTACT US   DIRECTORS NOTE ORGANISATION CHART SCHEMES STATISTICS AWARDS RTI BUDGET 2010-2011 TENDERS DEALERS SUCCESS STORIES NEWSPAPER CLIPS USEFUL LINKS TERMS OF USE VACANCIES Right to Information Directorate of Agriculture, Krishi Bhavan, Tonca Caranzalem.   Sr. No. Designation of the Appelate Auhtority/ Public Authority Jurisdiction Contact Ph. No. Email Address 1 Director of Agriculture, Directorate of Agriculture, Krishi Bhavan, Tonca Caranzalem Head Quarters 2465443/2465840  Fax: 2465441 dir-agri(dot)goa(at)nic (dot) in     Powers and Duties of Officers and Employees Sr. No. Designation Powers Duties Administrative Financial Others 1 Director of Agriculture As Head of Department As Head of Department delegated under DFPR 1) Licencing Authority for Insecticides. Nursery Act and 2) Appellate Authority for Fertilizer Control Order. 1) To monitor, coordinate all the agricultural activities in the State of Goa through the sub offices located in different parts of Goa. 2) To advice the Govt in formation of agriculture development policies, acts and rules etc. 3) To provide advisory services in agriculture to the farmers 4) To implement Agriculture development programmes in the State of Goa for increasing productivity and Production of the State. 5) To take necessary measures for increasing the productivity of the farmer of State of Goa by way of various programmes. 6) Budget control of the department and to excise all the financial powers as provided under the delegation of financial powers rules. 7) Plan various programmes/ Schemes for the over all development of State and the farming community. 2 Deputy Director of Agriculture (Hort) -- -- Acts as Public Information Officer for Head Quarter 1) To monitor, coordinate the activities of the Sections for Implementation of various Horticulture Schemes. 2) To Act as Oil Palm Commissioner in the State. 3) To monitor the Manuals under RTI Act 2005 to be prepared at Head Quarter. 3 Deputy Director of Agriculture (PP) -- -- 1. Phytosanitory Issuing Authority. 2. Insecticide Inspector 1) To monitor and coordinate the activities of the Sections for Implementation of various agricultural schemes. 2) Assist in implementation of insecticides Act. 3) Liason Officer for Banking and other financial Institutes. 4 Deputy Director of Agriculture (Agronomy) -- -- I) Fertilizer Licence issuing authority 2) Acts as Vigilance and Public Grievances Officer of the Department To monitor and Co-ordinate activities of Agronomical crops and Extension Activities in the State 5 Deputy Director of Agriculture (Farms) -- -- Acts as Project Director (ATMA) 1) To monitor and Co-ordinate the activities of Government Farm. 2) TO monitor and co-ordinate the activities of Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA). 3) National Farmers Commission, Irrigation cropping pattern Nursery Licences. 6 Deputy Director of Agriculture Watershed) -- -- Acts as Chairman, District Nodal Agency for NWDPRA 1) To monitor and Co-ordinate the activities of National Watershed Development Programme in Rainfed Area (NWDPRA), Western Ghat Development Programme (WGDP), Desilting of ponds and tanks. 2) Activities of Soil Survey, Bio-diversity and water quality commission. 7 Assistant Director of Agriculture (P & E ) -- -- -- 1) Assist Director of Agriculture to prepare all the Planning work of Annual Plan, Five Year Plan, Budget Estimate, LAQ. 2) Monitor & Coordinate the activities of Statistical & Evaluation Wing. 3) Coordinate the work of computerization and e-Governance.. 8 Assistant Director of Agriculture (Hort /Coconut /Cashew) -- -- -- Assist Deputy Director of Agriculture in their various activities and duties. 9 Assistant Director of Agriculture (EXT) -- -- Acts as Fertilizer Inspector Assist Deputy Director of Agriculture in their various activities and duties. 10 Agriculture Officer /APO (Hort/ Cashew/ WS/ EXT/ Coconut) -- -- -- Assist Deputy Director of Agriculture / Assistant Director of Agriculture in their various activities and duties. 11 Agriculture Officer (PP) -- -- Acts as Insecticide Inspector Assist Deputy Director of Agriculture in their various activities and duties. 12 Agriculture Officer (FERT) -- -- Acts as Fertilizer Inspector Assist Deputy Director of Agriculture / Assistant Director of Agriculture in their various activities and duties. 13 Assistant Agricultural Officer (F.I.) -- -- Acts as Fertilizer Inspector Assist Deputy Director of Agriculture / Assistant Director of Agriculture in their various activities and duties. 14 Deputy Director (Administration) Head of Office -- Member of DPC/ DSC for non- Gazetted posts and Assistant Public Information Officer under Right to Information Act 2005 Act 2005 1) Monitor Coordinate all the administrative activities of the Department. 2) Filling/promotion of post of C and D group by direct recruitment / promotion/ deputation and framing of Recruitment Rules as per need. 3) Monitor all purchases and other Service matters. 4) Assist in Disciplinary cases. 5) Monitor all the allotment of Departmental quarter and of records on Land acquisition by Agricultural Department. 6) Court matter pertaining to service matters, Land acquisition. 15 Office Superintendent -- -- -- Supervising all the work of Administration Section and assist Deputy Director (Administration) in the duties. 16 Head Clerk -- -- -- Scrutinize the files for onward submission to higher authorities. 17 Upper Division Clerk -- -- -- 1) Assist DD (Administration) /Office Superintendent / Head Clerk in filling up posts of Non Gazetted. Maintenance of service records, vehicles, Library Books, Census, Elections, Court cases, Land acquisition, various purchases, maintenance of dead stock register. Assists in the technical schemes. Preparation of various bills, cash book maintenance of registers. 2) Assist the Appellate Authority / Public Information Officer/ Assistant Public Information Officer in Right to Information Act 2005. 18 Stenographer -- -- -- Maintaining the Confidential Reports Non Gazetted staff. Telephone bills. Preparing the minutes of the monthly meeting. Dealing with all confidential matters. Taking dictation/ typing 19 Lower Division Clerk -- -- -- The work of inward and outward, word processing. Maintaining the registers. Maintenance of service records etc. 20 Driver (Heavy) -- -- -- To drive and maintain Truck / Mini Truck 21 Driver (Light) -- -- -- To drive and maintain Jeep/ Staff Car. 22 Peon / Watchman -- -- -- Attending the bell and distribution of files/ correspondence. Opening and closing the office. 23 Sweeper -- -- -- Sweeping/ cleaning the office building and premises. Attending the bell and distribution of files / correspondence. 24 Accounts Officer -- D.D.O. in absence of A.A.O. Member of tender / Quotation opening in absence of A.A.O. 1) To monitor, supervise the financial matter of the Department including sub offices. To make all the payments to staff and third party. To draw advances as and when required and to settle the same. 2) To check the financial transaction of the sub offices and take corrective measures as and when required. 3) To scrutinize the claims for payment of the Government money in accordance with the financial guidelines. 25 Assistant Accounts Officer -- Drawing & Disbursing Officer Act as member for opening Tender/ Quotation 1) Activities as required under D.D.O. like maintenance of cashbook, pay and allowances and F.V.C. bills. 2) Filing returns of In come Tax (Quarterly returns) issue of Form 16 (Non Gazetted.) 3) Issue of maintenance of GFR-9. Over all supervising accounts section. 26 Accountant -- -- -- Assist Accounts Officer /Assistant Accounts Officer in following works. 1) Preparation of B.E. & R.E. in respect of Non - Plan 2) The allocation of funds of Plan and Non Plan to North and South Goa. 3) Re-appropriation of funds (Plan & Non-Plan) 4) Maintenance of the Expenditure register and the preparation of Expenditure statement (Plan & Non-Plan) 5) Reconciliation of expenditure figures (Plan & Non Plan) 6) Inspection Reports and Compliance 7) Compilation/ Preparation of the C. A. G.'s report 2003-04 and 2004-05 8) Maintenance of Budget Check Register in respect of (Plan & Non Plan) 9) Surrender of funds. Scrutinizing of expenditure files. 10) Any other works allotted by the Superiors. 27 Research Assistant -- -- -- Over all incharge of Statistical Wing. Supervision of work of Crop Estimation Survey (C.E.S.) and finalizing of reports. 28 Statistical Assistant -- -- -- Supervision of Crop work, crop Estimation Survey (C.E.S.) preparation of tables, generation of reports and any other work assigned by the superiors. 29 Investigators -- -- -- Field Work of Crop Estimation Survey compilation. Preparation of tables and any other work assigned by the superiors.     Details of Officers under Right to Information Act 2005 Sr. No. Designation of the Public Information Officer Designation of the Assistant Public Information Officer Jurisdiction Contact Ph. No. Email Address 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 Deputy Director of Agriculture (Hort), Directorate of Agriculture, Krishi Bhavan, Tonca Caranzalem Deputy Director (Administration), Directorate of Agriculture, Krishi Bhavan, Tonca Caranzalem Head Quarters 2465443/2465840 Fax: 2465441 DD(Admn): dydiradmn-agri(dot)goa(at)nic(dot)in 2 Zonal Agricultural Officer, Sattari Senior Most Upper Division Clerk Sattari Taluka 2374246 zaovalpoi-agri(dot)goa(at)nic(dot)in 3 Zonal Agricultural Officer, Bicholim Senior Most Upper Division Clerk Bicholim Taluka 2362128 zaobicholim-agri (dot) goa(at)nic(dot)in 4 Zonal Agricultural Officer, Pernem Asstt. Agricultural Officer Pernem Taluka 2201291/2201043 zaopernem-agri (dot) goa (at) nic (dot) in 5 Zonal Agricultural Officer, Mapusa Head Clerk Bardez Taluka 2262368 zaomapusa-agri (dot) goa (at) nic (dot) in 6 Zonal Agricultural Officer, Tiswadi Senior Most Upper Division Clerk Tiswadi Taluka 2285329 zaotiswadi-agri (dot) goa (at) nic (dot) in 7 Zonal Agricultural Officer, Ponda Senior Most Upper Division Clerk Ponda Taluka 2312119 zaoponda-agri (dot) goa (at) nic (dot) in 8 Zonal Agricultural Officer, Margao Senior Most Upper Division Clerk Salcete and Mormugao Talukas 2715005 zaomargao-agri (dot) goa (at) nic (dot) in 9 Zonal Agricultural Officer, Quepem Senior Most Upper Division Clerk Quepem Taluka 2662116 zaoquepem-agri (dot) goa (at) nic (dot) in 10 Zonal Agricultural Officer, Sanguem Head Clerk