Constructs green houses - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Constructs green houses Home Constructs green houses Pune-based firm erects greenhouses for commercial horticulture projects. Shrihari Greenhouses Pvt. Ltd. was established in 1993. The company has its office and factory in Pune. SGPL completed its first greenhouse project for M/s Valplus Biotech Ltd. in Pune district in 1994 on an area of 12.5 acres. Since then the company has constructed more than 250 acres of greenhouse. The company specialises in constructing greenhouses that are mainly used for cultivation of commercial cut flowers, tissue cultural hardening units, to grow exotic vegetables like colour capsicum, cucumber, tomatoes etc, for germination of forest species to grow medicinal plants, projects like gene transfer of B.T. Trait into new cotton inbred etc.The promoters of the company are Mr. Vishwas Joganad, chairman and managing director and Mr. Rajkumar Deodhare, director. Mr. Joganad is master in civil engineering by qualification and Mr. Deodhare, is a civil engineer. “We are working from 10 years in the greenhouse industry and are very well experienced,” says Mr. Jogdand. Range of Products The various types of greenhouses the company constructed are multispan or semi controlled or natural ventilated greenhouses; multispan tunnel type greenhouses; fan and pad or controlled or evaporative cooling system greenhouses; and shed houses. He further explains, “There are different types of greenhouses depending on the crop. For floriculture we need naturally ventilated greenhouse while for tissue culture we need controlled greenhouses. In controlled greenhouse we use fan and pad to control the temperature, and humidity. For anthurium we use shadow hall. In shadow hall we use shade net instead of polythene covering on top and inside the shade net we use polythene, which does not allow rainwater to enter. And for hardening of plants we can use shade house. In shade houses we only use shade net on top covering.”He adds, “Greenhouse are also constructed depending upon the size and orientation of direction, we can choose the different types of greenhouses (North – East orientation is always better). Also height is an important factor in greenhouse structure since the height increases the air ventilation in the greenhouse. We are the company that always suggests 6.5 mtr total height and 4.5 mtr gutter height and 10% top ventilation,” Naming some of his prominent customers Mr. Jogdand says, “One of our big customers is Mr. Sanjay Ghodawat from STAR Group. They have greenhouses in acres of land.  Other customers include Shrivardhan Biotech, Ramdasbhai Kadam (MLA, Tal: Khed, Dist: Ratnagiri), Global Agritech and many more.” Materials Used The structure of the greenhouse is made with G.I. pipes and the structure is covered by a polythene, which is a special type of polythene, which controls the U.V. rays that are harmful for the plants. “Also the material should be such that they don’t cast any shadow on the plants. The gutter for water drainage on the greenhouse is made up of G.I. sheet, and also clamps are made up of G.I. sheet. Ours is the only company, which gives the clamps made from G.I. sheet, other companies make clamps from M.S. sheet and then they coat it with G.I. plating,” says Mr. Jogdand. “Then various sizes of nut bolts are used to fix the structure – we never use welding. We manufacture it in our factory it in Talegaon Dabhade (Station), in Maval Taluka, in Pune District, the same place our office is in. We source our pipes in our standard size in the desired diameter, cut length and thickness (thickness is always 2 mm.),” he adds. The process of construction of greenhouse involves land selection, orientation of greenhouse, laying the greenhouse foundation, G.I structure followed by the additional features of structure, covering/cladding, irrigation, soil re-engineering and finally the bed preparation. Giving the economics to construct a greenhouse on 560 sq mt to cultivate cut flower gerbera Mr. Jogdand says, the total expenditure for the project would be Rs. 5 lakhs and the returns would be Rs. 2.5 lakhs production per annum. Manufacturing Standards Mr. Jogdand maintains, “We always take material pertaining to our standards only. We also fabricate our material in accurate dimensions as we have various dyes. We have a bending machine because of which we get accurate bending of pipes. There are various types of machines for making clamps and for pressing the pipes etc. After the abovementioned processes we send our fabricated material to the site. Before erection of the structure we make a survey of the land and by accurate levels we make the foundations and then after curing of foundations we erect the structure.” He further adds, “Though there are a few companies in the business of greenhouse, our company is the only company having structural engineers and hence have a good knowledge of constructing the structure. This is the reason we can give a better structure than others. Also we have our certain dimensions of manufacturing that we are using. Pricewise, too, our company provides competitive pricing pertaining to our standards.” Crop Cultivation Mr. Jogdand says the main crop cultivated in naturally ventilated greenhouse is usually floriculture. “Various varieties of flowers – rose, gerbera, carnation, anthurium etc – can be cultivated in these greenhouses. The advantages of greenhouses are many. For example we can take the crop for the whole year by controlling CO2 (Carbon Dioxide) emission in the greenhouse, which is used by plants for photosynthesis,” he says, adding, “Also we can maintain the temperature and humidity according to the requirement of the plants. In greenhouses, irrigation system is used – mainly drip irrigation system – which results in saving of water. The manpower required in a greenhouse is also less when compared to open field cultivation.” Consultancy The company also provides consultancy on greenhouse cultivation. “Some of the farmers who come to us are unaware of greenhouse cultivation. So to help them we provide consultancy, also,” says Mr. Jogdand. Regarding maintenance Mr. Jogdand says the plastic sheets need to be changed after every 3 years. “But it can work up to 4 to 5 years also. We never came across any problems regarding maintenance in our erected structures, except the polythene change. But for longevity you should maintain your irrigation system like regular flushing of valves etc,” he says. Business Turnover The annual business turnover of the company is around Rs.5 crores. The company is not into exports but maintains that it is getting enquiries from African countries. “Business in this field is growing each. The demand for greenhouse cultivation is increasing rapidly. Actually India is far behind in growing flowers as compared to the demand in the international market,” avers Mr. Jogdand. Talking about the main difficulty faced by the company in expanding his business, Mr. Jogdand says, “The government has changed the rule for subsidy wherein first you have to apply for subsidy by sending in the project report of your project along with L.O.I. (Letter of Intent) to NHB (National Horticulture Board, Delhi) for approval and then you can apply to the bank for the loan sanction of the project (banks give 75% loan against the project) but it takes much more time to get the approval and then only can you start the project. As this process is time consuming, we face many problems to start the project and this is the basic reason behind the resulting delay in various projects.” Adding, “The subsidy from the central government (i.e. from NHB) is 20% of the total project cost and from our Maharashtra state government it is Rs.75,000 (lump sum).” Our Correspondent Agriculture&Industry Survey Magazine Drip irrigation specialists Shade nets Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Constructs green houses Related – articles, consultants, downloads Filbert Industries – Green houses, shade houses Satyabhama Engineers – green house Tulsi Corporation – manufacturers of green shade nets Deccan Agro Services and Irrigation You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water