Margao City Map Home » Maps » Goa » Margao City   Cities in Goa Panaji Calangute Vasco da Gama Margao Mapusa गोवा का नक्शा About Goa Weather History Culture Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Margao City Map City Map of Margao Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Margao city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Goa   Vasco da Gama City Map Panaji City Map Margao City Map Mapusa City Map   Calangute City Map Located 33 kms from Panaji, Margao is Goa's second largest town and a bustling commercial centre. It is believed that the city derives its name from two Hindi words 'Math' ('Hindu Religious Center') and 'Gram' (meaning 'Village'). However, it is barely frequented by travelers despite having an old-worldly charm - a direct result of its Portuguese past - Old Portuguese churches and fine country houses decked with dark rosewood furniture. This central Goan town is surrounded by fertile farmlands and has always been an important agricultural market. It was also a major religious centre once, with dozens of wealthy temples and Dharamshalas. However, most of these were destroyed when the Portuguese adsorbed the area into their Novas Conquistas during the 17th century. Even today, Catholic churches still outnumber Hindu shrines. But Margao has retained a distinctly cosmopolitan feel, perhaps largely due to an influx of migrant labor from neighboring Karnataka and Maharashtra. The prime attractions of Margao are the Colva Beach and the Benaulim Beach. The Covala Beach is a summer retreat for Margao's moneyed middle classes since long before Independence, Colva is the oldest and largest of South Goa's resorts. The Benaulim Beach (known in Sanskrit as 'Banali') it was later corrupted by the Portuguese to Benaulim. It lies in the centre of Colva Beach, 7-km west of Margao The Old Market is the other reason to come here. The town's excellent market stretches from the south edge of the main square to within a stone's throw of the old railway station, the Bazaar centers on a labyrinthine covered area that's a rich source of authentic souvenirs and a good place to browse. The Stately Church of the Holy Spirit, in the heart of a disheveled but picturesque colonial enclave, is another attraction. Presiding over the dusty Largo de Igreja Square, the church, built in 1675 by the Portuguese, is an example of late-Baroque architecture in Goa . Roadways: Long distance bus services can be availed from the main Kadamba Bus Stand, on the outskirts of the town, 3 km north of the main town. This is also the departure point for interstate services to Magalore, via Chaudi and Gokarn, and for services to Panjim and North Goa . Local private buses to Colva and Benaulim leave from in front of the Kamat hotel on the east side of Margao's main square. By Rail: Margao's train station is the only stop in Goa for most long distance express services on the Konkan Railway. It lies 3 km south of the centre. The Reservation office (Monday-Saturday, 8.00 am-4.30 pm, Sunday 8.00 am- 2.00 pm) is divided between the ground and the first floor. There is also a 24-hour Information Centre. Tickets for trains for Mumbai are in great demand so you are advised to make reservations well in advance. There is also round-the-clock pre-paid auto rickshaw stand outside the exit. Places to Stay: The GTDC Tourist Hotel is standard budget hotel. However, plenty of accommodation options are available in Margao. Some useful information is listed below: Tourist Information Centres: GTDC's Information Office (Monday-Friday 9.30 am-5.30 pm): sells tourist maps and keeps useful lists of train and bus timings. Banks / Money Changers: Exchange Facilities:1. The State bank Of India (Monday-Friday 10.00 am-2.00 pm, Saturday 10.00 am-noon) of the west side of the main square; 2. The Bobcard office in the market sub-branch of the Bank of baroda, on Luis Gomez road, does visa encashments. GPO: The GPO is at the top of the municipal gardens, although its Poste Restante is in a different building, 200m west on the Rua Diogo da Costa. Last Updated on : 8/06/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule