Scientific Animations Without Borders Home Your browser does not support JavaScript. University of Illinois Board of Trustees | Copyright © 2015 | Disclamer Home About Videos Deployment News Contact Collaborate Donate News Download Tools Subsribe to our Newsletter SAWBO on TV Friday, April 3, 2015 In early 2014, SAWBO collaborated with students from Njala University at Sierra Leone to create an Ebola Prevention animation. Now, together with collaborators like Thomas Songu, SAWBO is able to distribute these videos and educate members of the community in an simple but effective way that was not previously possible. SAWBO's animations have been voice overlaid in more than 50 different languages.  Volunteers from all over the world have made this happen, helping us to make SAWBO animations more accessible to more people.  All animations are given out freely to anyone who wants to use them for educational purposes only. Please visit SAWBO's Video Library where you can watch or download all our videos in any available language. DO NOT re-post any of our videos on YouTube .  All SAWBO videos are available on the SAWBO YouTube channel.  Feel free to link to our videos on your webpage from our SAWBO YouTube channel.   SAWBO has developed more than 30 different 2D and 3D animations with voice-overs in over 50 different languages. We work in three main areas: Agriculture, Health and Women's Empowerment. Please visit SAWBO's Video Library where you can watch or download all our videos in any available language, for free.  If you are interested in becoming a volunteer to help us with voice-overs, please email us at animations@illinois.edu. Video Library New Releases Latest Newsletters Friday, March 27, 2015 Subsistence farmers around the world are learning how to construct raised planting beds and install drip irrigation systems to improve their crops and perhaps even halt the rapid advance of desertification in some drought-prone regions. A new mobile application developed by Scientific Animations Without Borders (SAWBO) at the University enables scientific knowledge to be shared with people in developing countries through educational videos. Bluetooth technology enables anyone with an Android device to download the app, watch and share SAWBO videos at no cost. Tuesday, May 26, 2015 Friday, May 15, 2015 Whether the need is to educate people in West Africa about preventing Ebola or to train farmers in Latin America on preventing postharvest loss, Scientific Animations without Borders has an app for that. The Deployer app enables users to view, download and freely share SAWBO’s ever-growing video library over Bluetooth connections. SAWBO Video Library SAWBO Deployer App Ebola Animation Presentation Newsletter #1 (Nov 2014) Sickle Cell Disease Newsletter #2 (Dec 2014) SAWBO: Scientific Animations Without Borders Newsletter #3 (Jan 2015) Newsletter #4 (Feb 2015) Newsletter #5 (Mar 2015) Postharvest Loss: Salt Testing for Grain Moisture Levels