Travel to Maharashtra - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Maharashtra Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Maharashtra Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Places to Visit in Maharashtra Chowpatty Beach Juhu Beach Marine Drive Gateway of India Elephant Caves Shaniwar Wada Parvati Hill Ajanta Ellora Caves Mahabaleshwar Temple Essel World Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Cities to Visit in Maharashtra Aurangabad Travel Lonavala Travel Mumbai Travel Nagpur Travel Nashik Travel Pune Travel Mahabaleshwar Travel Khandala Travel Maharashtra Hotels Lonavala Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Mumbai Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Pune Hotels Navi Mumbai Hotels About Maharashtra Geography and History Climate Home » Maps » Maharashtra Map » Travel to Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Maharashtra Travel Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Map Showing the Important Tourist Places in Maharashtra. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Maharashtra hill station Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Ashtavinayak Yatra Route Map Maharashtra Tourism Maharashtra travel helps the tourists to explore the beautiful territory located in the western part of India. Maharashtra, the third largest state of India, consists of two major landforms and it has a lot to offer in terms of natural beauty. The Konkan coastal strip and the Deccan tableland are two important landforms, that offer a multiple scope for sightseeing in the territory. The state is bordered by Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Goa and Karnataka. Thus the tourists get ample opportunity for tourism within and around Maharashtra. The state also has a glorious history having bathed in blood may a times in scary battles over the control of this region. The Mughals always wished to dominate this region but hardly succeeded. Shivaji, the first great ruler of the Marathas, stands as an iconic figure behind the emergence of this valiant warrior race, who even had given many sleepless nights to the British. The pro-business image and the Bollywood fame of the state often surpass the tourist attractions in Maharashtra. But it has a wealth of tourism potential for which people travel to Maharashtra. There are two world heritage sites in Ajanta and Ellora within the states, which have always charmed the tourists. Travel to Ajanta if you wished to see how religion and men's imagination took shape in exquisite paintings and sculptures as back as some Three thousand years ago from today. Demographics of the Maharashtra Location Western coast of India Arabian sea in the west, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh on the north, Madhya Pradesh in the east Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh on the south. Latitude 20° North Longitude 76° East Area 307,690 Sqkms Climate Tropical Max Temperature 32°C Min Temperature 14°C Average Annual Rainfall 146 cm Capital Mumbai Population 96,752,247 Languages Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, English Religion Hinduism, Islam, Jainism, Christianity, Buddhism Best Time to Visit October to March Clothing Summer - Light cottons Winter - Woolens How to Reach Maharashtra The state of Maharashtra is located in the western part of India and is an important industrialized state. The state also has many popular tourist attractions and a well-developed network of transportation to facilitate the growth of Maharashtra tourism. How to reach Maharashtra helps you with useful information to reach the state by air, rail or road for a hassle free travel to Maharashtra. By virtue of its strategic location, the state has access to air, road, rail and naval communication system. This advanced communication has played a significant role for the state to emerge as a prosperous one in India. By Air The state has two airports - one international (Chattarpati Shivaji International Airport) and another domestic (Santa Cruz Domestic Airport) - in its capital city Mumbai. All public and private airlines, like: Air India, Indian Airlines, Jet Airways, Air Sahara, Kingfisher Airlines, Spice Jet, Air Deccan, operate regularly to and from Mumbai. By Train Mumbai is the state's most important Railway Station. A large number of important trains link the city to other important cities and states of India. There are also major Railway Stations in or close by the tourist destinations. By Road National Highway 17 and the National Highway 6 connect the state of Maharashtra with the rest of India. The state enjoys exceptionally good road network. Besides, a number of other National Highways and State Highways crisscross the state making it convenient to approach any city of Maharashtra from any part of the country. MSRTC (Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation) runs several buses to and from the city to several other cities and states of the country. Shopping in Maharashtra For shopping in Maharashtra, Mumbai is the best place. It is the ultimate shopper's delight in India where you can buy just anything under the sun. But you can shop at other destinations, say, Aurangabad, too. The region of Maharashtra also has a rich heritage of handicrafts which turns out to be a good shopping in Maharashtra. If you are actually a fabric freak, Maharashtra can be your ideal place to shop some exquisite item. Aurangabad region is especially famous for 2000-year-old craft of woven Paithani Saris. Since Mumbai , the capital city, is a metropolitan city in India, it is not unusual to find assorted specialty items of other regions. While shopping in Maharashtra, you could check out: Paithani and Himroo Saris Lacquer ware Kolhapuri Chappals Warli Tribal Paintings Bidri Ware Narayan Pethsaris saris You can find private shops and Government Emporia virtually everywhere in the state. In cities like Mumbai posh departmental stores and shopping malls are abundant. You can also check out casual clothing in fabled 'Fashion Street' at M G Road for good bargains. In tourist destinations there are many private shops. If you are ready for a little more effort, you can also visit the factories of the local artisans especially for Paithani and Himroo Saris. Cities to Visit in Maharashtra Shirdi Travel Khandala Travel Matheran Travel Mumbai Travel Nagpur Travel Panchgani Travel Mahabaleshwar Travel Lonavala Travel Pune Travel Ajanta Travel Ellora Travel Places to Visit in Maharashtra Forts in Maharashtra Caves in Maharashtra Beaches in Maharashtra Hill Stations in Maharashtra Temples in Maharashtra Museums in Maharashtra Jyotirlingas of Maharashtra Recreational Centres Rivers and Lakes in Maharashtra Seaplane service to popular destinations A unique seaplane service has been launched by Maritime Energy Heli Air Services Pvt. Ltd. (MEHAIR) and the Tourism Department of the state of Maharashtra that will link important tourist destinations of the state with Juhu in Mumbai. The air charter service between Juhu and Aamby Valley was launched on 24 February 2014. A four-seater Cessna 206 seaplane was deployed to carry out the service on the route. The cost of travelling has been fixed at Rs. 4,000-4,500. However, the service to Nariman Point will cost Rs. 750. The joint effort of the firm and the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) has made Mumbai the second city in India to have seaplane operations after Port Blair, where the service has been functional since January 2011. This novel mode of transport will link Juhu with Lavasa, Aamby Valley, Nashik, Panchgani and Lonavla. It will be helpful in saving a lot of travelling time. Each journey will consume less than half an hour from the Juhu airport to the desired destination. The project is expected to attract more tourists to the destinations as now they have a convenient option to travel. Some important points: Floating jetties and speedboats will be available for the passengers to carry them inside the water body to reach the aircraft. The project has been divided into two phases. The first phase is likely to start in April 2014 while the second phase may take few more months to get started. The authorities say that the service to other four destinations of the first phase will be operational by the end of March 2014. The second phase of the air charter service will cover seaplane operations to the tourist destinations of the Konkan region, including Harihareshwar, Ganpatipule, Murud Janjira and Tarkarli. Last Updated on : February 25, 2014 Hotels in Maharashtra Ahmednagar Hotels Alibaug Hotels Amravati Hotels Aurangabad Hotels Baramati Hotels Bordi Hotels Chandrapur Hotels Chikhaldara Hotels Chiplun Hotels Jalgaon Hotels Karad Hotels Karjat Hotels Khandala Hotels Kolhapur Hotels Kopergaon Hotels Lonavala Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Matheran Hotels Mumbai Hotels Murud Janjira Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Navi Mumbai Hotels Panvel Hotels Patalganga Hotels Pune Hotels Raigad Hotels Shirdi Hotels Shrirampur Hotels Sinnar Hotels Solapur Hotels Thane Hotels Thane West Hotels Trimbakeshwar Hotels Umbergaon Hotels Travel to Maharashtra Travel to Ajanta Travel to Aurangabad Travel to Ellora Travel to Khandala Travel to Lonavala Travel to Haji Ali Travel to Mumbai Travel to Nagpur Travel to Nashik Travel to Panchgani Travel to Pune Travel to Shirdi Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Ajanta Places to visit in Aurangabad Places to visit in Khandala Places to visit in Lonavala Places to visit in Mahabaleshwar Places to visit in Maharashtra Places to visit in Mumbai Places to visit in Nagpur Places to visit in Nashik Places to visit in Pune Places to visit in Shirdi About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule