Oklahoma State University - Student Union | Life Happens at the Union Jump to navigation OSU Home Oklahoma State University - Student Union Life Happens at the Union User menu Maps/Floor Plans Hours Directory About Us Employment Summertime Operating Hours The Student Union will observe amended hours during summer break. read more Student Union to Host Summer on the Plaza Popular summertime program returns for its fourth year   read more Students Recognized for Service CORD program honors spring 2015 graduates at recent commencement ceremonies read more Interested in Joining a Sorority? Women's Fall Recruitment registration closes Friday, July 11. read more Camp Cowboy Registration Registration is now open for Camp Cowboy 2015. read more Construction Updates Learn the latest updates about construction affecting Student Union access. read more 1 2 3 4 5 6 Calendar Dining Shopping Get Involved Plan An Event Departments Like OSU Union on Facebook Follow OSU Union on Twitter Follow OSU Union on Pinterest Follow OSU Union on Instagram 11656 11655 Previous Pause Next Dining in the Union Sustainability Learn about UDS' role in being good to Mother Earth. Dining in the Union UDS Strives to Meet All Special Dietary Needs! Learn more about the many different special dietary options around campus... 12577 11687 Previous Pause Next Activities in the Union Summer on the Plaza  Summer on the Plaza 2015!  * Click here for Movies and Live Entertainment series for Summer on the Plaza 2015! *  Something... Activities in the Union Registration Open for Camp Cowboy 2015! Camp Cowboy is a fun-filled three-day experience for incoming OSU students that includes a ropes course, swimming, small groups,... 12560 11692 11694 Previous Pause Next Shopping in the Union Bundle & Save at OrangeTech At OrangeTech, Oklahoma State University students always get the best, lowest pricing on their technology needs thanks to our... Shopping in the Union Buy Your Books Online Save time. Skip the lines. Order your textbooks from the University Store from the convenience of your own home. Ordering your... Shopping in the Union We Give You More... WE GIVE YOU MORE at the University Store at the Student Union. Your books are worth more than you think. We know you have a lot... Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 405-744-5231  |  osuunion@okstate.edu © 2015  |  All Rights Reserved Title IX Contact Webmaster About the OSU Student Union    