Ernakulam City Map Home » Maps » Kerala » Ernakulam City Map   Cities in Kerala Kochi Thiruvananthapuram Ernakulam Munnar Thrissur Kannur Kottayam Alleppey Kollam केरल का नक्शा About Kerala History of Kerala Geography of Kerala Kerala Weather Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Districts of Kerala Road Map Railway Map Rivers of Kerala Tehsils of Kerala Regions Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Forest Map Economy of Kerala Industries in Kerala Kerala Government Kerala Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Kerala Places to visit in Kerala Kerala Backwaters Beaches in Kerala Kerala Wildlife Sanctuaries Hill Stations in Kerala Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya Hotels in Kerala Kochi Hotels Kumarakom Hotels Munnar Hotels Trivandrum Hotels Thiruvananthapuram Hotels Guruvayur Hotels Thekkady Hotels Wayanad Hotels Kerala Ayurveda Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Utilities Distance Chart Kerala Pin code Kerala STD code Education Universities in Kerala Karten von Kerala Ubersichtskarte von Kerala       Ernakulam City Map City Map of Ernakulam Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Ernakulam city map showing major roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Kerala   Thiruvananthapuram City Map Kumarakom City Map Ernakulam City Map Palakkad City Map         Thekkady City Map Kochi City Map Alleppey City Map Munnar City Map       other cities of Kerala  >> Ernakulam is located in the eastern zone of the mainland of Kochi in Kerala , and is also the commercial capital of Kerala. ernakulam has derived its name from the name of a very famous temple of lord Shiva, called the Ernakulathappan Temple. ernakulam has also been said to derive its name form the word 'Ere Naal Kulam', which means "pond for a long time". Ernakulam lent its name to Ernakulam district (headquartered at Kakkanad) on 1st April, 1958, by carving out the areas of Travancore, Kochi & Malabar Kingdoms. Geography: Ernakulam district has an area of 895 sq. km, and an altitude of 300 m, and can be divided geographically into highland, midland, and coastal area. Ernakulam district is bordered by the Arabian Sea in the west, Thrissur District in the north, Idukki District in the east, and Alappuzha and Kottayam districts in the south. The Periyar River, which is Kerala's second longest, flows through all the taluks except Muvattupuzha. The Muvattupuzha River and a branch of Chalakkudy River also flow through the district. The district has an optimum climate, and mostly lies within the Malabar Coast moist forests ecoregion, while the highlands are part of the South Western Ghats moist deciduous forests ecoregion. Statistical Figures: Area: 2407 sq.km Population: 3,105,798 (in 2001) Language: Malayalam and English Religion: Hindu, Christian, Muslim, Jains, Sufi, Jews, Sikhs Average Rainfall(Annually): 3432 mm Temperature: 23-32 degree Celsius Festivals: Sivarathri: It is celebrated at the Siva Temple of Aluva and attracts people from all across the country. Christian Pilgrim Center Festival: The famous Christian Pilgrim Center at Malayttoor is located in Ernakulam district, where the annual festival in April lasts for 10 days. St. George Church Festival: It is located in Kadamattam, and was founded by Mar Abo Metropolitan in 5th Century A.D. A cross was brought from Persia, which is still preserved in the church. The cross attracts numerous pilgrims every year to visit the place. Education: Ernakulam has a significant place among the districts of Kerala in the domain of literacy and educational standards. Ernakulam District is the first district throughout the country to have achieved 100 percent literacy by 1990. Ernakulam Facts City Name Ernakulam State Kerala District Ernakulam District Headquarters Kakkanad Tehsil/Taluk Kochi Lat Long 9.980509, 76.297659 Area 3,032 km2 (1,171 sq mi) Population as per 2011 3,282,388 (District Population) Official Languages Malayalam, English Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) STD Code 0484 Transport Air, Road, Rail Vehicle registration KL-07 Food and Cuisine Coconut Dominates, Rice and Curry, Vegetarians Non-Vegetarians, Fish, Seafood, Staple Foods, Nendranga Chips, Chilli, Cumin, Dill Seed, Fennel, Fenugreek and Garlic are important Spices. Religion Hinduism, Muslim and Christianity Festival Onam and Vishu, Holi , Christmas, Easter, Eid ul-Fitr, Milad-e-sherif, Cochin Carnival etc. Monuments St Francis Church, Fort Kochi, Chottanikara Temple, Ernakulathapan Temple, Hanuman Temple, Muruga Temple, CSI Church, Places of interest Marine Drive, Chinese Fishing Nets, Hill Palace Museum, Bolgatty Island, Willington Island, Kodanad, Dutch Palace, Chendamangalam, Bhoothathankettu, St. Thomas Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, Malayattoor, Ernakulam Town Hall Hotels The Gateway Hotel, Marine Drive, Grand Hotel, The International Hotel, Hotel Aiswarya, Avenue Regent, Travancore Court, Presidency Hotel, Excellency Hotel, Yuvarani Residency, The Gateway Hotel Marine Drive Ernakulam etc. Markets Ernakulam Market, Supplyco Sabari Super Market etc. Industries Green Carton Industries, Prima Agro Limited, Khadi Gramodyog Bhawan, Lakssmi Enginnring Industries, St. George Industries, Rajana Wood Industries, Josco Food Industries, etc. University/College Sikkim Manipal University, Government Law College, School of Marine Science, Maharajas College, Government Model Engineering College, St.Teresas Women's College, Govt. St.Alberts College, Sacred Heart College etc. Notable people Sahodaran Ayyappan, K Francis George - Politician, Johnny Nellore - Politician, T. M. Jacob - Politician, Jose Thettayil - Politician etc. Last Updated on: July 7, 2014 Kerala City Map Alappuzha Alwaye Bekal Fort Kochi Kollam Thrissur Kottayam Kovalam Kozikode Kumarakom Malampuzha Pathanamthitta Thoppumpaddy Ponnani Punalur Thalassery Thrippunithura Tirur Varkala Perinthalamanna   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule