Travel to Punjab - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Punjab Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Punjab Places to Visit in Punjab Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Wagah Border Sheesh Mahal Gurudwara Anandpur Sahib Harmandir Sahib Pushpa Gujral Science City Gurudwara Kiratpur Sahib Dera Baba Nanak Goindwal Sahib Tourist Circuits Temples in Punjab Palaces in Punjab Forts in Punjab Other Religious Places More Attractions Cities to Visit in Punjab Amritsar Travel Ludhiana Travel Chandigarh Travel Punjab Hotels Amritsar Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Patiala Hotels Mohali Hotels Jalandhar Hotels About Punjab History Geography Climate Home » Maps » Punjab » Travel to Punjab Travel to Punjab Travel Map of Punjab Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map Showing Tourist/Travel Locations in Punjab. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Punjab Tourism Punjab, the land of five rivers and astounding cultural diversity is renowned for its cuisine, culture and history. The bright green fertile farming land, shimmering waters, skies in various shades of blue give your senses an ever lasting liveliest experience. The magical land of Punjab is home to cheerful, lively, and fun-loving people who welcome you with open arms and a smile on their face. Rainbow tinged turbans worn by cheerful men, vibrantly colored attire, bangles, ribbons, and scarves adorned by women, and bhangra music - all bestows Punjab a colorful and lively culture. The charming cities of the state are dotted with enticing monuments, gurudwaras, sacred shrines, temples, ashrams, wide lakes, museums, and wildlife sanctuaries, which are home to numerous rare species of animals and migratory birds. It is an ideal destination for tourists interested in exploring ancient civilization, rich culture, mouth watering cuisine, and exquisite shopping. Demographic Location Northwest part of India Pakistan on the west Jammu and Kashmir on the north Himachal Pradesh on its northeast Haryana and Rajasthan to its south Latitude Between 29°30' and 32°32' North Longitude Between 73°55 and 76°50 East Area 50362Sq.kms Climate Summer - Sultry Winter - Cold Max Temperature 47°C Min Temperature -4°C Average Annual Rainfall Between 96 and 58 cms Capital Chandigarh Population 24,289,296 Languages Punjabi and Hindi, Urdu and English Religion Sikhism, Hinduism and Islam Best Time to Visit October to March Clothing Summer - Cottons Winter - Cottons or light Woolens How to Reach Punjab Punjab is a state in the northwestern part of India. It's the land of the five rivers and one of the most important Sikh pilgrimage destinations. Major cities of Punjab include Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Bathinda, etc. Apart from these cities there are many tourist attraction places in the state. The entire state of Punjab is so inviting, that you can hardly ignore it. By Air The state has six airports. Out of these six airports the main commercial airports are: Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport in Amritsar Sahnewal Airport in Ludhiana Pathankot Airport in Pathankot Almost all important airlines like Spicejet, Air India, Jet Airways and JetKonnect operate flights to these airports connecting them to major Indian cities. By Rail The state also boasts of a good rail network. Almost all cities of the state are linked together with railways. Main Railway Stations in the state are: Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Bhatinda. By Road Punjab has an extensive road network which links the state directly to most of the significant places in northern and eastern India. National Highways 1 (Grand Trunk Road or G.T. Road), 15, 19, 20, 21, 71, 54 and 1A and numerous of state highways literally crisscross the state making road travel an easy affair. The National Highways in the state are ranked among the best in India with good road infrastructure. Shopping in Punjab Punjab has an exceptionally lush tradition of handicrafts and handloom products, which makes shopping in the state a wonderful experience. Punjab has the reputation of being the India's largest manufacturers and exporters of handicrafts, handloom and hosiery products. Places for Shopping in Punjab The state offers numerous things, from traditional to contemporary items; everything has a resemblance of its rich culture. One can shop anywhere in Punjab, however big cities like Amritsar, Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Pathankot, etc presents lots of range for shopping. Government Emporiums and private shops are in abundance for shopping in Punjab. Chandigarh the capital of the state has some excellent shopping malls and commercial stores. The same one can find in other big cities too. In Punjab, one can visit the lively local markets which offer wide variety of goods at good bargain price. Famous crafts of Punjab Some of the famous crafts of Punjab are: Durries (flat woven rugs) Used as either carpets or bedcovers, these durries are very popular with their traditional designs, woven skillfully with minute details. They are mostly used for sitting purposes, whenever there is a large gathering, whatever the occasions may be. Chandigarh and Amritsar are the main centers for the production of durries. Jutties (footwear) The footwear is made with various designs and patterns, beautiful embroidered with fancy materials, like beads, colored threads, small mirrors etc. They portray the elegance, glory and royalty of Punjab. Phulkaris (artistic embroidery) It's a form of art which is embroidered on a shawl, dupatta, saree or a dress. Phulkari is done for various occasions, like marriages and festivals. A special kind of thread called 'pat' is used for it. The designs seamed are varied, one can think of any design, other than religious illustrations. Parandis (hair accessories) These are attractive hangings worn in hair by the Punjabi women living in the rural areas. Women plait their long hair and decorate them with Parandi which is worn at the plait's end. Woven out of silk these threads are joined together artistically and are available in various patterns and designs. Shawls Different varieties of shawls like pashmina, cashmillon, jacquard, etc are available in Punjab. They are well-known for their attractive designs, comfort and reasonable prices. The main centers for manufacturing these shawls are in Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana. Inlaid Furniture Punjab has a wide variety of inlaid furniture, carved with exquisite designs. One can get here the most unique collection of furniture. The main areas fro manufacturing inlaid furniture are Jalandhar, Amritsar, Bhera and Hoshiarpur. Miscellaneous Besides these famous crafts, one can shop for a number of other items like Leather garments, Punjab dolls, Jewelry, Hand fans, Baskets, Folk toys, etc. Places to Visit in Punjab Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Wagah Border Sheesh Mahal Gurudwara Anandpur Sahib Harmandir Sahib Gurudwara Kiratpur Sahib Dera Baba Nanak Goindwal Sahib More on tourist attractions of Punjab Last Updated on : 23/09/2013 Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Travel to Punjab Travel to Amritsar Travel to Ludhiana Places to visit in Punjab Places to visit in Punjab Places to visit in Amritsar Places to visit in Ludhiana Flights to Punjab Flights to Amritsar Flights to Chandigarh Flights to Ludhiana About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule