TNAU Agritech Portal :: Banking & Credit Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact   Banking & Credit :: RESERVE BANK OF INDIA (RBI) RESERVE BANK OF INDIA (RBI) 1.  ABOUT RBI 2.  FINANCIAL SUPERVISION 3.  LEGAL FRAMEWORK 4.  MAIN FUNCTIONS 5.RBI’S FREE ON-LINE DATABASE ON INDIAN ECONOMY 1. ABOUT RBI Top The Reserve Bank of India was established on April 1, 1935 in accordance with the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. The Central Office of the Reserve Bank was initially established in Calcutta but was permanently moved to Mumbai in 1937. The Central Office is where the Governor sits and where policies are formulated.Though originally privately owned, since nationalisation in 1949, the Reserve Bank is fully owned by the Government of India. Preamble The Preamble of the Reserve Bank of India describes the basic functions of the Reserve Bank as: "...to regulate the issue of Bank Notes and keeping of reserves with a view to securing monetary stability in India and generally to operate the currency and credit system of the country to its advantage." Central Board The Reserve Bank's affairs are governed by a central board of directors. The board is appointed by the Government of India in keeping with the Reserve Bank of India Act. Appointed/nominated for a period of four years  Constitution: Official Directors Full-time : Governor and not more than four Deputy Governors Non-Official Directors Nominated by Government: ten Directors from various fields and one government Official  Others: four Directors - one each from four local boards Functions : General superintendence and direction of the Bank's affairs Local Boards One each for the four regions of the country in Mumbai, Calcutta, Chennai and New Delhi Membership: consist of five members each appointed by the Central Government for a term of four years Functions To advise the Central Board on local matters and to represent territorial and economic interests of local cooperative and indigenous banks; to perform such other functions as delegated by Central Board from time to time. 2. FINANCIAL SUPERVISION Top The Reserve Bank of India performs this function under the guidance of the Board for Financial Supervision (BFS). The Board was constituted in November 1994 as a committee of the Central Board of Directors of the Reserve Bank of India. Objective Primary objective of BFS is to undertake consolidated supervision of the financial sector comprising commercial banks, financial institutions and non-banking finance companies. Constitution The Board is constituted by co-opting four Directors from the Central Board as members for a term of two years and is chaired by the Governor. The Deputy Governors of the Reserve Bank are ex-officio members. One Deputy Governor, usually, the Deputy Governor in charge of banking regulation and supervision, is nominated as the Vice-Chairman of the Board. BFS meetings The Board is required to meet normally once every month. It considers inspection reports and other supervisory issues placed before it by the supervisory departments. BFS through the Audit Sub-Committee also aims at upgrading the quality of the statutory audit and internal audit functions in banks and financial institutions. The audit sub-committee includes Deputy Governor as the chairman and two Directors of the Central Board as members. The BFS oversees the functioning of Department of Banking Supervision (DBS), Department of Non-Banking Supervision (DNBS) and Financial Institutions Division (FID) and gives directions on the regulatory and supervisory issues. Functions Some of the initiatives taken by BFS include: restructuring of the system of bank inspections introduction of off-site surveillance, strengthening of the role of statutory auditors and strengthening of the internal defences of supervised institutions. The Audit Sub-committee of BFS has reviewed the current system of concurrent audit, norms of empanelment and appointment of statutory auditors, the quality and coverage of statutory audit reports, and the important issue of greater transparency and disclosure in the published accounts of supervised institutions. Current Focus supervision of financial institutions consolidated accounting legal issues in bank frauds divergence in assessments of non-performing assets and supervisory rating model for banks. 3. LEGAL FRAMEWORK Top Umbrella Acts Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934: governs the Reserve Bank functions Banking Regulation Act, 1949: governs the financial sector Acts governing specific functions Public Debt Act, 1944/Government Securities Act (Proposed): Governs government debt market Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956: Regulates government securities market Indian Coinage Act, 1906:Governs currency and coins Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973/Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999: Governs trade and foreign exchange market Acts governing Banking Operations Companies Act, 1956:Governs banks as companies Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970/1980: Relates to nationalisation of banks Bankers' Books Evidence Act Banking Secrecy Act Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 Acts governing Individual Institutions State Bank of India Act, 1954 The Industrial Development Bank (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act, 2003 The Industrial Finance Corporation (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act, 1993 National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act National Housing Bank Act Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act 4. MAIN FUNCTIONS Top Monetary Authority Formulates, implements and monitors the monetary policy. Objective: maintaining price stability and ensuring adequate flow of credit to productive sectors. Regulator and supervisor of the financial system Prescribes broad parameters of banking operations within which the country's banking and financial system functions. Objective: maintain public confidence in the system, protect depositors' interest and provide cost-effective banking services to the public. Manager of Foreign Exchange Manages the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999. Objective: to facilitate external trade and payment and promote orderly development and maintenance of foreign exchange market in India. Issuer of currency Issues and exchanges or destroys currency and coins not fit for circulation. Objective: to give the public adequate quantity of supplies of currency notes and coins and in good quality. Developmental role Performs a wide range of promotional functions to support national objectives. Related Functions Banker to the Government: performs merchant banking function for the central and the state governments; also acts as their banker. Banker to banks: maintains banking accounts of all scheduled banks. OFFICES Has 22 regional offices, most of them in state capitals. OFFICE IN TAMILNADU Regional Director :  Shri B. Ghosh  Fort Glacis, Rajaji Salai, Chennai-600 001, India Tel: +91 44 2536 0211 SUBSIDIARIES Fully owned: National Housing Bank(NHB), Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation of India(DICGC), Bharatiya Reserve Bank Note Mudran Private Limited(BRBNMPL) Majority stake: National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) The Reserve Bank of India has recently divested its stake in State Bank of India to the Government of India. RBI’s Free On-line Database on Indian Economy Top The Reserve Bank of India has released to public a number of long time series data pertaining to financial sector, real sector, financial market, external sector, public finance and corporate finance in user friendly manner through dynamic web based application for the convenience of analysts, researchers and other users. This database consisting of 216 Static reports, 74 Simple query templates (subject wise), 53 Simple query templates (frequency wise) can be accessed from the home page of the RBI website ( www.rbi.org.in ) through the static headline “Database on Indian Economy (DBIE)” or directly using the website URL  http://dbie.rbi.org.in . List of data series available on the site is progressively enlarged on a regular interval on the basis of feedback received and availability of relevant data series in the RBI’s data warehouse. For further details  Click here Source http://www.rbi.org.in/commonman/English/Scripts/Organisation.aspx Economic & Political Weekly, April 25, 2009 vol XLIV no 17 .    Updated on July 3 rd 2013   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.