Dr. H. Khorana India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Science Technology » Dr. H. Khorana   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Dr. H. Khorana Dr. H. Khorana was born at Raipur in Punjab , which is now in Pakistan. His father was the "Patwari", or taxation official of Raipur. His primary education began at home. Later he went to the D.A.V. Multan High School. In 1943 he completed his graduation in science and in the year 1945 he completed his M.Sc from the Punjab University, Lahore. In the same year, he went to the University of Liverpool for further studies. After achieving a doctoral degree in 1948, he continued his postdoctoral studies from Zurich. His interests in proteins and nucleic acids took root when he was in Cambridge for two years. In 1952 he went to the University of British Columbia, Vancouver and in 1960 moved to the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He became the Alfred Sloan Professor of Biology and Chemistry at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is still pursuing his work at this university. In the year 1952 Dr. Har Gobind Khorana, as he was called, married a Swiss lady named Esther Elizabeth Sibler. He has two daughters and a son named Julia Elizabeth, Emily Anne and Dave Roy. For his work on the interpretation of the genetic code and its function in protein synthesis, Dr.Khorana, in the year 1968 was awarded with the Nobel Prize in Medicine. In the year 1987 Dr. Khorana also received the U.S. National Medal of Science At present this famous scientist stays at Cambridge, Massachusetts in the United States. Last Updated on : January 30, 2014   Related Links   Scientists Prafulla Chandra Roy Homi J. Bhabha M.K. Vainu Bappu Jagdish Chandra Bose G. N. Ramachandran M.S. Swaminathan Bhaskara I Meghnad Saha Bhaskara I Sam Pitroda Aryabhatta II Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar Bhaskara II Sir C.V. Raman Harish Chandra Subrahmanyam Chandrasekhar Aryabhatta Vikram Sarabhai Dr. H. Khorana               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule