Dr. Anil K. Rajvanshi - Director Nimbkar Agricultural Research Institute | ngogateway.com Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Latest : Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Posted 1 year ago MARS FOUNDATION Posted 1 year ago St.Theresa’s Educational Society Posted 1 year ago Ray Welfare Society Posted 1 year ago Narain Sewa Sansthan Posted 1 year ago WOMEN ORGANISATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRUST Posted 1 year ago Sewa Bhav Foundation Posted 1 year ago Panrui Swajan Welfare Society Posted 4 years ago Sampark Samaj Kalyan Sansthan Posted 4 years ago The Catholic Health Association of India Posted 4 years ago Home   >   Personalities   >   Dr. Anil K. Rajvanshi – Director Nimbkar Agricultural Research Institute Dr. Anil K. Rajvanshi – Director Nimbkar Agricultural Research Institute By admin on May 17, 2009 Dr.Rajvanshi has nearly 30 years of experience in renewable energy R&D and rural development. He did his B.Tech and M.Tech in Mechanical Engineering from I.I.T. Kanpur in 1972 and 1974 respectively. He received his Ph.D. in Mech. Engg. from University of Florida, Gainesville, USA in 1979. He was also on the faculty of University of Florida (Dept. of Mechanical Engineering) for 2.5 years before returning to India in 1981 to work in a small rural NGO – Nimbkar Agricultural Research Institute (NARI) in Phaltan, Maharashtra. He is presently its Director, Trustee and Hon. Secretary. Dr. Rajvanshi has been a member of many prestigious committees of the Government of India (Office of the principal Scientific Advisor to the GOI, Planning Commission, Advisory Board of Energy, MNES, etc.) and Government of Maharashtra (State Planning Commission, Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission, etc.). He is the author of the national policy on Energy Self Sufficient Talukas, which was run by MNES, New Delhi. IN 1998, he was inducted in the U.S. based Solar Hall of Fame. He was awarded the prestigious Jamnalal Bajaj Award for rural development in 2001. In 2004 his work on electric cycle rickshaw was awarded the Energy Globe Award also called the Oscar of Energy. Dr. Rajvanshi is the principal investigator of 30 projects funded by various national and international agencies with grants totaling Rs. 25 million. He has authored/co-authored 135 publications in various national and international journals including 35 editorial articles on sustainable development and spirituality in some of the major newspapers and magazines of India. He has also written chapters in books entitled Alternative Energy in Agriculture (CRC Press, U.S.A. 1987) and Gandhi in 21st Century (Prachee Publications, Hyderabad, 1999). Dr. Rajvanshi has lectured and given seminars at many leading Universities in India and in US. Dr. Rajvanshi has five patents to his credit. He has written a book Nature of Human Thought in which he has made an attempt to synthesize the ancient Indian Yogic thought with modern cosmology and brain research. Recently he has penned his memoirs about his student days in US. Related Posts: Ganga Devi Shaikshik Society Sahyadri Nisarga Mitra Rural Education Development Association Samaj Kalyan Foundation Health, Education and Promotions Of Teeming Association In… About admin 2 Comments Balraj Seth November 11, 2009 at 5:58 pm Really impressive that after having had brilliant educational career you opted to work for rural NGO. I shall be keen to have your views of providing solar home lighting to rural poor and I may be keen to associate with organization in some way.Kindly let me know your views. Accept my congratulations on your achievements. Anil K Rajvanshi December 9, 2009 at 3:32 pm Thanks Mr. Seth for your kind comments. Any light given to rural poor is a step in the right direction. However the most important thing is that it should be affordable, very robust and requires least maintenance. Some of the solar lighting systems have not been so robust. However if good after sales service is provided then it will be allright. Cheers. You must be logged in to post a comment Login Latest News pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile: A.... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym) –... Posted 8 months ago 0 Society for Peoples Integrated Development General information: Full Name of organization Society for People’s Integrated... Posted 8 months ago 0 Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Address: At – Bhalunka Po- Ramdaspur (Godisahi) Dist – Cuttack... Posted 8 months ago 0 Shri Durga Mahila Mandal (SDMM) Village & P.O. Ghanauli, District Roopnagar (Punjab) Shri Durga Mahila... Posted 8 months ago 0 Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) 1A, D. L. Khan Road,... Posted 8 months ago 0 Feedback Funding Agencies A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W Search Latest Popular Comments pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile:... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2.... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym)... Posted 8 months ago 0 Funding Agencies in India A M M Foundation “Tiam House” No 28, Rajaji... Posted 5 years ago 213 List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs American Jewish World Service Ananda Foundation Asia Foundation Baxter... Posted 6 years ago 116 Funding Agencies – C CAAC OF PIKE COUNTY 941 Market Street Piketon OH... Posted 6 years ago 91 Blog about human anatomy says: Awesome post.... Paul Ponniah says: Dear Sir, II, for Jeevan Sagar Trust, are w... Paul Ponniah says: Fine work for the Cause.... Recently Added pragati welfare society gariasathi Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Society for Peoples Integrated Development Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Copyright © 2007 - 14 | All Rights Reserved: advertisement advertisement