Cities in Madhya Pradesh Home » Maps » Madhya Pradesh Map » Madhya Pradesh Cities   Madhya Pradesh मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Indore Bhopal Jabalpur Gwalior Ujjain Sagar Neemuch Morena                    more... Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Madhya Pradesh Cities City Map of Madhya Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing all Major Cities of Madhya Pradesh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Barwani City Map Bhind City Map Bhopal City Map Burhanpur City Map Chhindwara City Map Dewas City Map Guna City Map Gwalior City Map Itarsi City Map Jabalpur City Map Katni City Map Khajuraho City Map Khandwa City Map Khargaon City Map Khargone City Map Morena City Map Neemuch City Map Orchha City Map Ratlam City Map Rewa City Map Sagar City Map Sanchi City Map Satara City Map Satna City Map Sehore City Map Shivpuri City Map Singrauli City Map Ujjain City Map Vidisha City Map Madhya Pradesh Cities The cities of Madhya Pradesh has a strong bearing on its past history and events. In most of the cities of Madhya Pradesh, we find evidences of the historical past that sings its own happy song! Some of the major cities of Madhya Pradesh are: Bhopal - The city of Bhopal is the capital of Madhya Pradesh. This city of Madhya Pradesh has a university, which was founded in 1970. Bhopal got its name after Raja Bhoj who was the founder of the old city of Bhopal; the erstwhile city of Bhopal was founded by an Afghan soldier, Dost Muhammad in the 18th century. Indore - Indore is the commercial center of Madhya Pradesh. Among the other cities of Madhya Pradesh, this city houses a hoard of witness reflecting the historical past of Madhya Pradesh. In this city, we find a number of palaces that bears the witness of the eventful past. Jabalpur - The city of Jabalpur was formerly known as Jubbulpore. Local myth says that it was the birth place of Maharshi Mahesh Yogi. Situated near the Narmada river, the city is the major center of trade and commerce in Madhya Pradesh. Among the chief industries of Jabalpur are: textiles telephone parts furniture building materials ammunitions, and glassware. Ujjain - Ujjain is among the sacred cities of Madhya Pradesh (even in India) that houses the Mahakaleshwar temple. The city had once been the capital of the legendary kingdom of Avanti (a state described in the Buddhist chronicles). The major cities in Madhya Pradesh are as follows: Gwalior - A historic city Bhopal - The capital of the state Jabalpur - Houses many tourist attractions and historical monuments Indore - The commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh Rewa Katni Satna - Famous for its cement industry Sagar - A major educational hub Ujjain - Famous for its temples and historic places Last Updated on : 16 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule