India Road Maps Home » Road Network   Road Maps Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral Expressway States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map India Traffic Signs       India Road Maps Click on the Map for Bigger Map India road maps make you familiar with the Indian road network. The Indian roadways network ranks as the second biggest roadways network in the world. The road network of the country covers more than 2.059 million miles or 4.42 million kilometers. For every sq km of land, there is 0.66 km of highways in the country. The density of the highway network of India is somewhat more as compared to the United States (0.65) and substantially higher as compared to Brazil (0.20) and China (0.16). According to the data furnished in 2002, just 47.3% of the Indian roadways network comprised paved roads. Overview of India road Maps Previously, India did not allot funds for constructing or upkeep of its roadways network. However, the scenario has evolved over the past 15 years. The Government of India in collaboration with a number of private players is taking groundbreaking endeavors for overhauling the road transportation system of the nation. By 2013, India is mulling over to outlay about US$70 Billion to upgrade its main road network. Till date, some of the important plans that have been put into operation include names like the Yamuna Expressway, National Highways Development Project, and the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. Till the month of October 2011, India had finished the construction and implemented more than 14,000 km of newly constructed 4-lane highways. These highways are utilized to join a large number of business hubs, production hubs, and cultural hubs. As substantiated by the facts and figures furnished by Goldman Sachs, the country would have to make an outlay of US$ 1.7 trillion on infrastructure ventures throughout the coming 10 years to enhance economic development. With an attempt to attain this, the Indian Government is making an honest try to attract investment from other countries in road infrastructure ventures by providing economic bonuses like toll rights to contractors and developers. Statistics related to the Indian Roadways Network As a whole, roads in the country are mostly tarmac roads with bitumen as one of the major construction ingredients. Nevertheless, some of the National Highways feature concrete roads as well. In the cities like Kanpur, concrete roads constructed by the British government are still operational. Earlier than 1990s, concrete roads did not gain so much popularity due to insufficient availability of cement at that time. Nonetheless, with increased availability of cement in India and the excellent features of concrete roads, they are once more garnering popularity. This type of roads has higher durability and needs less upkeep than the bitumen-based thoroughfares.   Indian Road Network   Type Length (km) State Highways 128,000 Expressways/National Highways 66,754 Rural and other roads 2,650,000 Important district roads 470,000 Total (approximate figure) 3,314,754 Expressways in India In 2009, in India, access-regulated expressways comprised around 120 miles or 200 km of the National Highway System of the country. By 2011, these added to more than 600 km. These roads allow high speeding vehicles and can be categorized into four-lane and six-lane expressways. It has been anticipated that by 2014 around 3,530 km of expressways will be put into operation from the projects that are currently going on. The Indian government has outlined a motivated goal to construct a new 18,637 km expressway transportation system by 2022. The expressways in India are access regulated and come with a separator in the middle and feature four or six traffic lanes together with a raised border on both sides. These expressways normally don't permit three-wheelers, two-wheelers, or tractor vehicles to travel on them. A speed limit of 75 mph or 120 km/h has to be kept on these thoroughfares because of different joining traffic lanes and the absence of speed breakers just to guarantee uninterrupted journey. Majority of the present expressways in the country are toll roads.   List of expressways in India   Given below is a list of expressways in India: Expressway Name Name State Mumbai-Pune Expressway Maharashtra Ahmedabad Vadodara Expressway Gujarat Allahabad Bypass Uttar Pradesh Jaipur-Kishangarh Expressway Rajasthan Chennai Bypass Tamil Nadu Durgapur Expressway Noida-Greater Noida Expressway Delhi/Uttar Pradesh Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway Delhi/Haryana Hyderabad Elevated Expressways Andhra Pradesh Delhi Noida Direct Flyway Delhi/Uttar Pradesh Kona Expressway West Bengal Hosur Road Elevated Expressway Karnataka Outer Ring Road (Hyderabad) Andhra Pradesh Ambala Chandigarh Expressway Haryana Raipur-Bhilai-Durg Expressway Chhattisgarh   List of Expressways under construction   Given below is a list of expressways that are under construction in India: Expressway Name Name State Eastern Freeway Mumbai Maharashtra Western Freeway Mumbai Maharashtra Kundli Manesar Palwal Expressway(KMP) Haryana Mumbai Nashik Expressway Maharashtra Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Punjab/Rajasthan Delhi Eastern Peripheral Expressway Uttar Pradesh/Haryana Yamuna Expressway Delhi/Uttar Pradesh Ganga Expressway Uttar Pradesh Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Uttar Pradesh Bamroli Althan Expressway Gujarat Hungund Hospet Expressway Karnataka Chennai Port Maduravoyal Expressway Tamil Nadu Suratkal-B.C Road Expressway Karnataka Hyderabad ORR Andhra Pradesh Raipur-Bilaspur Expressway Chhattisgarh National Highways in India The National Highways are the principal highways moving across the length and breadth of the nation, joining important harbors, big commercial and tourism hubs, state capitals, and so on. National Highways in the country are represented as NH and then the highway number comes after it. These highways are again categorized on the basis of the girth of motorway of the road. Usually, for a single lane, the breadth of the lane is 3.75 meters. At the same time, for National Highways with many lanes, the breadth of every lane is 3.5 meters. Till the month of September 2011, the country had finished and put into operation newly constructed highways given below: East-West and North-South Corridor highway (5,831 km) 4-lane Golden Quadrilateral highway (5,829 km) 4-lane Inter-capital highways (1,342 km) 4-lane Port connectivity highways (330 km) 4-lane Bypass and other national highways (945 km) 4-lane. The abovementioned highways spanning 14,277 km join majority of the important production hubs, business hubs and cultural centers of the country. By the month of February 2008, out of the overall span of 7000 km of finished highways, 14% featured four or higher number of lanes and approximately 59% featured double lanes or two lanes. At the same time, the remaining 27% of the National Highway transportation system featured one lane or a middle lane. Furthermore, by 2008, the country had offered various contracts in the form of a build-operate-transfer pattern and public-private partnership to grow the countrywide road transportation network. NHAI or The National Highways Authority of India is the principal authority which has the responsibility for the expansion, upkeep and handling of National Highways assigned to it. Till 2008, the National Highways Authority of India commenced the expansion operations under the National Highways Development Project (NHDP) in stages. Other than the completion of NHDP, the agency also has the responsibility for executing other plans on National Highways, mostly road connectivity to important harbors in India.   National Highway Categorization   Lanes Span (km) Percentage Double lane 39,079 59% Intermediate lane/ Single Lane 18,350 23% Four Lane/Six lane/Eight Lane 9,325 14% Total 66,754 100% The national highway network in India is supervised by the Ministry of State for Surface Transport. The public works departments of various states look after the state roads and state highways. The state and union governments have common responsibilities for constructing thoroughfares and sustaining the roadways in the country. State Highways in India The state highways are used to join with the National Highways, major towns, district headquarters, tourism hubs and small harbors and facilitate the movement of vehicles in important places of the state. These roads are essentially arterial roads and they facilitate accessibility to major metropolitan areas and townships in the state in association with the State Highways of the bordering states and National Highways. The overall span of the state highways is around 137,712 km. Other than the state highways, expressways, and national highways, there are some district roads and rural roads that form a significant part of the transportation network of the country. Last Updated on : 06 January 2012 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway Maps and Information on Road Network of India South India Road Map Driving Direction Maps National Highways Wall Map of India Roads National Highway No. 1 Golden Quadrilateral Map Road Distance Chart of Major Cities Bus Terminals in New Delhi Road maps of Metros Delhi Kolkata Mumbai Chennai State Road Networks Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chhattisgarh Delhi Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu And Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Orissa Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Tamilnadu Tripura Uttar Pradesh Uttaranchal West Bengal             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule