Punjab Road Network Map Home » Maps » Punjab » Punjab Road Network Map   Roads of Punjab Patiala Amritsar Ludhiana Jalandhar Sangrur Bathinda Mansa                    more पंजाब का नक्शा Punjab Punjab Map Cities in Punjab Districts of Punjab Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Punjab Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Punjab Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Telephone Directory Government and Politics Travel to Punjab Places to visit in Punjab Wildlife Sanctuaries Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Geography and History Handicrafts People Culture and Festivals Pin Code Universities In Punjab       Punjab Road Network Map Click any neighbouring District / State and get the Detailed Road Map Road Network Map of Punjab Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Road Network Map of Punjab in India showing National Highways, State Highways and other roads passing through major cities and towns. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Driving in Punjab Roads in Punjab are some of the best laid ones in the country. Driving down the national highways or the state highways, with picturesque villages, acres of green farms and number of Dhabhas- famed culinary eateries- en route to any corner of the state makes for a scintillating experience. With the capital Chandigarh and the main cities Amritsar, Jalandhar, Bhatinda, Firozpur and Pathankot on the national highways, and remote towns of Sangrur, Taran Taran, Shri Hargobind and Sirhind connected by newly laid roads, every part of the state is accessible by road. However, the speed limit for light motors on national highways in Punjab is 80Kmp and in state highways 70kmp; Within Municipal areas it is 50kmp. National Highways With total length of 1557 km., eleven national highways pass through Punjab. NH 1, historically part of the medieval Grand Trunk road, links Delhi, passing from Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar and Patiala to Attari on the Wagah border near Pakistan. Another national highway NH 10 connects Delhi to Fazilka near Pak border. NH1A connects Uri in J&K, passing through Jammu, to Jalandhar in Punjab. The 350km long NH15 connects Kandla in Gujrat and Rajasthan border to Pathankot, and NH20 connects Pathankot with Mandi in Himachal. NH21 connects Chandigarh with Manali in Himachal while NH22 runs from Ambala to Himachal to Khab on the Chinese border. The 40 km stretch of the NH22 which passes through Punjab is the new, state of the art toll-roads with four lanes, the Ambala Chandigarh Expressway. NH64 connecting Chandigarh to Dabwali , and NH95 connecting Chandigarh to Firozepur , are entirely within the state . NH70 links Jalandhar to Mandi in Himachal and NH71 connects Jalandhar passing through Sangrur to Rewari in Haryana. NH 72 links Ambala on the border of Haryana and Punjab, passing through Dehradun , to Haridwar in Uttranchal. State highways With the World Bank aided Punjab State Road Ways responsible for upgrading and maintaining the roads in the state, all the remote corners of the state have been connected. Punjab has added 465 km of roads till recently and it hopes to add another 73 kms. Some roads have been widened to two lanes some to four lanes. Some of the newly widened and overlaid roads are the Kapurthala to Taran Taran and Kapurthala to Sultanpur. The Atari to Taran Taran road has now been widened to 4 lanes. Roads connecting Gurdaspur to Shri Hargobindpur and another 55 km stretch connecting Shri Hargobindpur to Batala and then to Dera Baba Nakak are newly overlaid. In the Mohali division the Kharar Landran road has been widened and roads connecting Chandigarh to Sirhind and then Sirhind to Patiala overlaid. In the Ludhiana division new laid road connecting Phillaur to Rahon Nagar and Khanna to Garshankar are operational while the 71 km long Ludhiana to Sangrur road, with by passes at Pohir and Gill, is being widened. In Sangrur division some of the best roads are the Surnam to Tappa road, Sitoganna to Dabwali road, and the Bhagapurana Bhagta Bhucho road. Last Updated on : 28/06/2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule