Climate of Maharashtra Home » Maps » Maharashtra Map » Geography and History » Maharashtra Climate   Maharashtra History and Geography Climate of Maharashtra Maharashtra Map महाराष्ट्र का नक्शा Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map Cities in Maharashtra Mumbai Pune Nashik Aurangabad Solapur Shirdi                        more.. Economy of Maharashtra Industrial Map Maharashtra Government Maharashtra Assembly Polls Maharashtra Lok Sabha Elections Maharashtra Assembly Election Results Places to visit in Maharashtra Travel to Maharashtra Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Siddhivinayak Temple Kamala Nehru Park ISKCON Temple in Mumbai Hanging Gardens of Mumbai Adlabs Imagica Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya Taraporewala Aquarium Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Flora Fountain Mumbai Flea Markets in Mumbai BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Mumbai Crawford Market Mumbai Hotels in Maharashtra Mumbai Hotels Pune Hotels Mahabaleshwar Hotels Shirdi Hotels Matheran Hotels Nagpur Hotels Nashik Hotels Lonavala Hotels              more... Education Universities in Maharashtra Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Climate of Maharashtra Maharashtra experiences a tropical monsoon type of climate. The most important factor which influences the climate is the towering presence of the Western Ghats which block the monsoon bearing winds coming from the Arabian Sea and cause rainfall. The onset of the monsoons in the early June gives relief to the scorching summers from the month of March. The climatic conditions become cold from October end. The rainfall plays a very important role in the lives of the people who are involved in agriculture. Most of the rainfall is received by the Konkan and Sahyadrian parts of Maharashtra . In some years the frequency of the rainfall varies along with harsh climatic conditions in summer months, which add to the woe of the peasants. The annual rainfall of the state can vary from 400 - 6000 mm and occurs for 3 - 4 months in a year. The months of March, April and May, experience very high temperatures which are often accompanied by thunderstorms. Maximum amount of rainfall occurs in the month of July, while the transition towards the colder climatic conditions occurs in the month of October. Winter touches the state in the month of November and persists till February. The weather is generally pleasant with clear skies and cool gentle wind. The average annual temperature of Maharashtra remains 25 - 27 degree centigrade in most regions. The total annual rainfall varies in different regions and so does the temperature. In the summer months the climatic conditions become very unpleasant with shortage of even drinking water. Last Updated on : 21 May 2013 About Maharashtra History Geography Weather Topography Festivals Facts Rivers and Lakes Soil and vegetation District Fact Sheet Maharashtra Region Map Mumbai Central Map North Mumbai Map South Mumbai Map Maharashtra Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Rail Map Road Map Tehsil Map River Map Maharashtra Thematic Maps Forest Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Sex Ratio Map Handicrafts Map Industrial Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule