 Vision/Mission | NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India Jump to navigation NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India HOME CONTACT US Search Search form Search ABOUT US Overview History Vision/Mission Board Members Management Team OUR WORK Our Approach Where We Work Our Programmes Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness & Response GET INVOLVED Careers Internship Campaigns Volunteer Partnerships Power to Empower NEWS National International CARE India in Media Media Contact DONATE NOW You are here Home » vision/mission The vision and mission of CARE India guide us towards our goal of overcoming poverty, and ensuring a life of dignity and security for the marginalized populations. We focus on women and girls to enable them to realise their rigths, avail resources and opportunities, fight social injustice, develop leadership capabilities and build a better future for themselves. Donate Now Vision/Mission Our Vision We seek a world of hope, tolerance and social justice, where poverty has been overcome and people live in dignity and security. Our Mission CARE India helps alleviate poverty and social exclusion by facilitating empowerment of women and girls from poor and marginalised communities. Our Programme Goal Women and girls from the most marginalised communities are empowered, live in dignity and their households have secure and resilient lives. CARE India will accomplish this goal by working with 50 million people to help them meet their health, education and livelihood entitlements. Our Core Values Our commitment towards a better society drives us. CARE’'s core values inform all of our work. They shape what we do and how we do it. They bind us to a collective vision and purpose. Respect CARE staffers act in a manner that reflects a true belief in and appreciation for the dignity and potential of all human beings. Gaining people’s' confidence and creating an environment of trust and openness is essential to our work. Integrity Maintaining social, ethical, and organisational norms; firmly adhering to codes of conduct and ethical principles are inherent to CARE. Commitment Using appropriate interpersonal styles and techniques to gain acceptance of ideas or plans; modifying one’'s own behavior to accommodate tasks, situations, and individuals involved. Excellence Setting high standards of performance for self and/or others; assuming responsibility and accountability for successfully completing assignments or tasks; self-imposing standards of excellence; ensuring interactions and transactions are ethical and convey integrity. CARE also embraces DIVERSITY through promoting, valuing, respecting and fully benefiting from each individual’'s unique qualities, background, race, culture, age, gender, disability, values, lifestyle, perspectives or interests; creating and maintaining a work environment that promotes and celebrates diversity. CARE Initiatives CARE works with more than 200 districts, in a total of 13 states and union terriotories across India Engage educate empower Assurance of a secure life Livelihood Initiative Tsunami Power to Empower Cyclone Hudhud Horlicks Ahaar Abhiyan GiveAssure Help Shanti JK Flood crisis Join my village VIEW ALL Latest Publications Pages from booklet 1 pages from booklet hindi-7-2.pdf READ MORE Case Studies Education Health Livelihood Emergency Blog Resources © 2014 CARE India. All Rights Reserved