Green Tea Offered by Hindustan Fruit Processing Works(Tea div Jalpaiguri | ID - 966398 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Hindustan Fruit Processing Works(Tea div Member Since : 2007 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Green Tea,ctc Tea,canned Pineapple Products,canned Fruit Home » Product » Green Tea Green Tea We are offering green tea. Enjoy the magic of nature with our exclusive green tea. Green tea consists of antioxidants that protect against some cancers like esophageal, stomach and prostate. Green leaf tea is also used by herbalists to cure certain other problems such as diarrhea, vomiting, stomach problems and to reduce blood pressure or tooth decay. Green tea is also promoted as herb to prevent some bacterial infections. With a capacity to produce 15 lac kg of green tea annually, we mainly produce herbal green tea. At hindustan fruits, we basically have two grades of tea products, primary grades and secondary grades. Primary grade is further subdivided into 6 categories and secondary grade is divided into 2 categories. Our herbal tea is classified into two grades : primary grades mogra-i mogra-ii premium fine super fine fine lachha secondary grades yellow leaf somi-i haysen-ii gt-ii let us discuss them in details : primary grades mogra-1 - contains the greatest amount of leaf buds (tips). Mogra-i is in high demand because of its tips and fabulous quality. mogra ii - it is almost like mogra-i but looks very different as mogra-i is finer. They taste almost same in terms of liquor. premium fine - it is considered best in the entire fine category. With its finer leaves, it looks great. Super fine - it comes second in fine category. With longer leaves, it looks different than premium fine. Fine - this variety is cheaper than rest of the fine categories. It is the last type of fine category. lachha - its leaves are finer than rest of the varieties. secondary grades yellow leaf - it consists of content of some undesirable leaves. somi-i - somi-i contains tea dust that exist in the tea. It is separated from tea through different methods to make it free of dust. SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mr. P.B.Gupta Telephone : +91-3561-255397 Mobile Phone : +91-9733145139 » More detail Hot Products » Canned Pineapple Products » Premium Green Tea Box Other Products » Ctc Tea » Green Tea Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com