Multinational Companies in India (MNC) Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI India Company      Top Companies India American Companies in India Multinational Companies Indian Hotels Company Companies Outsourcing Biotech Companies in India BPO Companies in India Companies in India Starting a Company in India Register a Company in India Pharmaceutical Companies Indian Insurance Companies India Software Companies IT Companies in Chandigarh Delhi Companies Punjab Tractors United Phosphorus 3i Infotech 3M India ONGC NTPC Top 10 Blue Chip Companies Top 10 Agricultural Companies Steel Authority of India Cadila Healthcare Indiabulls Biocon National Fertilizer Gillette India IG Petrochemicals Indian Trading Company Vodafone Essar Top 10 Brokerage Firms Top 10 Biotech Companies Top Construction Companies Wine Companies India You would like to see India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » India-company » Multinational Companies in India (MNC) Multinational Companies in India (MNC) Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  365  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 About Multinational Companies As the name suggests, any company is referred to as a multinational company or corporation (M. N. C.) when that company manages its operation or production or service delivery from more than a single country. Such a company is even known as international company or corporation. As defined by I. L. O. or the International Labor Organization, a M. N. C. is one, which has its operational headquarters based in one country with several other operating branches in different other countries. The country where the head quarter is located is called the home country whereas, the other countries with operational branches are called the host countries. Apart from playing an important role in globalization and international relations, these multinational companies even have notable influence in a country's economy as well as the world economy. The budget of some of the M. N. C.s are so high that at times they even exceed the G. D. P. (Gross Domestic Product) of a nation. These are not the sole prior causes of the Nokia, Vodafone, Fiat, Ford Motors and as the list moves on- to flourish in India. As the basic economic data suggest that after the liberalization in 1991, it has brought in hosts of foreign companies in India and the share of U.S shows the highest. They account about 37% of the turnover from top 20 companies that function in India. Why are Multinational Companies in India? There are a number of reasons why the multinational companies are coming down to India. India has got a huge market. It has also got one of the fastest growing economies in the world. Besides, the policy of the government towards FDI has also played a major role in attracting the multinational companies in India. For quite a long time, India had a restrictive policy in terms of foreign direct investment. As a result, there was lesser number of companies that showed interest in investing in Indian market. However, the scenario changed during the financial liberalization of the country, especially after 1991. Government, nowadays, makes continuous efforts to attract foreign investments by relaxing many of its policies. As a result, a number of multinational companies have shown interest in Indian market. Profit of MNCs in India It is too specify that the companies come and settle in India to earn profit. A company enlarges its jurisdiction of work beyond its native place when they get a wide scope to earn a profit and such is the case of the MNCs that have flourished here. More over India has wide market for different and new goods and services due to the ever increasing population and the varying consumer taste. The government FDI policies have some how benefited them and drawn their attention too. The restrictive policies that stopped the company's inflow are however withdrawn and the country has shown much interest to bring in foreign investment here. Besides the foreign directive policies the labour competitive market, market competition and the macro-economic stability are some of the key factors that magnetize the foreign MNCs here. Following are the reasons why multinational companies consider India as a preferred destination for business: Huge market potential of the country FDI attractiveness Labor competitiveness Macro-economic stability Advantages of the growing MNCs to India There are certain advantages that the underdeveloped countries like and the developing countries like India derive from the foreign MNCs that establishes. They are as under: Initiating a higher level of investment. Reducing the technological gap The natural resources are utilized in true sense. The foreign exchange gap is reduced Boosts up the basic economic structure. Disadvantages of MNCs Roses does not come without thrones. Disadvantages of having an MNCs in a developing country like India are as under- Competition to SMSI Pollution and Environmental hazards Some MNCs come only for tax benefits only Exploitation of natural resources Lack of employment opportunities Diffusion of profits and Forex Imbalance Working environment and conditions Slows down decision making Economical distress Top MNCs in India The country has got many M. N. C.s operating here. Following are names of some of the most famous multinational companies, who have their headquarters of operational branches based in the nation: International Business Machines (IBM) IBM India Private Limited, a part of IBM has been operating from this country since the year 1992. This global company is known for invention and integration of software, hardware as well as services, which assist forward thinking institutions, enterprises and people, who build a smart planet. The net income of this company post completion of the financial year end of 2010 was $14.8 billion with a net profit margin of 14.9 %. With innovative technology and solutions, this company is making a constant progress in India. Present in more than 200 cities, this company is making constant progress in global markets to maintain its leading position. Microsoft A subsidiary, named as Microsoft Corporation India Private Limited, of the U. S. (United States) based Microsoft Corporation, one of the software giants has got their headquarter in New Delhi. Starting its operation in the country from 1990, this company has got the following business units: Microsoft Corporation India (Pvt.) Limited (Marketing Division) Microsoft Global Services India Microsoft Global Technical Support Centre Microsoft India Development Center Microsoft IT Microsoft Research India The net income of Microsoft Corporation grew from $ 14, 569 million in 2009 to $ 18, 760 million in 2010. Working in close association with all the stakeholders including the Government of India, the company is committed towards the development of the Indian software as well as I. T. (Information Technology) industry . Nokia Corporation Nokia Corporation was started in the year 1865. Being one of the leading mobile companies in India, their stylish product range includes the following: Normal mobile handsets Smartphones Touch screen phones Dual sim phones Business phone The net sales of the company increased by 4 % in the last financial year with sales of EUR 42.4 billion as compared to 2009's EUR 41 billion. Over the past few years, this company in India has been acquiring companies, which have got new and interesting competencies and technologies so as to enhance their ability of creating the mobile world. Besides new developments to fight against mineral conflicts, they are even to set up Bridge Centers in the country for supporting re-employment. Their first onsite for the installation of renewable power generation are already in place. PepsiCo PepsiCo. Inc. entered the Indian market with the name of PepsiCo India from the year 1989. Within a short time span of 20 years, this company has emerged as one of the fast growing as well as largest beverage and food manufacturer. As per the annual report of the company in the last business year, the net revenue of PepsiCo grew by 33 %. By the year 2020, this food manufacturing company intends to triple their portfolio of enjoyable and wholesome offerings. The expansion of their Good-For-You portfolio is believed to be assisting the company in attaining the competitive advantage of the growing packaged nutrition market in the world, which is presently valued at $ 500 billion. Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited, one of the biggest pharmaceutical companies in India, started their business in the country from the year 1961. The company made its public appearance in 1973 though. Headquartered in this nation, this international, research based, integrated pharmaceutical company is the producer of a huge range of affordable cum quality medicines that are trusted by both patients and healthcare professionals all over the world. In the business year 2010, the registered global sales of the company was US $ 1, 868 Mn. Successful development of business forms the key component of their trading strategy. Apart from overseas acquisitions, this company is making a continuous endeavor to enter the new global markets, which have got high potential. For this, they are offering value adding products as well. Reebok International Limited This global brand is a famous name in the field of sports as well as lifestyle products. Reebok International Limited, a subsidiary of Adidas AG, is based in U. S. A. (United States of America) started its operation in 1890s. During the last financial year, Adidas's currency neutralized group sales increased by 9 %. Apart from their alliance with CrossFit that is among the largest contemporary fitness movements, in the current year, Reebok's announcement of its partnership with artist, designer and producer Swizz Beatz reflects its long term future growth. Sony Sony India is a part of the renowned brand name Sony Corporation, which started their business operation in the year 1946 in Japan. Established in India in November 1994, this company has captured one of the leading positions in the field of consumer electronics goods. By the end of the business year 2010 on 31st March, 2011, the company showed a remarkable increase in the share related to numerous categories. Sony India is planning to invest around INR. 150 crore for the marketing of the activities related to ATL and BTL. As far as Bravia TVs are concerned, they are looking forward to hold their market share of 30 %. In between the last and the current financial year, the number of their outlets in the country increased by 1, 000. Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) Commonly known as T. C. S., this multinational company is a famous name in the field of I. T. (Information Technology) services, Business Process Outsourcing (B. P. O.) as well as business solutions. This company is a subsidiary of the Tata Group. The first center for software researching was established in the country in 1981 in the city of Pune. Tata Consultancy earned a growth of 8.9 % during the latest quarter of this financial year, which ended on 30th September, 2011. This renowned company is presently looking forward to the 10 big deals that they have received besides the Credit Union Australia's contract as well as Government of Karnataka's INR. 94 crore deal for a total period of 6 years. In this current business year, they are about to employ 60, 000 people to meet their business requirement. Vodafone Vodafone Group Plc is an international telecommunication company, which has got it's headquarter based in London in the United Kingdom (U. K.). Earlier known as Vodafone Essar and Hutchison Essar, Vodafone India is among the largest operators of mobile networking in the country. The parent company Hutchison started its business in the year 1992 along with the Max Group, which was its business partner in India. Much later in 2011, Vodafone Group Plc decided to buy out mobile operating business of Essar Group, its partner. The turnover of the Vodafone Group Plc after the completion of the last financial year grew to £ 44, 472 m from £ 41, 017 m that was the turnover of the business year 2009. Tata Motors Limited The biggest automobile company in India, Tata Motors Limited, is among the leading commercial vehicles manufacturer in the country. They are one of the top 3 passenger vehicle manufacturers. Established in the year 1945, this company, a part of the famous Tata Group, has got its manufacturing units located in different parts of the nation. Some of their well known products of the company are categorized in the following heads: Commercial Vehicles Defence Security Vehicles Homeland Security Vehicles Passenger Vehicles Post completion of the financial year 2010 to 2011, the global sales of the company grew by 24.2 % with sales crossing INR. 1 million. Last Updated on May 4, 2015 Alphabetical list of Companies A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Y Companies in India Top 10 Top Automobile Top Aviation Top 10 Financial Services Top Auto Finance Top Housing Finance Top Microfinance Top Personal Loan Finance Top Asset Management Top 10 Banking Major Financial Top Insurance India Insurance Mortgage Mortgage Insurance Infrastructure Real Estate Petrochemical Software Telecom About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED