Collagen Xtra Energy Drink Manufacturer Malaysia by Zees Bioscience Manufacturing S/b | ID - 810955 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Zees Bioscience Manufacturing S/b Member Since : 2012 | Country : Malaysia Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Herbal Coffee, Herbal Energy Drinks, Lemon Berry Energy Drink Home » Product » Collagen Xtra Energy Drink Collagen Xtra Energy Drink We are prominent Manufacturer, Exporter and Supplier of Collagen Xtra Energy Drink . Our customers highly appreciate our effective Collagen Xtra Energy Drink that has proved beneficial to enhance the beauty of face and energy level of the body. Our Collagen Xtra Energy Drink is rich in Antioxidant Anthocyanins, Vitamin C, Minerals, Enzymes, and Antioxidants Glutathione. The Collagen Xtra Energy Drink, offered by us, quickly absorbs directly into the blood through saliva without going through the digestive process that may reduce the activity and effectiveness. Our Collagen Xtra Energy Drink contributes well in the anti aging process. It shows best results when taken at night before going to bed on the regular basis. Our Collagen Xtra Energy Drink shows positive effects within 7 days. Extra 5000mg with collagen stem cell is a powder drink. Another, 5000mg of marine collagen, stem cell, and fruit juice is used to increase the energy and beauty. As an Anti-Aging Component : Reduces the number, density and clarity of wrinkles Elasticity, closes the pores and smoothes skin Reduces dull and uneven skin tone Helps lose weight Lightens skin naturally Helps reduce hair loss Improves blood circulation Reduce aches and muscle aches Increase the formation of new muscle more solid and compact Ingredients : Marine collagen : 5000mg Vitamin c Apple stem cell Glutathione Craneberry extract Blueberry extract Pomegranate extract Garcinia cambogia Oligo fructose SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mr. Zainal Abidin Ali Telephone : +60-66852337 Mobile Phone : +60-196494199 » More detail Hot Products » Collagen Xtra Energy Drink » Herbal Slimming Drink » Koko Minda Energy Drink » Lemon Berry Energy Drink » Menstrong Herbal Coffee » Terminator Herbal Coffee Other Products » Facial Wash Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com