TNAU Agritech Portal :: About Us   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact TNAU Agritech Portal :: About Dr.K.Ramasamy, Vice-Chancellor, TNAU Dr.K.Ramasamy Kalaikathir Interview with vice Chancellor On Aug. 27, 2012 Dr. K. Ramasamy, Member, Tamil Nadu State Planning Commission took over as the tenth Vice-Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU). Born on May 1, 1948 and hailing from a farming community, Dr. Ramasamy belongs to Nilaiyoor, Aranthangi, Pudukottai district of Tamil Nadu. He received secondary education at Veludaiyar High School, Tiruvarur and Board High School in Aranthangi. He completed his basic and masters degrees in Annamalai University. He went on to study M.S. in Fermentation Technology and Ph.D. in Industrial Microbiology at Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium. In the same University, he obtained his Post-Doctoral experience in Electron Microscopy and later at the Michigan State University, USA on Gene Cloning. He joined TNAU in the year 1970 and served in the Departments of Soil Science, Plant Pathology, Agrl. Microbiology, Bioenergy, Environmental Science and Biotechnology in various capacities for well over 36 years. Dr. Ramasamy was responsible for establishing several new academic programmes viz ., Bioenergy, Environmental Science, Environmental Biotechnology,Microbial Technology, Biochemical Technology, etc., in Universities of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Goa and Maharashtra. He served as National Syllabus Setter and Examiner for University Grants Commission (UGC), Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), and Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). He served as a Member in National Policy Planning of Agricultural Biotechnology, Ferti-irrigation and Biogas Development. He is presently holding position as Member in Tamil Nadu State Planning Commission (Agriculture and Irrigation) advising Tamil Nadu Government on various welfare schemes. As an administrator, he served in TNAU as Head of Environmental Sciences and Director of Centre for Plant Molecular Biology and Biotechnology. He has worked as Dean, School of Biosciences and Bioengineering at SRM University, Chennai; and Vice-Chancellor of Karpagam University, Coimbatore. His research activity is continuously supported from 1982 by different funding agencies like Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Department of Science and Technology, Department of Biotechnology, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, BRNS-Atomic Energy Centre, Ministry of Non-Conventional Energy Sources (MNES); and international agencies like Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR), Food and Agricultural Organsation, Rome, United States Department of Agriculture and Eurpoean Union through more than 30 externally funded projects. He has developed need-based solutions for waste recycling and disposal and worked with industries like SPIC, TNPL, Seshasayee, SIV, Sakthi and Bannari to solve the environmental difficulties. He has published more than 120 research publications, including 7 books, 23 bulletins and organized 18 trainings and international workshops. He has obtained several recognitions in his academic and professional career, which include 18 awards, two medals, four national and two international fellowships. He has visited countries like Belgium, England, Germany, Sweeden, France, Netherlands, United States of America, Japan, New Zealand, Australia, Brazil, etc., on varies academic assignments. He has acted as Visiting Professor for many leading Universities in America, Australia, New Zealand and Japan. He has a broad vision for achieving targeted agricultural growth in Tamil Nadu by means of introducing changes in Agricultural education to cater to the globalising agricultural needs; Research for innovative solutions; putting innovative solutions into practice; and promoting agribusiness in TNAU. Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Site Map | Disclaimer | Contact Us