Bhoomi Natural Products and Exports - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Bhoomi Natural Products and Exports Home Bhoomi Natural Products and Exports Specialises in the processing and exports of herbs/essential oils of spices and herbs. Located in Cochin Balakrishnan G.A The company was set up in 2006 by Mr. Balakrishnan G.A. It is headquartered in Cochin, Kerala. Mr. Balakrishnan is a commerce graduate with post graduate diploma in management.  “My first 24 years was with Spices Board of India in marketing (until 1998) and then for a  period of 8 years in  private sector before moving to start this company along with few of my friends,” he informs. Exports The company is a 100% EOU. “All our products are exported and we have very little role in the domestic market.  We are only supplier of ingredients and our spices/herbs/essential oils are more used in the food/pharma/personal care product sectors who are institutional users. We are not selling any product to the consumer directly either in India or abroad,” says Mr. Balakrishnan. When asked about online stores, he says, “We are institutional suppliers and hence at this point a plan for online stores does not really arise.  However if we move into direct customer sales at any point of time, naturally online selling can be considered as one of the sales  options.  There is no definite time frame now fixed to move in this direction.” Products The company supplies a range of products including: · Essential Oil : Essential Oils are the aromatic, extremely concentrated, volatile extracts from flowers, leaves, bark, spices, fruits, woods and roots. They are mainly used in bath and beauty products. They are made by steam/hydro distillation method. · Floral Concretes & Absolutes : Floral Absolutes and Waxes are made by Solvent Extraction method from flowers. · Whole Spices : The company manufactures spices in various forms: fresh, ripe, dried, broken and powdered. · Herbs : The company supplies a range of herbs that have a range of benefits like nutritional benefits, used as alternative medicine; effective in weight loss and also weight gain; healing wounds; and treating disorders, beside several other benefits. · Medicinal Herbal Extracts : Bhoomi offer herbal extracts that are extracted from roots, leaves and other parts of the herbal plant. “While processing we ensure that the medicinal properties of the herbs do not get destroyed. This is made certain by combining ancient methodology with the modern technology in the most efficient manner,” avers Mr. Balakrishnan. Some of the herbal extracts that Bhoomi processes and supplies are: • Ashwagandha  • Amla  • Guggal •Gymnema • Veleriana • Basil •    Ginger •Senna • Garcinia · Nutraceuticals : The company supplies a range of nutraceutical extracts and isolates that are beneficial components of plant materials. They use non-chlorinated solvents that have minimal residues of extraction solvents, heavy metals, and microbials. Bhoomi specializes in curcumin powder, ginger exratacts, piperine, and capsaicin. Production The company is into contract farming and also buys essential oils from farmers/distillers in the cultivation belt across the country. “The initial steam distillation of oil is done at the production centres and we buy the same which is in crude form.  The crude oil is then filtered and blended in such a manner to obtain the exact specification of the buyer at our facility in Cochin.  This is then exported,” says Mr. Balakrishnan, adding, “We have regular contact programme with our buyers and based on their input we get to know the quantities to be supplied in advance, which in turn becomes our estimation of production.” Further speaking about the challenges associated with production, he says, “Quality consistency is a challenge.  We have good network of farmers/distillers from whom we buy the essential oils.  Here we check the quality before we buy and also educate the farmers in producing and supplying the right quality.” He maintains the shelf life of the product is 1 year under defined storage conditions.  When asked about competition, Mr. Balakrishnan says, “We strive and give special focus to customer specification and requirements coupled with consistency in quality of products and service.  This always gives us an edge in the market to win our race.” Future Plans Speaking about their future plans, Mr. Blakrishnan says, “The plan is to make the company into a Rs.100 crores company in the next 5 years. We also wish to take up large scale contract farming for spices to be a “top class” supplier of spices to the international market. We want to venture into more partnership with actual users in international market to develop higher value addition on herbs in India.” He adds, “Dedicated service, high quality products, transparency in our activities and communication and special focused products to meet the expectation of the users in the market have all given us the platform to move forward.” Our Correspondent For more information, contact : G.A.Balakrishnan,  Managing Director, Bhoomi Natural Products and Exports Pvt Ltd,  38/2455, Sahakarana Road,  Elamkulam, Cochin – 682017 Kerala, India Tel: 91-484-4066238 Mobile: 91-8089040650  Fax: 91-484-2206115 Email: bala@bhoominaturals.in Email:bala@bestsolutions.in Web:www.bhoominaturals.in Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Bhoomi Natural Products and Exports Related – articles, consultants, downloads Nature & Nurture Healthcare Pvt. Ltd.’s Raw herbs, Spices, essential oils etc., Ban Labs Ltd’s Ayurvedic & Herbal products Marven Bio Chem- Herbal products Sprout Natural India – Mushroom cultivation You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water