Research at the IMF ﻿ عربي 中文 Français 日本語 Русский Español ﻿ Home About the IMF Research Global Analysis Researchers at the IMF Data Visualization Staff Discussion Notes Latest Working Papers Research Bulletin Economic Review iMFdirect Blog Commodity Prices Countries IMF reports and publications by country. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V Y Z News All News IMF Survey Magazine Communiqués Mission Concluding Statements Press Releases Speeches Statements at Donor Meetings Transcripts Views & Commentaries See Also: iMFdirect Blog Article IV Consultations Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) Seminars, Conferences, & Other Events For Journalists Press Center The IMF Press Center is a password-protected site for working journalists. Login or Register Information of interest Videos Data IMF Finances Additional Data Sources World Economic Outlook Databases IMF eLibrary-Data International Financial Statistics Principal Global Indicators Public Sector Debt Statistics Online Centralized Database Currency Composition of Official Foreign Exchange Reserves Financial Access Survey Publications IMF eLibrary IMF Bookstore Documents & Publications Policy Papers Staff Discussion Notes World Economic Outlook Global Financial Stability Report Fiscal Monitor Regional Economic Reports IMF Annual Report Finance & Development   Advanced search Social Media Hub CONFERENCE Rethinking Macro Policy III: Progress or Confusion? How should macro policy look once the crisis is finally over? An upcoming IMF Conference "Rethinking Macro Policy III: Progress or Confusion?" seeks to address this issue. In a blog, Olivier Blanchard previews the key issues. IMF/CFD CONFERENCE Financing for Development Geneva, April 15-17, 2015 The conference brings together scholars to discuss new and enduring questions in development finance for Low-Income Developing Countries. The core objective of this three-day conference is to propose to the post-2015 development agenda innovative strategies aimed at catalyzing domestic and external financing from the official and private sectors. Access the LIVE webcast from the conference page. NEW RESEARCH IMF Global Housing Watch The International Monetary has launched the Global Housing Watch, a webpage that tracks developments in housing markets across the world on a quarterly basis. The Housing Watch provides current data on house prices as well as metrics used to assess valuation in housing markets, such as house price-to-rent and house-price-to-income ratios. IMF WORKING PAPER Remittances and Macroeconomic Volatility in African Countries Author/Editor: Ahmat Jidoud Over the recent years, officially recorded remittances flows in Africa have reached substantial amounts. A recent IMF paper finds that, while remittances help at reducing macroeconomic volatility in African countries, their impact hinges on the response of labor supply and the strength of financial frictions. Read more... IMF WORKING PAPER Asset Bubbles: Re-thinking Policy for the Age of Asset Management Author/Editor: Bradley Jones A new IMF paper offers reflections on why bubbles in capital markets will likely continue to threaten economic stability. Emphasis is placed on the business risk of asset managers which motivates institutional herding and ‘rational bubble-riding.’ Remedial policies need to look beyond standard macroprudential and monetary measures to address the design of principal-agent contracts and financial benchmarks. Read more... World Economic Outlook Uneven Growth: Short- and Long-Term Factors, April 2015 WEO data forum | Database Find out more Global Financial Stability Report April 2015 Navigating Monetary Policy Challenges and Managing Risks Read More Fiscal Monitor April 2015 Now Is the Time: Fiscal Policies for Sustainable Growth Database Read More Regional Economic Reports October 2014 Discuss recent economic developments and prospects for countries in various regions. Read More G-20 Surveillance Notes Notes provided by the IMF staff ahead of a series of meetings held by the G-20 deputies and ministers. Read More CONNECT VIA SDR Rates for May 28 SDR Interest Rate = 0.719628 | 1 USD = 0.050% MORE Research Publications IMF Economic Review Dedicated to publishing peer-reviewed, high-quality, academic research on open economy macroeconomics. More Economic Reviews IMF Research Bulletin March 2015 An Exploration in the Deep Corners of the Oil Market Read More Full digital texts of IMF research and books are available at the IMF eLibrary Research on Commodity Prices Commodity Market Reviews, Prices & Forecasts, Commodity Market Monthly and more. Macro Research for Development An IMF-DFID Collaboration Having weathered the 2008-09 financial crises, most low-income countries (LICs) have reported steady growth since early 2010. Read More Data Visualization World Economic Outlook on Google Public Data Explorer Write to Us Want to know more about research at the IMF or have suggestions? Write to us: research@imf.org Researchers at the IMF Sampawende J-A. Tapsoba, Fiscal Affairs Department Sampawende J-A. Tapsoba works in the Fiscal Affairs Department and has experience on a variety of advanced, emerging, and low-income countries. He holds a PhD in International Economics from Clermont School of Economics (France). His research interests cover international and development economics including inclusive growth, fiscal and monetary policies, regional integration, and foreign aid. He published in academic and policy journals including African Development Review, Economic Modelling, Economics Bulletin, Journal of African Economies, Review of Development Economics, and The World Economy. Read more More Researchers Events Call For Papers—Secular Stagnation, Growth and Real Interest Rates Conference , June 18-19, 2015 IMF/CFD Conference: Financing for Development, Geneva, April 15-17 More Blogs IMF Global Economy Forum Public Financial Management Blog Videos Four Factors Shaping the Global Economy More Videos Latest IMF Working Papers 15/116 U.S. Total Factor Productivity Slowdown: Evidence from the U.S. States 15/115 New Energy Sources for Jordan: Macroeconomic Impact and Policy Considerations 15/114 (Not) Dancing Together: Monetary Policy Stance and the Government Spending Multiplier 15/113 China’s Growth: Can Goldilocks Outgrow Bears? 15/112 It’s Not All Fiscal: Effects of Income, Fiscal Policy, and Wealth on Private Consumption Find Working Papers (Note that results will be shown on a new page) More Latest Staff Discussion Notes 15/7 Revitalizing Securitization for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises in Europe 15/8 Rethinking Financial Deepening : Stability and Growth in Emerging Markets 15/6 Fiscal Policy in Latin America : Lessons and Legacies of the Global Financial Crisis 15/5 Islamic Finance : Opportunities, Challenges, and Policy Options 15/4 Tackling Small and Medium Enterprise Problem Loans in Europe Find Staff Discussion Notes (Note that results will be shown on a new page) More Search Other Documents & Publications All Series Annual Report of the Executive Board Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements & Exchange Restrictions Country Reports Departmental papers Fiscal Monitor Global Financial Stability Report Occasional Papers Pamphlet Series Policy Papers Papers on Policy Analysis and Assessment Policy Discussion Papers Regional Economic Outlook Staff Discussion Notes Technical Notes and Manuals Working Papers World Economic Outlook Advanced search Home What's New Site Map Site Index About the IMF Research Countries News Events Videos Data and Statistics Publications Social Media Hub Copyright and Usage Privacy Policy How to Contact Us Jobs Glossary Scam Alert عربي 中文 Français 日本語 Русский Español