:: Centralized PGRAMS :: PORTAL FOR PUBLIC GRIEVANCES Brought to you by Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances Government of India Home Home About Us Guidelines for Redress of Public Grievances 2010 Grievance Redress Mechanism Policy Guidelines for Redress of Public Grievances Directors (Nodal Officers) of Public Grievances in GoI Grievance Redress Flow Chart Redress Process Channels Site Map Related Links Citizen's Charters of Central Government Organisations Pensioners' Portal Terms of Use Disclaimer This Portal is designed, developed and hosted by National Informatics Centre , Government of India. Though all efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy and currency of the content on this Portal, the same should not be construed as a statement of law or used for any legal purposes. NIC accepts no responsibility in relation to the accuracy, completeness, usefulness or otherwise, of the contents. Users are advised to verify/check any information with the relevant Government department(s) and/or other source(s), and to obtain any appropriate professional advice before acting on the information provided in the Portal. In no event will the Government or NIC be liable for any expense, loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any expense, loss or damage whatsoever arising from use, or loss of use, of data, arising out of or in connection with the use of this Portal. Links to other websites that have been included on this Portal are provided for public convenience only. NIC is not responsible for the contents or reliability of linked websites and does not necessarily endorse the view expressed within them. We cannot guarantee the availability of such linked pages at all times. Material featured on this Portal may be reproduced free of charge after taking proper permission by sending a mail to us. However, the material has to be reproduced accurately and not to be used in a derogatory manner or in a misleading context. Wherever the material is being published or issued to others, the source must be prominently acknowledged. However, the permission to reproduce this material shall not extend to any material which is identified as being copyright of a third party. Authorisation to reproduce such material must be obtained from the departments/copyright holders concerned. These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Indian Laws. Any dispute arising under these terms and conditions shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of India. Privacy Policy Public Grievance Portal does not automatically capture any specific personal information from you, (like name, phone number or e-mail address), that allows us to identify you individually. If the Public Grievance Portal requests you to provide personal information, you will be informed for the particular purposes for which the information is gathered and adequate security measures will be taken to protect your personal information. We do not sell or share any personally identifiable information volunteered on the Public Grievance Portal site to any third party (public/private). Any information provided to this Portal will be protected from loss, misuse, unauthorized access or disclosure, alteration, or destruction. We gather certain information about the User, such as Internet protocol (IP) addresses, domain name, browser type, operating system, the date and time of the visit and the pages visited. We make no attempt to link these addresses with the identity of individuals visiting our site unless an attempt to damage the site has been detected. Linking Policy Links to external websites/portals At many places in this Portal, you shall find links to other websites/portals. This links have been placed for your convenience. NIC is not responsible for the contents and reliability of the linked websites and does not necessarily endorse the views expressed in them. Mere presence of the link or its listing on this Portal should not be assumed as endorsement of any kind. We can not guarantee that these links will work all the time and we have no control over availability of linked pages. Links to Public Grievance Portal by other websites We do not object to you linking directly to the information that is hosted on this Portal and no prior permission is required for the same. However, we would like you to inform us about any links provided to this Portal so that you can be informed of any changes or updations therein. Also, we do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on your site. The pages belonging to this Portal must load into a newly opened browser window of the User. For more details and banners to link to our Portal visit our Contact Us Section. * Recommended Browsers * 1. Microsoft Internet Explorer 7.0 or higher for Windows (get latest Internet Explorer browser) ******2. Mozilla Firefox 3.0 or higher for Mac, Windows, and Linux (get latest Firefox browser) DARPG Website || Contact Us || National Portal of India || Disclaimer ©2009 Designed, Developed and hosted by National Informatics Centre .