 Campaigns | NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India Jump to navigation NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India HOME CONTACT US Search Search form Search ABOUT US Overview History Vision/Mission Board Members Management Team OUR WORK Our Approach Where We Work Our Programmes Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness & Response GET INVOLVED Careers Internship Campaigns Volunteer Partnerships Power to Empower NEWS National International CARE India in Media Media Contact DONATE NOW CARE India runs many campaigns on pertinent social issues to generate awareness, and garner funds in an effort to overcome poverty and empower women. The campaigns are a platform for people to understand CARE's vision and mission, to build involvement among all stakeholders, and to highlight the importance of certain days. Through our campaigns, we reach out to a large number of people and raise awareness about the problems faced by women and girls from marginalised communities. Donate Now Campaigns CARE India organizes number of campaigns to promote the empowerment of women and girls in the society, and to enhance the visibility of our work. Hunger week Malnutrition is one of the biggest challenges of our country today, with nearly 20 crore Indians sleeping hungry every night. CARE India ran an off-ground and online campaign to raise awareness on malnutrition and highlighted our project “BRIDDHI”, which is running in 2 blocks of Purulia district in West Bengal. A ‘hunger wall’ was placed at the Epicuria food court in Delhi for one week. Individuals wrote their concerns on this issue and pledged to alleviate malnutrition see more pictures , MOM is WOW This hash tag contest ran across our social media on the occasion of Mother’s day. We received more than 40 stories from individuals sharing why their MOM’s were WOW. Based on how the mothers fought challenges and imbibed positivity within their children was the criteria for selection of the best story. The writers of the five best stories were gifted merchandise and consolation prizes from CARE India. She means Business This campaign propagated to improve gender equity in companies in India. A petition was launched on causes.org to be signed by individuals and companies. The petition asked companies in India to bring about gender equality in the workplace, marketplace and communities. The ‘She Means Business’ campaign objective is to improve gender equity in Indian companies by asking CEOs, Managers and Business Owners to adopt policies and practices to empower women at every level. See the video here see more pictures ,   1 of 3 next › CARE Initiatives CARE works with more than 200 districts, in a total of 13 states and union terriotories across India Engage educate empower Assurance of a secure life Livelihood Initiative Tsunami Power to Empower Cyclone Hudhud Horlicks Ahaar Abhiyan GiveAssure Help Shanti JK Flood crisis Join my village VIEW ALL Latest Publications Pages from booklet 1 pages from booklet hindi-7-2.pdf READ MORE Case Studies Education Health Livelihood Emergency Blog Resources © 2014 CARE India. All Rights Reserved