Travel to Siliguri - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train West Bengal Travel পশ্চিমবঙ্গ পর্যটন Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Getting Around Places to Visit in West Bengal Nivedita Setu Race Course Victoria Memorial Bangiya Sahitya Parishad Shahid Minar Nakhoda Masjid Chitrakoot Art Gallery The Asiatic Society of Bengal Genesis Art Gallery Gallerie La Mere Arts acre CIMA Gallery Vidyasagar Setu Spandan Art Gallery Howrah Bridge Asutosh Museum of Indian Art Science City Fort William Kolkata Academy of Fine Arts Birla Planetarium Academy of Fine Arts Sundarbans National Park Bandel Church Hooghly Imambara Pilgrimages in West Bengal Museums in West Bengal Cities to Visit in West Bengal Kolkata Travel Darjeeling Travel Nabadwip Travel Barrackpore Travel Hooghly Travel Howarh Travel Murshidabad Travel Nadia Travel Jaldapara Travel Siliguri Travel Kalimpong Travel Road Distance Guide Route Map Kolkata Siliguri Route Map Varanasi Siliguri Route Map Patna Darjeeling Route Map Delhi Siliguri Route Map Varanasi Darjeeling Route Map Delhi Darjeeling Route Map West Bengal Hotels Asansol Hotels Howrah Hotels Hotels in Kolkata Darjeeling Hotels Siliguri Hotels About West Bengal Geography of West Bengal West Bengal Weather West Bengal Dance Festivals in West Bengal History of West Bengal West Bengal Map পশ্চিমবঙ্গ মানচিত্র Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Maps » West Bengal » Location of Nakhoda Masjid Travel to Siliguri Tourist Map of Siliguri Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the tourist places in Siliguri, West Bengal. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Siliguri Tourism The gateway to the North East India, Siliguri is located in West Bengal in India. Siliguri is beautifully tucked in between the north Eastern Himalayas and the Dooar region of West Bengal. This city serves as the base for exploring the other places of tourist attraction like Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Dooars, Gangtok and many more. If you want to sweep away off your feet by the breathtaking views of nature, then travel Siliguri. One of the key cities in northern West Bengal, Siliguri is a sprawling urban settlement. Although the city is a fast developing modern one with little tourist attraction in it, people travel to Siliguri since it serves as a base to explore Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Dooars region in West Bengal as well as Gangtok and other places in Sikkim. Siliguri is also a good place for Shopping or accommodation at the beginning or the end of a tour to this region. How to Reach Siliguri Strategically located on the northern part of West Bengal, Siliguri is one of the main cities in the state. Siliguri serves as the communication hub for northeastern states of India. As a key trade center, the city is equipped with a well develop transport network of air, road and rail. If you need to travel to cities like Darjeeling, Kalimpong in West Bengal and Gangtok in Sikkim, Siliguri serves as the entry point for the same. By Air The city has a domestic airport in Bagdogra, which is around 17 km away from the city center. The Bagdogra Airport is connected by regular flights to Delhi, Kolkata and Guwahati. Several private and public airlines service the airport. There is also an aerodrome located here which provides regular helicopter flights to Gangtok, Sikkim. By Train Siliguri has three important railway stations; Siliguri Town, Siliguri Junction and New Jalpaiguri Junction. The New Jalpaiguri railway station is at present the most important station in the region. It links to major to every major railhead in the country. By Road Siliguri is an important trade center and much of a gateway to the exotic north east of India. An extensive road network connects Siliguri to Kolkata, which is in turn linked to the rest of the country. Siliguri is also connected to Indian state Gangtok and countries Nepal and Bhutan by road. The National Highway 31, 31A, 31D and 55 connects Siliguri with neighbouring cities and states. The Tenzing Norgay Central Bus Terminus is the main stop for most private and state-owned buses. The Royal Government of Bhutan also operates bus services from Siliguri to its border town of Phuentsholing. Shared jeeps also connect the city with its neighboring hill towns like Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Gangtok, Kurseong, etc. The Sikkim Government also operates buses to various destinations of Sikkim from the Sikkim nationalized transport bus station. Distance to Siliguri From delhi - 1484 KM From mumbai - 2271 KM From guwahati - 475 KM From kolkata - 606 KM Siliguri Distance Chart Shopping in Siliguri Siliguri is not a tourist destination, but being a modern city and an important trade center, it offers excellent opportunity for shopping in Siliguri. With an airport, railway station and excellent road network, the city serves as a major business hub for northeastern Indian states and countries like Nepal, Bhutan and Tibet. Traditional handicrafts from these areas get together in the city for trading and these make for wonderful shopping in Siliguri. Darjeeling tea is the most popular item for those who go for shopping in Siliguri. Darjeeling tea is arguably the best in the world and famous for its superb flavor. Siliguri is of course a good place to buy authentic Darjeeling tea. You may also choose to buy woolen garments from Tibet and Bhutan while shopping in Siliguri. You would come across the Tibetans and Bhutanese with assorted woolen garments virtually anywhere in the city. You may also pick up some handicrafts from Sikkim and antics while shopping in Siliguri which serve as great souvenirs or give-away to friends and relatives. Northeast Himalayan region having rich forestlands is a good source of wood. And traditionally the communities of this region are skilled in woodcraft. You may also choose to shop furniture, utilities and objets d'art in Siliguri, which is the main trading center for these things. With a number shopping joints at Hill Cart Road and Sevoke Road, swanky malls and variety of roadside stalls there are several options for shopping in Siliguri. Siliguri also has a market where electronic goods are almost a steal. If you share a love for gadgets, hang out at Hong Kong market, as it is popularly called. Places to Visit in Siliguri Kanchanjunga Stadium Hong Kong Market Jaldapara Garumara Coochbehar Mirik Kalijhora Mahananda Weir Sukna Last Updated on : September 25, 2013 Travel to West Bengal Travel to Darjeeling Travel to Kalimpong Travel to Kolkata Travel to Nakhoda Masjid Travel to Siliguri Places to Visit in West Bengal Places to visit in Darjeeling Places to visit in kalimpong Places to visit in Kolkata Places to visit in Sliguri Route Map Kolkata Siliguri Route Map Varanasi Siliguri Route Map Patna Darjeeling Route Map Delhi Siliguri Route Map Varanasi Darjeeling Route Map Delhi Darjeeling Route Map About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule