Centrally Sponsored Scheme on Development of Inland Fisheries and Aquaculture Skip to main contents | Accessibility Options | Screen Reader Access मुख्य सामग्री पर जाएं | अभिगम्यता के विकल्प Home About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Guidelines Dairy Development Fishery Fodder Large Ruminants(Bovine) Livestock Extension Livestock Insurance Livestock Health Piggery Development Poultry Small Ruminants Threatened Breeds Trade Bovine Breeding Trade Conferences Statistics Animal Husbandry Statistics Livestock Census Fisheries Poultry Reports Forms Grievances Public Grievances Contact Us Sunabeda Suratgarh Andeshnagar Breeds Chiplima breeds Dhamrod breeds Hessarghatta breeds Sunabeda breeds CHRS-centre names Suratgarh Breeds Tenders English हिन्दी में Welcome to Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries पशुपालन, डेयरी और मत्स्य पालन विभाग में आपका स्वागत है Search : खोजें : Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Home / Division / Fisheries / Centrally Sponsored Scheme on Development of Inland Fisheries and Aquaculture Centrally Sponsored Scheme on Development of Inland Fisheries and Aquaculture Name of the Scheme Development of Inland Fisheries and Aquaculture Type Centrally Sponsored Scheme Year of commencement 1973-1974 Objectives a)Enhancement of inland fish production and fish productivity. b)Popularization of modern fish farming c)Creation of employment opportunities through fisheries. d)Diversifying aquaculture practices. e)Providing assistance to fish farmers engaged in aquaculture. f)Provide training to fish farmers of Fish Farmers’ Development Agencies (FFDAs) and Brackish water Fish Farmer Development Agency (BFDA). Salient features a)Subsidy is given to the fish farmers for construction of new ponds and renovation of existing ponds and tanks. b)First year inputs like fish seeds, feeds, fertilizers and other inputs are provided. c)Fish seed hatcheries and fish feed mills are established. d)Create a cadre of trained and well organized fish farmers fully engaged in aquaculture. Structure of the scheme The structure and components of the scheme are: i)Development of Freshwater Aquaculture ii)Development of Brackishwater Aquaculture iii)Coldwater Fisheries and Aquaculture iv)Development of Waterlogged Areas v)Productive Utilization of Inland Saline/Alkaline soils for Aquaculture vi)Integrated Development of Inland Capture Resources(reservoirs/rivers etc) vii)Innovative Projects. Funding pattern Financial assistance on developmental activities are shared on 75:25 basis by the Government of India and the State Government/ UT Administrations in respect of all programmes except Aquatic Quarantine & Inspection Unit and Network of Diagnostic Laboratories for Aquatic Animal Health, for which, 100% expenditure is born by the Centre. Eligibility Assistance under the scheme is provided to all fish farmers engaged in aquaculture activities. Target Group/Beneficiaries Fish farmers/ fishers including both fishermen and fisherwomen and fisheries cooperative societies. Area of operation Inland, brackish water and hilly areas of all the States and Union Territories. Implementing agency State Government/UT Administration through Fish Farmers’ Development Agencies (FFDAs). and Brackishwater Fish Farmer Development Agency(BFDA), FISHCOPFED, ICAR Institutes etc. Procedure for applying Beneficiaries are required to submit viable proposals through the concerned States/UTs to the Ministry for availing the funds. BE outlay and spending year-wise 2005-06 to 2010-11 (in crores) Year 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 BE 25.00 9.00 9.00 12.00 17.90 18.50 Actual Expn 25.65 20.75 12.84 13.60 20.75     Help | Terms of Use | Site Map | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer | Hyperlinking Policy | Privacy Policy | Archives | Contact Us This website belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ©  2014 All rights reserved. Designed,Developed & Hosted by NIC