Mysuru (Mysore) City Map Home » Maps » Karnataka » Mysuru City Map   Cities in Karnataka Manipal Bangalore Hubli Mangalore Gulbarga Davangere Mysore                    more... कर्नाटक का नक्शा Karnataka Karnataka Map Districts of Karnataka Karnataka Railways Karnataka Roads Rivers of Karnataka Tehsils of Karnataka Places to visit in Karnataka Travel to Karnataka Wildlife Sanctuaries in Karnataka Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Mysore Hotels Coorg Hotels Mangalore Hotels Udupi Hotels Belgaum Hotels              more... Physical Map Where is Karnataka Forests in Karnataka Karnataka Agriculture Sex Ratio Minerals in Karnataka Latitude and Longitude Industrial Map Karnataka Air Network Karnataka Pin Code Karnataka STD Code How to Reach Karnataka Karnataka Facts Education in Karnataka Universities in Karnataka Geography and History People Culture and Festivals Karnataka Government and    Politics Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Constituencies Population of Karnataka Karnataka Handicrafts Karnataka Economy Bangalore Fort Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka       Mysuru (Mysore) City Map City Map of Mysuru Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Karnataka   Manipal City Map Bangalore City Map Mangalore City Map Gulbarga City Map         Davangere City Map Bellary City Map Hampi City Map Bidar City Map     other cities of Karnataka  >>   Travel to Karnataka       Bengaluru Travel Map Mysore Travel Map     Mysore has served as the capital of the erstwhile princely state of Mysore. Currently, it is one of the largest cities of Karnataka and one of the most visited places in India. It is also known as the 'City of Palaces' and is a famous travel destination in South India. The city was ruled by the Wodeyar rulers except for a short span when it was ruled by Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan. The Wodeyar rulers were great supporters and lovers of art and culture. The city is noted for a large number of palaces and royal buildings. It is a major tourism hub and attracts plenty of visitors during the celebrations of the Dasara festival, for which the city is quite known. Another feature of Mysore that makes it a prominent city of Karnataka is its proximity to the neighbouring places of interests such as Krishna Raja Sagara Dam, Srirangapatna and the Shivanasamudra falls. The geographical coordinates of the city are 12° 18' N and 76° 42' E and it spans over an area of 128.42 sq km. As per the provisional data of the 2011 census, the population of the city is 9,20,550. Although the tourism industry is the major contributor to the economy of the city, it also houses other industries related to sandalwood carving, weaving, bronze work and production of salt and lime. Not only this, the growth of the information technology industry has resulted in getting Mysore the second position in terms of software export in Karnataka after Bangalore. There are four industrial areas in and around Mysore - Belagola, Hebbal, Belawadi and Hootagalli, which were established by the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) for the purpose of industrial development in the city. Mysore is also known as the cultural capital of Karnataka. The Mysore style of paintings is not only popular but also highlights the distinguished culture of the city. The city is also known for the Mysore silk sarees, which are made from pure silk and gold zari (threads). Mysore Peta, the traditional and indigenous turban worn by the past rulers of the city, is still worn by men during several occasions. Being a tourist destination, the city has a lot to offer to the visitors such as pilgrim places, temples and scenic spots. There are many hill stations nearby the city such Ooty, Madikeri and Sultan Bathery. There are many national parks and wildlife sanctuaries near the city like Nagarhole National Park, Mudumalai National Park and Bandipur National Park to name a few. The city is accessible through road, rail and air. There are three lines in the Mysore railway station and many intercity express trains connect it to other places. National Highway-212 and State Highway 17 connect Mysore with the nearby cities. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and privately owned bus services operate within the city and between other cities. Bangalore International Airport is the nearest airport to Mysore. There is also a small airport in the city that is connected to only the nearby cities. WBST240315 WBVDA Last Updated on : May 27, 2015   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule