Thiruvananthapuram City Map Home » Maps » Kerala » Thiruvananthapuram City Map   Cities in Kerala Kochi Thiruvananthapuram Ernakulam Munnar Thrissur Kannur Kottayam Alleppey Kollam केरल का नक्शा About Kerala History of Kerala Geography of Kerala Kerala Weather Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Districts of Kerala Road Map Railway Map Rivers of Kerala Tehsils of Kerala Regions Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Forest Map Economy of Kerala Industries in Kerala Kerala Government Kerala Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Kerala Places to visit in Kerala Kerala Backwaters Beaches in Kerala Kerala Wildlife Sanctuaries Hill Stations in Kerala Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya Hotels in Kerala Kochi Hotels Kumarakom Hotels Munnar Hotels Trivandrum Hotels Thiruvananthapuram Hotels Guruvayur Hotels Thekkady Hotels Wayanad Hotels Kerala Ayurveda Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Utilities Distance Chart Kerala Pin code Kerala STD code Education Universities in Kerala Karten von Kerala Ubersichtskarte von Kerala       Thiruvananthapuram City Map City Map of Thiruvananthapuram Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Thiruvananthapuram city map showing major roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Kerala   Thiruvananthapuram City Map Kumarakom City Map Ernakulam City Map Palakkad City Map         Thekkady City Map Kochi City Map Alleppey City Map Munnar City Map       other cities of Kerala  >> Trivandrum or Thiruvananthapuram as it is called in Malayali is the capital city of Kerala . Thiruvananthapuram, the name itself recalls to the mind Sri Padmanabhaswamy and his repose on the five headed serpent Sesha naga. The city is certainly his abode; his temple being the predominant landmark. It is this sentiment that has helped the city retain its olde worlde charm in the face of rapid political and technological progress. The city is steeped in history and culture. The palaces and the museums are a constant reminder of its golden and eventful history. A Little More On The Places Of Interest: Sri Padmanabhaswamy Temple - The imposing 18 feet long idol of Lord Vishnu in his Sheshashayana (recline on the serpent, Shesha) is reminiscent of Sage Vilvamangalam's first spectacle. The sprawling temple holds the key to the city's very essence. East Fort - Preserved inside its walls, the East Fort holds the heritage of the royal family of Travancore and their golden history resounds in the premises. The Padmanabhaswamy Temple is situated inside the confines of this fort. Science & Technology Museum - In the year 1984, the government decided to build the Science and Technology Museum in the heart of the city with an aim at inculcating the younger generation's scientific temperament and spirit of enquiry. Government Museum - In 1857, the Government built this repository of art and architecture. Also called Napier Museum, it houses innumerable artifacts such as ivory carvings, paintings, bronze and stone carvings and idols. Sri Chitra Arts Gallery - This houses a collection of famous and ancient masterpieces including Raja Ravi Verma's original oil paintings and ancient Tanjore miniature paintings among others. Zoological Gardens - The zoo and marine aquarium of Trivandrum is a recreational and educative project. The natural habitat of the wild creatures has been simulated by planting tall trees, shrubs and foliage. A lake serves as the home for all the marine creatures housed there. Public Park and Observatory - The public park of Trivandrum is the symbol of human protest against pollution and contamination of natural habitat due to urbanization. Such clean air and greenery in such an advanced city, what a wonder! Shangumugham Beaches - This beautiful tourist attraction is about 8 km from the city and is a favorite spot of those who love serenity. The aggressive waves belie the tranquility of the beach and the russet rays of the sinking sun sparkle on the waters creating a calm in the spectator's heart. Veli Tourist Village - This place offers a glimpse into the backwaters of Kerala. Cultivated as a picnic spot, boating and other amuzenent facilities are available here. Akkulam Boat Club - Another picnic getaway, Akkulam is famed for its boating options. A swimming pool for children is also accommodated here. Last Updated on : 7/4/2011 Kerala City Map Alappuzha Alwaye Bekal Fort Kochi Kollam Thrissur Kottayam Kovalam Kozikode Kumarakom Malampuzha Pathanamthitta Thoppumpaddy Ponnani Punalur Thalassery Thrippunithura Tirur Varkala Perinthalamanna Travel to Kerala Travel to Alleppey Travel to Kumarakom Travel to Kannur Travel to Kozhikode Travel to Mallapuram Travel to Palakkad Travel to Pathanamthitta Travel to Thekkady Travel to Wayanad Travel to Kochi Travel to Kovalam Travel to Munnar Travel to Trivandrum Travel to Varkala Travel to Thrissur Places to Visit in Kerala Places to visit in Alleppey Places to visit in Kochi Places to visit in Kovalam Places to visit in Kozhikode Places to visit in Kumarakoram Places to visit in Munnar Places to visit in Thekkady Places to visit in Thrissur Places to visit in Trivandrum Places to visit in Varkala Travel Map of Kerala Thiruvananthapuram Travel Map Kochi Travel Map   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule