Sarojini Naidu: Biography, Family, Early days in Politics, Criticisms & Awards India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Government and Politics » Sarojini Naidu   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Sarojini Naidu Sarojini Naidu Biography Sarojini Naidu, the Nightingale of India, was born on February 13, 1879 in Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh. She has many firsts to her credit, including being the first Indian woman to become the President of the Indian National Congress and the first woman to become the governor of an Indian state. The eldest daughter of Aghornath Chattopadhyaya and Barada Sundari Devi, she was fluent in many languages. Sarojini Naidu studied at the Madras University, before moving to England to study. She married Dr. Muthyala Govindarajulu Naidu. The couple had five children Jayasurya, Leelamani, Nilawar, Padmaja and Randheer. The partition of Bengal in 1905 drew her to join the Indian freedom struggle. She soon came into contact with the stalwarts of the Indian freedom movement. In 1916, she published a biography of Muhammad Ali Jinnah titled The Ambassador of Hindu-Muslim Unity. In 1919, she became the Home Rule League's ambassador to England. In 1925 she was elected as the President of the Congress and traveled to New York in October 1928. In 1942, she was arrested during the "Quit India" movement and was lodged in jail for 21 months with Mahatma Gandhi. Sarojini Naidu shared a close rapport with Mahatma Gandhi. Sarojini Naidu presided over the Steering Committee at the Asian Relations Conference in March 1947. After India became independent, she became the Governor of Uttar Pradesh, the first Indian woman to become a governor. In addition to being a freedom fighter, she was a prolific poet. In 1905, the first volume of her collection of poems, The Golden Threshold was published. Two more volumes, The Bird of Time and The Broken Wing were published in 1912 and 1917 respectively. Later, some other poetry books The Magic Tree, The Wizard Mask, and A Treasury of Poems were published. On 2nd March 1949, Sarojini Naidu fell ill and her physician gave her a sleeping pill for a good nights sleep. She smiled and uttered the words "Not eternal sleep I hope", but that night she died in her sleep. Sarojini Naidu Facts Name Sarojini Naidu Born February 13, 1879, Hyderabad Maiden Name Sarojini Chattopadhyay Known As The Nightingale of India, Bul Bule Hind Zodiac Sign Aquarius Nationality Indian Religion Bengali Hindu Father Mr. Aghore Nath Chattopadhyay Mother Ms. Barada Sundari Debi Siblings Birendranath, Harindranath Education University of Madras, King's College London, Girton College, Cambridge Marriage 1898 Spouse Dr. Muthyala Govindarajulu Naidu Children Five childern named Jayasurya Naidu, Padmaja Naidu, Randheer Naidu, Aditya Nilawar Naidu and Leelamani Naidu. Occupation Activist, Political Leader, Poet Independence movement Sarojini Naidu joined the Indian national movement in the wake of partition of Bengal in 1905.   During 1915-1918, she travelled to different regions in India delivering lectures on social welfare, women's empowerment and nationalism. Political Career Become the president of the Indian National Congress in 1925.   Governor of the United Provinces from 1947 to 1949. Literacy Career The Golden Threshold, The Bird of Time, The Broken Wings, Muhammad Ali Jinnah entitled as The Ambassador of Hindu-Muslim Unity, The Sceptred Flute: Songs of India Famous Poems Damayante to Nala in the Hour of Exile, Ecstasy, Indian Dancers, The Indian, Indian Love-Song, Indian Weavers, In the Forest, Ramamuratham, Nightfall in the City of Hyderabad, Palanquin Bearers, Suttee, The Soul's Prayer, Street Cries Awards Hind Kesari medal in 1928 Achievements First Indian woman appointed as president of Indian National Congress and first woman to be appointed Governor of any state in India. Died March 2, 1949, Lucknow by heart attack. After Death Her daughter Padmaja published a collection of poems entitled The Feather of The Dawn in 1961.   Related Links   Governors Shivinder Singh Sidhu Joginder Jaswant Singh Balram Jakhar Devanand Kanwar E.S.L. Narasimhan Hans Raj Bhardwaj Sarojini Naidu Ram Naresh yadav Janaki Ballabh Patnaik K Sankaranarayanan Bharat Vir Wanchoo Narinder Nath Vohra Kamla Beniwal Jagannath Pahadia Shekhar Dutt Urmila Singh Last Updated on : February 13, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule