Welcome to the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) Rural Poverty Portal Photos Videos Publications Events Follow us on Facebook Twitter Slideshare Youtube Blogspot Google Plus Pinterest Investing in rural people Search Topic Choose topic... Country Choose country or region... International Day of Biological Diversity The role of biological diversity in sustainable development The theme for this year's International Day of Biological Diversity highlights the important contribution biodiversity makes to sustainable development and particularly to smallholder farmer food production systems in rural areas in developing countries. Read more INTERNATIONAL DAY OF FAMILIES 2015 A family that works together can overcome poverty IFAD is hosting a special event on International Day of Families, highlighting the benefits of using its innovative technique known as Household Methodologies (HHMs) that addresses gender inequalities and underlying causes of low productivity. Read more EXPO MILANO 2015 Expo Milano 2015: Feeding the planet, energy for life The universal exposition running in Milan from May through October fosters a dialogue about global challenges involving nutrition and natural resources that are key for IFAD and its UN partners. Read more AG TALKS The scope on fertilizer subsides IFAD's online video series presents new thinking on small-scale farming. The latest talk features Nicole Mason, Assistant Professor at Michigan State University discussing fertilizer subsidies in Africa. Read more ARAB SPATIAL The power of knowledge Arab Spatial, an interactive atlas, provides access to information that could help to reduce conflict and increase food security in the Middle East and North Africa. Read more RECIPES FOR CHANGE A taste of Senegal IFAD's Recipes for Change campaign highlights traditional food culture and the threat that climate change poses to key ingredients – such as the onions used to make Poulet Yassa in Senegal. Read more Spotlight Spotlight on climate and environment: East and Southern Africa Rural farmers across East and Southern Africa are very susceptible to climate change and its impacts. IFAD is using climate finance, through its Adaptation to Smallholder Agriculture Programme (ASAP), to promote agricultural techniques and technologies that help protect these small farmers. Read more New Speeches and statements Statement by IFAD Vice-President at the Astana Economic Forum - Food Security Panel Statement by IFAD Vice-President at the Opening of the 2015 Global Land Forum Opening remarks by IFAD President at the Introduction to emerging trends in mobilising concessional resources for IFIs and the importance of exchange of expertise Statement by IFAD President at the International Center for Biosaline Agriculture (ICBA) Statement by IFAD President at the International Women's Day 2015 Keynote address by IFAD President at the Gulf Forum to Enhance Food Security and Support Small and Medium Scale Farmers Press releases Data on European remittances available for the first time - Press conference to present IFAD "Sending Money Home" report UN and government officials discuss China's rural development strategy post-2015 Event on evaluation of IFAD-financed rural development programme in Bangladesh World hunger falls to under 800 million, eradication is next goal IFAD Vice-President at the Astana Economic Forum highlights strong regional support Job opportunities Check out IFAD's job opportunities and vacancies Events 16-19 June Global forum on remittances                               17 June Ad Hoc Working Group on Governance – 2nd meeting                26 June Evaluation Committee – 88th session                30 June Executive Board Informal Seminars                 Blog Recent Video Many Senegalese rely on expensive, imported food. But a simple idea of eating what you grow has changed the lives of 250,000 people. It has not only significantly reduced the hungry season, but it has also provided jobs for thousands of people. Tweets by @IFADnews Copyright Scams and misuse of IFAD's name Employment scam Site map Subscribe Contact us