Mohammad Hamid Ansari: Biography, Family, Early days in Politics, Criticisms & Awards India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Government and Politics » Mohammad Hamid Ansari   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Mohammad Hamid Ansari Born on 1st April 1937, Mohammad Hamid Ansari is the 13th and current Vice President of India. He is also the President of the Indian Institute of Public Administration and the chancellor of Punjab University, Chandigarh. In his impressive career of over 45 years, Mr. Ansari has worked in different disciplines in the offices of Government of India. As a seasoned writer, he has also contributed in numerous news dailies and various print media. In 1984, Mr. Hamid Ansari was honored with the Padma Shri Award. Mr. Hamid Ansari was born in Kolkata while his family ancestry belongs to Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh . He is the grand nephew of former President Dr. Mukhtar Ahmad Ansari of the Indian National Congress. Mr. Ansari completed his schooling from St. Edwards High School in Shimla, attended the St. Xavier's College, University of Kolkata and pursued M.A. in Political Science at the Aligarh Muslim University. While studying at the Aligarh Muslim University, he was a member of his college's cricket team and played as the wicketkeeper of the team. After finishing his Master's degree Mr. Ansari worked as a lecturer in Aligarh Muslim University for two years. He gave a UPSC exam and achieved the 4th rank. In 1961, Mr. Hamid Ansari started his political career as a civil servant in the Indian Foreign Service. He was a representative of India to the United Nations and Indian High Commissioner to Australia (1985-1989). He also served as an Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates (1976-1979), Afghanistan (1989-1990), Iran (1990-1992) and Saudi Arabia (1995-1999). He was also a permanent representative to the United Nations (1993-1995). From 2000 to 2002, Mr. Hamid Ansari served as a vice-chancellor of the Aligarh Muslim University and was also appointed as the Chairman of Petroleum Ministry's Advisory Committee on Oil Diplomacy for Energy Security from 2004 to 2005. He was appointed as the Chairman of the National Commission for Minorities (2006 - 2007). In 2006 he also served as Chairman of the "Confidence Building Measures across Segments of Society in the State" and also as a member of the National Security Advisory Board. In 2007, He served as a co-chairman of the India-U.K. Round Table Conference. From 11 August 2007, Mr. Hamid Ansari took office as the Vice President of India and on 7th August 2012 he was re-elected as vice President and is currently holding this post. Mr. Ansari is well known for his part in ensuring compensation to the Gujarat riots victims and approaching for a complete alteration into the relief and rehabilitation work for the victims since 1984. Numerous articles were written by him on the West Asian Crises and he also edited a book "Iran Today: Twenty Years after the Islamic Revolution". His article "Alternative Approaches to West Asian Crises", published in The Hindu on 5th May 2006, focused upon the need for progress in Iraq, Palestine and Iran. Another article "Et EU, India", published in Outlook on 10th October 2005, points up his skeptical views about India's vote in the International Atomic Energy Agency on Iran's nuclear programme.   Related Links   Parliamentarian Ananthasayanam Ayyangar Election Commissioners James Michael Lyngdoh T.N. Seshan Ambassadors and High Commissioners Gopal Krishna Gandhi Others Acharya Kripalani   Last Updated on : February 1, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule