Agriculture loans - Interest rates - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Agriculture loans – Interest rates Home Agriculture loans – Interest rates Uneducated farmers who visit the bank are not treated with respect. If a businessman visits the bank they are treated with respect. What is your response? Mr. Vasant Rao, Director, HPL Global Services Pvt Ltd says- The rates offered by Banks are based on the Government and RBI directives from time to time. The overall control on refinance of the loans extended by Banks vests with NABARD. The interest rates are fixed based on the risk perception both in regard to the crop as well as the borrower. Also, the overall risk relating to the growing of the produce, market price, etc. are considered by Banks before extending credit. The best way for a farmer to approach a Bank is through a SHG or cluster thus minimizing the credit risk both the lender and borrower. Banks would be most happy to extend loans to farmers in cluster or SHG basis. As an ex-banker, I do not agree with this opinion that ‘ a farmer is not treated properly’ which I know generally exists amongst all those who approach the bank. The main reason for this perception is that the uneducated farmer feels very insecure when he approaches the banker largely due to his lack of knowledge of banking procedures. He therefore, feels intimidated by the atmosphere prevailing in the Bank. For this reason, high priority is required to be given to educating the farmers on the govt. policies and programs which he can fruitfully avail of. Agriculture is a very lucrative business if followed wisely. Dr. N. Barathi, Director, Growmore Biotech says- Yes, there is no clarity on interest rate charged by banks for agri and farm loans. This happens mainly because of the classification of farmer and the size of loan and also opinion of the Manager on the farmers’ willingness to repay the loan (rating the farmer). This also changes depending on the loan considered as Project Loan or Agriculture Loan. I agree with that all banks should have one rate of interest. This does not happen in India. (This is the same case when we convert our dollar into Indian rupee Last week when we received 250 thousand dollars and converted into Indian rupee, there were many variables. RBI Rate Rs.62.24 for one dollar while the rate was low in all nationalized banks, starting from 25 paisa to 125 paisa.) India should get into a single interest rate and the rate should be low for agriculture. The interest rate for tractor for agriculture is higher than interest rates for a car loan. I also do agree that uneducated farmers visiting bank are not treated with respect. This is not only to bank, I find everywhere. This is because of the low social value we are giving to the farmer. We rarely find even educated farmer makes the visiting card as “FARMER”. I find this in abroad and there the farmers are treated on par. In Maharashtra, farmers are treated better. In fact, in India, farmers are subsidizing the food we eat by taking lower return on agriculture than a stock broker. Mr. Anil Patil, Chief Consultant says - RBI has made it free for the banks to charge ROI as per their base rate. However the variation is very small. Banks do not negotiate or you cannot make any bargain with exception of very large industrial houses. Framers can be rest assured that ROI is generally normal and farmer has to approach only locally available bank and hence has no choice. But I would rather say he should concentrate on large production or higher yields. Economies of scale help a lot for success and profitability. Farmer mistreated,  is definitely a wrong idea. To be acceptable you should demonstrate professionalism even if you are uneducated. I know of 7th standard passed farmers taking loans of 2 crores in very simple crop cultivation projects. If you ask businessmen they will say farmers are pampered with easy loans, write off, more subsidies etc. Mr. Vasudevan, Managing Director, Ennar Business Consultants says- Yes, we must negotiate. These loans even though are part of primary sector lending, some banks are slightly skeptical about these due to past records of waivers etc. However, if adequate collateral security is provided and if the soundness of the Project report submitted and the credentials of the entrepreneur are established, Banks will be more than willing to finance. It is in this context, we must negotiate a better rate for our entrepreneur. Mr. H.K. Prakash, Founder, HK Global Enterprise says- It is right. That is the reason we need to be aware of available source and value. But it is not so that uneducated farmers who visit the bank are not treated with respect. Nowadays banks are also doing good work. Mr. Balasubramaniam, Proprietor, Sai Raghav Farms says- Yes, interest differs in each bank. We should have proper planning and be able to present it to the banker which will assure the bank that you will not default. Also the way you approach makes a huge difference in getting the better interest rates. This is true even educated famers are sometimes treated badly. But we do have bankers who are very cooperative and helpful. But agriculture is always second to any other business which is true and we need to change that. We need to prove them wrong by not failing in our repayments and we need to get knowledge about the schemes available for farmers. Farming community should be more united and start sharing knowledge which is lacking today. Mr. Bhaskar Ponnathota says- Yes it is true to get loan from the bank and treatment also very sorrowful from bankers if you are un- known to them. It is pity thing my side as I am a Agriculture Graduate and trained Agriclinics and Agribussiness programme , which is funding by NABARD -Scheme to un-employed agriculture graduates to setting up private Agri services to the farmers. I am unable to get the minimum amount also to my own small extent of 4 Acres land, even crop loan also not availed by the bankers. Dr. Sandha, CEO, Jagriti-e-Sewa says- Banks are as much confused as the customers are. The bank manager has to watch for the stick from his bosses about the ‘safety’ of his loan. Entrepreneur is regarded as an ‘un-employable’ who is going for a business. Government has its plans controlled by persons (aka, KVIC staff) who never ever took risk in their lives. It is only the farmer/ entrepreneur who has to bear the burden of risk (including failure) this has created a sorry situation wherein even the MBA pass-outs are looking for jobs and not going for entrepreneurships. Bank manager looks at every one by how he can fit into his plans of meeting targets: loans, KCC or whatever. Let us understand the rural branch manager is most likely on a ‘punishment’ or ‘ tenure’ posting, (else he would have wanted to be in a city). Mr. Sudharsan, Yoogakshema Orchards and Farms says- This is common with not only bankers but with village officials as well. Mr. Kunal Soni, Director, Greenfield Agro Forestry Products says - As far as I know private banks are far better than government banks in term of behavior. Government banks in some branches treat their customer as if the bank is customer of their own customer, and sometimes even worse. But that’s not the case everywhere. A coin always has two sides, while behavior of bank staff gets worse with less literate customer, similarly annoying questions increases with decreasing literacy of customer. Although, it is the job of the bank employees to help their customer, we should not forget these people are one of us, and react in similar fashion. While long day with annoying questions irritate them, doing job for months in such conditions change their behavior. We should not forget bank is just an organization made out of people, but I will suggest forcing bank employees from their higher officials to behave similarly with illiterate and literate customers could help a lot. Mr. Adarsh Singh, Adarsh Bio Organics Pvt. Ltd says- Bank does not generally give loan to person who needs it but it gives to the person who can pay back. Agriculture is not a noble professional anymore. Who wants to become farmer? It’s a thankless job. This has to be changed else we soon will be importing our food, in fact we already are importing big quantities of edible oil, pulses etc. Mr. Anil Wanarse Patil, Directo, Sprout Naturals India says- I am not agreeing with the statement made here. See it’s not business man or farmer issue, bank are there to do their business and they will see the financial viability of person in giving loans. Most of the time I have seen farmer do not follow methods in approaching financial institution in terms of documents and other part. We have consultants and experts available where Indian people are not using it and try to do it on their own and getting mess in hand. Dr. Ashoka, Manager, Agronomy Dept, Natural Remedies says- Yes. I agree. Individual farmer is not having the power to negotiate. Let farmers establish the producer group and they will get more financial help from National Medicinal Plant Board, NABARD etc. Our Correspondent Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Buy from Farmers and Resell Experience in contract farming Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > OPINION > Agriculture loans – Interest rates Related – articles, consultants, downloads No related posts. You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom