Home: Department of Sericulture, Government Of Uttarakhand, India JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen Reader Access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A हिंदी में News Photo Gallery Releted Links Tenders Recruitment Spotlight Uttarakhand Cooperative Resham Fed. Class A and Class B Officers Assets Dec. Departmental Schemes Department of Sericulture Uttarakhand Home Contact Us Sitemap Home About Us Organisation Projects RTI Go's Contact Us Photo Gallery Hit Counter 0000071031 Since: 01-01-2011 Welcome to Directorate of Sericulture Uttarakhand. After the Creation of Uttarakhand state in November 9, 2000 as 27 th state of India. It was felt by Govt. of Uttarakhand that vide extension of sericulture in all over the state it is necessary to establish a separate Directorate. Through which DOS Uttarakhand can generate the employment opportunities for unemployed people as well as up-liftment of the socio economic condition of rural people in the state. After some time in year 2001 A separate Directorate of Sericulture Uttarakhand was established in the state by Govt. of Uttarakhand under the Ministry of Horticulture. Since inception DOS Uttarakhand was already a vast infrastructure for development of various type of sericulture in the state. But a newly created Uttarakhand state has a long traditional and great history of silk production. Its is being told that Captain Hutton introduced sericulture in the hills of Mussoorie in the year 1858 and Messers Lister & Company took up commercial production of silk in a village on Dehradun - Haridwar Road,  which is later named as “Resham Majari”. Uttarakhand state is the only state which is producing all four kind of cocoon viz Mulberry, Oak tasar, Muga and Ericulture. But Uttarakhand also known as “Bowl of Bivoltine silk in India” because of its high quality Bivoltine cocoons of International grade. Source : Department of Sericulture Uttarakhand, Last Updated on 23-08-2013 Home About Us Right To Information Contact Us Sitemap Help Downloads & Plug-ins Accessibility Statement Accessibility Options Privacy Policy Hyperlinking Policy Copyright Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Site designed, developed and hosted by Contents of this website is published and managed by Department of Sericulture © Department of Sericulture, Government of Uttarakhand.