growingyourfuture.com | Search this site: Login Register About CFA Programs Donations Order Resources e-Newsletter Why Teach Students About Agriculture? With low-cost food supplies and urban bias, is it any wonder that affluent consumers don't understand the food supply each year in its entirety, and expanding it further for the nearly 80 million mouths that are born into this world each year? — The late Norman Borlaug, Nobel Peace Prize winner (1970), wheat breeder and former professor, Texas A&M University, in a 2001 speech at Tuskegee University. Support Ag Education Support Agriculture Education when you shop Amazon.com Amazon will d onate 0.5% of the price of your eligible AmazonSmile purchases to Colorado Foundation for Agriculture whenever you shop on AmazonSmile. AmazonSmile is the sam e Amazon you know. Same products, same prices, same service. Support your charitable organization by starting your shopping at  smile.amazon.com .   ColoradoGives.org  provides a centralized location for Colorado philanthropy. It's also a handy way to help improve Ag literacy in Colorado. Please consider including CFA in your giving for 2014. Thank you. Colorado Literacy Project 2015 Sign up your school. The Colorado Literacy Project will take place during from March through May this year. The Colorado Literacy Project provides an opportunity for students to meet farmers and ranchers as they read to students in kindergarten through fifth grades. This year each student will get to take home one of the publications. We need one person from the school to be the contact to coordinate with the teachers in the school and the farmers and ranchers. Two books will be available to use. The first is Colorado Critters . Through this poem, students will learn about animals, both domestic and wild, found on Colorado farms and ranches. This book is appropriate for kindergarten through second grades. A second book is The Faces of  Colorado Agricutlure . Students will learn about three families involved in agriculture. This book is appropriate for third through fifth grades. Go to form Read more Matrix test Go to form Oil and Gas in Colorado Published:  04/2015 Topic:  Natural Resources Reader:  Oil and Gas in Colorado Teachers Guide:  Teacher's Guide for Oil and Gas in Colorado Oil and gas drilling began in Colorado in the 1860s. This reader explains where oil and gas comes from, how it is extracted and how we use it. Each person in Colorado uses about 280,000,000 BTUs each year. This reader shows where gas and oil is found in Colorado and provides a brief histoy of the development of these natural resources.  Cover:  Reader Evaluations:  ReaderEvaluation_Gas_Oil.pdf Ranching Published:  03/2015 Topic:  Caring for Land & Animals Reader:  Ranching in Colorado Teachers Guide:  Teacher's Guide for Ranching in Colorado Cattle ranching can be described as “the year-round care of cows and bulls to produce calves to raise and sell,” but it’s really much more. Ranchers must also be stewards of the land, caring for soils, grasses, other plants, water and wildlife habitat. Explore the history of ranching in Colorado, the ranching time-line, and ranching today. Put a pencil to paper to see if you can figure out the carrying capacity of the land.   Cover:  Reader Evaluations:  RanchingReaderEvaluation.pdf All About State Land Trusts Published:  02/2015 Topic:  Other Reader:  Colorado State Land Board Teachers Guide:  Teacher's Guide Colorado State Land Board The State of Colorado is the second largest land owner in Colorado. (First is the Federal Government.) These lands were given to the state to generate money to support Colorado's schools and other state institutions. These reader explores what a trust is, how state trust lands are used to generate income, how these funds are used, locations of state trust lands and what goes into being good stewards of this land. Cover:  Reader Evaluations:  ReaderEvaluation_Land_Board.pdf Doing the Right Thing Published:  01/2015 Topic:  Caring for Land & Animals Reader:  Doing the Right Thing - Animal Husbandry Teachers Guide:  Teacher's Guide Doing the Right Thing Cover:  Reader Evaluations:  Rdr_Eval_Animal_Welfare.pdf Understanding Water The Understanding Water Activity Book has a new look. Activity Book:  Understanding Water Activity Book Activity Book Teachers Guides:  Colorado Content Standards Cover:  Read more Upcoming Events FORT COLLINS - 2015 Food, Fiber & More AITC Summer Institute June 15th, 2015 This is a five day course designed for teachers who have little or no ( more... ) San Luis Valley - 2015 Food, Fiber & More AITC Summer Institute June 22nd, 2015 This is a five day course designed for teachers who have little or no ( more... ) Find us on Facebook! Theme by Danetsoft and Danang Probo Sayekti inspired by Maksimer