Sericulture Department, Government of Mizoram, India -a A A + Skip to Navigation Skip to main content Feedback Contact Us Sericulture Department Government of Mizoram Home About Us Profile. S.T.I. Lunglei District Serchhip District Aizawl District Kolasib District. Mamit District Lawngtlai District Saiha district Champhai District Mission/Vision Organisation Structure Who's who Citizen Charter List of Staff Acts & Rules Sericulture Subsidy Rules Download Forms SEED FARMS Govt. Seed Farms Private Seed Growers Programme & Scheme Normal State Plan Scheme Photo Gallery Photo of Officers Photo of Officers (Non-Technical) RFD RFD Report for 2013-2014 RFD Report for 2014-2015 Search Box     Grievance/Feedback       Department News 1. C.M. in N.E. Textile Promotion & Workshop a hawng. 2. Japanese Scientist lo zin 3. Project Coordinator thar dah a ni. 4. Mizoram Governor tharin Sericulture a tlawh. 5. Pu D. Enga, Director chu ni 1.9.2014 atangin a chawl ta. Pu Lalrinmawia'n a ai a awh. Navigation Tender Notice Board Related Links Govt. of India Govt. of Mizoram Anti-Corruption Bureau M.Sc. (Sericulture) Colleges in India B.Sc. Sericulture Colleges Central Silk Board Sericulture Department Manipur Sericulture Dept. Meghalaya Sericulture in Kerala Sericulture Dept. Tamilnadu Sericulture in Andra Pradesh Sericulture in W.Bengal Sericulture in Karnataka Sericulture in Bihar Sericulture in Nagaland Sericulture in China Sericulture in Japan List of Website of Gov't. Departments, Mizoram. Addresses of Directorate Office in India Welcome to Sericulture Department           Sericulture is an agro-based industry. It involves rearing of silkworms for the production of raw silk, which is the yarn obtained out of cocoons spun by certain species of insects. The major activities of sericulture comprises of food-plant cultivation to feed the silkworms which spin silk cocoons and reeling the cocoons for unwinding the silk filament for value added benefits such as processing and weaving.           Sericulture, or silk production, from the moth, Bombyx mori (L.), has a long and colorful history unknown to most people. Although there are several commerciddle of the first century A.D., writers in Rome were complaining about the sumptuous silk garments that rendered women naked in the streets. But the Chinese had guarded the secrets of sericulture so closely the early Romans never learned it, and Virgil thought the thread was derived from combing the fuzz off leaves. <Readmore> GoM News OM/Notifications Circulars & Orders Press Release Events GoM News OM/Notifications Director inthlak Pu Lalremsiama, DSO chu Project Coordinator tura dah a ni. Written Exam for SEO (Direct) posts. UDC interview hun leh hmun Sericulture Sales Emporium Hawn a ni ta. More Notifications Circulars & Orders More Circulars And Orders Press Release Introduction of new Receipt Book. More Press Releases Events More Events © Sericulture Department, Govt of Mizoram Helpline FAQ Disclaimer Privacy Policy QMS This website belongs to the Sericulture Department, Government of Mizoram, India. | Template by ZENICS Click to start chatting.