 Products | OTENTO (THAILAND) CO., LTD. Home Products Shopping Safety control Activities About us Contact us Home > Products Organic Cabbage, Mr. Sermpong Mr. Sermpong manages his farm at Chiang Mai province where is the north part of Thailand. He is a organic farmer certificated by USDA organic standards. We introduce Japanese farming technique to him and he produces Japanese style vegetables. He focuss to produce safe and delicious vegetables. Because of that, his cabbage is very safe and delicious. His organic cabbage will be started to harvest from November.His organic farm is also a place to learn farm for younger generation. He teaches the way to organic farming, organic concept, how to adapt farming to environment and doing sustainable agriculture. Otento(Thailand)Co.,Ltd. has a wide varieties of vegetables and fruits. We develop a technique for planting modern Japanese style to farmers, give advice for quality control and chemical control. To ensure a ‘Top-quality’ products, we select fresh raw materials and process them under modern Japanese controling system and hygienic conditions to keep freshness, flavor and high nutritional value. We selected fresh products and produced good quality for consumers. We use innovation to serve needs of the market. Products are safety and can be traced which will make sure for consumers to have the good taste and high nutritional value products from us. Daikon (Japanese Radish) Japanese daikon is very popular and versatile. It can be eaten by raw or cooked or grated into Daikon-oroshi, which used to counteract the oiliness of dishes like grilled fish and Tempura. Especially the bottom side of daikon is spicier than up side. When cook daikon, this spiciness disappear and the daikon become to slightly sweet. Daikon is usually boiled and putted in soups, or putted in hot pot (Nabe) dishes. Daikon is the most popular ingredient in the oden hot pot. Daikon is also used for making Japanese daikon pickles. Daikon are high in vitamin C, potassium, folate and magnesium. The green tops are also edible and have much nutritious. We import original Japanese daikon seeds from Japan to promote the quality of daikon with farmer who live in north part of Thailand, Chiang Mai province. We develop a technique for planting with modern Japanese style to farmers, and giving advice about quality control and chemical control. Negi (Japanese Bunching Onion) Negi are usually described as having a taste similar to the green onion, though sweeter, larger, and with longer stem and paler color. Negi is high in potassium, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, iron, zinc, manganese, beta-carotene, retinol, vitamin C, vitamin K. Our high quality negi seeds is imported from Japan and planted by farmers in North part of Thailand, Chiang Mai province. We have also taught the modern Japanese style planting technique for farmer , togeher with giving advice for quality control and chemical control. By doing this, we are sure we can deliver good quality and high value negi for consumer. Gobo (Burdock Root) Gobo is a part of root, and has sweet and crispy taste. The gobo has been used as a potent herbal remedy and food since ancient time. The most popular gobo dish is ‘Kinpira Gobo’. Gobo contain much calcium, iron, fiber, potassium and much flavonoid. Gobo is an active detoxifying ingredient. Cabbage Cabbage is one of the vegetable which can keep freshness longer if keep in the refrigerator or in the cold place. A whole cabbage can be stored for at least two weeks. Cabbage is also an excellent source of vitamin C and Beta-carotene. The high amount of Beta-carotene may cut the risk of cataracts. Cabbage has often sliced into thin pieces to be served with Korokke, Tonkatsu or other fried dishes. It is also an important ingredient for Okonomiyaki. Our cabbage is a very fresh and delicious.We produce organic cabbage at Chiang Mai province where is the north part of Thailand. Our organic cabbage is very sweet, crispy and best for our health. Purple Cabbage Purple cabbage is a similar to green cabbage, just a little bit different about leaf texture. Purple cabbage leaves are thicker than green cabbage. It is often used decoratively, it makes salad more colorful. And we are sure that our fresh puple cabbage are delicious too. Japanese Pumpkin Japanese pumpkin is smaller and sweeter than Thai pumpkin. It is a great material for soup. Japanese pumpkin is popular because it contain rich of beta-carotene, iron, vitamin C, and potassium. Our Japanese pumpkin is produced in the north part of Thailand, Chiang Mai province, and also produced in the central part of Thailand , Petchaburi province. Kyuri (Japanese Cucumber) Kyuri are cylindrical in shape, dark green-skinned and have edible seeds surrounded by mild part. A thin bumpy skin covers fleshness and keeps sweet flavor. It can be eaten by raw in salad or combined with other vegetable then it will be served as side dishes. It is often sliced thinly and used as a pickled appetizer for sushi and sashimi.We produce fresh kyuri which is crisp and delicious very much. Satsumaimo (Japanese Sweet Potato) Our sweet potato is a Japanese variety (satsumaimo) and planting in the north part of Thailand, Chiang Mai province. This procuct is certificated by ‘USDA organic standard’. It is sweeter than other sweet potato species in Thailand. Our sweet potato contain rich carbohydrate, dietary fiber, beta-carotene, vitamin C, and vitamin B6. Mulukhiyya Mulukhiyya has bitter taste. When boil mulukhiyya, the resulting liquid will be a thick and highly sticky broth. It is often described as “slimy”. Mulukhiyya is generally eaten by cooked, not eaten by raw. It is the most frequently material use for soup or stew. The leaves are rich in beta-carotene, iron, calcium,vitamin C. The plant has an potent antioxidant activity with a vitamin E. The mucilage of mulukhiyyah is perfect as natural laxative, and treat a lot of digestive problems. Mulukhiyya means ‘Vegetable for king’ , this is supposed to be Cleopatra’s beauty secret. Oba Oba is a mint-like herb whose distinctive flavor is a staple in Japanese cooking. Oba is often served with sashimi, in salads or to flavor soups and stews. Our oba are fresh and rich in nutritional value. Nasu (Japanese Eggplant) Japanese eggplant or ‘Nasu’ is smaller and less bitter than their north American and European counterparts. It is an important vegetable in the Japanese cuisine and used in a wide variety of dishes. Our nasu are fresh and delicious. Okura (Okra) Our okura is produced from central of Thailand. It is fresh and delicious. The okura pods are harvested while immature and eaten as vegetable. Okura has a lot of valuable nutrients. Nearly half of it is soluble fiber. Soluble fiber helps to reduce cholesterol, the risk of heart disease. Okura is called summer vegetable in Japan. It is often eaten by cooded, use for deep fried in Tempura, or served with soy sauce and katsuobushi. Baby Corn Our baby corn is produced from central of Thailand. Our fresh baby corn has a crisp texture and slightly sweet corn flavor. Baby corn is eaten by both raw and cooked. Potato Our potato, mostly produced from north part of Thailand, Chiang Mai province. Potato is eaten as a vegetable, boiled, baked, mashed or as chips (French Fries). Potato is a frequent ingredient in soups, and also usually cooked as Japanese Potato Salad. In terms of nutrition, the potato is best known for its carbohydrate, and also contain vitamin C , vitamin B6 , iron, magnesium, potassium. Onion Onion can be produced 1 crop in a year. Main of our sources are from north part of Thailand. Onion have an antibacterial and antifungal properties. Onion is usually cooked before eaten, and it is used as a typical ingredient of many fried and stewed dishes such as Japanese curry and various domburi. Onion may also be an ingredient in miso soup or grilled alongside of meat in teppanyaki. Asparagus Our asparagus is produced from central part of Thailand. It is fresh and delicious. Our asparagus has controlled planting system same as export standard. Asparagus has multipurpose therapeutic properties. It is an alkaline foodstuff, and excellent body cleanser. It also help to prevent or combat blood acidity. The usability of asparagus help avoiding Liver and Kidney Diseases. Shouga (Galangal) Our galangal is produced from central part of Thailand. Glalangal is helpful in indigestion, stomach complaints and diarrhea, reduces seasickness, motion sickness, including nausea. It also can heal colds, flu, and fevers. Kaffir Lime Leaf Our kaffir lime leaves is produced from central part of Thailand. It is an antioxidant with cancer-preventing properties, being high in beta-carotene. It is useful for the treatment of colds, and cough. Try adding kaffir lime leaves to Tom Yum Soup.( See Thai recipes using kaffir lime leaf: Tom Yum Chicken, Tom Yum Shrimp Soup and Green Curry etc.) Lemongrass Our lemongrass is produced from central part of Thailand. Lemongrass can help for detoxification, relieves headaches and colds. Lemongrass usually use for Thai food such as Tom Yum, spicy salad, fired chicken etc. Lime Our lime is produced from central part of Thailand, Phetchaburi province. Lime use as blood purifier and improves the body’s ability to get rid of toxins. It is excellent in fighting disease that’s related to infection. Drinking lemon juice is useful for people with heart problem, because of its high potassium content. Banana Our banana is produced in Phetchaburi province where is lower central part of Thailand. Our banana have a sweet teste, delicious and non-chemical used since growing until harvest. We cooperated with Thayang Agricultural Cooperative Ltd. to produce banana to export for Japan. We have improved controling system as a agri-business model case, such as system of document control, farm control , production control. ‘Once a month update’ is our policy to control this model, we go to check all farm which are almost 200 places and updated all informations. Our banana is special product. Organic method made, it has sweeter taste and smooth texture. We are sure that our banana is one of the best fruits for kid. Nam Dok Mai Mango Our nam dok mai mango is very sweet and delicious. We check details of farming every months. We use same controling system similar to banana system model to check safety. We also control chemical use for mango farming follow Grobal GAP and Japanese standard. Our main markets are exporting to Japan and supermarket in Thailand. Otento Mango is well known because our customers know that we strongly control standard for every steps of production and select only value mango for supply. VEGETABLES BOX VEGETABLES AND FRUITS BOX ﻿ Products Shopping Safety Control CSR About Us Contact Us