Tomb of Itimad ud Daulah Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Agra Travel Tourist Map About Agra Weather Shopping Hotels in Agra How to Reach Taj Mahotsav Travel Agents Travel Tips Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri How to Reach Agra Agra Airport Agra Distance Chart Flights to Agra Agra Buses Trains to Agra Agra Route Map Delhi to Agra Varanasi to Agra Bharatpur to Agra Agra to Nanital Agra to Dehradun Agra to Lucknow Agra to Jaipur Agra to Allahabad Agra to Ajmer Tourist Destinations near Agra Mathura Travel Vrindavan Travel Bharatpur Travel Delhi Travel Jaipur Travel Ranthambore Travel more.. Agra Map Location Map Railway Map District Map Road Map more.. Home » Agra » Tomb of Itimad ud Daulah Tomb of Itimad ud Daulah Main view: The Mausoleum of Etimad ud Daulah was built by Nur Jahan, the wife of Jahangir. It is also called the "Baby Taj", as its unique architectural style was later replicated in the world-famous Taj Mahal. Side view: It is evident that the Mughal art of carvings reached its zenith in the construction of this tomb. The side view shows the magnificent architecture of this mausoleum, with detailed inlay carvings that distinguish it. Tomb: This is the resting place of Nur Jahan's father, Mirza Ghiyas Beg, who was given the title of Etimad ud Daulah (Pillar of the State). The fine latticework allows ample light for illumination. Entrance: The entrance gate of the Tomb of Etimad ud Daulah is made of red stone, following the pattern adopted in the construction of other Mughal monuments. Beautiful gardens decorate the area around the gate. Entrance interior: From the interior, the intricate design of the entrance gate is even more prominent. White marble has been skillfully embedded in red stone, giving the structure an imposing but charming look. Yamuna River: The river Yamuna is visible in this photo, on whose banks the mausoleum was erected. This is another of its similarities with the Taj Mahal, one of the wonders of the world. Outer wall: A closer inspection reveals the dedication with which the artisans must have worked. Stones of different colours have been utilized in creating symmetric geometrical patterns that mesmerise that attract tourists and locals alike. Inlay work: The inlay work is what bestows a separate identity on the tomb, and signifies a landmark shift in Mughal architecture. These inlay motifs were later employed in the Taj Mahal to great effect. Wall paintings: If the outside of the tomb is impressive, the inside is even more so. Dazzling colours and motifs adorn the inside walls and roof of the mausoleum, along with many paintings that are skillfully done. The Tomb of Itmad ud Daulah is the monument is a highly ornate edifice. This mausoleum is considered to be an imminent precursor of the Taj Mahal as far as the carvings and the inlay work are concerned. The structure of Itmad ud Daulah is much different from the earlier Mugal tombs built during this period and has a lot of inlay carvings. The importance of this monument in Agra, Uttar pradesh is just next to Taj Mahal and Agra Fort. This tomb, built in the famed Char Bagh style is not a very large structure. The main chamber of Itmad ud Daulah is richly decorated with mosaics and semi precious stones inlaid in the white marble. The theme of wine flask with snakes as handles is a recurring one on the engraved walls of this chamber. The marble screens of geometric lattice work allows some gentle lighting. The Tomb of Itmad ud Daulah was built by Nur Jahan, wife of Jahangir, for her father Mirza Ghiyas-ud-din. This tomb in Agra is believed to have inspired the design of Taj Mahal. Ghiyas-ud-din died in 1622 and Nur Jahan built this mausoleum for her father. The tomb of Itmad ud Daulah is built entirely of white marble. Located on the left bank of river Yamuna, this mausoleum is set in a large garden with water course and walkways. The base of this tomb is about 50 sq. m in area and is one meter high. On each corners of this tomb there are towers which are about 13 meters high. The Tomb of Itmad ud Daulah is popularly known as the 'Baby Taj'. Last Updated on : June 26, 2013 Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule