Collaborations JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Collaborations Collaborations In the changing social, economical and academic scenario no institution can deliver its mandatory activities effectively alone. Synergizing the efforts of scientists working in international institutions will help effective delivery of results to stake holders. Based on this philosophy, IICPT expands its hands for joint efforts to reputed national and international institutions. Time tested technologies can be scaled up or down to suit local conditions than reinventing the same. Training and research exposure to international laboratories will help to create globally competitive manpower for India. IICPT expands forward to shake hands with many international institutions across the globe. In the last 3+ years IICPT has become truly international. The Institute has signed MoUs with the following International and National Institutions so far. No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com