Karnataka People, Culture and Festivals Home »» Karnataka » People Culture and Festivals   Karnataka People Culture and Festivals People Festivals Music and Dance Arts and Crafts कर्नाटक का नक्शा Karnataka Karnataka Map Cities in Karnataka Districts of Karnataka Railways Roads Rivers Tehsils Travel Map Places to visit in Karnataka Travel to Karnataka Wildlife Sanctuaries in Karnataka Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Mysore Hotels Coorg Hotels Mangalore Hotels Udupi Hotels Belgaum Hotels              more... Cities in Karnataka Bangalore Manipal Hubli Mangalore Gulbarga Davangere Mysore Physical Map Where is Karnataka Forests in Karnataka Karnataka Agriculture Sex Ratio Minerals in Karnataka Latitude and Longitude Industrial Map Karnataka Air Network Karnataka Pin Code Karnataka STD Code How to Reach Karnataka Karnataka Facts Education in Karnataka Universities in Karnataka Geography and History People Culture and Festivals Karnataka Government and    Politics Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Constituencies Population of Karnataka Karnataka Handicrafts Karnataka Economy Bangalore Fort Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka       People Culture and Festivals Karnataka people, culture and festivals portray a wide variety. Karnataka people, culture and festivals are indeed an area that is of worth speculation. The Karnataka people, culture and festivals has a strong bearing upon its past. The kingdoms that ruled in Karnataka has left an indelible mark on the lifestyle of the people of the state. Thus, we can find an admixture of cultural traits from the Sultans and the other Hindu kings. Talking about the people of Karnataka, we can say that the Kurubas, inhabiting the forests of the Karnataka and Coorg districts have Negroid origin; they are supposed to be the aborigines of the territory. These are primitive people who basically lead a nomadic life. The people of Karnataka are cordial people, living with peace with their neighbors. Beside the aborigines, in Karnataka we also come across people who have migrated from the neighboring territories. The Sanketis, the Okkaligas, the Voddas, the Lambanis, etc, are some such people who have a distinct cultural pattern; this is a significant trait that distinguishes these people from the aborigines. Although, Kannad is the chief language in Karnataka; the other language that have also found place in Karnataka are: Telegu Urdu Tamil Tulu Konkani Coorgi Hindi English Persian Tibetan, etc. It is noteworthy, that the Kannad is derived from the Ashokan inscriptions. Moreover, festivals also form a major part of the Karnataka people, culture and festivals' study. Some of the important festivals of Karnataka are: Ugadi Dussera Kar Hunnive Shravan Mondays Nagarpanchami Gowri Hunnive Shigi Hunnive Navaratri, etc. This was a brief estimate of the Karnataka people, culture and festivals. Last Updated on 27 June 2013 March 2013 Culture and Festivals Festivals Arts and Crafts Music and Dance             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule