Directors Office JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Director's Office Director's Office Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT), a world class pioneer research and educational institution in food processing under the Ministry of Food Processing Industries, Government of India. In our new and expanded mandate, we explore the possibilities of preserving, processing and value adding cereal grains, pulses, millets and oil seeds and crops of storm prone areas for increased economic returns to the individuals and the country as a whole. Post harvest losses on food processing as on date amounts to more than 50000 crores and now there is a need to reduce the post harvest losses to minimum. By improving post harvest technology on food processing, the export of food commodities from India will increase by 5 – 10% in the years to come. IICPT can play a key role to attain the target for export. Our mandate alsoincludes bringing our technologies to all the stake holders and the public as a whole. As part of creating man power for food processing sector, we started offering B.Tech., M.Tech. and Ph.D. programs in Food Process Engineering from 2009-10 academic year. Now we admit 40 B.Tech., 10 each M.Tech in Food Process Engineering & Food Science and Technology  and 5 Ph.D. students every year. Since IICPT is a National Institute, we will address problems related to post harvest processing of all our mandatory crops at a national level as well as value addition. We have reached common man through several seminars and workshops at many places around the country. In the globally changing socio-economic, political and academic scenario.  IICPT collaborate with related R&D institutes in India and around the world to explore these possibilities further. IICPT had already entered into MoU with 13 International and 16 National Academic Institutions. These MoUs permit both the institutions to have Long-term and short-term exchanges of faculty and students for purposes of teaching and research; Coordinated Research, lectures, and training  and Development of mutually beneficial academic programs, courses, and distance learning facilities.  IICPT is also helping industries to develop new food products as well as consultancy service to improve their products.  Tie up projects with industries are also under taken. We request entrepreneurs, Self Help Groups, Farmers, Academicians and students to utilize the facilities available at IICPT Food Processing Business Incubation Centre and Food Testing Laboratory.   The spirit of innovation and co-operation has fostered strong connections between Researchers, Academicians, Students and Entrepreneurs which energized us to continue to move forward.  Join us and work together to create an atmosphere for boosting your thrust for gaining knowledge and prosperous.    Dr.K.Singaravadivel  Director, IICPT No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com