Education — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Education Share Info Education The education section provides learning resources to children and teachers covering the aspects of Child rights and quality education. Education is a fundamental human right Provision of free and compulsory education to all children upto the age of fourteen years, is one of the Constitutional Provisions. India celebrates an impressive jump in the literacy figures in the past decade and recent implementation of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009. ICT in Education The role of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in the education sector plays an important role in the process of empowering the technology into the educational activities. The ICT provide the prospects, trends of integrating into the educational activities and gives large opportunities to enhance the learning environment. Education Primary education is the foundation on which the development of every citizen and the nation as a whole built on. In recent past, India has made a huge progress in terms of increasing primary education enrolment, retention, regular attendance rate and expanding literacy to approximately two thirds of the population. India’s improved education system is often cited as one of the main contributors to the economic development of India. At the same time, the quality of elementary education in India has also been a major concern. Free and compulsory education to all children up to the age fourteen is constitutional commitment in India. The Parliament of India has recently passedRight to Education Act through which education has become fundamental right of all children of age group 6-14 years. The country is yet to achieve the elusive goal of Universalisation of Elementary education (UEE), which means 100 percent enrolment and retention of children with schooling facilities in all habitations. It is to fill this gap that the Government has launched the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan in 2001, one of the largest such programmes in the world. In this era of information technology, ICT is playing commendable role to bridge the gap between haves and have not’s in the education system, particularly in rural India. The primary education vertical of India Development Gateway is an attempt to empower the children and teachers by providing ample resource materials to achieve the goal of Universalization of Elementary Education in India. Child rights Education is a fundamental human right: Every citizen is entitled to it. It is critical to our development as individuals and as society. Policies and Schemes Every child between the ages of 6 to 14 years has the right to free and compulsory education. This is stated as per the 86th Constitution Amendment Act added Article 21A. Childrens Corner Children science section teaches children in an interactive, easy, visual way to help them in learn science about scientific phenomena, encourages creative thinking and active participation in learning process. Teachers Corner Teaching and learning is an important process that includes many variables. These variables interact as learners work toward their goals and incorporate new knowledge, behaviors, and skills that add to their range of learning experiences. Online Assessment Assessments on various subject topics to various age groups to check their subject knowledge such as item analysis can help students revise and develop better. Educational Best Practices Multiple Intelligences is Howard Gardner’s psychological theory about people and their different types of intelligences (logical, visual, musical, etc.). There are seven Intelligences that each person has. A person may be has two or more dominant intelligences, and maybe there are some person have a balance intelligence for the seven intelligences. Career Guidance Career guidance will help to shape future in better way. This part suggests the readers about the various study and job opportunities available after 10th Standard, Graduation and other information. Digital literacy Digital Literacy section of this web portal is creating the awareness on various open source technologies, Various font technologies and created resource material on the Fundamentals of Computers, Basic hardware tips, Basic designing by using the CorelDraw and Frequently Asked Questions on computer usage in selected regional languages. Digital Learning Resources This section provides a peek into various online interactive resources! Resource Links This covers the the useful websites of SSA, Government Resources, basic education and gender equality, child rights and advocacy, national and international resource links. Discussion Forum In this era of information technology, ICT is playing commendable role to bridge the gap between haves and have not’s in the education system, particularly in rural India. The primary education vertical of India Development Gateway is an attempt to empower the children and teachers by providing ample resource materials to achieve the goal of Universalization of Elementary Education in India. sanju Feb 09, 2014 04:09 PM Its very nice to hv such this type of portal. I hv attended the programme in nalgonda which u conducted in nalgonda on dis portal on two days back. Pls tell me the job opportunities aftr master of social work.. Now im doing m.s.w second year in nalgonda district... Abu Samad Choudhury Feb 25, 2014 01:15 PM Well.This is a bridge to link up between the unknown person in the education sector and the initiaves/information taken in the education field. pradeep Sep 04, 2014 01:03 AM its a great site where knowledge are available in each fields very useful Sanjib Borah Oct 06, 2014 05:13 PM Very knowledgable page rahul Jan 14, 2015 02:43 AM Kindly provide information about elementary and higher education in india.Thank you. kritika Jan 30, 2015 07:51 PM thank youuuu. realy a knowledge giving page.best site to take knowledge in any field. veekshith Feb 26, 2015 02:02 PM on education Education must be free flowing devoid of any bias. I quote these words "Where there is a will there is a way" Sanjay Makwana May 24, 2015 11:08 AM It's a useful portal for sharing information. krishnamurthy t May 27, 2015 03:14 PM It is very useful to public as well education field staff Post Your Suggestion (If you have any comments / suggestions on the above content, please post them here) Name Your Message   Type the word given below Navigation Child Rights Policies and Schemes Childrens corner Teachers corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance Digital Litercy Digital Learning Resources Resource Links Discussion Forum - Education Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development