John Abraham Biography - Life Story, Career, Awards and Achievements India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Entertainment » John Abraham   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       John Abraham Biography Bollywood star John Abraham is the icon of teenagers for his physique and macho looks. He was born in Mumbai on 17th December 1972. His father is a Christian from Kerala and mother an Indian Parsee. He grew up in Mumbai and studied at Bombay Scottish School and college. He was a good athlete and participated in the 100 and 200 meters runs. He passed his B.A. (Hons) in Economics and also learned Taekwondo, under the guidance of master Javed Khan. After completing his graduation he passed MMS: Masters in Management Studies from Mumbai Educational Trust (MET) in 1998. John Abraham was a media planner at an ad agency Enterprise-Nexus in Mumbai. He started his modeling career by substituting for a model who didn't turn up for a shoot and was requested by his boss to complete the campaign. One of the turning points in his career was his participation in the Glad Rags Manhunt in March 1999. He qualified for the finals and went to Philippines and was declared as the first runner up. After this there was no looking back, he was flooded with modeling assignments. He was signed by Carrie Models in Singapore and did many assignments in Hong Kong, London and New York. He even performed in music videos of Jhanjhar and Chupke Chupke by Pankaj Udhas. His first TV Commercial in India was for Cinthol. He did an ad campaign for Levis and became the first Asian model for the brand. He was soon counted among the top models in the country. John Abraham's first debut film in Bollywood was Jism in 2003. This sensational film made him very popular for his passionate and emotional role. He has acted in a number of successful movies as Dhoom (2004), Garam Masala (2005) and Taxi no 9211(2006). His role of Kabir in Dhoom (2004) was widely acclaimed and it was a smashing hit of the year. He even won the Zee Cine Awards for his performance in the film as a villain. In 2005, he performed in Viruddh which was very different from his previous movies and shared the screen with great actors as Amitabh Bachchan, Jaya Bachchan and Sanjay Dutt. His next movie, Water was nominated at the Academy Awards for the Best Foreign Language Film. Few of his recently released movies are Baabul, Kabul Express, Salaam-e -Ishq, No Smoking, Dhan Dhana Dhan Goal, Dostana, Jhootha Hi Sahi, 7 Khoon Maaf, Force, Desi Boyz, Housefull 2, etc. John Abraham is associated with the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals Cause (PETA) and has shot an ad to make people aware of the cruelty against birds while caging and capturing them. Awards and nominations 2004: Won Bollywood Movie Award - Best Male Debut for Jism 2005: Won Stardust Superstar of Tomorrow - Male, Paap 2005: Nominated for Filmfare Best Villain Award for Dhoom 2005: Won IIFA Best Villain Award for Dhoom 2005: Won Zee Cine Award for Best Actor in a Negative Role for Dhoom 2006: Rajiv Gandhi Award for his achievement in Bollywood 2006: Nominated for Global Indian Film Awards Best Villain for Zinda 2006: Nominated for IIFA Best Supporting Actor Award for Garam Masala 2007: Nominated for Filmfare Best Villain Award for Zinda 2007: Nominated for Filmfare Best Supporting Actor Award for Baabul 2007: Nominated for IIFA Best Villain Award for Zinda 2007: Nominated for Zee Cine Award for Best Actor in a Negative Role 2007: Nominated fro Bollywood Movie Award - Best Supporting Actor for Baabul 2007: Giant International Awards for his contribution to Indian cinema 2008: Sexiest Asian Man 2008: Won Star Screen Award Jodi No.1 along with Abhishek Bachchan for Dostana 2009: Loins Club Award 2011: India's Sexiest Bachelor by the BIG CBS PRIME   Related Links   Bollywood Aamir Khan John Abraham Raj Babbar Abhijeet Sawant Johnny Walker Raj Kapoor Abhishek Bachchan Juhi Chawla Rajendra Kumar Aditi Govitrikar Kader Khan Rajendra Nath Aishwarya Rai Kajol Rajesh Khanna Ajay Devgan Kareena Kapoor Dr Rajkumar Akshay Kumar Karishma Kapoor Rajnikant Akshaye Khanna Katrina Kaif Randhir Kapoor Amisha Patel Kim Sharma Raveena Tandon Amitabh Bachchan Kishore Kumar Rekha Ganesan Amrita Arora Kumar Gaurav Rimi Sen Amrita Rao Kundan Lal Saigal Rinkie Khanna Anil Kapoor Lalita Pawar Ritesh Deshmukh Antara Mali Lata Mangeshkar Riya Sen Ashutosh Rana Lisa Ray S. Janaki Ayesha Takia Lucky Ali Saif Ali Khan Babita Madhuri Dixit Salman Khan Bipasha Basu Mahesh Bhatt Sameera Reddy Bobby Deol Mahesh Manjrekar Sanjay Dutt Celina Jaitley Mahima Choudhary Satyajit Ray Chandrachur Singh Malaika Arora Shabana Azmi Deepa Mehta Mallika Sherawat Shah Rukh Khan Dilip Kumar Manisha Koirala Shahid Kapoor Dimple Kapadia Manoj Bajpai Shamita Shetty Dino Morea Meghna Reddy Shammi Kapoor Diya Mirza Mehmood Sharmila Tagore Esha Deol Milind Soman Shashikala Fardeen Khan Mohammed Rafi Smita Patil Farhan Akhtar Namrata Shirodkar Soha Ali Khan Gracy Singh Nandita Das Sonali Bendre Gulzar Naseeruddin Shah Sonali Kulkarni Hema Malini Neha Dhupia Sonu Nigam Hrithik Roshan Om Puri Suchitra Sen Isha Koppikar Pooja Bedi Sunil Shetty Jackie Shroff Pooja Bhatt Sunny Deol Jagdeep Preeti Jhangiani Sushmita Sen Javed Akhtar Preity Zinta Tabu Jaya Bachchan Prithviraj Kapoor Tara Sharma Jimmy Shergill Priyanka Chopra Tusshar Kapoor Jitendra Rahul Khanna Yash Chopra Zohra Sehgal Television Ekta Kapoor Jaspal Bhatti   Telugu cinema Chiranjeevi Nagarjuna   Tamil cinema Ilaiyaraaja     Malayalam cinema Mammootty     Last Updated on : April 14, 2015             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule