Thiruvannamalai|Krishi Vigyan Kendra jQuery Menu by Apycom Home About us About KVK Host organization How to reach KVK Staff Technical Non technical Our District General information Area-Production-Yield Nine land classification Livestock District Provider District Map Infrastructure Activities Front Line Demonstration On Farm Testing Trainings Extension activities For farmers Success story Recent Technology Ready for sale Publications Reports Literatures News letter Gallary FLD OFT Trainings Extension activities Videos Others SAC Web links Contact Mandates of KVK On Farm Testing to identify the location specificity of agricultural technologies under various farming systems. Front Line Demonstrations to establish production potential of various crops and enterprises on the farmers fields. Related web links Zonal Project Directorate-Zone VIII TNAU Agri portal-Coimbatore Indian Institute of Horticulture Research-Bangalore Natinal Research Centre for Banana Krishi Vigyan Kendra-Erode Krishi Vigyan Kendra-Karur KVK-Kancheepuram KVK-Krishnagiri About Krishi Vigyan Kendra Krishi Vigyan Kendra was started in the year 1991 at Kilnelli village of Thiruvannamalai district in Tamil Nadu. It is funded by Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. It comes under the Zonal Project Directorate, Zone VIII of ICAR. KVK was named after the founder late Mr.L.Vedapuri, a leading advocate and social worker who had dedicated his life for the upliftment of rural mass. The KVK is functioning under the Tamil Nadu Board of Rural Development, Chennai. A Non governmental organization headed by the president Mr.S.Ramesh, an advocate and eminent person... Tamil Nadu Board of Rural Development (TNBRD). The TNBRD is a well known Non profitable NGO, registered under the Societies Registration Act 1860, founded by Thiru.L.Vedapuri, an eminent professional advocate. He had dedicated his life for social upliftment of the rural farming community especially the women and marinated segment of the society... News and events Solar light trap Integrated Farming system Recent News coverage District service provider Swachh Bharat Photo gallary                                                   Last updation : 01.05.2015 Copyright 2014. Designed by O.SEKAR All rights reserved for KVK Thiruvannamalai