 Government of India, Department of Agriculture & Coo Skip to Main Content | Screen Reader Access | | | | हिंदी में | Follow us on Twitter Home Acts & Rules Citizen Charter RFD Schemes Schemes Info Guidelines FAQ's Miscellaneous Parliament Questions Recruitments Tenders Reach Us Feedback Contact Us You are here : Home > About Us About Us Divisions DAC Organisation Presentation Reports and Publications Programmes & Schemes Agriculture Contingency Plan Circulars and Notifications RTI e Governance Projects Related Links FAQ's About DAC Department At A Glance About Department of Agriculture And Cooperation Agriculture is the principal source of livelihood for more than 58% of the population of this country. Agriculture provides the bulk of wage goods required by non-agriculture sectors and most of the raw materials for the industries sector. The combined efforts of Central Government, State Governments and the farming community have succeeded in achieving record production of 244.78 million tonnes of foodgrains during 2010-11. This record production has been achieved through effective transfer of latest crop production technologies to farmers under various crop development schemes being implemented by the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation backed by remunerative prices for various crops through enhanced minimum support prices. During the 12th Five Year Plan, Ministry Of Agriculture will focus on sustaining the current momentum by stabilizing food grain production to ensure food security. For sustaining higher levels of production, it is necessary to target new areas of foodgrain production, while promoting conservation agriculture in the high production areas, to maintain current levels of productivity. New technologies are needed to break yield barriers, utilize inputs more effi ciently and diversify to more sustainable and higher value cropping patterns. Investment in Agriculture : As a result of the initiatives taken by the Government, the share of total investment in Gross Capital Formation in agriculture and allied sectors has been going up in recent years. Gross capital formation (GCF) i.e. investment in Agriculture and Allied Sectors relative to GDP in this sector has been showing a steadily increasing trend from 13.5 per cent in 2004-05 to 20.1 per cent in 2010 -11. Click here for more information History Organizational History of the Department of Agriculture & Co-operation Click Here For more Information Organizational Structure     Hon'ble Union Minister Shri Radha Mohan Singh         Hon'ble Minister of State Dr. Sanjeev Kumar Balyan         Hon'ble Minister of State Shri Mohanbhai Kalyanjibhai Kundariya         Secretary (Agri & Coop.) Shri Siraj Hussain               Hon’ble Union Minister for Agriculture Shri Radha Mohan Singh is assisted by Hon’ble Ministers of State Shri Sanjeev Kumar Balyan and Hon’ble Ministers of State Shri Mohanbhai Kalyanjibhai Kundariya . The Ministry comprises of Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries. Secretary, Agriculture & Cooperation is the administrative head of the department and is responsible for formulation and implementation of policies of Agriculture and Cooperation. Secretary is assisted by Principal Adviser, Special Secretaries, Additional Secretaries, Agriculture Commissioner, Economic and Statistical Adviser, Joint Secretaries and The Horticulture Commissioner. The Department has 5 Attached Offices, 22 Subordinate Offices, 2 Public Sector Undertakings, 9 Autonomous Bodies, 10 National level Cooperative Organisations and 1 Authority. Organizational Chart Telephone Directory 2015 Home Archives Vigilance RTI Download Forms Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This site is best viewed on IE 8 and Higher Versions This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation Ministry Of Agriculture, Government of India Page Last Updated on : 14 May, 2015