Buying Rice Polishing Machine and Rice Milling Machine is Discount AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale Buying Rice Polishing Machine and Rice Milling Machine is Discount Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Buying Rice Polishing Machine and Rice Milling Machine is Discount LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 22 Hours Ago #1 wintonemachinery Join Date Jul 2014 Posts 194 Blog Entries 7 Buying Rice Polishing Machine and Rice Milling Machine is Discount We are an esteemed organization engaged in providing an extensive range of quality Rice Polishing Machine supplied with high quality materials with assurance of high reliability, stability, strength and long lasting features which we have in extensive demand in the market. We are well known in the market for our quality products in affordable prices and on time deliveries.Our rice polishing machine is hot sale on low price. Working with a client-centric approach and offering excellent customer services, Wintone Machinery has been contributing its technological know-how and experience in helping the innovations become a reality. Using the ISO standard raw materials, we offer the best at highly competitive prices with excellent customer service support. The quality of the products and the efficiency of the company has made it a globally popular entity with a widely spread client base. SB series rice milling machine mainly used to peeling the paddy of the rice. It is a new type equipment for rice processing. The rice milling machine applies to the farm used and small rice processing factory, This small Rice Milling Machine adopts the advantages of other types, and has a comprehensive layout, rational design compact structure and little noise in operation. SB series rice milling machine is easy to operate with less power consumption and high productivity. The finished rice contains less chaff and low broken rate. Our rice polishing machine adopts all the advantages of other types, and has a comprehensive layout, rational design, compact structure and little noise in operation.It is easy to operate with less power consumption and high productivity. The model can produce white rice with high purity above national standard. The finished rice contains less chaff and low broken rate. So it is indeed a new generation combined rice mill. Rice Polishing Machine Features: • Corrosion-resistance • Dimensional accuracy • Longer life span • Tamper-proof • Perfect finish • Quality-assured polishings • No rice breakage • Highly conducting The follow link is our website link. If you are interested in our rice milling machine, rice polishing machine or some other rice milling machine, please feel free to contact us without hesitation. Buying Rice Polishing Machine and Rice Milling Machine is discount. If you are interested in our rice milling machinery please feel free to consult us. Rice Milling Plant Rice Polishing Machine Email: wintone15@wintonemachinery.com Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Tags for this Thread rice polishing machine View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 12:44 PM .