Hill Stations in India Home » Hill Stations in India   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views About India India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories State Profiles Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels Current Events India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News       Hill Stations in India Hill Stations Map of India Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Map shows popular hill stations of India. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. India is a favorite tourist spot and has picturesque hill stations. It is a perfect tourist destination for nature lovers. The misty, mystical and serene hill stations in India are a perfect holiday option and are found in most parts of the country. Most of the hill stations or resorts of India are situated at heights ranging from 600 m above the sea level to 3500 m above the sea level. These hill stations are popular with both Indian and foreign tourists and offer a relaxing and wholesome break from the heat and dust of the cities. To make these hill stations a luxury trip for tourists, there are various hotels and resorts to cater to lodging requirements. Indian Hill Resorts offers world-class accommodation facilities to the travelers at reasonable rates and invite them to enjoy a relaxing holiday in the hill stations of India. These hill stations act as travel guides to the world of peace and serenity. Here one can walk across the fields of wild flowers and see the blooming apple orchards, witness the rushing streams cascade down the mountainside, and watch the serenity of the snow-capped Himalayas. Go mountaineering, camping, trekking and paragliding in these hill stations of India and have a holiday of a lifetime. Some of the popular hill-stations in India are Gangtok, Darjeeling, Dharamshala, Dehradun, Auli, Kasauli, Kashmir, Khandala, Mahabaleshwar, Mount Abu, Munnar, Kodaikanal, Dalhousie, Kullu, Lonavala, Manali, Coorg, Coonoor, Khajjiar, Mussoorie, Nainital, Ooty, Shimla and Srinagar. Popular Hill Stations in India Dharamshala Dharamshala or Dharamsala is one of the most popular hill stations in northern India. Previously known as Bhagsu, Daharamshala is situated in the hill slopes of the Kangra Valley. The town over the years has attracted travelers from all over the world for its natural climatic conditions, location, colorful temples and Gompas. What to see in Dharamshala Adi Shakti Temple, Naddi Aghanjar Mahadev Bhagsu waterfall Bhagsunath Bir paragliding spot Brajeshwari Temple Chamunda Mandir Chinmaya Tapovan Dal Lake Dari Narghota Norbulingka Institute Nurpur Sidhbari Church of St. John Dehra Gopipur How to reach Dharmshala? By Air The nearest airport to Dharamshala is the Gaggal Airport which is situated at a distance of 13-km from the town By Train Kangra is the nearest railway station which is located at a distance of 17 Km from the main town. By Road There are also a number of direct buses that ply from and to Dharamsala from major Indian cities such as Chandigarh, Shimla, Dehradun, Manali and Pathankot Kullu Kullu is also a major hill station located in North India. Situated in Himachal Pradesh Kullu is nestled on the banks of the Beas River in the Kullu Valley. What to see in Kullu? The Great Himalayan National Park Bijli Mahadev Temple Brighu Lake Dhankia Mahadeva Temple Pin Parbati Pass Akhara Bazaa Basheshwar Mahadev Temple, Bajaura Chandra Khanni Pass Dashir Lake Deo Tibba Kanawar Sanctuary How to reach Kullu? By Air Bhuntar is the nearest airport to Kullu and is situated at a distance of about 10 km from the town. By Rail The closest railway station is at Jogindernagar, 95-km away from Kullu. By Road Buses from Delhi ply almost daily to Kulu. Shimla Shimla is undoubtedly among the most frequented hill stations in India. Known as the "Queen of Hills," Shimla is the capital of the state of Himachal Pradesh. Placed cozily on the Himalayas Shimla boasts of snow covered peaks and unending expanses of greenery. What to see in Shimla? Annandale Chadwick Falls Chapslee Christ Church And St Michael's Cathedral Churdhar Sanctuary Gurkha Castles Karyali Lake Kotesvara Temple How to reach Shimla? By Air The Jubbarhatti airport is the closest airport to Shimla. It is located at a distance of 23-km from the city. You can get direct flights to the Jubbarhatti airport from Delhi. By Road Shimla is also well connected to most of the cities and major towns in India. There are regular buses that ply from Delhi and Chandigarh to Shimla. By Rail Shimla also connects to most of the Indian cities and towns by rail. Kalka is the nearest railway station to Shimla. It is situated at a distance of 96 km from Shilmla. Ooty Ooty or Udhagamandalam is a famous hill station in south India. Situated in the Nilgiri District of Tamil Nadu Ooty is situated at a distance of 105 km from Coimbatore. What to see in Ooty Botanical Garden Government Museum - Ooty Kalhatty Falls Kandal Cross Shrine Mini Garden and Rose Garden Ooty Lake Mudumalai Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park How to reach Ooty? By Rail The Nilgiri Mountain Railway connects Ooty to Mettupalayam (47 km). Mettupalayam is directly connected to cities like Coimbatore and Chennai. By Road Ooty is connected to the rest of the country by a strong network of roads and national highways. There are frequent buses that ply from Coimbatore, Trichy, Palghat, Bangalore, Kanyakumari, Madurai, Mysore, Calicut, Tirupati and other important destinations in South India to Ooty . By Air Coimbatore is the nearest airport. It is situated at a distance of 105 km from Ooty, Panchgani Panchgani is among the most promising hill stations in Maharashtra. Lazily nestled in the lap of the idyllic Krishna valley Panchgani is one of the most popular weekend getaways for the people living in and around the state. What to see in Panchgani? Kamalgadh Fort Panchgani Sydney Point Panchgani Table Land Panchgani Parsi Point Panchgani Devil's Kitchen Panchgani Dhoom Dam Panchgani Rajapuri Caves Panchgani How to reach Panchgani By Air The closest airport is Pune, situated at 160-km from Panchagani. By Rail Pune is the nearest railway station. By Road There are frequent luxury bus services operated by MTDC to Panchgani from Mumbai and Pune. Unexplored Hill Stations in India Anantagiri Hills Anantagiri is one of nature's gifts to India. It is situated 75 km away from Hyderabad. It is a quaint little town that offers breathtaking views of nature. This is still one of the unexplored hill stations in India. What to see in Anantagiri? Bheemunipatnam Beach Borra Caves Chandana Yatra RamaKrishna Beach & Lawson`s Bay Rishikonda Beach Visakha Utsav How to reach Anantagiri Hills By Air Hyderabad and Vishakapatnam both are situated close to Anantagiri. Almost all the cities in India have frequent flights to these two cities. By Rail Srikakulam is the nearest railhead. It is located at a distance of 3-km. By Road Regular buses ply from Vishakapatnam to Anantagiri Chamba Chamba is another gem in the crown of Himachal Pradesh. Situated on the banks of the Ravi River, Chamba is often referred to as the land of antiquity and scenic beauty. What to see in Chamba? Bhuri Singh Museum Champawati Temple Chaurashi Temple Kalatope Khajjiar Sanctuary Lakshmi Narayan Temple Lama Dal Markula Devi Temple Rang Mahal Maharaja's Palace Ghadhasaru Lake How to reach Chamba? By Road Chamba can be reach by bus from Dalhousie. There are frequent buses and jeeps that travel to Chamba from Dalhousie which is situated at a distance of 56 km from the hill station. By Air Gaggal is the nearest airport; it is 180 km from Chamba. There are daily flights from Indian Airlines to Delhi. By Rail Pathankot is the nearest rail head. There are direct trains from Amritsar, Delhi, Bombay and Calcutta to Pathankot. Chamba is located at a distance of 122-km Pathankot. Last Updated on 8/19/2011   Hill Stations in India   Almora Hill Station Amarnath Hill Station Chamba Hill Station Dalhousie Hill Station Darjeeling Hill Station Dharamshala Hill Station Gulmarg Hill Station Kodaikanal Hill Station Leh Hill Station Mount Abu Hill Station Munnar Hill Station Mussoorie Hill Station Nainital Hill Station Ooty Hill Station Panchgani Hill Station Shillong Hill Station Shimla Hill Station Srinagar Hill Station Kaza Hill Station Tabo Hill Station Karnataka Hill Stations Hill Stations in Kerala Hill Stations in Maharashtra             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule