Wes Watkins Agricultural Research and Extension Center — Oklahoma Agricultural Experiment Station University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Oklahoma Agricultural Experiment Station Oklahoma Agricultural Experiment Station Search OKSTATE.EDU... Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Division Home Division Home Extension Ag Experiment Station College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Academic Departments Division Administration Programs & Services Ag International Programs Ag Sponsored Programs Ag Communications Services Human Resources Sustainable Ag Research & Education DASNR IT Resources Extension Fact Sheets Extension County Office Directory DASNR Web Links Online Directory Media Division News Photo Database SUNUP TV Oklahoma Gardening TV DASNR Videos   Extension Program Areas 4-H & Youth Development Ag Business Community & Rural Development Crops Family & Consumer Sciences Gardening Livestock Natural Resources, Environment & Ecology Weather Extension Departments 4-H & Youth Development Ag Economics Animal Science Biosystems & Ag Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Family & Consumer Sciences Food & Ag Products Center Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resource Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences Resources Extension Fact Sheets Extension County Office Directory DASNR Web Links Online Directory Careers in Extension Media Division News Photo Database SUNUP TV Oklahoma Gardening TV DASNR Videos   Research Field Research Units Field Research & Service Units Controlled Environment Lab Electronics Shop Facilities & Project Management The Botanic Garden at Oklahoma State OSU Research Range Wes Watkins Station Research Centers Biobased Energy Center Food & Ag Products Center Food & Ag Biosecurity Institute Stored Products Center Water Resources Center Wheat Improvement Team Departments Academic Departments Ag Communications Services Environmental Sciences International Programs in Ag College of Human & Environmental Sciences Center for Veterinary Health Sciences Resources OAES Personnel History Related Links Ag Sponsored Programs Employment Opportunities Policies & Procedures Crop Variety Trials Ag Communications Services   Teaching Academics Majors Minors Orientation Student Academic Mentors Transfer Students Students Prospective Students Graduate Programs Scholarships & Awards Career Services Student Involvement Student Success Center Alumni Membership OSU Alumni Association Support Our Mission Cowboy Journal Events Ag Alumni Board Career Achievement Winners Resources Contact Us Employer Information Career Fair   Academic Departments Academic Departments Ag Economics Ag Education, Communications & Leadership Animal Science Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Biosystems & Ag Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resource Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAMS Environmental Sciences Master of International Agriculture Degree Program OSU Home Academics Colleges Catalog Class Schedule Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Admissions Visit Campus Enrollment Registrar Student Disability Services The Honors College Cost of Attendance Student Life Graduate College Residential Life Webmail Login Parking & Transit Campus Safety Health Services Student Affairs Career Services Fraternity & Sorority Affairs Wellness Center Faculty & Staff Human Resources & Jobs Payroll Services Web for Employees Benefits Information Information Technology Webmail Login Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council About OSU President OSU Newsroom Academic Calendar Athletics Alumni Association OSU Foundation Campus Map Community of Stillwater   Apply Now Oklahoma Agricultural Experiment Station Home OAES Personnel Field & Research Service Unit Contact FRSU Research Station Sales Wes Watkins Research and Extension Center - Lane Hatch Act of 1887 Division Web Links Crop Trials Ag Biotechnology Ag Sponsored Programs Employment Opportunities Policies & Procedures Plant Materials Search Advanced Search… Contact Us Contact Info Oklahoma Agricultural Experiment Station  139 Agriculture Hall Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Login Info Oklahoma Agricultural Experiment Station Wes Watkins Agricultural Research and Extension Center Two hundred and seventy three acres were purchased in Atoka County in 1984 for the purpose of building a research and extension center, jointly funded and operated by both Oklahoma State University and USDA/ARS. The station is jointly referred to as the Lane Agricultural Center, and consists of the Wes Watkins Agricultural Research and Extension Center, operated by OSU, and the South Central Agricultural Research Laboratory, operated by USDA. The purpose of the joint venture was to advance the study and promotion of alternative cropping systems in the southeastern part of Oklahoma as well as adjoining regions and states. Emphasis was placed on investigating horticultural crops as possible replacements for lower-profit agronomic crops. Over two decades, most but not all research efforts have been focused upon vegetable crops.   Research Focus Current programs emphasize alternative cropping systems that are sustainable and that have low environmental impact.  For many years, the primary research emphasis was upon cucurbit crops, primarily watermelon, but also including cantaloupes, cucumbers, and squash. While crop diversity is emphasized at the center, a current emphasis is upon sustainable and organic cropping systems.  Crops currently being tested include but are not limited to various cucurbits, tomatoes, southern peas, sweet corn, green beans, peppers, onions, herbs, and forage crops that are grown in rotation with vegetables.  Current emphasis is upon crops that can be marketed with the Farm-to-School program, crops that can be used for biological fuels and biological disease control programs, crops with nutraceutical values, and cover crops that can be used for soil improvement.  The Lane Agricultural Center is the only state or federally owned property in Oklahoma that has land that is certified as organic according to the guidelines of the USDA National Organic Program.  Most research projects at the Center have elements that support the concept of organic and/or sustainable agriculture.   Click here to view larger map. Click here to view interactive map.   Size and Location The station consists of 273 acres and is located at Lane, Oklahoma, 10 miles east of Atoka and 23 miles west of Antlers on state Hwy 3. The center lies on the northern -most part of the Southern Coastal Plain just south of the Ouachita Mountain region. Facilities include modern offices, laboratories, greenhouses, shop buildings, equipment, and 100+ acres of improved and irrigated land. Site The soils on the center were formed from unconsolidated to weakly consolidated, sorted and stratified loamy to clayey sediments of the Cretaceous age.  Natural erosion has carved these once flat lying sediments into rolling topography of smooth broad ridges and side slopes.  The moderate slope on much of the area makes erosion hazard a major limitation to cultivated crops. The soils are dominated by clayey subsoils and loamy to sandy surface horizons.  Permeability is slow because of the clay subsoil textures.  Shallow seasonally perched water tables are found during extended periods of high rainfall.  Several centimeters of rainfall occur in every month averaging 105 cm annually.  April through June, and September and October usually receive 13 cm monthly and are the wettest months.  This poorly drained character is a major limitation to crop production on several of the soils at the center. The average air temperatures are 80 degrees during the summer months and 40 degrees during the winter months.  The growing season is long, normally extending from April until November.  However, large variations in wind, temperature and rainfall can occur throughout the growing season. The soil and climatic conditions at Lane are representative of a large acreage in the southern plains.  Thus, cropping systems that are developed at the Lane Agricultural Center are applicable to a wide range of farms throughout southern Oklahoma as well as other representative states in the southern plains. Photo Gallery Soil Map   Contact James Vaughan Station Superintendent Email John H. Johnson Field Assistant and Equipment Operator Email Shannon Reece Mech. I Email Document Actions Send this Print this Oklahoma State University  Stillwater, OK 74078 | 405.744.5000 DASNR News Woodland Owner Workshop scheduled in Idabel May 29, 2015 Tips for summer grilling safety May 27, 2015 Drought-tolerant garden to open at the Oklahoma City Zoo May 26, 2015 Important tips for homeowners to help avoid water damage May 20, 2015 OSU professor named ASHS Fellow May 19, 2015 More…   Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Accessibilty Safety Legal and Trademarks Webmaster © 2015 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved