Mumbai Railway Map - Railway Network of Mumbai - Maps of India Home » Maps » Mumbai » Mumbai Railway Map   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Utilities Flight Schedule Railways TimeTable Distance Chart Latitude and Longitudes India Pin codes STD Search more... Product & Services India Maps Store Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       Mumbai Railway Map Mumbai Railway Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map Showing the Mumbai Railway Network. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Mumbai Suburban Railway System The Mumbai suburban railway is a mass transit system carrying more than 7.24 million people daily. Though it seems a bit crowded, it effectively handles the highest passenger density compared to any other mass transit system in the world. The Mumbai people call it the "local." The Mumbai suburban railway is very old, in fact as old as the very first railway systems developed by the British. In India, when the East India Company transferred power to the Queen in 1850s, the first passenger train ran on Indian tracks between Victoria Terminus and Thane. Geography and Traffic influx of Mumbai Mumbai is situated along the Mumbai harbor and Arabian Ocean, so it is mostly along the north-south coastal strip and that's the reason Mumbai local mass transit system is ideal for the urban transportation needs, where a commuter may have to travel as far as 120 km daily and back. Furthermore because of the geographical spread and congestion on Mumbai roads, the rail network becomes the lifeline of the city. Mumbai handles an astronomical number of migrants and local commuters due to its status as the financial capital, city of glamour and films and exporting hub of India. In recent decades Mumbai population has almost tripled and city's road network is unable to handle such huge traffic influx. It also raises safety issues. Infrastructure The Western railways are also working on a metro and a monorail system. This is estimated to ease the congestion and safety issues to a great extent. Suburban railways cover 470 kms; it is run by electric multiple units, which are also known as EMUs. Around 2342 local trains run simultaneously to provide a huge infrastructural support to this great mega city of the world. These trains have sets of 9, 12 and 15 cars. Main divisions of Mumbai Suburban Railway System Two zonal railway networks viz. Western Railway and Central Railway run the huge suburban local train network. They also provide fast corridors for long distance trains. Mumbai suburban railway system is divided into four parts to facilitate smooth functioning and these are Central Line, Western Line, Harbor Line and Thane-Vashi-Panvel Line. These routes are again divided into multiple lines to cover vast Mumbai regions. Stations Covered and Future Plans The Western Line runs from Churchgate station to Dahanu Road, the distance between both of them being 120 km. along the west coast. The Central Line includes three bifurcated corridors, two of them run from Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus to Kalyan, a distance of 54 km. It further runs till Khopoli and Kasara, both more than 60 km away into east. It covers Byculla, Dadar, Kurla, Ghatkopar, Vikhroli, Bhandup, Mulund, Thane, Dombivali and Kalyan. Harbor line covers the stations from CST to Andheri, Thane and Panvel. In future Navi Mumbai (New Bombay) would be extended to further 180 km covering Panvel and areas up to neighboring Raigad district. Till 2014, Harbor Line world be extended up to Borivali and Goregaon. Double-decker AC Train launched from Ahmedabad to Mumbai A new super-fast AC double-decker train from Ahmedabad to Mumbai was launched by the Western Railways on September 19, 2012. According to officials, the train will depart from Ahmedabad at 6 am and arrive at Mumbai Central by 1 pm. On the return journey, will begin from Mumbai Central at 2.20 pm and the train will reach Ahmedabad by 9:30 pm. The total journey of about 500 km will be completed in only seven hours and the train will halt at Borivli, Vapi, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara and Anand. The train is scheduled to run six days a week. Each coach will accommodate 120 passengers out of which, 70 will be on the lower level and the rest on the upper level. The coaches are said too provide comfortable journey for passengers. The official fair chart is not out but tickets may cost somewhere around Rs.471 inclusive of food charge. Last Updated on : 11/30/2012 Mumbai Maps Mumbai City Map Mumbai Seven Island Map Central Mumbai Map Mumbai Railway Map Mumbai Hospitals Map Mumbai Hotels Map Tour and Travel offices Map Departmental Shops Map Leather shops Map Lifestyle shops Map Mumbai Local Train Map Location of Haji Ali Dargah North Mumbai Map Navi Mumbai Map Mumbai Tourist Map Mumbai Metro Map Bandra Worli Sea Link Map Airlines offices in Mumbai Antiques and Art shops Map Gift shops Map Mumbai Location Map South Mumbai Map Greater Mumbai Map Mumbai Road Network Map Mumbai Travel Map Offices Location Map Carpets Shops Map Handicraft shops Map Men's wear shops Map Monorail Route Map Mumbai Road Companion Andheri - Mumbai Central Dadar - Malabar Hill Santacruz - Shivaji Terminus Bandra - Colaba Juhu - Mumbai Central Worli - Nariman Point Church Gate - Cuffe Parade Mumbai Central - Chembur More... More About Mumbai Places of Interest in Mumbai Manufacturers &    Wholesalers Mumbai Business Mumbai Airport Mumbai Stock Exchange Shopping Areas in Mumbai Flights to Mumbai Service providers in Mumbai Education in Mumbai Mumbai Weekend Getaways Mumbai Police Mumbai Getaways Mumbai Hotels Mumbai Weather Mumbai Train Schedule Shops and Retailers Mumbai Real Estate             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule