about-edit About us Administrative Setup Infrastructure Training Faculty Contact Picture Gallery ABOUT US History Philosophy Objectives Our Activities Our Focus Quality Systems KEYNOTE MESSAGES Chairman & MD Executive Director (P) Director, IFS INFRASTRUCTURE Acedemic Area Library Computer Lab Quality Control Lab Hostel Training FCI Regular Course FCI Direct Recruitment Training Other Traning Conference   Message from the Executive Director (IFS) , FCI हिंदी रूपांतर Agriculture is the backbone of India economy. With seminal changes happening in this field, the focus is shifting from production to technological interventions,management of inputs,information, human resources and market. Some of the major developments that we have seen in the recent past are establishment of commodity.Markets,establishment of mechanisms for bulk handling of foodgrains, new warehouse receipts laws,usage of information technology in public procurement, development of multi modal transport system, etc. The present day dynamic environment requires continuous upgradation of capabilities at individual level. At the Institute of Food Security(IFS) that learning and development is practiced as a strategic process that is woven into organization-wide priorities. Efforts are being made to enrich the qualitative aspect of all programme inputs.In order to provide necessary exposure to employees of the Food Corporation of India, IFS has been actively involving resource persons of repute. Several measures have been taken to strengthen the training effort of FCI both in terms of quantity and quality of programmes conducted at the Institute of Food Security. With improved infrastructure,IFS has extended its training facilities to other organizations and rented out unused Infrastructure on payment basis. The Institute has also been continually upgrading its standards in design and delivery of programmes for providing good learning opportunities to FCI officers. IFS is committed to develop competence and build new organizational capabilities to help Corporation achieve its targets. I am sure that those attending programmes at IFS would get valuable insights and would make significant contribution to the growth of the organization as well as the Indian Food Sector. Home About us Infrastructure Our Courses Faculty Contact Picture Gallery Copyright @ 2008, Institute of Food Security, Food Corporation of India "Site is designed and developed by IFS and is hosted by National Informatics Centre"