Places to Visit in Arunachal Pradesh and Tourist Destinations near Arunachal Pradesh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Arunachal Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Travel Agents Tourist Places in Arunachal Pradesh Picnic Spots Museums Pilgrimage Adventure Sports Ita Fort Buddha Temple Ganga Lake Polo Park Tawang Gompa Bumla Pass Apatani Villages Kile Pakho Taley Wildlife Sanctuary Cities to Visit in Arunachal Pradesh Along Travel Itanagar Travel Tawang Travel Ziro Travel Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels About Arunachal Pradesh History Geography Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Tourism » Places to Visit in Arunachal Pradesh Places to Visit in Arunachal Pradesh There are plenty of tourist attractions in Arunachal Pradesh. Verdant forests at the backdrop of the lofty placid mountains, colourful tribes with their curious social customs make the land a picturesque one. Places to See in Arunachal Pradesh Unspoilt natural beauty, interesting life style of the tribes and mythology play a large part to form the tourist attractions of Arunachal Pradesh. Following are only a few of them : Itanagar This is the capital of the state and includes many tourist attractions of Arunachal Pradesh. The historical fort made of bricks from which the drives the name, is 14-15 centuries old. The Rajbhawan, the official residence of the Governor, Jawaharlal Nehru State Museum, the legendary Ganga Lake (Gyakar Sinyi) are also worth a visit. Bomdila (8500 ft.) Home to the tibes like Monpa, Sherdukpen, Aka (Hrusse), Miji and Begun (Khawas). Colourful gomphas tucked in the brilliant landscape makes it an ideal Himalayan destination. Tawang The meandering highland pass that leads to this picturesque valley itself is one of the tourist attractions of Arunachal Pradesh. This is the land of 400year old Tawang monastery, which is the birthplace of the sixth Dalai Lama. The monastery house gold lettered copies of sacred Buddhist script. Parashuram Kund Ancient Indian mythology has it that Parashuram, a great sage of ancient India had washed his sin of matricide in the bank of the rive Lohit, which later came to be known as Parashuram Kund. People come from far and wide to take part in the Parashuram Mela during the month of January. Bhismaknagar Mythology says Lord Krishna carried away Rukmini one of many wives from her father Bhismaka who rule this kingdom. Excavations have revealed a very early settlement of the Aryans here. Malinithan Malinithan has a 7 to 8 centuries old temple site in ruins. A series of excavations have unearthed a decorated basement of a temple, icon of deities, animal motifs and floral designs, carved columns and panels reminding of an unknown past. Akashiganga Mythology again comes into play. When the Lord Shiva was frantically carrying the corpse of Parvati, his wife, Lord Vishnu cut her body into pieces with Sudharshan Chakra. One of the pieces fell in this area so the place is considered divine. The place also provides a magnificent bird's eye view of the Brahmaputra river glimmering far below. As many as 7 Wild Life Sanctuaries and 4 National Parks of varying sizes add to the tourist attractions of Arunachal Pradesh : WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES Pakhui Wildlife Sanctuary, Seijosa Itanagar Wild life Sanctuary, Naharlagun Dr. D. Ering Memorial Wildlife Sanctuary, Pasighat Mehao Wildlife Sanctuary, Roing Kamlang Wildlife Sanctuary, Miao Eagle Nest Wildlife Sanctuary, Seijosa Kane Wildlife Sanctuary, Along NATIONAL PARKS Namdhapa National Park (Tiger Project), Miao Mouling National Park, Jengging Sessa Orchid Sanctuary, Tipi Dihang-Debang Biosphere Reserve, Dibang Valley One can spot a wide variety of wild lives including elephant, tiger, gaur, barking deer, black bear, red panda only to name a few. Five major rivers - Kameng, Subansiri, Siang, Lohit and Tirap - branching out from the mighty Brahmaputra and countless other rivulets crisscross the mystic land. Alongwith the breathtaking view, they also offer good rafting and angling opportunity. Last Updated on : 3/09/2013 Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Travel to Along Travel to Bhalukpong Travel to Bomdila Travel to Itanagar Travel to Tawang Travel to Ziro Places to visit in Arunachal-pradesh Places to visit in Itanagar Places to visit in Tawang Places to visit in Ziro About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule