University of Cambridge Bioinformatics and Computational Biology skip to primary navigation skip to content Study at Cambridge About the University Research at Cambridge Search site Home Study at Cambridge Undergraduate Courses Applying Events and open days Fees and finance Student blogs and videos Graduate Why Cambridge Qualifications directory How to apply Fees and funding Frequently asked questions International students Continuing education Executive and professional education Courses in education About the University How the University and Colleges work History Visiting the University Term dates and calendars Map For media Video and audio Find an expert Publications International Cambridge News Events Public engagement Jobs Giving to Cambridge Research at Cambridge For staff For current students For alumni For business Colleges & departments Libraries & facilities Museums & collections Email & phone search Home School of the Biological Sciences Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Services Resources Software Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Services Studying at Cambridge Home About us Research Access Access overview Application form Logging in Secure shell X Windows Raven Using HTcondor Resources Resources overview Hardware Software Databases Support Training News   Software Home Resources Hardware Software Databases Software available The following table lists software packages that are available. If there is something not on this list that you would like us to have, or you need more help with running a program, or you notice a newer version of software that I ought to install please send an email . Most general software is not listed here (except R because it has many bioinformatics packages installed). You will find perl, python, ruby, standard compilers and a wide range of other applications are available but you can always ask if you need more or find we have an out-of-date copy. (In some cases you may even need an older copy; this can happen with, eg, python.) It is possible something is on this list but not on all servers: please ask if you need software on other servers. Some people run software not listed here: both their own code and software they have obtained elsewhere. Please note that most, though not all, software is in /biosoft/bin so if the exact command to use is not obvious trying looking in there. Some packages have many individual programs and you need to know the name of the one you need. Often I have used lower-case for the whole program name even when the published name is partly CAPitals (upper-case). Please ask if you are unsure. Package Description Further information ABySS A de novo short read assembler for small or large genomes. Parallel version uses openmpi. See web site and Manual and Flowchart ALLPATHS-LG A short read assembler that works on both small and large (mammalian size) genomes See web site ancestrymap Screens through the genome in a recently mixed population such as African Americans, searching for segments with increased ancestry from one of the ancestral populations, which can indicate the position of disease genes See web site aqua AQUA: automatic quality improvement for multiple sequence alignment started with command aqua . See text help but note local command is aqua . aragorn A program to detect tRNA genes and tmRNA genes in nucleotide sequences See web site Artemis For viewing and analysing (eg with blast) DNA/protein sequences and feature tables. Start with command art . The Artemis Comparison Tool is started with act . Both require X-Windows . See the web site. To customize artemis copy the file /whale-data/biosoft/src/artemis/etc/options to your directory and edit it. Or ask for help. The most recent version has not been set up for blast etc. augustus A program, and associated scripts, to predict genes in eukaryotic genomic sequences. There are various ways to perform training using BLAT, PASA and SCIPIO and the authors may also assist you with this. See web site . Babel Open Babel succeeds Babel: Program and library to interconvert between many file formats used in structural studies. Includes babel, obfit, obgrep and obrotate See man babel and web site . Note the version installed is that available with the operating system but newer versions may be installed if required. bamtools Utility for working on BAM files analogous to samtools (see below) thus avoiding need to store and work on larger text SAM files where possible. See paper bayenv Bayesian method using environmental correlations to identify loci underlying local adaptation See web site BEAST BEAST is a cross-platform program for Bayesian MCMC analysis of molecular sequences See the web site . NB BEAST can start from a defined usertree (cf Mr Bayes). Parallel BEAST is available. Example command-line: nice +10 beast -working -beagle -beagle_instances 8 test.xml >& log. There is also now the BEAST2 package with commands set up as beast2 etc. This can restart a chain and has its own web site . bedtools Utilities for a wide range of genomics analysis tasks including genome arithmetic, ie set theory on the genome. EG intersect, merge, count, complement, and shuffle genomic intervals from multiple files in widely-used genomic file formats, and set up pipelines. See web site . Bioconductor A large collection of packages used within R for carrying out very many functions in the analysis and comprehension of high-throughput genomic data. See web site . There are also many non-Bioconductor R packages not listed in this table. Recently not all new Bioconductor packages have been installed. If you would like packages installed for you centrally please ask. Some people also have their own R packages installed locally (you define an R user library path). biogrep Optimised version of grep for matching patterns against sequences. See web site . BioPerl Set of modules to help write bioinformatics Perl scripts, with some functional scripts as well See web site Biopieces Set of command-line tools that can be put together to create pipelines. See website. BioPython Analogous to BioPerl. Also we have biopy, numpy and scipy Note that on some servers there is more than one version of Python and also BioPython as versions with the OS may not be the newest. Ask for advice if required or if you need more Python modules/scripts installed. See website for general information. bismark A tool to map bisulfite converted sequence reads and determine cytosine methylation states See web site BisSNP A package based on the GATK map-reduce framework for genotyping and accurate DNA methylation calling in bisulfite treated massively parallel sequencing. See web site . BLAST Sequence database searching package available in several versions. The new BLAST+ package uses separate names blastp, blastn etc. The previous NBCI names blastall, blastpgp, bl2seq etc are still available alongside. Wu-BLAST is also available. The shared data are in /data4/blast or we can set up your data. BLASTDB is defined for [t]csh users. The new BLAST+ software is documented separately (PDF) from the old . You can use concatenated queries in FASTA format. blat Blast-like Alignment Tool to perform rapid mRNA/DNA and cross-species protein alignments. See FAQ on UCSC web site . bowtie Bowtie is an ultrafast, memory-efficient short read aligner geared toward quickly aligning large sets of short DNA sequences (reads) to large genomes. The new version has programs with a 2 in the name eg bowtie2 See version 1 manual and version 2 beta manual . The myrna pipeline is also available. boxshade Makes shaded multiple alignment files See text documentation or type man boxshade bsExpress A program to perform analysis and quality control of bisulfite (BS-Seq) and oxidised bisulfite (oxBS-Seq) sequencing libraries. See web site . bwa Burrows-Wheeler Aligner (BWA) is a program that aligns relatively short nucleotide sequences against a long reference sequence such as the human genome. See web manual page CAF tools Suite of programs for manipulating CAF (Common Assembly Format) sequence assemblies See web site cap3 Sequence assembly program See manual ; see also gap4/gap5 in Staden package CEGMA Pipeline that identifies a core set of eukaryotic genes. It uses WU-BLAST, HMMER 2, geneid and Wise2. This may help check the completeness of a genome assembly. It could be used to train eg snap. May be used in conjunction with Maker. Local wrapper command run_cegma takes same arguments as cegma See the text manual and public web site . CLC Bio Genomics Workbench, Server and commandline tools A comprehensive package for analyzing next generation sequencing data See website . Please email me as this product is licensed on specific servers. clump Program using Monte Carlo method for assessing significance of case-control association studies with multi-allelic markers. Can be used with HTcondor See text documentation and example submit file for use with 10 input files in.0 to in.9 See also the HTcondor guide . clumpp A program that deals with label switching and multimodality problems in population-genetic cluster analyses. Command clumpp See PDF manual clustal Multiple sequence alignment; clustalw2 is the current version. clustalx2 is an X-Windows version. clustalo is special new fast version for proteins only. See On-line Clustalw Manual , Clustalx manual [both slightly old: see also help inside the programs] and clustal omega manual . For further information see the web site . There is also on-line help inside the programs. It is also available using HTcondor. See my local guide , which includes a clustalw example. CNS CNS (Crystallography and NMR System) is a program for macromolecular structure determination CNS has been implemented using HTcondor. See the CNS web site cnvnator A program for CNV discovery and genotyping from depth of read mapping See website consed A viewer for files made by phrap and an editor for these assemblies. Requires X-windows . See text documentation . This software requires files to be edited before use so get in touch if you need to use it. Consel Package for assessing the confidence of phylogenetic tree selection. See web site consensus Program to find the consensus in unaligned sequences See online manual . See also wconsensus. cufflinks Cufflinks assembles transcripts, estimates their abundances, and tests for differential expression and regulation in RNA-Seq samples. It accepts aligned RNA-Seq reads and assembles the alignments into a parsimonious set of transcripts. Cufflinks then estimates the relative abundances of these transcripts based on how many reads support each one. See web site cutadapt A tool to remove adapter sequences from high-throughput sequencing data. This is usually necessary when the read length of the sequencing machine is longer than the molecule that is sequenced, for example when sequencing microRNAs. See web site densitree Program for qualitative analysis of sets of trees. See PDF Manual dotter A graphical dotplot program for detailed comparison of two sequences; Requires X-Windows See web site edena Edena (Exact DE Novo Assembler) is an assembler dedicated to process the millions of very short reads produced by the Illumina Genome Analyzer. Previous version now edena2 See PDF manual (version 3) , version 2 manual and web site eigensoft Programs related to ancestrymap (see above) from the Reich and Alkes Price Labs for studying human history, evolution and disease gene mapping See web site EMBOSS The European Molecular Biology Open Software Suite version 6.6.0 is available. You may use the web interface EMBOSS Explorer if you first ask for Raven access. exonerate A generic tool for pairwise sequence comparison See web site far Flexible Adapter Remover (FAR) software using Needleman Wunsch alignment. Works on many formats of sequencing reads. Command far Sourceforge web site has vanished. FASTA (including SSEARCH etc) Sequence database searching package. Slower than blast. May be most useful for some protein searches. You must specify which program you need (fasta, fastx, tfastx etc). See the web site . SSEARCH is a Smith-Waterman search within the package. The raw binaries in the current version are fasta36 etc. fastphase Software for haplotype reconstruction, and estimating missing genotypes from population data See PDF manual and web site . See also phase below. fastqc A quality control tool for high throughput sequence data See web site FastTree Infers approximately-maximum-likelihood phylogenetic trees from alignments of nucleotide or protein sequences; command FastTreeMP See web site FASTX-Toolkit A collection of tools for short reads fasta/fastq file preprocessing. See web site frappe A program for estimating individual ancestry and admixture proportions using high-density SNP data See PDF manual and website Fugue Package for recognizing distant homologues of proteins by sequence-structure comparison. Initialised with command fugue See web site for more information and tutorial. If that server is down you can consult fugue tutorial , fugue output interpretation , fugue command line use locally. gatk The Genome Analysis Toolkit or GATK is a software package developed at the Broad Institute to analyse next-generation resequencing data. Command gatk See web site Gblocks Used to eliminate poorly aligned positions and divergent regions of an alignment of DNA or protein sequences before phylogenetic analysis. See web site Genehunter Program to do multipoint linkage analysis; command gh See postscript documentation or web site Glimmer Takes a sequence and a set of Markov models for genes and outputs a list of ORFS. See glimmer , build-icm and long-orfs text documentation gmap and gsnap A Genomic Mapping and Alignment Program for mRNA and EST Sequences, and Genomic Short-read Nucleotide Alignment Program. See web site gossamer New de novo short read assembler using less RAM. Command goss or gossple.sh for front-end script. See manual and manual for script gromacs A molecular dynamics simulation package See the web site . This has been implemented on CamGrid. hmmer Sequence analysis with profile Hidden Markov Models. Can search our BLAST format databases. For version 3 see the web site . For version 2 see man hmmer . An example of how to run many hmmpfam searches using HTcondor is given: the submit file and shell script are used with a file containing the tarred gzipped sequences. HTSeq Python package to process data from high-throughput sequencing assays that also includes two scripts not needing Python knowledge. See Web site. hyphy A scriptable package for evolutionary modelling. See web site . Local expert is Simon Frost. igv Integrative Genomics Viewer (IGV) and igvtools See web site ihs Integrated Haplotype Score test See readme file and web site im, ima and ima2 Programs for population genetic analysis See web site inGAP Integrated Next-gen Genome Analysis Platform run with /biosoft/src/inGAP_3_1_1/inGAP See web site instruct An alternative to structure (see below) See PDF manual . Available also as an HTcondor compiled binary. iprscan Interface to Interpro database (see databases page ). Can be used for one or more types of search at a time eg transmembrane protein, signal protein, Pfam, SMART. See website iqpnni/iqtree (Important Quartet Puzzling and NNI Operation) program to reconstruct a phylogenetic tree from DNA or amino acid sequence data. iqtree-omp replaces iqpnni. See the web site . Must be used with eg -omp=4 or it will use all cores. Jalview Multiple sequence alignment editor; can read MSF, CLUSTAL, FASTA, BLC,MSP and PIR formats. Requires X-Windows . See web site jellyfish Fast, parallel k-mer counting for DNA. Used with Trinity. See web site jmodeltest A phylogeny program for selecting the model of nucleotide substitution that best fits the data See web site . Supersedes modeltest. joy Program to annotate protein sequence alignments with 3D structural features See web site khmer A library and suite of command line tools for working with DNA sequence. It is primarily aimed at short-read sequencing data such as that produced by the Illumina platform. khmer takes a k-mer-centric approach to sequence analysis. See web site last For genome-scale sequence comparison. Copes with repeat-rich sequences (e.g. genomes); can find weak similarities, with many mismatches and gaps. See web site Linkage analysis A range of linkage analysis software started with the command linkage previously is now installed on demand See package details lucy Program for cleaning sequence data See web site mafft Multiple alignment program See web site and NAR paper Maker Genome annotation pipeline with command-line and web interfaces. This uses, or may use, other software including augustus, exonerate, snap We are locally using the command-line interface via wrapper commands run_maker or run_maker_mpi , See also the public web site . Mapmaker/sibs Software package which allows very rapid multipoint mapping of loci in nuclear pedigrees with two or more affected/phenotyped sibs. Command sibs See Postscript documentation maq Maq stands for Mapping and Assembly with Quality. It builds assembly by mapping short reads to reference sequences. See also BWA and Bowtie. See web site matlab Well-known package MATLAB for technical computing. See web site . There is a network licence. mega2 A data-handling program for facilitating genetic linkage and association analyses See web site MEGAN MEtaGenome ANalyzer See web site merlin Linkage analysis program using sparse trees to represent gene flow in pedigrees; one of the fastest pedigree analysis packages See Text documentation or web site with tutorial MetaVelvet Modified version of Velvet (see below) for metagenomics. See website MethylExtract Methylation maps and SNV calling from whole genome bisulfite sequencing data See web site mira Whole Genome Shotgun and EST sequence assembler See web site mitoprot Prediction of mitochondrial targeting sequences See web site MOCAT Package for analyzing metagenomics datasets See website . Set up as command mocat . modeller Protein structure modelling program See online manual modeltest A phylogeny program for selecting the model of nucleotide substitution that best fits the data See PDF guide . Replaced by jmodeltest (see above). Molphy Phylogeny package No documentation. See the options when you type: protml, protdst, nucml, nucst, njdist, totalml . See also Phylip and PAUP molscript Molecular graphics program See the on-line manual . MrBayes Program for the Bayesian estimation of phylogeny. Command to run a single processor job is mb but it is advantageous to use as many processors as there are chains in the MCMC (found with short tests) using MPI See PDF manual or PDF command reference manual . You can run parallel jobs with nohup mpirun -np 4 /biosoft/bin/mb mb.txt < /dev/null >& log & (for the case of 4 processors). example MrBayes batch file to use with this (ie as file called mb1.txt). You can restart a job using the checkpoint file with the current Mr Bayes mrcanavar Copy number caller that analyzes whole-genome NGS mapping read depth to discover large segmental duplications and deletions. Also mrfast and mrsfast-ultra. See website MSPCrunch A Blast enhancement filter, used with blixem and blx See blixem mugsy Multiple whole genome alignment tool See web site mummer A system for rapidly aligning entire genomes See man mummer. For further information see the web site . muscle Program to do multiple alignment (MUSCLE stands for multiple sequence comparison by log-expectation. See web site naccess Program to calculate atomic solvent accessible areas of proteins Users MUST cite: Hubbard,S.J.& Thornton, J.M. (1993), 'NACCESS', Computer Program, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University College London." in any publications. See text documentation (command naccess is already defined for you). NxtGenUtils Uilities to process next-generation sequencing data In /biosoft/src/nxtgen-utils-0.12.2 NGS QC Toolkit For the quality control (QC) of next generation sequencing (NGS) data generated using Illumina and Roche 454 platforms with detailed results in the form of tables and graphs, and filtering of high-quality sequence data. See web site nmica Pattern discovery system aimed at finding transcription factor binding sites and similar motifs. See the PDF manual . Novocraft Package for aligning short reads to reference genomes See PDF manual Octave GNU Octave is a high level language for numerical calculations and is mostly compatible with Matlab. This had been installed so it could be used on CamGrid but NB MatLab is now available under the University site licence and can be used on servers with a suitable licence. See web site Oligoarray Software that computes gene specific oligonucleotides for genome-scale oligonucleotide microarray construction See website . The software is in /biosoft/OligoArray2_1/ PAML PAML stands for Phylogenetic Analysis by Maximum Likelihood See web site . An example submit file to use this with HTcondor is here PASA (PASA2) Program to Assemble Spliced Alignments: a eukaryotic genome annotation tool that exploits spliced alignments of expressed transcript sequences to automatically model gene structures, and to maintain gene structure annotation consistent with the most recently available experimental sequence data. PASA also identifies and classifies all splicing variations supported by the transcript alignments. Combine genome and Trinity de novo RNA-Seq assemblies to generate a comprehensive transcript database. See web site . Note we now have PASA2. Pathway Tools Pathway Tools is a comprehensive symbolic systems biology software system available via two interfaces See Web site patser Program to score the words of a sequence against an alignment matrix . See text documentation . PAUP Software package for inference of evolutionary trees (command paup ) See Quick Start Guide (PDF) and Command Reference Manual (PDF) . pedcheck Program for detecting marker typing incompatibilities in pedigree data See web site phase A Bayesian statistical method for reconstructing haplotypes from population genotype data See PDF manual and web site . See also fastphase above phobius For prediction of transmembrane topology and signal peptides from the amino acid sequence of a protein. A method now used within iprscan v 5. See web site phrap An assembly program for shotgun DNA sequences. Comes with crossmatch and swat sequence comparison programs. See phrap and general text documents phred Interprets sequence traces and assesses their quality, outputting to fasta or other formatted files. Command phred See text documentation Phylip Phylogenetic analysis package with many programs On-line Phylip Manual It can also be used with HTcondor. See my local guide , which includes a Phylip example. phyml Software implementing a method for building phylogenies from DNA and protein sequences using maximum likelihood. Command phyml See web site . Phylobayes A Bayesian Monte Carlo Markov Chain (MCMC) sampler for phylogenetic reconstruction using protein alignments. Compared to other phylogenetic MCMC samplers (e.g. MrBayes), the main distinguishing feature of PhyloBayes is the underlying probabilistic model, CAT. CAT is a mixture model especially devised to account for site-specific features of protein evolution. It is particularly well suited for large multigene alignments, such as those used in phylogenomics. See manual . Here is an example submit script for running pb on CamGrid. You can make others for running the other programs. pilon Uses read alignment analysis to diagnose, report, and automatically improve de novo genome assemblies. See web site plink A whole genome association analysis toolset See web site Picard tools Java-based tools for manipulating SAM files. See web site . The jar files are in [/whale-data]/biosoft/src/picard-1.114 (or later version we have). PolyPhred Package for identifiying SNPS. Used with phred, phrap and consed; commands polyphred and sudophred. See polyphred manual preseq The preseq package is aimed at predicting and estimating the complexity of a genomic sequencing library, equivalent to predicting and estimating the number of redundant reads from a given sequencing depth and how many will be expected from additional sequencing using an initial sequencing experiment. See web site. primer3_core Primer design program See text documentation or man primer prinseq Tool to filter, reformat, or trim your genomic and metagenomic sequence data. It generates summary statistics of your sequences in graphical and tabular format See web site probcons Program for multiple alignment of protein sequences See PDF manual ProtTest Program to select the best-fit model of protein evolution (sibling program to jmodeltest for DNA). Command runProtTest for commandline or runXProtTest for XWindows. See Version 2.4 PDF manual . Prottest 3.3 available: ask if required. psipred Protein secondary structure prediction using command runpsipred See web site pyfasta Python package including script (cf HTSeq above) See web site pymol Molecular visualization program See web site qsra Quality Value Guided Short Read Assembler See web site quicktree Program for the rapid reconstruction of phylogenies by the Neighbor-Joining method See web site R The R language and a large number of statistical genetics packages that run in R are available. See web site . Please ask if you need more packages installed. rasmol Molecular viewing program also available for a range of other platforms. See the online-manual . Raster3D Molecular graphics package See PDF and HTML manuals RAxML (Randomized accelerated Maximum Likelihood) program for sequential and parallel Maximum Likelihood based inference of large phylogenetic trees See web site . raxmlHPC-PTHREADS-AVX (version 8) is current latest installed and should be the fastest on the chips we have. Note that RaxML-Light has been replaced by ExaML. RepeatMasker A program that screens DNA sequences for interspersed repeats and low complexity DNA sequences. Installed in /biosoft/RepeatMasker. This version uses rmblast. See web site RepeatScout Software to identify repeat family sequences from genomes. Can use output as input to RepeatMasker. See text manual ribopicker A tool that can be used to automatically identify and efficiently remove rRNA-like sequences from metatranscriptomic and metagenomic datasets. See web site. ROADTRIPS Program that performs single-SNP, case-control association testing in samples with partially or completely unknown population and pedigree structure; command roadtrips See PDF manual Roche 454 software A package for analyzing various types of data from Roche 454 sequencers eg as obtained from the Department of Biochemistry DNA Sequencing Facility. Includes the newbler assembler. Available to those with suitable data. Please email me . RSEM A software package for estimating gene and isoform expression levels from RNA-Seq data. See web site Saguaro Package to detect signatures of selection within populations, strains, or species. It takes SNPs or nucleotides as input, and creates statistical local phylogenies for each region in the genome See web site SAM tools SAM (Sequence Alignment/Map) format is a generic format for storing large nucleotide sequence alignments. SAM Tools provide various utilities for manipulating alignments in the SAM format, including sorting, merging, indexing and generating alignments in a per-position format. See project web site. Scilab A package similar to MATLAB for numerical computation See web site and MATLAB above. seaview Muliple alignment editor; requires X-Windows See seaview web site seq_crumbs Tools anaologous to fastx toolkits and biopieces See website . sff2fastq Converts bewteen Roche 454 and fastq formats See web site for details. sff_extract Now part of seq_crumbs See seq_crumbs. SGA A de novo genome assembler based on the concept of string graphs. The major goal of SGA is to be very memory efficient, which is achieved by using a compressed representation of DNA sequence reads. See web site sickle A windowed adaptive trimming tool for FASTQ files using quality See website signalp Predicts the presence and location of signal peptide cleavage sites in amino acids from different organisms. See the public web site simwalk2 A statistical genetics application for haplotype, parametric or non-parameric linkage, identity by descent and mustyping analyses See web site . smoldyn Program to perform cell-scale simulation, implemented on CamGrid. See web site . Model submit files are available. snap Gene prediction tool See web site . (Note version reported by program is 2006 but it is newer). SOAPdenovo Short read assembler that can build a de novo draft assembly for human-sized genomes. It is specially designed to assemble Illumina GA short reads. -Trans version for transcriptome. See web site . sortmerna Software designed to rapidly filter ribosomal RNA fragments from metatranscriptomic data produced by next-generation sequencers. It is capable of handling large RNA databases