Kohima City Map Home » Maps » Nagaland » Kohima City Map   Nagaland नागालैंड का नक्शा Nagaland Map Kohima City Map Mokokchung City Map Districts of Nagaland Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Society and Culture Media Kohima Location Nagaland Location Physical Map Minerals Map Nagaland Pincode Nagaland STD Code Agriculture Map Capital Lat Long Geography Economy Assemblypolls Places to visit in Nagaland Wildlife Sanctuaries Nagaland Museums Japfu Peak Hotels in Nagaland Dimapur Hotels Kohima Hotels Government & Politics History Universities In Nagaland       Kohima City Map City Map of Kohima Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Kohima city map showing major roads, railways, hotels and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Nagaland -Kohima city Geographical Location Kohima is the capital city of the north eastern state of Nagaland, India. Kohima is situated in the southern part of the state and at an altitude of 1500 meters above sea level. Kohima is situated around 74 km from Dimapur, a very popular and important town in Nagaland and 145 km from Imphal and 339 Km from Guwahati. It is spread over an area of 20 square kilometers. The district is located between the geographical coordinates of 25.40 degree north latitude and 94.08 degree east longitude. Phek district comes out of Kohima. Kohima is surrounded by the state of Assam to the west, and Zunheboto to the east. Wokha lies to the North of Kohima and Manipur state to the south. About Kohima The district is well developed and comprises of various institutions, hospitals, schools, hotels and restaurants. Kohima boosts of several tourists attraction, which is why the place is seen with many tourists that visit the place to enjoy the scenic beauty and the unique things that Kohima has to offer. While traveling inside the city the map comes into use and is a great convenience for the visitors. Tourists can try various hotels like the Aradura Inn, which is to the south of the city and close to National Highway No 39. A little further and you can reach Hotel Japhu as it is well in the city and provides access to many interesting places. The other hotels are the Heritage, Old MLA Hostel and the Topaz Plaza. Tourists can with the help of the map travel to the World War II cemetery, which is very popular and most of the people love to visit the place. If you want to have a peep in the life of the people of the city, then you should check out the map and visit all the local places like the Cultural Hall, Bapist Church, state museum and local restaurants as well. The city has plenty of colleges and schools that boosts of quality education for the children of Kohima. Some of the prominent schools are the Alder College, Don Bosco Higher secondary school. Chirst King School, Bapist High School, Model Higher Secondary School, Little Flower Higher Secondary School and many more. There are plenty of churches to visit, which are very beautiful and visitors would love to take a look inside. The Cathedral church along with statue of Mother Mary is a very interesting place to visit. Transport in Kohima Kohima has a vast network of internal roads that provide access to various parts of the city. With the help of the map it is easy to locate places and reach the destination. National Highway 39 runs from Kohima to Dimapur, which are the nearest railway station and also the air head for Kohima. Dimapur connects to all the major cities in India like Kolkata, Guwahati and Delhi. Various modes of transport can take you to any part of the city or outside. However, Kohima does not have a railway station or an airport. So to avail service of the two, one has to travel to Dimapur, which serves as the juncture of these two modes of transport. There are lots of trains from Dimapur that connects Kohima ot the rest of the country. Places to visit One can visit the symbolic memorial of the World War II, the Zoological Park, Catholic Cathedral, Bara Basti, the State Museum, the Market, which is famous for the grocery here. Apart from these places, tourists can have fun trekking in the most picturesque Kohima and enjoy the unique beauty that Kohima has been blessed with. Last Updated on : 24/09/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule