Stevia Cultivation Consultancy under buy back project AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Stevia - Prabh Virk Stevia Cultivation Consultancy under buy back project Results 1 to 3 of 3 Thread: Stevia Cultivation Consultancy under buy back project LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… January 23rd, 2015 #1 aloeveraskpvt Join Date Jun 2011 Posts 1,231 Stevia Cultivation Consultancy under buy back project Stevia Cultivation Consultancy Stevia is one of the most profitable crops for coming future. As the crop is only source of natural sugar free / calorie free sweetener. People are being less hard worker that why they need calorie free substitute of sugar. Artificial sweeteners are problematic for long term consumption. In the countries like Japan and Korea stevia sweetener contribute 50% market share. Stevia crop is propagated by seedlings. We can provide you stevia seedling (plants) .You will require 30,000 seedlings per acre. We provide complete consultancy from cultivation technology, planting material supply, nutrient management (manure), water management (drip irrigation installation), and the most important one the Buy back. We can also provide buyback facility before starting the cultivation to the growers so that they can be ensuring at marketing side. In the consultancy we will assist you in Understanding the basics of Stevia crop Farm visit Soil and water sampling of your farm Land Development Manure and other farm input supply Irrigation system installation Planting material supply Pest management Drying of the leaves, Buyback facility Export market development Processing of the leaves. We are leading Agro Technology and Agribusiness consultancy provider. We strongly believe in business ethics. We have highly professional team of subject matter specialist of agriculture and allied disciplines. We believe in truly consultancy with independent and profitable solutions. For us agriculture is the base of development, height of development, strength of development, depth of development. For a long term sustainable social & economical development agriculture must be the axel. Agriculture development must environment friendly, sustainable, efficient use of available resources and non hazardous. We provide Agro technology and Agribusiness consultancy through better utilization of your resources, value of your money, independent consultancy, cost effective, profitable solutions and complete satisfaction without any deviation. from S.K.PVT.LTD. ISO 9001-2008 CERTIFIED COMPANY UDAIPUR RAJASTHAN CON.9602635727 WEBSITE-www.amritsanjeevani.com email-amritstevia@gmail.com Reply With Quote March 13th, 2015 #2 ramapurfarms Join Date Dec 2014 Posts 8 Hi, We are growing Stevia in 2 acres on experiment basis. Already we have noticed good crop growth in one month and hope to get good yield. Please let us know what is the present rate of stevia per kg and how is the marketing done. rgds, vinayak Reply With Quote March 24th, 2015 #3 skoka123 Join Date Apr 2014 Posts 4 Originally Posted by ramapurfarms Hi, We are growing Stevia in 2 acres on experiment basis. Already we have noticed good crop growth in one month and hope to get good yield. Please let us know what is the present rate of stevia per kg and how is the marketing done. rgds, vinayak The problem with these consultants is that they only advertise their services but do not bother to reply to the questions in the thread. One wonders how they really support in buy-back. Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 10:47 AM .