Travel to Himachal Pradesh - Tourism, Tourist Map Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Travel to Himachal Pradesh Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Road map City Map District Map Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Subhash Baoli Shivkul Dal Lake Solang Valley Christ Church The Ridge Sankat Mochan Baba Balak Nath Temple Cities to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Dalhousie Travel Dharamshala Travel Kullu Travel Manali Travel Shimla Travel Mandi Travel Hamirpur Travel Lahaul Travel Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Kangra Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una About Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate Places to Visit in Kullu Manali Home » Maps » Himachal Pradesh Map » Travel to Himachal Pradesh Travel to Himachal Pradesh Tourist Map of Himachal Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the important tourist locations in Himachal Pradesh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Chandigarh Manali Route Map Delhi Manali Route Map Himachal Pradesh Forest Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Himachal Pradesh         Jaipur Manali Route Map Lucknow Manali Route Map Manali Location Map Manali Tourist Map Himachal Pradesh Tourism Himachal Pradesh travel is a must for an avid traveler, especially for someone who loves mountains. The world's largest and highest mountain range; Himalayas traverse through the state of Himachal Pradesh. This state is one of the top tourist destinations of India with enchanting and picturesque hill stations. The winters are extremely chill but summers are warm in Himachal Pradesh, India. The best time to visit Himachal Pradesh is during spring, which extends from February to April. The enchanting hilly region Himachal Pradesh has a rich and varied history. The most astounding fact the historians have discovered is that about 2 millions years ago prehistoric men lived in the regions of Kangra and Sirsa valleys. References also abound in the Vedas, the Mahabharata and other ancient literatures and myths. Since then the regions has seen through many ups and downs of Indian history. Once Himachal Pradesh became a state in 1950, Shimla, once the summer capital of the British India, became its capital. Facts about Himachal Pradesh Location Northern part of India Tibet to the east, Jammu and Kashmir to the north and northwest Punjab to the southwest, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to the south Uttaranchal to the southeast Latitude 30 0 22' to 33 0 12' North Longitude 75 0 45' to 79 0 04' East Area 55,673 sq. km Climate Summer - cool Winter - cold, sometimes freezing Max Temperature 30 0 C Min Temperature 2 0 C Average Annual Rainfall 147 cms. Capital Shimla Population 6,077,248 Languages Hindi, English, Pahari Religion Hinduism, Buddhism and Sikhism Best Time to Visit April to June Clothing Summer - Light Cottons Winter - Heavy Woolens How to Reach Himachal Pradesh The state of Himachal Pradesh is one of the preferred places of recreation and tourist interest in India. It lies calmly on the foothills of the Himalayas. Increase in the tourist activity has led to the growth of communication network in the state. The state is easily accessible from any part of the country and how to reach Himachal Pradesh is not a problem. By Air The state of Himachal Pradesh has three airports located at Bhuntar near Kullu and Manali, Gaggal Airport near Dharamshala and Jubbarhatti Airport near Shimla. By Train The state has railway station in all the major cities. The railway stations at Shimla, Jammu, Palampur are particularly popular and receive trains from all parts of the country. Note: There are no direct trains to Himachal from Mumbai, Kolkata or other important cities of the country. One needs to change trains at New Delhi. By Road The state has a well developed network of roads and is connected to all the major cities of the North India. Chandigarh is located at a distance of only 117 kms whereas; Delhi is situated at a distance of 343 km. One needs to travel 151 km to reach the city of Ambala. Himachal Pradesh Road Transport (HRTC) runs several buses to and from the state to the neighbouring cities and states. National Highway 1-A, National Highway-20, National Highway 21, National Highway 21-A, National Highway-22, National Highway-70, National Highway -72, National Highway73-A and National Highway 88 connect to the state of Himachal Pradesh. Shopping in Himachal Pradesh Like any other destination, Himachal Pradesh also has its share of fame in local handicrafts and curios. For the avid shopper, there are lots of opportunities for shopping in Himachal Pradesh. In any destination of the state you can go shopping in Himachal Pradesh. The Tibetan traders have exquisite variety of handicrafts and handlooms. The soft wool products sold by them are all time hits with those who are interested in shopping in Himachal Pradesh. While shopping in Himachal Pradesh you can check out the following items: Kullu shawls, Himachal caps Tibetan Carpets Woolen pullovers, jackets, cardigans, gloves Apples, pickles, jams and juices Buddhist paintings on cloth Metalware Silver and turquoise jewellery Mailing postcards with Buddhist and Hindu motifs There are several numbers of Government Emporia and private shops all over the state. In Shimla, Manali, Dalhousie and Dharamsala, they mostly located on the mall. Tibetan bazaars are also good place for shopping in Himachal Pradesh. Street-side stalls spring up in the evening offering variety and good bargain. While shopping in Himachal Pradesh you must be aware of frauds trying dispose of fake items as original ones at a higher price. Last Updated on : 16/09/2013 Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Dalhousie Hotels Dharamshala Hotels Hamirpur Hotels Kangra Hotels Kasauli Hotels Kullu Manali Hotels Parwanoo Hotels Pragpur Hotels Sirmour Hotels Solan Hotels Taragarh Hotels Una Hotels Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Dalhausi Rohtang Pass Chamba Places to visit in Dharamsala Travel to Dalhousie Subhash Baoli Shivkul Dal Lake Places to visit in Kullu Manali Travel to Hamirpur Naggar Travel to Dharamshala Travel to Shimla Solang Valley Christ Church The Ridge Places to visit in Shimla Travel to Chail Travel to Kangra Travel to Kullu Travel to Manali Sankat Mochan Baba Balak Nath Temple Flights to Himachal Pradesh Flights to Dharamsala Flights to Dalhousie Flights to Shimla Flights to Manali About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule