Shared Schemes | Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home Shared Schemes Shared Schemes National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) under OFWM The Government of India have formulated a new scheme called National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) from 2014-15 by subsuming four existing Government of India Schemes viz., (i) National Mission on Micro Irrigation (NMMI), (ii) National Project on Organic Farming (NPOF), (iii) National Project on Management of Soil Health & Fertility (NPMSH&F) and (iv) Rainfed Area Development Programme (RAD) relating to sustainable Agriculture with a special emphasis on Soil and Water Conservation, Water use Efficiency through On Farm Water Management (OFWM) i.e. Micro Irrigation, Soil Health Management and Rainfed Area Development. Under National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA), the Government of Tamil Nadu have also constituted a State Level Committee (SLC), State Standing Technical Committee (SSTC), District Mission Committee (DMC) and Consortium under Climate Change and Sustainable Agriculture (CCSA) vide G.O. Ms. No.60 Agri (AP5) dept. dated: 19.05.2014. Department of Horticulture & plantation crops -----for crops like brinjal, Bhendi, tomato chilies, mango, banana etc. Department of Agriculture ----- for Agricultural Crops like maize ,cotton, pulses and Sugarcane area under Private sugar mills. Department of Agricultural Engineering--- for all crops like mango, coconut, guava, banana and sugarcane. Department of Sugars --- for sugarcane area under Co-op sugar mills Nodal Agency The Government also designated the Tamil Nadu Watershed evelopment Agency (TAWDEVA) as State Nodal Agency for effective Co-ordination with various Departments for successful implementation of National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture programme. Mission Objectives To increase the area under Micro Irrigation through improved technologies. To enhance the water use efficiency in the country. To increase the productivity of crops and farmers' income. To establish convergence and synergy among on- going Government programmes. To promote, develop and disseminate micro irrigation technology for agriculture/ horticulture development with modern scientific knowledge. To create employment opportunities for skilled and unskilled person especially unemployed youth. Strategy Providing the most appropriate irrigation system with burden to the farmers at the least cost. Supply of good quality system. Capacity building of farmers. Maintaining the strong co ordination mechanism between state and district level for dovetailing the schemes. Pattern of Assistance A farmer can avail the benefit for a maximum of 5 ha per beneficiary under this scheme. From November 2011 onwards the Government of TamilNadu has enhanced the State share of subsidy from 35% to 50%. The revised guidelines of the National Mission on Micro Irrigation implemented in the state from Feb 2011 provide Central Government assistance of 50% for small and marginal farmers and 40% in case of Other farmers. Source of Assistance Small & Marginal farmers Other Farmers Government of India 50% 40% Government of Tamil Nadu 50% 35% Total Subsidy 100% 75% Formers Contribution   25% MI firms registration National Horticulture Mission (NHM) OBJECTIVE: For holistic development of Horticulture Increase the revenue of the farmers through cultivation of horticulture crops. SCHEME COMPONENTS: Production of Planting Materials Establishment of new Garden (Ha) Maintenance Rejuvenation/replacement of senile plantation including canopy Management Protected Cultivation Promotion of INM/IPM Projects Organic Farming Pollination support thorough bee keeping Horticulture Mechanization Demonstration (FLD- Public Sector). HRD including Horticulture institute Post Harvest Management Market Infrastructure Mission Management Hi- density planting Project and National Seminar International Expo SELECTION OF BENEFICIARIES: 16% - SC Farmers 8% - ST Farmers 30% - Women Farmers SUBSIDY PATTERN: 25-55% Subsidy IMPLEMENTATION: The Scheme is implemented in 22 Districts 2011-12 the scheme was implemented in 42700 ha. Area with a financial outlay of Rs. 101.89 Crores. 2012-13 the scheme is going to be implemented in 6015 ha. Area with an financial outlay of Rs. 80 Crores. Visitor Counter: 842516 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015