Indian Silk » Central Silk Board Loading... Screen Reader Access Who's who | Contact Us | Intranet Login Central Silk Board Ministry of Textiles - Govt of India Home About Us Vision & Mission Mandate Organization chart Composition of the Board Act & Rules Citizen's charter FAQ Silk-Sericulture Silk Sericulture Silks of India Services R & D Training Seed Production Consultancy Schemes Central Sector Centrally Sponsored MKSP Projects for Tasar MGNREGA with CDP NER Textile Promotion Statistics Silk Flash Silk Bulletin Silk Exports & Imports Publications Indian Silk Books Videos Annual Report Downloads RFD Note on sericulture Training Calendar Evaluation Reports Regd. Stake holders Silk Exporters Minutes of Meetings Gallery Publications Indian Silk Contents Books Videos Annual Report   Indian Silk Your Window to the World of Queen of Textiles Indian Silk is the only industrial monthly journal of Central Silk Board, India  making its debut in May 1962! Devoted to the cause of sericulture and silk in the country, it has largely contributed to the overall development of industry and millions of people involved. In its long voyage of 48 years of publication, it has created volumes of information in its 580 plus issues. Covering the entire gamut of sericulture and silk industry, it focuses on varied activities - right from soil to silk, research and development, extension, new technologies, training, success stories, socio-economic studies, events, trade news, review of silk exports, imports and prices, national and international trade fairs, and more. Indian Silk enjoys a wide readership encompassing researchers, extension personnel, academicians, students, administrators, policy makers, business houses and so on, both at home and abroad. It is being abstracted world wide by  major services like EMBASSE, Elsevier Biobase, Elsevier GeoAbstracts, Ulrich, Seridoc,  to name a few.   Rightly, it’s called the true Companion of Silkmen. Publisher & Editor-in-Chief Member Secretary, Central Silk Board Editor Asst. Director (Publicity)     For more details contact: Editor, Indian Silk, Central Silk Board, CSB Complex, BTM Layout, Madivala, BANGALORE - 560 068. +91 80 26689355 +91 80 26282616 +91 80 26681511 indiansilk.csb AT nic.in     Sitemap Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2015 Central Silk Board. All Rights Reserved.   This is the official Website of Central Silk Board, a statutory body of Government of India under the Ministry of Textiles Last updated: 21/04/2014