Webcast Services of ERNET India, DIT, Govt. of India The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is an autonomous organisation under the Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India Project Established and Operated by ERNET India, an autonomous society of Department of Information Technology, Govt. of India                                                         Press Release           Home                                    Shri Sharad Pawar inaugurates KVK e-Linkage Network   From Leh to Port Blair Krishi Vigyan Kendra e-linked    New Delhi 21 April 2010 Thanks to state-of-the-art e-linkage facility, 192 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) and all the 8 Zonal Project Directorates across the country have now become the members of the digitally linked with latest technology generating institutions under National Agricultural Research System of the country. Union Minister for Agriculture, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Shri Sharad Pawar inaugurated e-Linkage Network Operation Centre at Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) headquarters, here today. This state-of-the-art e-linkage facility provided to 192 Krishi Vigyan Kendra and all the 8 Zonal Project Directorates, is a part of the process of strengthening the network of 571 remotely located KVKs in the country. This facility will also be extended to another 91 KVKs during the year. The e-linkage facility is expected to foster a landmark enabling environment to KVKs for developing close and fruitful a partnerships and collaboration between subject matter specialists of KVKs and also research scientists, extensionists and farmers for sharing and upscaling appropriate technologies, best practices and innovative ideas or experiences among stakeholders. Minister of State for Agriculture Prof. K. V. Thomas graced the occasion. He also inaugurated the new wagonwheelwindows portal. The new portal will provide agricultural information success stories, etc for benefits of its stakeholders. Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) and Director General, ICAR and Dr. K. D. Kokate, Deputy Director General (Agriculture Extension) briefed operation and activities of the facility to the Agriculture Minister. Shri Pawar also inaugurated renovated office and terrace of Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board in the presence of Dr. C. D. Mayee, Chairman, ASRB. The e-linkage facility is expected to foster an enabling environment to KVKs for developing partnerships and collaborations between scientists and farmers for sharing appropriate technologies, best practices and innovative ideas among all stakeholders. The facility will provide internet access to global e-content on agriculture and development of KVKs web pages with user-friendly information such as FAQs, weather forecasting, calendar of activities etc. A two ways audio and one way video multicasting and broadcasting will further facilitate and strengthen communication bond between stakeholders. It will also provide computer generated agro-advisory alerts to mobile phone holder farmers and other stakeholders in the district. The e-linkage project has been implemented on turn-key basis through a single source technical consultancy awarded to ERNET India, an organization under Department of Information Technology, Government of India.  