Beti Bachao Beti Padhao — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Social Welfare / Women and Child Development / Girl child welfare / Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Share Info Beti Bachao Beti Padhao This topic contains information related to Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme. Contents This Video Explains About Value and Importance of Girl child under the scheme BBBP Background The trend of decline in the Child Sex Ratio (CSR), defined as number of girls per 1000 of boys between 0-6 years of age, has been unabated since 1961. The decline from 945 in 1991 to 927 in 2001 and further to 918 in 2011 is alarming. The decline in the CSR is a major indicator of women dis-empowerment. CSR reflects both, pre-birth discrimination manifested through gender biased sex selection, and post birth discrimination against girls. Social construct discriminating against girls on the one hand, easy availability, affordability and subsequent misuse of diagnostic tools on the other hand, have been critical in increasing Sex Selective Elimination of girls leading to low Child Sex Ratio. Since coordinated and convergent efforts are needed to ensure survival, protection and empowerment of the girl child, Government has announced Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) initiative. The Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao (BBBP) Scheme has been introduced in October, 2014 to address the issue declining Child Sex Ratio (CSR). This is being implemented through a national campaign and focussed multi sectoral action in 100 selected districts low in CSR, covering all States and UTs. This is a joint initiative of Ministry of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Ministry of Human Resource Development. Overall Goal Celebrate the Girl Child & Enable her Education Districts Identified The 100 districts have been identified on the basis of low Child Sex Ratio as per Census 2011 covering all States/UTs as a pilot with at least one district in each state. The three criteria for selection of districts namely are:- Districts below the national average (87 districts/23 states); Districts above national average but shown declining trend (8 districts/8 states) Districts above national average and shown increasing trend (5 districts/5 states- selected so that these CSR levels can be maintained and other districts can emulate and learn from their experiences). Objectives Prevent gender biased sex selective elimination Ensure survival & protection of the girl child Ensure education of the girl child Strategies Implement a sustained Social Mobilization and Communication Campaign to create equal value for the girl child & promote her education. Place the issue of decline in CSR/SRB in public discourse, improvement of which would be a indicator for good governance. Focus on Gender Critical Districts and Cities low on CSR for intensive & integrated action. Mobilize & Train Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban local bodies/ Grassroot workers as catalysts for social change, in partnership with local community/women’s/youth groups. Ensure service delivery structures/schemes & programmes are sufficiently responsive to issues of gender and children’s rights. Enable Inter-sectoral and inter-institutional convergence at District/Block/Grassroot levels. Components Mass Communication Campaign on Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao The programme will be initiated with the launch of “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao”, a nation-wide campaign to increase awareness on celebrating the Girl Child & enabling her education. The campaign will be aimed at ensuring girls are born, nurtured and educated without discrimination to become empowered citizens of this country with equal rights. The Campaign will interlink National, State and District level interventions with community level action in 100 districts, bringing together different stakeholders for accelerated impact. Multi-Sectoral interventions in 100 Gender Critical Districts covering all States/UTs low on CSR Multi-Sectoral actions have been drawn in consultation with MoHFW & MoHRD . Measurable outcomes and indicators will bring together concerned sectors, states and districts for urgent concerted Multi-Sectoral action to improve the CSR. The States/UTs will adapt a flexible Framework for Multi-Sectoral Action through the State Task Forces for developing, implementing and monitoring State/ District Plans of Action to achieve the State/District specific monitorable targets. Project Implementation The Ministry of Women and Child Development would be responsible for budgetary control and administration of the scheme from the Centre. At the State level, the Secretary, Department of Women and Child Development will be responsible for overall direction and implementation of the scheme.  The Structure of the proposed Scheme may be seen as follows: At the National level A National Task Force for Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao headed by Secretary, WCD with representation from concerned ministries namely Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Ministry of Human Resource Development, National Legal Services Authority, Department of Disability Affairs and Ministry of Information & Broadcasting; Gender Experts and Civil Society representatives. The Task Force will provide guidance and support; finalize training content; review state plans and monitor effective implementation. At the State level The States shall form a State Task Force (STF) with representation of concerned Departments (Health & Family Welfare; Education; Panchayati Raj/ Rural Development) including State Level Services Authority and Department of Disability Affairs for Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao to coordinate the implementation of the Scheme. As the issue requires convergence & coordination between Departments, the Task Force would be headed by the Chief Secretary. In UTs the Task Force would be headed by Administrator, UT Administration. Some States/UTs have their own mechanism at the State/UT level for Women’s Empowerment, Gender and Child related issues which may be considered and/or strengthened as State/UT Task Force. Principal Secretary, WCD/Social Welfare will be the convener of this body. Department of Women & Child Development will have the responsibility of coordinating all the activities related to implementation of the Plan in the State/UTs through the Directorate of ICDS. At the District level A District Task Force (DTF) led by the District Collector/Deputy Commissioner with representation of concerned departments (Health & Family Welfare; Appropriate Authority (PC&PNDT); Education; Panchayati Raj/ Rural Development, Police) including District legal Services Authority (DLSA) will be responsible for effective implementation, monitoring & supervision of the District Action Plan. Technical support and guidance for the implementation of Action Plan in the district would be provided by District Programme Officer (DPO) in the District ICDS Office for formulation of District Action Plan using the Block level Action Plans. A Gender expert/CSO member may also be included in the task force. At the Block level A Block level Committee would be set up under the Chairpersonship of the Sub Divisional Magistrate/Sub Divisional Officer/Block Development Officer (as may be decided by the concerned State Governments) to provide support in effective implementation, monitoring & supervision of the Block Action Plan. At the Gram Panchayat/Ward level The respective Panchayat Samiti/Ward Samiti (as may be decided by concerned State Governments) having jurisdiction over the concerned Gram Panchayat/Ward would be responsible for the overall coordination & supervision for effectively carrying out activities under the Plan. At Village level Village Health Sanitation and Nutrition Committees, (recognized as sub committees of panchayats) will guide and support village level implementation and monitoring of the plan. Frontline workers (AWWs, ASHAs & ANMs) will catalyze action on ground by creating awareness on the issue of CSR, collecting data, dissemination of information about schemes/programmes related to girl child & their families etc. In identified cities/ urban areas The plan shall be implemented under the overall guidance & leadership of Municipal Corporations. Social Media A YouTube channel on BBBP has been launched for all to access relevant videos on the issue of declining child sex ratio. Videos are being uploaded continuously and shared through this platform for generating awareness and for easy access and dissemination. To watch videos please click on Image Further, to engage with the nation, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Group has been launched on MyGov platform in order to seek active participation, engagement and whole hearted support in making this initiative of the Government a grand success. We urge you to subscribe to this group and enrich it with your valuable suggestions, feedback and comments. To subscribe the BBBP Group on MyGov portal is please click on Image. Budget A budgetary allocation of  100 Cr. has been made under the budget announcement for Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign and  100 Cr. will be mobilized from Plan Outlay of the Planned scheme ‘Care and Protection of Girl Child  - A Multi Sectoral Action Plan’  for the 12th Plan. Additional resources can be mobilized through Corporate Social Responsibility at National & State levels. The estimated cost of the Scheme is  200 cr. Out of  200 cr., 115 cr. is proposed to be released during the current year i.e. 2014-15 (for six month). 45 Cr. and  40 cr. will be released during 2015-16 and 2016-17 respectively. Fund Flow The MWCD will be responsible for budgetary control and administration of the scheme at the Central level. The MWCD will transfer the funds to the consolidated funds of the State Government after approval of Action Plan of the respective Government. Monitoring Mechanisms A Monitoring System will be put in place right from National, State, District, Block and Village levels to track progress on monitorable targets, outcomes and process indicators. At the national level, a National Task Force headed by Secretary MWCD will monitor quarterly progress on a regular basis.  At state level, a State Task Force headed by the Chief Secretary will monitor progress. At the district level, the District Collectors (DC) will lead and coordinate action of all Departments through District-level officials. They shall also undertake monthly review of the progress on the activities listed in the Department Plans of action at the district level. DC will have the overall responsibility for validating the measurable changes in identified indicator related to CSR. Evaluation The Scheme would be evaluated at the end of the 12th Five Year Plan to assess its impact and take corrective measures. Mapping of ultra-sonography machines, baseline survey of concurrent assessment of % age of births of male & female child, reporting of complaints under PC & PNDT act will also help in assessing the impact or outcome. Related resources Brochure English Handout Posters Source: Ministry of Women & Child Development Page Rating (28 votes) 4.64285714286 Suruchi Aggarwal Dec 23, 2014 03:06 PM Great initiative! Good to have access to all the scheme related information on one page. Abidur Rahman Barbhuiya Jan 06, 2015 10:44 PM Our VLE friends may come forward to circulate in grass root level. Good initiative. Hrushikesh Kumbhar Jan 30, 2015 11:28 AM The decline in the CSR is a major indicator of women dis-empowerment. BBBP scheme is great initiative!!! Mrs. Reshma Deshmukh (From Solapur,Maharashtra) Mar 19, 2015 03:43 PM I know well our Govt is launches many schemes for child education, but even today many parents not able to give good education for our child because of financial condition. Hence I hope if Govt. give free education for girl child in any school, Every girl child will be make perfect and independent in new generation. It will happen when If we relay want to save baby girls Post Your Suggestion (If you have any comments / suggestions on the above content, please post them here) Name Your Message   Type the word given below Navigation Women and Child Development Women and Child Welfare Women Development Prerna Scheme Child Development Policies and Acts Schemes and Legal Awareness National Institutes Girl child welfare Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Sukanya Samriddhi Yojna National Scheme of Incentive to Girls for Secondary Education Girls’ Hostel Scheme in Educationally Backward Blocks Integrated child Development scheme Swachh Bharat Swachh Vidyalaya National tracking system for missing and vulnerable children Meera Didi Se Poocho Scheduled Caste Welfare Scheduled Tribes Welfare Backward Classes Welfare Unorganised Sector Welfare Differently- abled Welfare Community power Financial Inclusion Unorganised Sector Minority Welfare Senior citizens Welfare Rural Poverty Alleviation Urban Poverty Alleviation NGO-Voluntary Sector Disaster Management Fight against social evils Skill development Social Security Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme