Uzhavar Peruvizha | Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home Uzhavar Peruvizha Uzhavar Peruvizha INTRODUCTION Uzhavar Peruvizha, an integrated farmers festival conducted by the Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture, Marketing, Animal Husbandry, Agriculture Engineering,  TNAU,  Directorate of Seed  Certification, Sericulture  and Fisheries at a common platform is celebrated in all the revenue villages of all districts in Tamil Nadu. As like that of a Single Window Information System, the activities of all the sister departments of Agriculture are publicized to the farmers at their living place exhibiting various achievements of the Departments and schemes and benefits available with the Department to the farming community, thus projecting to the public as a grand knowledge sharing festival. Uzhavar Peruvizha also integrates the participation of elected representatives of Village panchayats, other elected members, NGO's etc with the Departments for the welfare of farming community. Uzhavar Peruvizha, an Intensive Village Level Campaign was held from 13th april 2012 to 17th May 2012 at 16,564 revenue villages of 385 blocks in 31 districts of the State except Chennai as per the announcement made by the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on 10.04.2012 in the assembly. Uzhavar Peruvizha paves way to attain food security and increased crop productivity by bringing the advanced technologies directly to the farmers by conducting awareness campaigns through mobile extension centres. The objectives and strategies of the programme are as follows: Objectives: 1. Bridging the knowledge gap among the farming community by adopting a holistic approach before commencement of the Kharif season. 2. Bouquet of information on various department activities to the farming community for better decision making. 3. Soil fertility improvement through soil sample analysis makes the farmers to cultivate the best suited crop through farmers Crop Management System (FCMS) 4. Input distribution by the Departments 5. To empower the farmers with better technologies available with institutions like Universities, Regional Research Stations, KVK’s Strategies: 1. Crop specific strategies and marketing (Production led to market led) 2. Adoption of Precision Farming and Micro –irrigation for efficient utilization of irrigation water 3. Shift in the cropping pattern towards high value crops and integrated farming system. 4. Augmenting timely supply of quality inputs to targeted farmers. 5. Adopting extension with renewed vigour 6. Capacity building on adoption of technologies 7. Familiarization with various IT enabled tools of extension. The Department officials involved in various activities in the campaign and exhibits newer technologies suitable to that particular village environment like Sericulture, area specific crop varieties, Animal Husbandry, Agro forestry, Aqua  culture etc as a Integrated Farming System approach. During the event, the extension officials described about the favorable technologies and options to attain higher productivity revenue village wise and also gives support and clarifies the doubts raised by the farmers.  Street plays, Dramas, folk songs and folk dance are the part of the campaign by which Uzhavar Peruvizha was celebrated as a group festival reaching farmers directly at their place. Field demonstrations, exhibitions, interactions with the scientists and other agencies during the campaign have also found a great success. Sumptuous meal was provided to the farmers who participated in the campaign. Farmer’s integrated hand book was issued to the farmers for their technical support. Hybrid vegetable seeds, quality planting material and other inputs were distributed to the farmers under various schemes of the Department like Integrated Horticulture Development Scheme, National Horticulture Mission, Irrigated Agriculture Modernization and Water Bodies Restoration and Management, National Agriculture Development Programme etc. The programme was a huge success and gave a newer dimension to Agriculture extension. S.No Category Achievement 1 Demonstration - Banana sucker management 3952 nos 2 Demonstration – High Density Planting 3064 nos 3 Demonstration – Micro Irrigation 6286 nos 4 Demonstration – Pro tray 3956 nos 5 Demonstration – Air layering 536 nos 6 Demonstration – Pruning techniques 1030 nos 7 Demonstration – Panama wilt management 523 nos 8 Demonstration – VAM treatment 550 nos 9 Input Distribution – Amla seedlings 30152 nos 10 Input Distribution – Bio fertilizers 7247 kg 11 Input Distribution – Bio fungicides 586 litres 12 Input Distribution – Bio Pesticides 1373 Kg 13 Input Distribution – cocoa seedlings 9974 nos 14 Input Distribution – curry leaf seedlings 984 nos 15 Input Distribution – Guava seedlings 1866 nos 16 Input Distribution – Hand operated sprayer 1818 nos 17 Input Distribution – Hyb vegetable seeds 200490.58 kg 18 Input Distribution – Mango seedlings 34970 nos 19 nput Distribution – Power operated sprayer 388 nos 20 Input Distribution – Pro trays 1709 nos 21 Input Distribution – shadenets 77 nos 22 Input Distribution – TC banana 217137 nos 23 Input Distribution – Water soluble fertilizers 55318 kg Visitor Counter: 842523 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015