Arunachal Pradesh Information Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Arunachal Pradesh Information   Information about Arunachal Pradesh Cities अरुणाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Map Tawang city map Itanagar city map Naharlagun city map Along Map Districts of Arunachal Pradesh Roads Rivers Tehsils Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Places to visit in Arunachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Sports in Arunachal Pradesh Ita Fort in Arunachal Pradesh Ganga Lake in Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Location Physical Map Arunachal Pradesh Forest Map Lat Long Geography Handicrafts Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels Government & Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Arunachal Pradesh History Arunachal Pradesh Mineral Map Society Economy Pin Code       Arunachal Pradesh Information The basic Arunachal Pradesh information pertains to the most important facts about the state of Arunachal Pradesh in India. Important information of Arunachal Pradesh includes its capital, districts, important cities, PIN codes and telephone codes. Some significant information on Arunachal Pradesh is given below. The most crucial socio-political information about Arunachal Pradesh relates to its capital city Itanagar. It is situated at a distance of 67 kms from the closest airport at Lilabari Assam. It was declared the capital of Arunachal Pradesh on 20th April, in the year 1974. Arunachal Pradesh is divided into 11 districts for the convenience of administration. The names of these districts are Dibang Valley, Changlang, West Kameng, East Siang, Tawang, East Kameng, Lower Subansiri, Tirap, Lohit, Upper Subansiri and West Siang. The districts of Arunachal Pradesh are further divided into cities. Itanagar is the capital city of the state. Akashiganga is a major pilgrim spot of Arunachal Pradesh. Bhismaknagar is often visited as a historical place. Malinithan houses some important temples of the site. Bhalukpong is often visited by the tourists during the March festival of Nyethidow. Bomdila is located at a height of more than 8500 feet. Since Arunachal Pradesh is the largest north-eastern sate of India, it covers a huge area. For the convenience of administration and communication, 31 PIN codes and 33 telephone codes are made available to the people of the state. Each STD code pertain to a different city. The PIN code and telephone code of the capital city of Itanagar are 791111 and 360 respectively. Last Updated on 26/06/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule