Jammu and Kashmir Map Home » Maps » Jammu and Kashmir Map   Jammu and Kashmir Jammu and Kashmir Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Rivers Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map India Pakistan Border Dispute जम्मू और कश्मीर का नक्शा Cities Srinagar Jammu Leh Pahalgam Gulmarg Udhampur                    more.. Travel to Jammu and Kashmir Places to visit in Jammu Amarnath Yatra Map Vaishno Devi Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hotels in Jammu and Kashmir Gulmarg Hotels Jammu Hotels Katra Hotels Leh Ladakh Hotels Pahalgam Hotels Patnitop Hotels Srinagar Hotels Gulmarg Hotels Assembly Polls J&K Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities In Jammu And Kashmir Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Jammu and Kashmir Map Map of Jammu and Kashmir Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map showing major roads, railways, rivers, national highways, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Jammu and Kashmir Location Map Jammu and Kashmir District Map Jammu and Kashmir City Map Jammu and Kashmir Tehsil Map         Jammu and Kashmir Road Network Map Jammu and Kashmir Physical Map Jammu and Kashmir Railway Network Map Jammu and Kashmir Travel Map Jammu and Kashmir, the northernmost state of the Indian union consists of three divisions -Jammu, Kashmir Valley and Ladakh. It has two capitals- Jammu, the winter capital and Srinagar, the summer capital. The state is almost mountainous with stretches of valleys and some mountain lakes. Jammu and Kashmir has been famous for its natural beauty since time immemorial and has been aptly described as "heaven on earth". The state has some of the best tourist spots in the entire country. Tourists from not only India but also the world over come to enjoy the scenic beauty of the state. The tourism industry has greatly benefited the state economy. Some of the major tourist attractions in the state are Gulmarg, Pahalgam, Leh, Patnitop, and Ladakh. The city of Jammu is popularly known as the City of temples. Srinagar is famous for its lakes and houseboats while Kashmir, known for its scenic natural beauty and rich cuisine is quite popular among tourists. The Dal Lake houseboats are one of the major attractions of Kashmir. Another major tourist attraction is the Mughal Gardens of Srinagar. While on a visit to Kashmir one should also not miss some of the various adventure prospects available, like trekking, rafting and skiing. Kashmir also has some of the best handicrafts in the entire country. Srinagar is known for its traditional crafts. Some of the major pilgrimage centers of the nation are located in the state, the two most important being the Amarnath Caves and the Vaishnodevi Shrine. Jammu and Kashmir has some of the best hotels to cater to its ever-growing tourism industry. There are hotels of various ranges. Even the Dal Lake houseboats are of all categories, like deluxe and economy. Cattle rearing and Farming are the major contributors to the economy of Jammu and Kashmir. Real Estate and Mortgage also constitute a considerable part of the service sector. Jammu And Kashmir State Information Capital Srinagar (summer), Jammu (winter) Date of formation 26. Oct. 1947 Governor Narinder Nath Vohra Chief Minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed Tourist attractions Dal Lake, Shalimar Bagh, Pahalgam Gulmarg, Vaishno Devi, Ladakh Festivals Tihar, Navroz, Eid, Urs, Shab-e-Miraj Major dance and music forms Kudd, Dogri/Pahari music, Hafixa, Bacha/Nagma dance Arts and crafts Kar-i-kalamdan or the art of making lacquered pen cases out of paper pulp is a famous handicraft industry; Kashida embroidery. Languages Urdu, Hindi, Punjabi, Dogri, Kashmiri, Balti, Ladakhi, Purig, Gurji, Dadri Size 222,236 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 12,541,302 Rivers Chenab, Jhelum, Indus, Zanskar, Suru, Nubra, Shyok Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Dachigam NP, Hemis High Altitude NP State animal Hangul State bird Black-necked crane State flower Lotus State tree Chinar Major crops Paddy, wheat, fruit, saffron Factoids The hangul or Kashmiri stag is the only species of European red deer found in India. In Ladakh, they believe in Bon which is an animistic religion in which the forces of nature are worshipped. No. of District 22 Last Updated on : March 2, 2015 Jammu and Kashmir Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Elevation Map District Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Jammu and Kashmir Travel Map Handicrafts Map Gulmarg Location Map Leh Ladakh Map Leh Location Map Vaishno Devi Location Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Jammu to Amritsar Route Map Jammu to Chandigarh Route Map Jammu to Delhi Route Map Jammu to Srinagar Route Map Amarnath Yatra Map Places to Visit in Jammu Leh Tourist Map Trekking Route Map Pocket Maps Chandigarh to Jammu Delhi to Jammu Jammu to Leh Jammu to Pahalgam Jammu to Shimla Chandigarh to Srinagar Delhi to Srinagar Leh to Srinagar Chandigarh to Vaishnodevi About Jammu and Kashmir Hotels in Jammu and Kashmir Rivers and Lakes Jammu Kashmir Elections Election Results Chief Minister Dental Colleges Medical Colleges             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule