RML Information Service - crop prices, weather forecast etc via sms - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop RML Information Service – crop prices, weather forecast etc via sms Home RML Information Service – crop prices, weather forecast etc via sms Enables farmers with information on crop prices, weather forecast and government schemes through SMS Pain areas of every Indian farmer – “What price should I expect for my crop? When should I harvest and where should I sell my crop? What is the likely weather forecast for my district? How can I boost my farm’s productivity? Where do I get insurance, loan or subsidy from?” These questions forever bother farmer. Not anymore! Mumbai based RML Information Services provides timely, unbiased, localized and accurate information on crop prices, relevant government schemes, subsidies, sources of finance, weather and crop advisory actionable and personalized information service along with avenues to easily purchase / access these information in an easy to use format. Amit Mehra RML Information Services was first started as a division in Reuters in October 2007 and became a venture capital. Later Thomson Reuters funded separate company in Feb 2013. Mr. Amit Mehra is the founder and CEO of RML. As per an estimate, a farmer in India gets only 20-25% price of their final produce vis-à-vis 40-50% in the developed world. “Farmers in India are highly dependent on several layers in the value chain and a patchy network of ad-hoc information sources such as local shop keepers who leverage the information asymmetry in the system to earn higher profits at the cost of the individual farmers. The biggest realization was that this pain – both economic and emotional –must be addressed at an individual farmer level,” says Mr. Mehra. The company felt the need to develop an ICT based, scalable agri information platform that could provide highly personalized agri information to millions of farmers in a cost effective manner. Services of RML are enabling farmers to lower costs, increase yields and make informed decisions about their farming practices through its key product offerings. All products are SMS based where information is delivered to farmers across 18 Indian states in 9 languages on a daily basis. The service is compatible with all service provider types. RMLdirect – Information about news around market rates, weather, crop advisory including livestock, dairy, news, financial inclusion is delivered daily to the farmer’s mobile phone covering every stage of the crop cycle, from pre-sowing to harvest and selling of crops enabling them to make informed decisions about their farming practices. myRML – Provides information at every stage of the crop cycle: pre-sowing to harvest giving information on market price, weather, local and regional agri news and crop advisory till selling of crops. In addition, it provides district level trader information, daily updated audio agri news on RML Vani and detailed farming information on Library for selected crops. Krishidoot – Brings together farming communities and agri businesses to efficiently engage with each other across 20 states covering more than 400 crop varieties. It enables efficiency in businesses and profitability to participants through economies of scale and information transparency. At RML, the idea is to improve the life of farmers and contribute to the overall ecosystem hence it provides two products for agri-based organization. R-Edge – Market information and intelligence tool for agri lending banks, agri procurement companies and other agri related organizations to access accurate, unbiased, timely and customizable market price data, volume data and related information. RMLpro – It is an analytics and communication tool providing data, insights and intelligence on farmers, farmer groups, commodities, mandi prices and news to enterprise stakeholders, empowering them to effectively plan, manage and expand their business in an informed way. Farmer pays as per his package which is based on duration of service. Farmer can choose crops and markets as per his preferences. Pricing for these packages are uniform. myRML- Mobile application is currently free to download and use. Farmers can access myRML for free through any handset having data connection. To download myRML, user can give a missed call on 09223 511 115 and link is sent via sms to download the app. Subscription charges for RMLdirect are 24 months- Rs 900/-; 12 months- Rs 450/-; 4 months – Rs 350/- ; 1 month- Rs 99/- RML SMS service can be availed at rural bank branches. “We have tie-ups with all leading public sector banks including SBI, Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and other State level banks. All that the farmer has to do to activate the service is to approach bank branch manager/ agri officer to subscribe for the service,” informs Mr. Mehra. Explaining the working of products he says, “Once a farmer signs up for subscription through rural bank branch, his profile is captured, his preference of crops and markets are taken. Within 48 hours, the service is activated in the form of personalized SMSes in his choice of language.” The farmer can change his crop-market preference at any time during the subscription period by contacting call center. During the tenure of the service the farmer gets daily 6-7 messages from RML covering information across the crop life cycle. Mr. Mehra says, “For example in the morning the farmer gets weather updates, followed by advisory, mandi prices and ends with agri / general news update. All this is done in his choice of language, for the crops he has selected.” RMLdirect and myRML, cover information on export potential along with international dynamics for all internationally traded commodities like cotton, soya bean, wheat, basmati, pulses, sugar, oil seed, potato etc. Information on demand-supply trend is given to farmers which helps them in taking decision while trading their produce. Elaborating information covered in news section Mr. Mehra shares, “It has details on government schemes and subsidies, agriculture related financial policies. For example, if government announces subsidy on a particular seed type, the farmer will get that information in the news update empowering him to take an informed decision. We give information of NABARD schemes and offers to its beneficiaries on regular basis via SMS.” Women and child education programs run by government to empower farmers financially as well as socially are also updated on the service. He adds, “Our services are hyper local to an extent that we even provide details and coordinates of local government officers who are in-charge of subsidies and similar local information across other verticals.” RML works extensively with leading organizations, government and research institutes like NABARD, GGRC, GIZ, CAIRNS, SFAC, and so on. However, RML does not provide much information on CSR activity of enterprises or private players. Presently, RML has over 1.4 million registered users across 50,000 villages in 18 states of India. It is estimated that through sharing, the impact of RML has reached nearly five to seven million farmers across India, besides the even bigger indirect impact of creating this sector itself. In case of any issues, farmers call Toll free, stare-of-art multilingual call center and talk to agri experts. Mr. Mehra concludes, “RML has been consistently focused on solving the pain areas of the farming community. Now, as penetration of data connections and smart phones is increasing amongst farmers, RML has launched the myRML app, which delivers actionable, relevant and decision-critical content in a significantly more engaging and powerful manner. The myRML app is further enhanced with community and commerce features – such as chats and traders’ lists. This ties in very well with our underlying purpose, which is – to improve farmers’ lives, agri value chain, and even the quality of our food.” Contact details – RML Information Services Private Limited Star Hub, Building no 1, 7th Floor, 704, Sahar International Airport road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400099 Mob: 98922 97465 Email: ankur.rathi@rmlglobal.com , amit.mehra@rmlglobal.com Web: http://www.reutersmarketlight.com/ Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > RML Information Service – crop prices, weather forecast etc via sms Related – articles, consultants, downloads Are neem based crop inputs cost effective? Experience in contract farming CropIn Technology Solutions – mobile app for farm management Plantrich – organic agri-inputs You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming