IIM Distance Learning MBA, PGDM Courses 2012 Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Business Schools Top B Schools in India Online Business School IIM website IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi IIPM Pune S.P. Jain institute Alliance business academy Nirma Institute Of Management Faculty of Management Studies Indian School of Business Management Development Narsee Monjee Institute Mudra Institute Loyola Institute of Business IIFT BIMT – Noida Indian institute of Finance Business School Ranking IIM MBA IIM placements Welingkar Institute XIM – Bhubaneswar IMT Ghaziabad Symbiosis Pune Jamnalal Bajaj Institute XLRI International Management Bharathidasan Institute T.A. Pai Management Institute ICFAI Business School Amity Business School Home   » business-schools » IIM Distance Learning Courses IIM Distance Learning Courses Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  12  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 The distance education programs of IIM are available at three centers – IIM Kozhikode, IIM Calcutta, and IIM Bangalore. The programs available at IIM Kozhikode may be mentioned as below: Executive Post Graduate Program (ePGP) : This is a two year course. For the 2011-12 academic year the total fee for the program is INR 525,000. This program can be availed by graduates, ICWAs and CAs who have a minimum working experience of 5 years. Admission happens in two stages. At the first stage the applicants take the executive Management Aptitude Test (eMAT) that has been created by the IIM-K. In the next stage the successful candidates from this test appear at a personal interview that is conducted online. This examination is mandatory for all applicants except ones who have received the IIMK’s Post Graduate Certificate in Management. Admission is provided on the basis of an applicant’s performance in these stages as well as their application. Executive Education Program in Finance (EEPF): This is a one year program and the course fees are INR 125,000. This program is mainly for graduates, CAs and ICWAs who have a minimum working experience of 5 years. The successful candidates are selected after careful analysis of the applications and interviews that are taken through the IOL platform. Candidates who have been successful in the eMEP examination for this course do not need to take the interview. Executive Education Program in General Management (EEPGM): This is a one year program and the fees for the 2011-12 session are INR 262,500. This program is open for graduates, ICWAs, and CAs who have at least 5 years’ work experience. The candidates for these programs are selected on the basis of the e-MAT test and interviews of the successful candidates that are taken via the ePGP platform. Executive Education Program in Operations Management (EEPOM): This one year course can be availed for 125,000 rupees a year. This program is open to graduates, ICWAs, and CAs with working experience of 5 years or more. The candidates are selected by analyzing the applications and interviews that are conducted via the IOL platform. Applicants who are successful in the eMEP exams need not sit for the interviews – for them the application forms and performance in the examination are considered to be enough. Executive Education Program in Strategic Management (EEPSM): For the 2011-12 session the students willing to avail the EEPSM program need to pay 125,000 rupees as fees. This program is open only for graduates, ICWAs, and CAs who have a minimum of 5 years’ working experience. The candidates are selected after scrutinizing the applications and interviews that are taken through the IOL platform. Students, who have passed out from the eMEP program of IIM-K, do not need to take the interviews for the program – for them the performance in eMEP and application will be deemed sufficient. IIM Calcutta Distance Learning Courses Executive Program in Business Management (EPBM): The Executive Programme in Business Management program has a year’s duration. In order to be considered eligible for this program, students should have at least 50 percent marks. They can download the application forms from www.hugheseducation.com. Programme for Leading and Managing (PLAM): This is a 9 month course where professionals with at least 10 years’ experience can apply. The IIMC is solely responsible for screening and then selecting the candidates. Interested candidates can get application forms from www.hugheseducation.com. Executive Program for Young Professionals (EPYP): The course lasts for 42-45 weeks. The applicants need to have at least 50 percent marks in order to be considered eligible and should have 1-5 years’ experience. The IIMC is responsible for the selection process. Executive Program in Business Management – International (EPBMI): This is a one year program and both self employed and working professionals can apply for it. The graduates applying for this program should have at least 50 percent marks and work experience of 5-15 years of working as a full time professional. Executive Program in Financial Risk & Investment Management (EPFRIM): This is a one year course. Applicants can be working professionals or self employed professionals with proper supporting evidence of their employment status. Graduates with 50% marks are considered eligible for the program. They should also have 2 years’ working experience. Executive Program in Global Business Management (EPGBM): This course lasts for 14 months and is for working professionals with a minimum working experience of 2 years and 50 percent marks. Executive Program in Global Economics for Managers (EPGEM): This is a one year program and both self employed and working professionals can apply for this program. However, the self employed candidates need to furnish documents that prove their status with their application. The graduates applying for this program should have at least 50% marks and at least 2 years’ working experience. The IIMC only is responsible for screening and selecting the candidates. Executive Program in Human Resources Management (EPHRM): This program’s duration is 10 months. It is mainly for executives and working professionals looking for a human resource management career or senior management roles. The candidates are selected based on their application forms and statements of purpose submitted along with the form. Executive Program in International Business (EPIB): This is a one year course. Graduates who have at least 2 years’ work experience and have scored 50 percent marks can apply for these programs. Executive Program in Sales and Marketing (EPSM): This program’s tenure is a year and it is for graduates with 50% marks and 2 years’ experience. It is better if they have corporate support. IIMC is the sole authority responsible for selection and screening. Executive Program on Business Analytics (EPBA): This is a one year program and can be availed by engineers, graduates, and postgraduates with a minimum of 50 percent marks. IIMC does all the procedures related to selection and screening. IIM Bangalore Distance Education Programs Business Analytics and Intelligence (BAI): In the 2012-13 academic session, this program will run from July to March. The course fee for this program is INR 370,000. The applicants for these courses should be bachelors in any of the following streams and must have studied mathematics at the undergraduate level: Engineering Commerce Science Arts They should also have 5 years’ work experience, which could be reduced in case the candidate has exceptional credentials. Management Programme for Entrepreneurs and Family Business (MPEFB-VI): This program’s duration is 52 weeks. The eligibility criteria for the program can be enumerated as below: They should be graduates. Special preference will be accorded to candidates from reputed institutions Applicants who have performed well academically and are about to start a new venture will also be considered for the program They need to furnish a statement of purpose of 500 words with the application form The applicants should have beginners’ level knowledge in computers They should be in the 27-45 years age group. There can be relaxation in case of candidates with special potential This course does not admit more than 60 students who are selected on the following criteria: Participants’ profile Statements of purpose Record as entrepreneurs Non residential students need to pay INR 575,000 a year and the residential students have to pay INR 675,000 a year. They also need to pay service taxes at applicable rates. Management Program for Women Entrepreneurs (MPWE): In order to be considered eligible for this program, the applicants should have a degree or a diploma and proper working knowledge of English. The non residential students need to pay INR 137,875 a year and the fees for the residential students are INR 165,450. Executive General Management Programme (EGMP-25): The selection for this program is done on the basis of the following criteria pertaining to a batch: roles qualification work diversity experience The program fee is INR 420,000 and services taxes as applicable. This program is ideal for professionals who are in the middle of their respective careers and capable of further growth but have had zero exposure to a business school. They should have minimum work experience of 5 years. This program can also be availed by technologists looking to improve their business knowledge and change over to roles of general management. General Management Programme for IT Executives (GMITE): This program is ideal for established professionals who are looking for further growth but have not been to a B-school previously. Graduates who have been working in the software or IT industry for the past 5 years can apply for the program. Techies who are looking to attain managerial positions can also go for this program. This course has a duration of 10 months and the candidates are selected on the following bases: roles qualification work diversity experience The program fee is INR 480,000. Advanced Management Programme (AMP): In order to be considered eligible for this program the applicants should have at least 15 years’ experience. They should also have served for a minimum of 8 years in a managerial position. The program fee is 2300 US dollars for international students and INR 6 lakhs for Indian students. It is a one-year program. Advanced Financial Risk Management (AFRM): The applicants for this program should have a minimum working experience of 5 year with 2 years in banking, software, financial intermediaries, and other organizations who are in the banking industry or a related one. Relaxation can be provided in case of candidates with special qualification. The program lasts for a year and the course fee is INR 480,000 and the applicable service taxes. Candidates willing to enroll in the program need to fill up the application form following which they are supposed to appear for a web based test that analyses their general aptitude and mathematical capabilities. The final selection will be done on the basis of the following criteria: Primary qualification Performance in entrance tests Experience Last Updated on 4/18/2012   Top 20 MBA Colleges In India IIM Ahmedabad Ahmedabad, India IIM Bangalore Bangalore, India IIM Calcutta Kolkata, India IIM Indore Indore, India XLRI Jamshedpur School of Business & Human Resources Jamshedpur, India IIM Lucknow Lucknow, India MDI Gurgaon Gurgaon - Delhi/NCR, India SP Jain Institute of Management & Research Mumbai, India Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies (JBIMS) Mumbai, India Faculty of Management Studies (FMS-Delhi) Delhi/NCR, India About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED