Accessibility Statement : Official Website of Government of Jharkhand Click for Archive Website Skip to Main Content Skip to Navigation Sign In A A A- A A+ Government of Jharkhand Official website of the state Home About Directory Photo Gallery e Services You are here : Home Accessibility Statement We are committed to ensure that the Government of Jharkhand portal is accessible to all the users irrespective of device in use, technology or ability. It has been built, with an aim, to provide maximum accessibility and usability to its users. As a result, this portal can be viewed from a variety of devices, such as web-enabled mobile devices etc. We have put in our best efforts to ensure that all the information on this portal is accessible to people with disabilities. For example, a user with visual disability can access this portal using assistive technologies, such as screen readers and magnifiers. We also aim to be standards compliant and follow principles of usability and universal design, which should help all visitors of this portal. If you have any problem or suggestion regarding the accessibility of this portal, please contact us. Learn about accessibility features. Learn about accessibility options.   Accessibility Features   The accessibility features of SSDG, Govt. of Jharkhand are: 1. Skip to Main Content : Quick access to the core content on the page is provided without going through repetitive navigation using the keyboard. 2. Skip to Navigation : Quick access to the navigation pane is provided that enables accessing the different sections, such as Citizens, Government, and Directories. 3. Accessibility Options : Options to change the size of the text and set a colour scheme are provided. For example, if you are using a mobile device to access this portal, the text might appear smaller on the screen that makes it difficult to read. In such a situation, you can use this option to increase the size of the text for clear visibility and better readability. 4. Descriptive Link Text : Brief description of a link is provided using descriptive phrases instead of just using words such as 'Read more' and 'Click here' as linked text. For example, if a link opens a PDF file, the description specifies its file size. Further, if a link opens a Web site in a new window, the description specifies the same. 5. Table Headers : The table headings are marked and associated with their corresponding cells in each row. For example, if there are 30 rows and 5 columns in a table, it is difficult for a user with visual disability to identify which data cell belongs to which header. In this situation, an assistive device such as a screen reader can read the column header of any cell for the user. In addition, captions are also specified for each table that act as labels and indicate what data is provided in the table. 7. Titles : An appropriate name for each Web page is specified that helps you to understand the page content easily. 8. Alternate Text : Brief description of an image is provided for users with visual disability. If you are using a browser that supports only text or have turned off the image display, you can still know what the image is all about by reading the alternate text in absence of an image. 9. Explicit Form Label Association : A label is linked to its respective control, such as text box, check box, radio button, and drop-down list. This enables the assistive devices to identify the labels for the controls on a form. 10. Consistent Navigation Mechanism : Consistent style of presentation throughout the portal is incorporated. 11. Expandable and Collapsible Lists : Lists of items are provided that can be expanded to view a list of sub-items or can be shrunk using a keyboard, mouse, or screen reader. There are many Web pages in this portal that contain expandable and collapsible lists. Each item in the list is preceded by the '+' symbol that indicates that this item is expandable. This symbol has been given alternate text to enable the screen readers to identify the state of the symbol to notify users with visual disability. When the '+' symbol is clicked, it changes to '–' that indicates that this item is collapsible. Further, the alternate text is updated to indicate the same and a list of sub items is displayed. If now the '-' symbol is clicked, it changes to '+'. Further, the alternate text is again updated and the list of sub items goes away, which is referred to as collapsing. 12. Keyboard Support : The portal can be browsed using a keyboard by pressing the Tab and Shift + Tab keys. 13. Customized Text Size : The size of the text on the Web page can be changed either through the browser or through the accessibility options feature. 14. JavaScript Independent : Web page information and functionalities are independent of JavaScript, irrespective of the browser support for the scripting language.   Accessibility Options   Do you find it difficult to read the contents on the screen? Is the displayed information not clearly visible to you? If yes, use the accessibility options provided by this portal to control the screen display. These options allow changing the text size and colour scheme for clear visibility and better readability. Changing the Text Size   Changing the size of the text refers to making the text appearing smaller or bigger from its standard size. There are three options provided to you to set the size of the text that affects the readability. These are:  Largest : Displays information in the largest font size.  Larger :  Displays information in a font size larger than the standard font size.   Medium : Displays information in a standard font size, which is the default size. To change the text size, click the text-size icons present at the top of any page. State Department and Agencies Agriculture Animal Husbandry Art & Culture Board of Revenue Disaster Management Forest & Environment Department of Excise Finance Food & Public Distribution Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Human Resources Industries Information & Public Relations Information Technology Labour & Employment Law (Justice) Power & Energy Rural Development Science & Technology Social Development Transport Tourism Department Water Resources Know More... Know Your District Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka East Singhbhum Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan About Us About the Portal Terms of use Policies & Disclaimer Contact us Site Map Accessibility Statement Help Feedback Screen Reader Access FAQ's Weather For Jharkhand --Select-- Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka Jamshedpur Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan Supported By External website that opens in a new window. External website that opens in a new window. This page was last modified on:Fri Jan 02 06:57:22 UTC 2015 All Rights Reserved by Government of Jharkhand, India. Designed & Maintained by TCSL   in cooperation with NIC and JAPIT Validation HTML5 , CSS3   Back to Top