Fraud & Security FAQs & Resource Guide - ExportersIndia.com JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome My Account My Profile My Inbox My Products Sign Out Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Buy Post your Buy Requirement Search Products / Suppliers Sell Search Buy Offers Create Your Free Website Display your Products Free Manage Trade Alert Advertise Help Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Exporters India Products / Services Products / Services Companies Buy Offers Search Post Buy Requirement Home Products / Services Companies Buy Leads Trade Shows HOT REGIONS India China UK USA S. Korea Australia Singapore UAE Japan Malaysia View More Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Search ExportersIndia.com from any webpage Add our search to your browser now! No need to download or install More convenient Fraud & Security Home Help Fraud & Security How safe is Credit Card Payment on our websites? Making payment through Credit Cards is absolutely safe on our websites. Empowered with SSL Technology, our payment gateway receives credit card information with 128 Bit Encryption. This is the safest and the most trustworthy way to make online transactions. Additionally, there is Zero Scope of Hacking of credit card information on our websites, as we do not store such information with us. Is It Safe to order Products Online Using my Credit Card or checking information? Whenever moving for online purchases, you should check the little 'Lock' icon on the bottom of your web browser. This icon indicates that your personal information will be kept confidential and protected by secure encryption while the same is sent over the internet. As an alternative, you can also check this by moving you cursor on web page and clicking the right-click button of mouse and selecting the 'Properties' from menu. And now, if the web address starts with "https" where an 's' denotes a secure web server, then it is safe for online purchases. Keep Your Password Confidential Online purchases usually necessitate shopper to 'log-in' before placing or viewing an order. For this, shoppers are required to fill in and proceed with a username and a password. The shoppers must not share their password with anyone. Information like birth date, maiden name or phone number should be avoided while selecting any password. The password chosen at a particular site should be different from the passwords kept at other site. It is always suggested to keep alpha-numeric password with at least 8 letters in it. Always Print or Save Copies of Your Orders After an online purchase, the shoppers should get a confirmation page that reviews their entire order. The confirmation page should comprise the costs of the order, customer information, product information and the confirmation number. It is suggested to keep hard copy/soft copy of the Web Page which describes the details of item(s) ordered along with the page reflecting the company name, postal address, phone number, legal terms, and return policy. Store such records with you for a minimum a period which covers return/warranty policy. Generally, the shoppers are emailed with a confirmation message by the merchants. It is necessary to save or print such message, including any other e-mail correspondence with the company. How can I protect my business from fraud? These simple checks can ensure that you are protected from fraud and are dealing with a legitimate business entity and well. Check legitimacy of business entity Ensure you are dealing with widely known and credible companies for the shipping and payment. Deal only with the individual who is the authorized representative of company Check and confirm the contact details like phone numbers or fax numbers provided are authentic by making call on them. Take at least 4-5 references of the company's clients. If the references are positive towards the company, you can proceed further. Make financial transactions only through Escrow.com as it is the safest and secure method of payment. Avoid making payment through Western Union before evaluating the supplier's legitimacy. (Note: Most of the Fraud companies use Western Union for Fraudulent Transactions) Some websites appear to be an escrow service provider and the Fraud companies recommend their baits to make transaction through these websites which is not at all secure. By making transactions through these websites you actually send your money to the scammers rather than the escrow service provider. For Products: First give order for samples of the products to ascertain that they meet your specifications and expectations Some of the products that are produced from animal or plant materials require certificates of authenticity for importing into the European Union or other jurisdictions Protection against the Internet Fraud Avoid giving bank account information when it is not necessary. Keep on monitoring your bank accounts to know that no unexpected transactions are done through your accounts. Keep tab on the deposits and withdrawals in your bank accounts. If you see any large amount of unknown money deposits to your account, you could be the part of any international money laundering scheme. Just contact your bank in this case. Keep the record of all the relevant correspondence (email, fax or letters) with your business interest. They can be handy in future in case of any fraud. How to Protect Yourself from Phishing Website? Phishing these days have become one of the largest online scams, it generates huge amount of money for hackers all around the world even though just 5% of the total hits meets the bulls eye. Call it Phishing, Brand Spoofing, Web Spoofing, Carding but it's an ugly truth that is present as a constant threat and is getting more dangerous by the day. The hackers have a host of methods like links embedded in E-mails that redirects the visitor to fake sites and also popup windows that encourage you to enter sensitive information. One doesn't have to be a net savvy person or a technical professional to save himself from phishing attacks; you just have to be a little aware of the fact that not all the websites on the net are genuine. Follow these simple steps and you can save yourself from Phishing Do not open E-mails that are from people you don't recognize Never click on links embedded in your E-mails Ignore any threats that some websites give you that your account is in threat if you not confirm your account information Type in URLs instead of clicking on links to online shopping and banking sites Look for the lock sign at the end of the webpage, that's the proof for genuine websites Use different passwords for different websites A spam E-mail is littered with grammatical errors, so keep your eyes open Do not leave your computer UNATTENDED when logged into your bank account How to buy safely? These days when incidents of hoax sites and fraud buyers are on a rise it is very important to be alert and have your wits about you to protect yourself from faux sites and buyers etc. Exportersindia.com is just a platform which brings together buyers and suppliers from all over the world on a single podium. It is advisable to follow the below listed steps to buy safely. Do not believe on any selling offer that comes to your inbox easily Make sure that the contact numbers and the details provided by the seller are real Confirm that the certifications and the registration of the seller's company is authentic Verify the office address of the company thoroughly before doing any business or transaction Check the quality of the products and services offered before buying How to Sell safely? Nowadays when the cases of scams or frauds done via internet are highly frequent it really doesn't matter whether you are a buyer or a seller. The threat is equal in both cases since your money and reputation are at stake. Exportersindia.com surely provides you with best of buyers and sellers but then it would be in your best interests to check on every detail of the company before offering your products or making any business transactions. Follow these simple steps and be assured Know your customer a better and secure your own personal information as well Check customers addresses if they are provided If possible get what you can in writing: negotiations, discussions, agreement If something seems fishy don't go ahead and drop the deal If your product needs to be shipped then do not send it unless the payment you received has cleared your bank Quality control and compliance Quality control and compliance is a process which ensures a certain level of quality is maintained in the services, processes etc. It includes a number of factors or actions that are necessary for a business to provide for the verification of certain characteristics of a service. The quality control and compliance method of Exportersindia.com involves the following steps: The main aim of our Quality control process is to ensure that the services, processes that we provide meet the specific requirements are dependable and financially sound. Our quality control involves the testing of the service and process for certain levels of set quality standards The main objective of our quality control team is to identify services and processes that do not meet a client's specified level of quality If the problem or shortcoming is identified then our quality control team identifies it and stops the service temporarily Once such problems are sorted out then the implementation is continued as usual What is V-Trust Certified Company? V-Trust Certification is the stamp or seal of trust that certifies the authenticity and dependability of a company. Exportersindia.com provides V-Trust certification to the members of our portal who apply for it. We thoroughly check the documents provided by our members before giving them our prestigious V-Trust stamp. V-trust seal on your website can get you distinguished from the crowd. With the rising cases of E-frauds popping up every now and then getting a stamp of authenticity not only makes your company a trustworthy company but a company with which no customer will have to think twice before doing business. Why go for V-Trust? Stay ahead of your competitors and expand your business Buyers feel safe to deal with companies having the V-Trust stamp Our V-Trust stamp boosts your brand value as well as your image With V-Trust your business enquiries are sure to rise Break the threat of E-Scams with our V-Trust; assure your customers that you are genuine With help of V-Trust your customers can focus on your products or services rather than fretting on your credibility How to go for V-Trust? You just need a few basic documents like the registration papers of your company The Certification paper of your company like ISO, ISI etc Papers validating your establishment Papers certifying your membership Papers verifying quality norms Only after these documents are verified properly and thoroughly, your company gets a V-Trust stamp. How can I increase my Trust Profile Increasing your Trust Profile not only keeps you a step ahead of your competitors but also boosts up your chances to get more and more business. Trust profile is not something you can get from us readily you have to work hard yourself and we assure you that we will promote your hard work through our portal. For increasing your trust profile you should make sure that you should make sure that: Your customers post feedbacks about your company You keep on upgrading your membership with Exportersindia.com, without letting your membership expire Confirm your contact details as soon as possible and in case of any changes inform us at the earliest Pay by wire transfer and validate your company's bank details Be a reliable business entity to avoid any litigations of cases of trade disputes filed against you In case of any disputes try to solve them as fruitfully and as quickly as possible Provide your company's documents duly attested by your local chamber of commerce How do I choose my password? With hackers lurking at every nook and corner of the net saving your account details, your personal or sensitive information is really tough. For saving your account details each website of which you become a member provides you with a unique E-mail Id and a password which is kept secret. Choosing this password carefully is the key to your account's safety online. Choose your password keeping the following points in mind: Do not use names or phrases which have personal significance Use pseudo-random alpha-numeric combinations for your passwords, mix numbers, alphabets, and symbols for your passwords Avoid writing down your password, it's always better to memorize it Keep longer passwords, since tracking them is not easy Do not use the same password for everything Another secure way is just keeping numbers for your password How do I protect my account? When you become a member of Exportersindia.com, you get an account through which you manage all your trade offers. Any information stored in your account is not only sensitive since it may contain important information about you and your company but also confidential as it stores all the details about your business deals. Protecting your account is the utmost priority because even a little information leaked can be dangerous. The following steps can assure that your account is well protected: Choose a secure password which cannot be easily tracked, include numbers, letters, and symbols in it To ensure that your account is secure log in to your account at Exportersindia.com regularly Ensure that your account information stays current Be careful when you receive requests for personal details or sensitive information Always use a up to date antivirus program and use firewalls while operating your PC How to Verify Potential Trade Partners To identify potential Trade Partners one needs to identify them on the basis of the authentication, certification etc. Trusting blindly on someone can result in a big blunder. While doing E-commerce the most important thing one should ask all potential buyers for as much company information as possible and only then proceed with business. Some simple steps can help us to verify potential customers easily: Ask potential trade partners for every possible document regarding their company Beware of companies that have incomplete details or use only mobile phones to converse Verify their details with famous search engines like Google Ask your bank to confirm your potential traders bank details Ask your potential traders for credit report so that, it becomes clear that they are not in any kind of a financial troubles Contact your potential trader's local embassy to verify their company You should always visit the place of business of your potential buyer Do not fall for the "Low Prices" or "Big offers" traps How to check a companies in india Searching for companies in India becomes absolutely easy with the help of Exportersindia.com. Exportersindia.com provides its members with the best search options. With the help of these options our clients can easily search for companies in various categories, starting from region to country to size. There are two options with which our members can get their desired search results the "Search" option and "Advanced Search" option. Go to the search bar and type the required content "Click" on the "Search" You will get a list of companies according to your preference If you are not satisfied then go to the advanced search option Type the type of companies you want, with preferences like region, country "Click" on the advanced search You will get the required list of companies Preventing fraud when sourcing from overseas Doing business overseas increases chances of making your business global and also increases profit that your business garners. At the same time it also increases the risks of fraudulent activities and scams on the net while doing E-commerce. A scammer can be anywhere, maybe just a mark away from his prey. Though there can be no certain way to prevent oneself from fraudulent activities while sourcing from overseas but by taking care of the following points one can be at bay: Search and be aware of different types of scams, look for new types of scams online Do not depend on message boards since it can be possible that the person scamming maybe writing the message boards with positive comments Patience is necessary; making hasty decisions will not help Have your wits about you, do not trust on letters or messages written unprofessionally Do not take risk in order to satisfy your greed Be suspicious; question every feature of the transaction Check with the government agencies for the authenticity and legitimacy of the company How To Report Fraud If you are waiting for your consignment or waiting to get your money back then Exportersindia.com is truly sorry for the fraud committed on its platform. Detecting a fraud is not easy and most of the times till the time that one comes to know about the fraud its too late and the damage is already done. Though the shock of being duped is very big still one should sit quietly pondering what to do. The moment you detect that a fraud has been done you should immediately act and do the following If you are unable to come to an agreement with the buyer or the seller then you should immediately report to your local police If you want Exportersindia.com to take an action which includes termination of membership of the offending party then provide us with all the transaction copies and payment recipes Provide Exportersindia.com with the copies of correspondence between you and the company Rate this company feature is available with any of our buyer/supplier pages, you can easily rate a company according to your preference After clicking on "Rate This Company" link you will get a feedback form online, which you'll have to fill and attach the supporting document and then press "Submit" and we'll; take the necessary action. We collaborate with all law enforcement organizations, to help us take action please provide Your full legal name, residential address, your country, copy of your passport Case reference number, the name of officer in charge and name of law enforcement organization Amount of the financial damage Checklist and Guide for Exporters Exportersindia.com provides its exporter members with a number of checklists and guidelines before proceeding further with the business deal or transactions. These checklists and guidelines are useful to save exporters from scams and also it helps in improving their business growth as well. The letter of credit should state that it is subject to the 1993 revision of the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits (UCP) of the International Chamber of Commerce. Always check the authenticity of the credit Credits are always sent through the advisory/conforming bank in the U.K. other than it every credit should be viewed with suspicion The credit should give you the level of payment security you wanted Be sure that you are paid at the time you planned The name of your company and those of the buyer should be correct and full Produce the goods, check them, ship them and assemble the documents and submit them to the banks within the transport document time limit Only those banks should charge you whom you agreed to pay and only those should be stated to be for your account Advertising & Premium Membership Why Advertise with ExportersIndia.com? Advertising Features and Benefits more faqs >> Buying FAQs What are Buying Leads? Where do I start if I want to buy? more faqs >> Buying Methods Search Products / Offers / Companies Browse by Category ( Products / Offers / Companies ) Post Buying Leads Fraud & security How can I protect my business from fraud? How to Protect Yourself from Phishing Website? more faqs >> General FAQs ExportersIndia - Site Tour Does ExportersIndia.com allow multiple accounts for a company? more faqs >> My Account & Sign In Member Login / Sign In Help Forgot Password / E-Mail Id Help more faqs >> Other Tips & Guide How to Get more Buyers Importance of Sell Offers more faqs >> Registration & Membership Why should I register with ExportersIndia.com? How to register? more faqs >> Selling FAQs Where do I start if I want to Sell? How do I contact Buyers? more faqs >> Selling Methods Search Buy Offers / Buyers Browse by Category ( Importers ) Post your Business Listings / Products Create your own Catalog /Website » Advertising & Premium Membership » Buying FAQs » Fraud & security » General FAQs » My Account & Sign In » Other Tips & Guide » Registration & Membership » Selling FAQs General Links Home Contact Us Sitemap Help About Us Feedback Terms of Use Testimonials Advertise with Us Disclaimer Resources Email this Page Bookmark Page Make EI Home Page Trade Tool Kit Buy Offers Post Buy Requirement Post Products - FREE Services Directory Business Services Real Estate Tours & Travels Employment Services Matrimonials Services Business Directory Manufacturers Exporters Suppliers Service Providers Web Design By WeblinkIndia.NET - ISO 9001:2008 Certified © Copyright 2015. All Rights Reserved. ExportersIndia.com