Agriculture in Azerbaijan - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Agriculture in Azerbaijan From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . This article relies largely or entirely upon a single source . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page . Please help improve this article by introducing citations to additional sources. (April 2009) This article is outdated . Please update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (April 2009) The primary crops produced in Azerbaijan are agricultural cash crops , grapes , cotton , tobacco , citrus fruits , and vegetables . The first three crops account for over half of all production, and the last two together account for an additional 30 percent. Livestock , dairy products , and wine and spirits are also important farm products. [ 1 ] Contents 1 History 2 Labor Practices 3 Notes 4 References 5 External links History [ edit ] In the early 1990s, Azerbaijan 's agricultural sector required substantial restructuring if it was to realize its vast potential. Prices for agricultural products did not rise as fast as the cost of inputs; the Soviet-era collective farm system discouraged private initiative; equipment in general and the irrigation system in particular were outdated; modern technology had not been introduced widely; and administration of agricultural programs was ineffective. [ 1 ] Most of Azerbaijan's cultivated lands, which total over 1 million hectares, are irrigated by more than 40,000 kilometers of canals and pipelines . The varied climate allows cultivation of a wide variety of crops, ranging from peaches to almonds and from rice to cotton. In the early 1990s, agricultural production contributed about 30 to 40 percent of Azerbaijan's net material product, while directly employing about one third of the labor force and providing a livelihood to about half the country's population. In the early postwar decades, Azerbaijan's major cash crops were cotton and tobacco, but in the 1970s grapes became the most productive crop. An anti-alcohol campaign by Moscow in the mid-1980s contributed to a sharp decline in grape production in the late 1980s. In 1991 grapes accounted for over 20 percent of agricultural production, followed closely by cotton. [ 1 ] Production of virtually all crops declined in the early 1990s. In 1990 work stoppages and anti-Soviet demonstrations contributed to declines in agricultural production. The conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh , the site of about one-third of Azerbaijan's croplands, substantially reduced agricultural production beginning in 1989. In 1992 agriculture's contribution to NMP declined by 22 percent. This drop was attributed mainly to cool weather, which reduced cotton and grape harvests, and to the continuation of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict . The conflict induced blockade of the Nakhichevan Autonomous Republic also disrupted agriculture there. [ 1 ] An estimated 1,200 state and cooperative farms are in operation in Azerbaijan, with little actual difference between the rights and privileges of state and cooperative holdings. Small private garden plots , constituting only a fraction of total cultivated land, contribute as much as 20 percent of agricultural production and more than half of livestock production. Private landholders do not have equal access, however, to the inputs, services, and financing that would maximize their output. [ 1 ] The Ministry of Agriculture of Azerbaijan runs procurement centers dispersed throughout the country for government purchase of most of the tobacco, cotton, tea , silk , and grapes that are produced. The Ministry of Grain and Bread Products runs similar operations that buy a major portion of grain production. Remaining crops are sold in the private sector . [ 1 ] Labor Practices [ edit ] In a 2013 U.S. Department of Labor report on Azerbaijan's labor conditions, research showed that children "are engaged in child labor in agriculture and street work." [ 2 ] In fact, evidence of child labor has been observed in the agricultural sector as far as the production of cotton, tea and tobacco is concerned. In 2014, the Bureau of International Labor Affairs issued a List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor and Azerbaijan was listed among the countries resorting to child labor when it comes to cotton production . [ 3 ] Notes [ edit ] ^ a b c d e f Azerbaijan - The Economy , Library of Congress , retrieved Dec. 13, 2013 ^ 2013 Findings on the Worst Forms of Child Labor - Azerbaijan - ^ List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor References [ edit ]  This article incorporates  public domain material from websites or documents of the Library of Congress Country Studies . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Agriculture in Azerbaijan . Country Studies - Azerbaijan Azerbaijan: Expects 6-7%-growth in agriculture sphere Azerbaijan: Agriculture products will be doubled by 2020 v t e Azerbaijan   topics History Early Manna Atropatene Caucasian Albania Arran (Caucasus) Shirvan Sajid dynasty Sallarid dynasty Rawwadids Shaddadids Kara Koyunlu Aq Qoyunlu Safavid dynasty Russo-Persian War (1804–13) Treaty of Gulistan Russo-Persian War (1826–28) Treaty of Turkmenchay Modern Armenian–Tatar massacres March Days Armenian–Azerbaijani War Azerbaijan Democratic Republic Soviet Azerbaijan Nagorno-Karabakh War Black January Independent Azerbaijan By topic History of the name Azerbaijan The Land of Fire Geography Bodies of water Caspian Sea Climate Environment issues Extreme points Fauna Flora Geology Mountains National parks Orography Protected areas State reserves Wildlife more... Subdivisions Administrative divisions Cities World Heritage Sites more... Politics Government Cabinet Constitution Elections Foreign relations European Union Human rights LGBT Law enforcement Ministry of National Security National Assembly Political parties Politics President Prime Minister Military History Air and Air Defence Force Caspian Guard Internal Troops Land Forces National Guard Navy Peacekeeping forces State Border Service Gabala Radar Station Ministry of Defense Ministry of Defence Industry more... Economy Agriculture Central Bank Companies Energy Manat (currency) Mineral industry Petroleum industry Telecommunications Tourism Transport more... Culture Architecture Art Cinema Cuisine Dances Dress Folklore Language Literature Media Music Ashiq Meykhana Mugham Novruz (New Year) Public holidays Rugs Sport Theatre more... Demographics Education Ethnic minorities Health Languages LGBT history People list more... Religion Freedom of religion Bahá'í Christianity Hinduism Islam Judaism Zoroastrianism more... Symbols Flag National anthem National emblem Outline Index Book Category Portal WikiProject v t e Agriculture in Asia Sovereign states Afghanistan Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Burma (Myanmar) Cambodia China Cyprus East Timor (Timor-Leste) Egypt Georgia India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Japan Jordan Kazakhstan North Korea South Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Malaysia Maldives Mongolia Nepal Oman Pakistan Philippines Qatar Russia Saudi Arabia Singapore Sri Lanka Syria Tajikistan Thailand Turkey Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen States with limited recognition Abkhazia Nagorno-Karabakh Northern Cyprus Palestine South Ossetia Taiwan Dependencies and other territories British Indian Ocean Territory Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Hong Kong Macau v t e Agriculture in Europe Sovereign states Albania Andorra Armenia Austria Azerbaijan Belarus Belgium Bosnia and Herzegovina Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Georgia Germany Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Italy Kazakhstan Latvia Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia Malta Moldova Monaco Montenegro Netherlands Norway Poland Portugal Romania Russia San Marino Serbia Slovakia Slovenia Spain Sweden Switzerland Turkey Ukraine United Kingdom States with limited recognition Abkhazia Kosovo Nagorno-Karabakh Northern Cyprus South Ossetia Transnistria Dependencies and other territories Åland Faroe Islands Gibraltar Guernsey Jersey Isle of Man Svalbard