Uttarakhand Map Home » Maps » Uttarakhand Map   Uttarakhand उत्तराखंड का नक्शा Uttarakhand Map Cities in Uttarakhand Dehradun Haridwar Nainital Mussoorie Almora                    more... Travel to Uttarakhand Nainital Tourism Mussoorie Tourism Haridwar Tourism Dehradun Tourism Rishikesh Tourism Places to visit in Uttarakhand Jim Corbett National Park Wildlife Sanctuaries Districts of Uttarakhand Road Map Railway Map River Map Tehsil Map Physical Map Uttarakhand Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Uttarakhand Forests Industrial Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History Geography Information Newspapers Hotels in Uttaranchal Nainital Hotels Srinagar Hotels Mussoorie Hotels Haridwar Hotels Dehradun Hotels Rishikesh Hotels                    more... Society Important Numbers Education Universities in Uttarakhand Government Uttarakhand Images Haridwar Location Map Mussoorie Tourist Map Tourist Map of Rishikesh Uttaranchal Hills Map District Map in Hindi Pin Code International Yoga Festival in Rishikesh       Uttarakhand Map उत्तराखंड का नक्शा Map of Uttarakhand Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map of Uttarakhand with districts, railways, rivers and major road network. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Uttarakhand Location Map Uttarakhand District Map Cities of Uttarakhand Uttarakhand Tehsil Map         Uttarakhand Road Map Uttarakhand Physical Map Uttarakhand Railway Map Uttarakhand Travel Map Uttarakhand is a state situated in northern India. Formerly known as Uttaranchal, this state was formed out of the north-western districts of Uttar Pradesh and the Himalayas on 9 November 2000. Also refereed to as the Land of Gods, Uttaranchal is believed to be one of the most naturally bestowed states in India. Uttaranchal shares its borders with Tibet in the north, Uttar Pradesh in the south, Nepal in the east, Haryana in the west and Himachal Pradesh in the North West. Uttaranchal is home to some of the finest Hindu temples and religious destinations in India. In the year 2007 Uttaranchal was renamed Uttaranchal which means part of the North. The state stretches over an area of 20,682 sq mi of land. Dehradun serves as the capital of state. While traveling to Uttaranchal it is always advisable to carry a map of the state. There are many different maps of Uttaranchal in India that provide complete information about the important roads, hotels, tourists spots, hospitals etc in the state. Demographics of Uttarakhand Country India State Uttaranchal District 13 districts Area 20,682 sq mi Population (Census 2011) 10,116,752 Coordinates 30°20'N 78°04'E? / ?30.33°N 78.06°E Uttaranchal has 13 districts which are grouped into two divisions namely Garhwal division and Kumaon division. The Garhwal division includes seven districts. Dehradun Uttarkashi Tehri Garhwal Rudraprayag Haridwar Pauri Garhwal Chamoli The Kumaon division includes six districts. Almora Pithoragarh Nainital Bageshwar Champawat Udham Singh Nagar Uttrakhand State Information Capital Dehradun Date of formation 9. Nov. 2000 Governor Dr. Aziz Qureshi Chief Minister Harish Rawat Tourist attractions Corbett NP, Nainital, Almora Valley of Flowers, Nanda Devi Park Festivals Devidhura Mela, Nanda Devi Mela, Purnagiri Mela Major dance and music forms Garhwali folk dance and music Arts and crafts Kholi woodcarving; Aipan or rangoli Languages Hindi, Garhwali, Kumaoni Size 53,483 sq. kin Population 10,086,292 Rivers Ganga, Yamuna, Ramganga, Kali Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Nanda Devi NP, Rajaji NP, Corbett Tiger Reserve. State animal Himalayan musk deer State bird Himalayan monal State flower Brahm kamal State tree Burans Major crops Rice, wheat, arley, jowar, oilseed Factoids Kedarnath temple, at a height of 3584 m, is devoted to Shiva. The Kol-Munds, a Dravidian people, were probably the first to live here. No. of District 13 Last Updated on : September 24, 2014 Uttarakhand Maps Uttarakhand Assembly     Constituency District Map Of Uttarakhand     in Hindi Districts Of Uttarakhand Haridwar Location Map Clickable Road Map Of     Uttarakhand Uttarakhand Assembly Elections     2012 Schedule Road Network Of Uttarakhand District Map Of Uttarakhand Uttarakhand Forest Map Location Of Uttarakhand Railway Network Of Uttarakhand Agriculture Map Of Uttarakhand Industrial Areas Of Uttarakhand Minerals Map Of Uttarakhand Physical Map Of Uttarakhand Railway Map Of Uttarakhand Uttarakhand Rivers Map Travel and City Maps of Uttarakhand Hotels in Uttarakhand Auli City Map Badrinath Map Dehradun City Map Haridwar City Map Travel To Corbett Travel To Haridwar Travel To Rishikesh Travel To Uttaranchal Mussoorie City Map Almora City Map Mussoorie Tourist Map Nainital City Map Rishikesh City Map Uttaranchal Hills Tehsil Maps of Uttaranchal Almora Tehsil Map Bageshwar Tehsil Map Chamoli Tehsil Map Dehradun Tehsil Map Haridwar Tehsil Map Nainital Tehsil Map Garhwal Tehsil Map Pithoragarh Tehsil Map Rudraprayag Tehsil Map Tehri Garhwal Tehsil Map Udham Singh Nagar Tehsil Map Uttarkashi Tehsil Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule