Hydraulic Press - Deep Draw Press, Cold Forging Press, Hydraulic Forming Press and Briquetting Machine Manufacturer & Exporter from Chennai, India Home Profile Our Product Range Contact Us Send Email Send SMS Sun Hydro Systems, Chenna Sun Hydro Systems, Chenna Chennai, Tamil Nadu JavaScript is not enabled in your browser. In order to proceed please enable JavaScript in your browser. Please click here to understand how to enable JavaScript in your browser. Send SMS Enquiry Thank you Your Enquiry has been sent successfully. Mr. Ms. Mrs. Dr.   Your Contact Information: (not me)   Home » Our Product Range » Hydraulic Press We are engaged in manufacturing & supplying a broad array of hydraulic presses which are available in various types, sizes and designs. These presses are used for manufacturing deep drawing machines, ferrous & non-ferrous scrap industries and several heavy duty applications. We offer these presses at most affordable price. Deep Draw Press REQUEST CALLBACK Click to Zoom Yes! I am Interested We have specialized in manufacturing & supplying a wide array of Deep Draw Press which are which are designed as pert the latest market trends and application requirements. These heavy duty presses are widely used for manufacturing deep drawing components like oil tanks, automobile sheet metal components, stainless steel kitchen sinks, mudguards and many others. Details of these presses: Equipped with most advanced hydraulic & electronic (PLC) control Designed for high off center loads with heavy RAM force Accurate slide guiding with full stroke length Features: Highly rigid Better accuracy Compact design heavy duty high performance. Ask for Price Cold Forging Press REQUEST CALLBACK Click to Zoom Yes! I am Interested One more variant of hydraulic machines is Cold Forging Press , which is widely appreciated for its high performance and durability. Moreover, our range is used for different operations such as bending, drawing, punching and pressing. In addition to this, they efficiently cut the angle according the material, further, due to its thickness, the distortion of cut sheets gets minimized. Ask for Price Hydraulic Forming Press REQUEST CALLBACK Click to Zoom Yes! I am Interested We have an offer of a comprehensive range of Hydraulic Forming Press which are highly robust in construction, durable, corrosion resistant and effective in performance. Made of superior quality raw materials these presses are developed according to the international quality standards. These hydraulic forming machines are generally used for making of aluminum and stainless steel products against rubber pads. Specifications: It consists eight point long slide guide for perfect guiding with centralize lubrication system water cooled heat exchanger and PLC control. These presses are equipped with rubber tool bolster. It has advanced hydro electronic controls. Capacity : up to 4000 ton. Ask for Price Briquetting Machine REQUEST CALLBACK Click to Zoom Yes! I am Interested 650 Grms Briquetting Machine (Fully Automatic-Double Acting) Backed by the team of skilled professionals we bring out a unique range of Briquetting Machines which are fully automatic double acting machines and are manufactured using quality proven materials. These machines are enabled with single acting-spring return cylinder unit in horizontal stroke directions. These are operated manually with the help of single or double lever type pumping handles among which one slows down the speed and another is for normal speed of ram movement.We offer these equipment in column type structures with steel fabricated plate body constructions and channel body constructions. Our Hydraulic Press Machines are also provided with totally movable and opened working table with wire rope and rotating winch systems for the upward and downward movement of higher capacity machines. Technical Specifications: Compacting Block Size(mm) : 200x100x40-50·         Compacting Block Wt.,(g) : 600-700·         Pressing Capacity of Compacting cylinder(tons): 30·         Holding capacity of clamping cylinder (tons): 10·         compacting ratio: 1:8·         Production/HR (App.)No: 350-400·         Production/shift(app.).Kg: 2000·         Power requirement(HP) : 20·         Approx. Wt of M/c(tons: 7·         Shipping dimension (Mts): 6 x 1.5 x2 Features: Strong and sturdy construction. Optimum service life. Corrosion resistance. Ask for Price Baling And Bundling Press REQUEST CALLBACK Click to Zoom Yes! I am Interested A comprehensive range of Baling And Bundling Press is manufactured and supplied by our organization. These presses find excessive usages in ferrous metal & non ferrous metal scrap industries. With various dimensions, these machines are immensely used to bundle machined or punched scrap into different sizes of bundles for providing the clients conveniences in storage and transportation. Application: Cotton, Yarn, Fabric Iron scrap, Coir, Paper Leather, Rubber Industries Feature: Automatic Semi automatic Fixed and Mobile type Vertical and Horizontal type. Ask for Price Powder Compacting Press REQUEST CALLBACK Click to Zoom Yes! I am Interested With a state-of-art manufacturing unit, we derive this range of Powder Compacting Press which is enabled with 8-point Gib Guided slide which further provides high speed. The square Gib construction provides accurate guiding of the moving platen/slide with extra stability to resist any deflection under different load conditions. Applications : - For sheet metal jobs Blanking Deep drawing Riveting Trimming Ask for Price Hard Chrome Pillars Type Press REQUEST CALLBACK Click to Zoom Yes! I am Interested We have uniquely designed a new range of Hard Chrome Pillars Type Press which for achieving maximum flexibility for different blanking, broaching and many other applications. Apart from standard design, we also customize these products according to the users approach. To achieve maximum frame rigidity we use CAD (computer aided frame design) and finite element analysis. The change in speed can be preset by the point of stroke with the help of limit switches, proximity switches, liner encoders and potentiometer. Ask for Price 'H' Type Or Fabricated 4-Column Type Press REQUEST CALLBACK Click to Zoom Yes! I am Interested We deal with offering a unique range of 'H' Type Or Fabricated 4-Column Type Press which is constructed from top quality raw materials. These presses ensure durability, strength and high performance and a guaranteed performance with efficiency & speed. With sturdy construction, corrosion resistance and good functionality these are widely used in various industrial sectors. Ask for Price 'C' Frame Type Press REQUEST CALLBACK Click to Zoom Yes! I am Interested Backed by the well developed manufacturing unit, we generate a new range of 'C' Frame Type Press which are specially designed for various operations where high force concentration is required in a relatively small area. Enabled with ample throat and open sides, these presses are available in various designs and specifications to suit the varied requirements of our clients. With easy installation, high speed and large productivity these are offered at cost competitive price. Types: ·         Open back inclinable (OBI) Open-back stationery (OBS) Applications: C Frame Type Presses are used for various jobs like straightening, punching, molding, bending, drawing, assembling, riveting and other general purposes. Ask for Price Hydraulic Cylinder REQUEST CALLBACK Click to Zoom Yes! I am Interested Looking for Hydraulic Press ? Thank you Your Enquiry has been sent successfully. Mr. Ms. Mrs. Dr.   Your Contact Information: (not me)   Our Product Range Coco Peat   Industrial Coco Peat Machine Coco Peat Grow Bag Machine Coir Pith Machine   Coir Pith Grow Bag Machine Industrial Coir Pith Machine Coir Pith Machine Hydraulic Press   Deep Draw Press Cold Forging Press Hydraulic Forming Press Briquetting Machine view all » Deep Drawing Presses   Double Action Deep Drawing Presses With Blank Holders Counter Drawing Or Reverse Drawing Presses Single Action Drawing Presses Molding Press   Upstroking Type Compression Moulding Press Downstroking FRP Compression Moulding Press Rubber Molding Press Transfer Molding Press Hydraulic Cylinder   Industrial Hydraulic Cylinder Cylinders Mini Power Pack   Hydraulic Mini Power Pack Mini Power Pack SPM Hydraulic Power Pack Model Scarpe Baling   Four Pillar Press Machine   Grow Bag Machine   Coir Pith Machine for Cutting Fibers   Coir Pith Machine for 5kg Block Coco Peat Machine for Cutting Husk Chips   Coco Peat Machine for Cutting Husk Chips Deep Draw Press for Manufacturing Oil Tanks   Deep Draw Press for Manufacturing Oil Tanks Coir pith product   5 Kg Coir Pith Block Coir Pith Grow Bag Coir Pith 650 Gms Block Coir Disk Neem Prdouct   Neem Oil Neem Cake Neem Cake Powder Coir fiber product   Coir 2 And 3 Play Yarn 100kg Coir Fiber Bale Curled Coir Rope Corporate Brochure Corporate Information Profile Our Product Range Site Map Contact Us Mobile Site Contact Information Sun Hydro Systems, Chenna K. G. Saravanan  (Managing Director) Address: No. 57 G, 7th Street, SIDCO Industrial Estate, Ambattur Chennai - 600098 , Tamil Nadu , India Quick Contact Send SMS Send E-mail © Sun Hydro Systems, Chenna . All Rights Reserved ( Terms of Use ) Developed and Managed by IndiaMART InterMESH Limited