Rajasthan Weather Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Rajasthan Travel Tourist Map Shopping Hotels in Rajasthan Resorts in Rajasthan Food How to Reach Places to Visit in Rajasthan Albert Hall Museum Jal Mahal Hawa Mahal Jantar Mantar Ranthambore National Park Sariska National Park Bandeshwar Temple Rani Satiji Temple Galta Temple Amber Fort The City Palace Kumbhalgarh Fort Mehrangarh Fort Bandeshwar Temple Cities to Visit in Rajasthan Ajmer Travel Barmer Travel Bharatpur Travel Bikaner Travel Bundi Travel Chittaurgarh Travel Fatehpur Travel Jaipur Travel Jaisalmer Travel Jodhpur Travel Kota Travel Kumbhalgarh Travel Mandawa Travel Mount Abu Travel Mukundgarh Travel Nawalgarh Travel Pushkar Travel Ranakpur Travel Samode Travel Sawai Madhopur Travel Shekhawati Travel Udaipur Travel Neemrana Travel Forts and Palaces Amber Fort Jaigarh Fort Kumbhalgarh Fort Mehrangarh Fort Nahargarh Fort The City Palace Rajasthan Hotels Ajmer Hotels Jaipur Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels more... About Rajasthan Weather History Culture Events in Rajasthan Desert Festival Bikaner Camel Festival Pushkar Festival Jaipur Literature Festival Summer Festival more... Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Maps » Rajasthan » Geography History » Rajasthan Weather Rajasthan Weather The state of Rajasthan located in the western part of India has varying climate like its varying topography. The rocky Aravali, the western arid plains, the eastern fertile plains experiences different climatic conditions. The weather or climate of the Rajasthan can be broadly classified into four distint seasons. They are - Pre-monsoon Monsoon Post-monsoon Winter Pre-monsoon This season is the most parched and sultry season of the year. It is actually the hot season that precedes the monsoon and extends from April to June. The temperature ranges from 32 degree Celsius to 45 degree Celsius. The desert in the west and the north west of the Aravali region becomes drier due to the scorching heat of the sun and the highest temperature is recorded about 45-48 degree Celsius during May and June. The sole hill station of the state - Mount Abu records the lowest temperature. In the arid regions however temperature falls steeply at night. Heavy winds blow from the western boundary and bring dust storms are known as Andhi. Monsoon The monsoon brings relief to the sultry and sun-baked terrain of Rajasthan during the month of June in the eastern region and mid- July in the western arid regions. The temperature drops from 40 to 35 degree. With the fall in temperature, humidity increases. The state receives maximum rainfall during this period. There is a second phase of monsoon that continues from July to September. Post-Monsoon This season is followed by the monsoon that commences from mid-September and continues till November. This season is once again characterized by heat and the average maximum temperature varies from 33 degrees C. to 38 degrees C. The average minimum temperature is between 18 degrees C and 20 degrees C. Winter The season with most favorable conditions is winter. In fact it is the beat time for the visiting Rajasthan. The glorious beauty of Rajasthan can only be experienced during this season. Winter in Rajasthan extends from December to March and January is the coldest month of the year. Temperature varies throughout the state and the lowest temperature recorded is 0 degree C especially in the Churu (city). There is slight rainfall in the north and north eastern region of the state. During this period, relative humidity ranges from 50% to 60% in the morning and 25% to 35%during noon time. On the average basis, winter temperatures range from 8° to 28° C (46° to 82° F). Average rainfall The Average rainfall varies throughout the state. The western part that consists of the desert receives an annual rainfall of 100 mm (about 4 inches) .The South Eastern part of Rajasthan receives annually 650 mm (26 inches). The state receives a maximum rainfall during the monsoon season during the months of July to September. The average temperature experienced by the state is Months January to March April to June July to September October to December Temperature 35°C - 25°C 35°C - 45°C 30°C - 40°C 20°C - 30°C Last Updated on : 01 December 2011 About Rajasthan Weather History Culture About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule