Ramakrishna Paramahansa India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Religious & Spiritual Gurus » Ramakrishna Paramhansa   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Ramakrishna Paramhansa One of the leading Hindu spiritual leaders in 19th century Bengal, nay entire India, Ramakrishna Paramhansa was born as Gadadhar Chattopadhyay on February 18, 1836 in Kamarpukur, in Hooghly district of West Bengal . Born into a poor family who lived a hand to mouth existence, Ramakrishna was neither interested in going to school nor in business. He was a non-conformist and questioned existing beliefs and conventions. Ramakrishna's elder brother Ramkumar started a Sanskrit school in Kolkata and sometimes also served as a priest. During this time, a rich lady of Kolkata, Rani Rashmoni, founded a temple at Dakshineswar. She approached Ramkumar to serve as priest in that temple. Ramkumar agreed and the mantle passed on to Ramkrishna when Ramkumar retired. As Ramakrishna started worshipping the deity Bhavatarini, many a question started to trouble him. He started praying to Goddess Kali to reveal Herself to him and one fine day, Ramkrishna is said to have seen light coming from the deity. This incident changed his life overnight and began to flock to him from far and wide. Ramakrishna emphasised that the realization of the existence of God is the supreme goal of all living beings. For him, various religions were only a means to reach the Absolute. This great saint passed away on August 16, 1886. Among his most famous disciples was Swami Vivekananda, who became famous across the world in his own right.   Related Links   Spiritual gurus Abdul Rahim Khan-e-Khana Ramkrishna Paramhansa Gautama Buddha Sri Sathya Sai Baba Mata Amritanandamayi Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Last Updated on : February 3, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule