Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> Centres >> Centre for Finance Centre for finance The Centre for Finance (CF) is an integral part of the central office, collating financial functions across programmes, centres and thematic organisations of the DHAN Collective. The main aim of the centre is to build a transparent and fool proof financial management system at all levels of the DHAN Collective. The centre evolves financial policies for the organisation and other institutions in DHAN Collective and people's organisations. The centre ensures online accounting system with the support of accounting software packages and builds capacity of accountants and finance managers for it. The centre facilitates the audit process and statutory compliances of DHAN Collective institutions and People Organisations promoted by it. With a sound internal auditing system and continued interaction with the panel of Charted Accountants constituted for these institutions, the Centre ensures regular appraisal and feedback for the quality of books and expenses. The centre develops operational accounting manuals and provides ICAI-formulated accounting guidelines for quality audit standards to ensure uniformity in programmes and institutions of the DHAN Collective. The centre also coordinates Employees Provident Fund scheme with the government -owned Employees Provident Fund Organisation. Further it also manages the Staff Gratuity Funds with LIC of India. In addition to managing staff group accident and medi-claim policies with insurance companies, the Centre also manages legal compliances and corpus investments. It could ensure systems for budget monitoring and approval through Financial Responsibility Centres (FRCs). ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved