Ameen Sayani India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » News and Media » Ameen Sayani   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Ameen Sayani Ameen Sayani is famous for his golden voice. He has compered programs on radio and television. He started his career in radio in 1951 with Radio Ceylon and won the heart of millions with 'Binaca Geetmala'on AIR. At present he hosts a show on RED FM and also produces a few shows for the network. During his career of over 50 years, he has produced and compered more than 54,000 radio programmes and 19,000 jingles. Ameen Sayani was born in 1932, in a patriotic family which was deeply involved with Indian struggle of independence. He studied in eminent schools like New Era in Bombay and Scindia School in Gwalior and graduated from St. Xavier's College in Bombay. From 1945 to 1960, Ameen Sayani helped his mother Kulsum Sayani in editing the journal "Rahber", published fortnightly for neo-literates, started by Mahatma Gandhi. The journal was also published in the Devnagri (Hindi), Urdu and Gujarati scripts. He was an expert in communicating in clear and credible Hindi. Ameen Sayani's brother, Hamid was an eminent broadcaster in English, who introduced him into stage acting and direction, compering, writing at an early age and later to All-India Radio. He was associated with All-India Radio, Bombay for ten years, where he conducted programmes in English. With the help of his brother Hamid, he entered the Indian agency of the Commercial Service of Radio Ceylon and shifted from English to Hindustani. He took part in radio shows and commercials for All-India Radio when its Commercial Service started on its network "Vividh Bharati". Ameen Sayani participated in many popular national radio shows including: " Binaca Geetmala" broadcasted since 1952, mainly over Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation and later over Vividh Bharati (AIR), for over 42 years. The program was later revived after 7 years - and was aired over the National Network of Vividh Bharati as "Colgate Cibaca Geetmala", till August 2003. "S. Kumars Ka Filmi Muqaddama" and "Filmi Mulaqaat" aierd over SLBC and Vividh Bharati for 7 years. "Saridon Ke Saathi" was AIR's first sponsored show, which was aired for 4 years. "Bournvita Quiz Contest" broadcasted for 8 years. "Shalimar Superlac Jodi" broadcasted for 7 years. Few of Ameen Sayani's successful international radio shows are "Mini Insertions of Filmstar Interviews" was aired over the British Broadcasting Corporation's Ethnic Network in the U.K.; "Music For The Millions" for the BBC's World Service Radio; "Veetee Ka Hungama" aired over Sunrise Radio, London; "Geetmala Ki Yaaden" over Radio Ummul Quwain, UAE; "Hangamay" over ethnic radio stations in Toronto, Washington, Houston, Los Angeles, San Fransisco and Boston. Ameen Sayani has also been associated with various organisations and committees : Founder member and also the President of Radio & TV Advertising Practitioners' Association from 1984 to 1987 Founder member of the Advertising Standards Council Of India and the Chairman from 1989-90. Member of the Council For Public Service Communication since its formation. Member of Advertising Club, Bombay . For his exceptional contribution Ameen Sayani has been felicitated with many awards: Living Legend Award (2006) from Federation OF Indian Chambers OF Commerce & Industry, with India Radio Forum Dadasaheb Phalke Award (2003) Kaan Hall Of Fame Award (2003) from Radio Mirchi (FM Network of the Times Group) : Golden Abby by Advertising Club, Bombay (2000 ) Hall Of Fame Award (1993) fromIndian Academy Of Advertising Film Art (IAAFA) Person Of The Year Award (1992) Limca Book Of Records Gold medal(1991) from Indian Society Of Advertisers (ISA) presented by Mr. K.R. Narayanan, who was then Vice-President of India   Related Links   Electronic media Ameen Sayani Subhash Chandra Prannoy Roy Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule