Travel to Darjeeling - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Darjeeling Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Darjeeling Places to Visit in Darjeeling Happy Valley Tea Garden Darjeeling Himalayan Railway Tiger Hill Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park Dhirdham Temple Observatory Hill St. Andrew's Church War Memorial Peace Pagoda Chowrasta and the Mall Cities to Visit near Darjeeling Siliguri Travel Kolkata Travel Nabadwip Travel Barrackpore Travel Hooghly Travel Howrah Travel Murshidabad Travel West Bengal Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach West Bengal Hotels Getting Around Places to Visit in West Bengal Home » Darjeeling » » Travel to Darjeeling Travel to Darjeeling Tourist Map of Darjeeling Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing the tourist places in Darjeeling. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Darjeeling Tourism Darjeeling, also fondly known as the "Queen of hill stations", is nestled in the Himalayas and is famous for its tea production and the Darjeeling Himalayan Railways, which is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site. This hill town was developed in the mid 19th century, when the British set up a sanatorium and a military depot in Darjeeling. Before this, Darjeeling was the ancient Gorkha capital. Later, the Maharaja of Sikkim gifted Darjeeling to the British. Darjeeling continues to be a popular holiday destination in India, owing to its scenic beauty and pleasant climate. Apart from tourism, Darjeeling is also popular for its many British style public schools, which attract students from across India and even neighbouring countries. Best Time to Visit Darjeeling The best time to visit Darjeeling is from September to June Places to see in Darjeeling Tiger Hill Observatory Hill St. Andrew's Church War Memorial Peace Pagoda The Darjeeling Himalayan Railway Chowrasta and the Mall Happy Valley Tea Garden Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park Dhirdham Temple How to Reach Darjeeling Being a popular tourist destination, Darjeeling is well connected to other parts of the country. Here is how one can reach Darjeeling. By Train The nearest Broad gauge railway station to Darjeeling is at New Jalpaiguri. Trains from all over India reach this station. Following is a list of trains which reach this station from major cities of India. From Delhi :  Sikkim Mahananda Express/15484 North East Express/12506 New Delhi-Dibrugarh Town Rajdhani Express/12424 New Delhi-New Jalpaiguri SF Express/12524 Brahmaputra Mail/14056 Poorvottar Sampark Kranti Express/12502 More Trains... From Mumbai :  Mumbai LTT-Guwahati Express/15645 Mumbai LTT-Guwahati Weekly Express(Via Bhagalpur)/15647 Mumbai LTT - Kamakhya Karmabhoomi Express (UnReserved)/15611 More Trains... From Kolkata :  Kanchanjunga Express/15657 Teesta Torsa Express/13141 Howrah - New Jalpaiguri Shatabdi Express/12041 Saraighat Express/12345 Kamrup Express/15959 Uttar Banga Express/13147 Kanchan Kanya Express/13149 Darjeeling Mail/12343 Padatik Express/12377 More Trains... From Chennai :  Chennai-NewJalpaiguri SF Express/22611 Chennai Egmore-Dibrugarh Weekly Express/15929 Yesvantpur-Dibrugarh Express/15901 Bangalore Guwahati SF Express/12509 Trivandrum Central - Guwahati Express/12515 More Trains... By Road Darjeeling has a strong road network and is well connected by regular buses to neighbouring cities like Siliguri, Kurseong, Gangtok and Kalimpong. By Air The nearest airport to Darjeeling is Bagdogra near Siliguri, which is located at a distance of 68 km from Darjeeling. This airport is connected by regular flights to Delhi, Kolkata and Guwahati. Hotels in Darjeeling Darjeeling has a plethora of hotels to choose from. Prices shoot up during peak season and it is advised to book in advance to secure a good hotel. Budget Hotels in Darjeeling :  Andy's Guesthouse Dr. Zakir Hussain Rd Darjeeling Dekeling Hotel 51 Gandhi Rd Darjeeling 734101 Phone Number: 096 79 734048 Hotel Tower View TV Tower Dr. Zakir Hussain Road Darjeeling 73410 More Hotels... Mid Range Hotels in Darjeeling :  Hotel Seven Seventeen H.D. Lama Road Darjeeling 734101 Main Olde Bellevue Chowrasta The Mall Darjeeling More Hotels... Top End Hotels in Darjeeling :  Mayfair Darjeeling Opposite Governor House Darjeeling 734101 http://www.mayfairhotels.com/mayfair-darjeeling/ Windamere Hotel Observatory Hill Darjeeling 734101 Phone Number: 0354 225 4041 http://www.windamerehotel.com/ More Hotels... Shopping in Darjeeling There's plenty to keep shoppers happy in Darjeeling. Head to Nehru Road and then to Chowrasta, which are dotted with shops from where you can purchase souvenirs and gift items. Some popular local, handmade items in Darjeeling are the Khukri, which is essentially a curved knife with a decorative handle. Other traditional items one can pick up in Darjeeling are Tibetan masks, local jewellery items, woolen items, shawls and pashminas. Tirupathi Handloom Emporium is a good place to pick up shawls and jackets at a fixed price. Before leaving don't forget to pick up a few packets of the world famous Darjeeling tea, which can be purchased from a popular store by the name of House of Tea. Darjeeling Cusine :  People native to Darjeeling enjoy eating rice with beef and lentils. Other popular local dishes are Momos (dumplings stuffed with meat or vegetables), Thukpa (a thick soup made with meat and noodles), Gundruk (fermented mustard leaves) and Chang (local beer). Darjeeling Restaurants When in Darjeeling don't forget to sample the many delicious local dishes, here are a few restaurants you can enjoy some local as well as other interesting cuisine. Sonam's Kitchen :  Famous for their breakfast menu, Soman serves some delicious French toast, pancakes and sandwiches. Apart from that, do try their soups and pasta as well. Glenary's :  This restaurant is famous for its Continental fare and also Chinese food, and tandoori items. Park Restaurant :  This restaurant is the place to go if you're longing to have some authentic Thai dishes. One of the most famous items on their menu is Tom Kha Gai, which is a delicious coconut and chicken soup. Kunga's :  A small family run joint, Kunga's is famous for its momos, noodles and fresh fruit juices. Hasty Tasty :  This simple vegetarian restaurant serves some of the best Masala Dosa you will find in Darjeeling. Last Updated on : 24 July 2013   Darjeeling Tour   Red Panda Darjeeling Train Sunrise from Tiger Hill Darjeeling Tea Darjeeling Calling Hotels in West Bengal Asansol Hotels Bolpur Hotels Burdwan Hotels Calcutta Hotels Chalsa Hotels Darjeeling Hotels Durgapur Hotels Haldia Hotels Howrah Hotels Jalpaiguri Hotels Kalimpong Hotels Kolkata Hotels Krishnanagar Hotels Malda Hotels Midnapur Hotels Purba Midnapur Hotels Siliguri Hotels Sunderban Hotels Travel to West Bengal Travel to Kalimpong Travel to Kolkata Travel to Nakhoda Masjid Travel to Siliguri Places to Visit in West Bengal Places to visit in Darjeeling Places to visit in Kalimpong Places to visit in Kolkata Places to visit in Sliguri About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule