Gulf of Thailand - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Gulf of Thailand From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search Gulf of Thailand Gulf of Siam Location of the gulf Location Southeast Asia Type Gulf Primary inflows South China Sea Surface area 320,000 km 2 (120,000 sq mi) Average depth 58 m (190 ft) Max. depth 85 m (279 ft) The Gulf of Thailand , historically known as the Gulf of Siam , is a shallow arm of the South China Sea [ 1 ] bordered by Cambodia , Thailand , and Vietnam . Contents 1 Names 2 Geography 2.1 Bays 2.2 Islands 3 Tourism 4 Territorial disputes 5 See also 6 References Names [ edit ] The modern Thai name of the gulf is Ao Thai ( Thai : อ่าวไทย ,   [ʔàːw tʰāj]  ( listen ) , "Thai Gulf") and "Gulf of Thailand" has been adopted as the official name of the body by the International Hydrographic Organization . [ 2 ] [ when? ] Its name in Malay and Khmer continues to be the "Gulf of Siam" ( Teluk Siam and Chhoung Samut Siem , respectively). In Thai, the gulf is historically known as Ao Sayam ( Thai : อ่าวสยาม ). [ 3 ] It is generally identified with the Great Gulf ( Latin : Magnus Sinus ) known to Greek , Roman , Arab , Persian , and Renaissance cartographers before the influx of Portuguese explorers removed the phantom Dragon Tail peninsula from European world maps during the 16th century. Geography [ edit ] The Gulf of Thailand is bordered by Cambodia , Thailand , and Vietnam . It occupies a seabed area of 304,000 km 2 from 6° N to 13°30' N latitude and 99°E to 104° E longitude. [ 4 ] :250 The northern tip of the gulf is the Bay of Bangkok at the mouth of the Chao Phraya River . The southern boundary of the gulf is defined by the line from Cape Bai Bung in southern Vietnam (just south of the mouth of the Mekong river) to the city Kota Bharu on the Malaysian coast. The Gulf of Thailand is relatively shallow: its mean depth is 58 metres (190 ft) and the maximum depth is only 85 metres (279 ft). [ 4 ] :250 This makes water exchange slow, and the strong water inflow from the rivers reduce the salinity in the gulf (3.05–3.25%) and enrich the sediments . Only at the greater depths does water with a higher salinity (3.4%) flow into the gulf from the South China Sea . It fills the central depression below a depth of 50 metres (160 ft). The main rivers which empty into the gulf are the Chao Phraya, including its distributary Tha Chin River , the Mae Klong , and Bang Pakong Rivers at the Bay of Bangkok , and to a lesser degree the Tapi River flowing into Bandon Bay in the southwest gulf. Map showing the location of the gulf The International Hydrographic Organization defines the southern limit of the Gulf of Thailand or Siam as "A line running from the Western extreme of Cambodia or Camau Point (8°36'N) to the Northern extreme of the point on the East side of the estuary of the Kelantan River ( 6°14′N 102°15′E ﻿ / ﻿ 6.233°N 102.250°E ﻿ / 6.233; 102.250 )". [ 2 ] Despite what the definition claims, Camau Point is in Vietnam . Bays [ edit ] Bay of Bangkok , Prachuap Bay , Ao Manao , Sattahip Bay . Islands [ edit ] See also: List of islands of Thailand The following are some of the most important islands in the Gulf: Ko Samui , Ko Pha Ngan , Ko Tao , Ko Phaluai , Ko Sichang , Ko Lan , Ko Phai , Ko Khram , Ko Samae San , Ko Samet . Tourism [ edit ] The Gulf of Thailand harbours many coral reefs that are suitable locations for diving resorts. The tropical warmth of the water attracts many tourists. Some of the most important tourist destinations in the Gulf of Thailand are the islands of Ko Samui and Ko Pha Ngan in Surat Thani Province , Pattaya in Chonburi Province , Cha-Am in Phetchaburi Province , Hua Hin in Prachuap Khiri Khan Province , Ko Samet . In recent years, the bay has become world-renowned for its whale watching activities, targeting the endemic, critically endangered populations of cetaceans ( Eden's Whales and Chinese White Dolphins and Irrawaddy Dolphins showing unique feeding behaviors) and Dugongs . Territorial disputes [ edit ] The area between Malaysia, Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam is subject to several territorial disputes. Malaysia and Thailand have chosen to jointly develop the disputed areas, which include the islands of Ko Kra and Ko Losin . [ citation needed ] A long-standing dispute between Cambodia and Vietnam in the Gulf of Thailand concerns mainly the island of Phú Quốc or Koh Tral in Khmer, which is located off the Cambodian coast. [ 5 ] Cambodia also claims 48,000 square kilometres (19,000 sq mi) of shelf area . [ 6 ] See also [ edit ] 2010 Thailand floods References [ edit ] ^ Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society ^ a b "47.—Gulf of Thailand (Siam)", Limits of Oceans and Seas, 3rd edition (PDF) , International Hydrographic Organization, 1953, p. 23 , retrieved 7 February 2010   ^ ระยะทางเสด็จฯ ประพาสชายทะเลอ่าวสยาม พ.ศ. 2470 [A report on the royal travel through the Gulf of Siam, 1927] (PDF) . Royal Thai Government Gazette (in Thai) (Bangkok: Cabinet Secretariat) 88 (D): 44. 1927-05-22 . Retrieved 2014-03-08 .   ^ a b Khongchai, Narongsak; Vibunpant, Somchai; Eiamsa-ard, Monton; Supongpan, Mala. "Preliminary Analysis of Demersal Fish Assemblages in Coastal Waters of the Gulf of Thailand" (PDF) . Worldfish . Retrieved 19 Feb 2015 .   ^ John Robert Victor Prescott, Boundaries and frontiers ^ Paul Ganster & David E. Lorey, Borders and border politics in a globalizing world. v t e Earth 's oceans and seas Arctic Ocean Amundsen Gulf Barents Sea Beaufort Sea Chukchi Sea East Siberian Sea Greenland Sea Gulf of Boothia Kara Sea Laptev Sea Lincoln Sea Prince Gustav Adolf Sea Pechora Sea Wandel Sea White Sea Atlantic Ocean Adriatic Sea Aegean Sea Alboran Sea Archipelago Sea Argentine Sea Baffin Bay Balearic Sea Baltic Sea Bay of Biscay Bay of Bothnia Bay of Campeche Bay of Fundy Black Sea Bothnian Sea Caribbean Sea Celtic Sea English Channel Foxe Basin Greenland Sea Gulf of Bothnia Gulf of Finland Gulf of Lion Gulf of Guinea Gulf of Maine Gulf of Mexico Gulf of Saint Lawrence Gulf of Sidra Gulf of Venezuela Hudson Bay Ionian Sea Irish Sea Irminger Sea James Bay Labrador Sea Levantine Sea Libyan Sea Ligurian Sea Marmara Sea Mediterranean Sea Myrtoan Sea North Sea Norwegian Sea Sargasso Sea Sea of Åland Sea of Azov Sea of Crete Sea of the Hebrides Thracian Sea Tyrrhenian Sea Wadden Sea Indian Ocean Andaman Sea Arabian Sea Bay of Bengal Gulf of Tadjoura Gulf of Aden Gulf of Aqaba Gulf of Khambhat Gulf of Kutch Gulf of Oman Gulf of Martaban Gulf of Suez Laccadive Sea Mozambique Channel Persian Gulf Red Sea Timor Sea Pacific Ocean Arafura Sea Bali Sea Banda Sea Bering Sea Bismarck Sea Bohai Sea Bohol Sea Camotes Sea Celebes Sea Ceram Sea Chilean Sea Coral Sea East China Sea Flores Sea Gulf of Alaska Gulf of Anadyr Gulf of California Gulf of Carpentaria Gulf of Fonseca Gulf of Panama Gulf of Thailand Gulf of Tonkin Halmahera Sea Java Sea Koro Sea Mar de Grau Molucca Sea Moro Gulf Philippine Sea Salish Sea Savu Sea Sea of Japan Sea of Okhotsk Seto Inland Sea Sibuyan Sea Solomon Sea South China Sea Sulu Sea Tasman Sea Visayan Sea Yellow Sea Southern Ocean Amundsen Sea Bellingshausen Sea Cooperation Sea Cosmonauts Sea Davis Sea D'Urville Sea Great Australian Bight King Haakon VII Sea Lazarev Sea Riiser-Larsen Sea Mawson Sea Ross Sea Scotia Sea Somov Sea Weddell Sea Landlocked seas Aral Sea Caspian Sea Dead Sea Book   · Category Coordinates : 09°30′N 102°00′E ﻿ / ﻿ 9.500°N 102.000°E ﻿ / 9.500; 102.000 Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gulf_of_Thailand&oldid=657120032 " Categories : Gulf of Thailand Gulfs of the Pacific Ocean Geography of Southeast Asia Bodies of water of Thailand Bodies of water of Malaysia Bodies of water of Cambodia Bodies of water of Vietnam South China Sea Cambodia–Vietnam border Cambodia–Thailand border Malaysia–Vietnam border Hidden categories: Wikipedia infobox body of water articles without coordinates Articles containing Thai-language text Vague or ambiguous time from March 2015 Articles containing Latin-language text All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from March 2010 Coordinates on Wikidata CS1 uses Thai-language script (th) CS1 Thai-language sources (th) Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans العربية Azərbaycanca Башҡортса Беларуская Български Bosanski Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Dolnoserbski Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Frysk Galego 한국어 Հայերեն Hornjoserbsce Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano עברית