Assam Monuments and Museums Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Assam Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Asaam Places to Visit in Assam National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Kamakhya Temple Temples in Assam Kamakhya Temple Nabagraha Temple Rudreswar Temple Monuments and Museums Rang Ghar The planetarium Gargaon Palace Namdang Stone Bridge Charaideo Majuli Island Tourist Destinations in Assam Travel to Manas Travel to Haflong Travel to Dispur Travel to Guwahati Assam Hotels Hotels in Guwahati Hotels in Dibrugarh Hotels in Tezpur Hotels in Jorhat Hotels in Kaziranga About Assam Geography History Home » Assam » Assam Tourism » Assam Monuments and Museums Assam Monuments and Museums The Assam Museum is the state museum in Assam . The collections here display the rich cultural heritage of the state of Assam. It is the place where you can realize the diversity of the Assamese culture. This museum of Assam is located in the city of Guwahati. This wonderful museum is a result of the efforts of a group of researchers who wanted to study the development of the cultural patterns in Assam. Their several collections formed the basic nucleus of this museum. Some of the rarest examples of the Assamese sculptures, paintings and other handicrafts are displayed in this museum in Assam.This museum came into existence in the 20th century. Some of the finest metal works of the earlier days are stored in this place. Apart from these there is also a fantastic collection of the ancient coins, objects made of terracotta and wood, textiles and some fascinating examples of tribal art. Statues of the historically famous Kamarupas form a major attraction of this museum. The Kamarupas were the legendary kings who ruled this land during the 13th century.There are also some bronze items in the museum that attract much attention. The bells and the mukhalinga are the most popular among them.You can visit the Assam State Museum between 10:00 am and 4:30 pm during the summer months. During the winters the museum remains open for visitors from 9:30 am to 4 pm.The Assam Museum remains closed on all the Mondays, the second Saturday of every month and on other government holidays. Museums and Monuments in Assam Rang Ghar The Rang Ghar of Assam is an entertainment house. It is situated very close to the Gargaon Palace. It has a royal origin. It is said that the kings of the Ahom dynasty used to watch different sports from here. It is a two-story structure. This pavilion is oval in shape. The Rang Ghar in Assam is known to be one of the earliest such pavilions of India. This outdoor stadium was constructed between the years of 1744-1751. It was built by the king Pramatta Singha. This a fascinating structure. During the early days the Rang Ghar of Assam was mainly used for watching elephant fights. The pavilion is 10 meter in height. Its length and width are 27 meter and 11 meter respectively. There is a wonderful ground just in front of the Rang Ghar. Probably it was the venue for the different sports that the royal personalities used to watch from the pavilion. A very steep flight of steps will reach you to the higher points of the pavilion. These were supposedly the places from where the kings and other royal dignitaries used to enjoy the sports competitions. The Rang Ghar of the Ahom kings is famous for its rich architectural beauty. It is constructed of specially made slim baked bricks. They were not aware of the use of cement. As a mortar for this construction a paste of rice and eggs was used. This is one of the unique features of the buildings established by the Ahom kings. There is a meadow of considerably large width around the Rang Ghar. Most probably it was meant for the use of the common people. The planetarium It is an important center for scientific and astronomical studies. There are also several educational courses on astronomy offered in this place. They also arrange for lectures and discussion sessions to encourage the students. There are regular shows depicting the planetary movements and other astronomical details that attract visitors of all age groups. These shows are held regularly and are very enriching as well. Kareng Ghar & Talatal Ghar Kareng Ghar & Talatal Ghar are historical monuments that once served as the military station of the Ahom kings. The structures were built during 1696 to 1714 by the famous king Rudra Singha. The architectural magnificence of the structure attracts many tourists and researchers every year. This is a seven-story structure. While the three floors that are under the ground are called the Talatal Ghar, the rest of the floors above the ground level are referred to as the Kareng Ghar. There are two secret tunnels in the Talatal Ghar. The Kareng Ghar & Talatal Ghar of Assam is located very close to the Sibasagar town. This historical town was the capital of the powerful rulers of the famous Ahom dynasty. They ruled this region from here for a span of about six hundred years. Their rule came to an end after the advent of the British in India. There is a 200-year-old tank here, known as the Sibsagar Tank that attracts many tourists to this place. The town is also a home to some of the very ancient temples of Assam. This historical monument of Assam is about 6 km away from the main town. It was built here to ensure safety to the Gargaon Palace, the residence of the Ahom rulers. The successors of the king Rudra Singha made much alterations and additions to the original structure of the Kareng Ghar & Talatal Ghar. In order to know more of the rich historical background of the land of Assam a visit to the Kareng Ghar & Talatal Ghar on your trip is a must. Gargaon Palace The Gargaon Palace in Assam is an exquisite structure built in the year of 1540 by the fifteenth Ahom king. His name was king Sukhlenmung. This sixteenth century palace is situated very near the town of Sibsagar. Gargaon was the capital town of the Ahoms. The old structure of the palace was destroyed sometime in the 18th century. After that the present seven-story structure of palace was rebuilt in the year 1762. The patron of this structure was the renowned king Rajeswar Singha. The Palace of Gargaon is famous for its beautiful architecture. The structure is mainly built of wood and stones. This combination gives the palace an elegant appeal. The rest is built of slim baked bricks. This was the specialty of the Ahoms. The Ahoms were not aware of the use of cement. Thus they used a paste of rice and eggs as the mortar while constructing buildings. The Gargaon Palace is surrounded by a huge wall made of baked bricks. The length of this wall is about five kilometers. It was built by Swargadeo Parmatta Singha in the year of 1747. During the same year the masonry gate was also built. This palace is located about 14 km east of the Sibsagar town. The Gargaon Palace of Assam is only 3 km away from the Simaluguri railway station near Nazira. Thus it is a very short journey from this place. You can also visit the Rang Ghar, which was built by the same patrons. In order to discover the rich cultural heritage of the Assamese tradition the Gargaon Palace is a must visit. Charaideo Charaideo was established by the Ahom kings who ruled the land of Assam for over six hundred years. This was the first capital of the Ahom kingdom. The famous Swargadeo Supakha is known as the patron of this historical palce. The hillock of Charaideo was considered to be sacred by the people of the Ahom dynasty. They believed this place to be the home to their ancestral gods. This place served as their holy burial ground. This place is located at the foothills of Nagaland. Its distance from the historical town of Sibsagar is about 30 km. It is situated towards the east of this town. The landscape here is fascinating. There are many tombs of Ahom kings and queens in this place. The architectural splendor of these burial places is worth noticing. Some historians even compared these structures with the magnificence of the pyramids of Egypt. They well exemplify the uniqueness of architectural skills of the Assamese people in the ancient past. The technically developed skills of the sculptors of then contemporary Assam are well displayed by these fascinating objects. The Sibsagar tank was built in this region by was built in the year 1734. It was according to the wish of the second queen of the Ahom ruler Siva Singha that this tank was dug. The Sibsagar tank was constructed to celebrate the victory Siva Singha in a war. So the tank was named after him. Many researchers and students of history visit the Charaideo to study the golden past of the land of Assam. Namdang Stone Bridge Namdang Stone Bridge was constructed over the Namdang River in Assam. The uniqueness of the bridge lies in the fact that it was cut out from a single piece of rock. It is located only a few kilometers away from the town of Sibsagar. This was built in the year 1703. The land was then under the ruled of king Rudra Singha of Ahom dynasty. This stone bridge on Namdang River was constructed by the craftsmen of Bengal. Later it was brought from there. This bridge is one of the magnificent structures built under the patronage of the Ahom kings. This bridge is thus also famous for its historical importance. Some of the other famous structures built by the Ahom kings are the Gargaon Palace, Joysagar Tank, Rang Ghar, Kareng Ghar and Talatal Ghar, Rudrasagar Tank, Charaideo, etc. This bridge is worth visiting for its architectural splendor. You can visit this place on a trip to the Indian state of Assam. Presently the National Highway 37 passes over the Namdang Stone Bridge of Assam. Last Updated on 10 May 2011 Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Travel to Assam Travel to Dispur Travel to Manas Travel to Haflong Places to visit in Assam Places to visit in Guwahati Travel to Guwahati About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule