Amritsar Home » Amritsar   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Amritsar Amritsar Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now Located in the North West region of India, the most striking feature about Amritsar is its antiquity. In Hindi the word Amritsar means 'a Holy pool of nectar' and it was back in the year 1573 that work for digging the Holy pool had begun. One of the ancient cities of India, the most important fact about Amritsar is that it is the main seat of Sikh history and culture. The city itself was founded by the Sikh Guru, Guru Ram Das, and till present times it is the spiritual and temporal center of Sikh culture with the Golden Temple in Amritsar as its nucleus. In depth study about Amritsar reveals the undulating historical experience of the city. From the demolition of the Golden Temple to the tragedy of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, Amritsar has seen the worst of situations and yet emerged like a phoenix through testing times. Even recently, Amritsar had fallen prey to the terrorist activities which hundreds of lives. Amritsar today is a thriving city with active trade and tourism industries. One of the most agriculturally productive cities of India, Amritsar is well connected with most of the important cities of India. Amritsar is the administrative headquarter of the district of Amritsar in Punjab and has a total population of around 1,000,000. It is easy to be familiar about Amritsar weather as it is divided into four distinct seasons. The winter months, which prevail from the month of November to March, experiences a temperature between 18 °C to -3 °C. April to June are the summer months and the temperature can be as bad as 46 °C. The monsoon and post monsoon season stretches from July to November. Last Updated on 07/25/2013 About Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Travel Places to Visit Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Wagah Border Jallianwala Bagh Ram Bagh Amritsar Locality Maps Adarsh Nagar Ajit Nagar Ajnala Road Albert Road Amar Avenue Amritsar Cantonment Antaryami Colony Azad Nagar Basant Avenue Batala Road Bharat Nagar Chheharta Circular Road Court Road Dashmesh Nagar Dayanand Nagar Faquir Singh Colony Fatehgarh Churian Road G.T. Road Godbind Nagar Golden Avenue Green Avenue GT Road Gumtala Gurnam Nagar Guru Arjun Dev Nagar Guru Colony Guru Ram Das Colony Hall Bazar Himatpura Hussainpura Indira Colony Ishwar Nagar Itahad Nagar Jaspal Nagar Jawahar Nagar Jodh Nagar Kabir Park Colony Kashmir Avenue Katra Ahluwalia Katra Karam Singh Kot Atma Singh Kot Khalsa Kotatma Ram Krishna Nagar Krishna Square Kt. Jaimal Singh Lahori Gate Lawrence Road Majitha Road Mall Road Maqbool Road Model Town Mohindra Colony Mustafabad Nawan Kot New Gurnam Nagar New Pavan Nagar NH1 Nimak Mandi Niva Tung Paris Town Punjab House Fed. Housing Society Putli Ghar Putlighar Queens Road Ram Nagar Colony Rani Ka Bagh Ranjit Avenue Roop Nagar Sahibzada Jujhar Singh Avenue Sahid Udham Singh Nagar Sandhu Colony Shakti Nagar Sharifpura Shori Nagar Shri Guru Amar Dass Nagar St Nagar Sunder Nagar Tensilpura Tilak Nagar Tung Bala White Avenue   Amritsar Maps   Amritsar District Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Amritsar Tourism Amritsar Road Network Map Places to Visit in Amritsar Golden Temple Wagah Border Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Durgiana Temple Ram Bagh Ram Tirath Mata Temple Tarn Taran Sahib Faridkot Fort Govind Garh Fort Massacre Memorial Baba Atal Rai Tower Bathinda Fort     Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule