Climate of Kerala, Weather in Kerala Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Kerala Travel Honeymoon in Kerala Hotels in Kerala Kerala Food How to Reach Kerala Airports in Kerala Tour Operators Kerala Attractions Kerala Backwaters Beaches in Kerala Wildlife in Kerala Hill stations in Kerala Kerala Water sports Shopping in Kerala Ayurvedic Resorts Pilgrimage Places Museums in Kerala Places to Visit in Kerala Trivandrum Travel Alleppey Travel Kannur Travel Kozhikode Travel Munnar Travel Thrissur Travel Wayanad Travel Kumarakom Travel Periyar National Park Thekkady Travel Kochi Travel Kovalam Travel Idukki Travel Mallapuram Travel Palakkad Travel Pathanamthitta Travel Varkala Travel Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya About Kerala Weather in Kerala History of Kerala Culture of Kerala Kerala Festivals Nehru Trophy Boat Race Champakulam Boat Race Aranmula Snake Boat Race Gramam Village Fair Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Cities in Kerala Lat Long Map Outline Map Districts in Kerala Kerala Road Map Kerala Railway Map Home » Maps » Kerala » Geography and History » Climate of Kerala Climate of Kerala The coastal state of Kerala lying on the Southwestern tip of India has commonly been called the tropical paradise of India. Bounded by Arabian Sea at one side and the Western Ghats on the other, the beautiful land with stunning beauty has an equable and tropical climate offering a pleasing atmosphere throughout the entire year. This coastal state has hot and humid climate during April-May and pleasant, cold climate in December-January. The state doesn’t have to undergo any dry period with the heat of hot, scorching sun like other parts of the country. Summer extends from the month of April to June. During this period the temperature reaches to a maximum of 33 degrees centigrade which is considered less when compared other states of India. The minimum temperature remains within 20 degree centigrade at sea level. Summer is followed by South West Monsoon that starts pouring in the month of June and continues till September. Though there is no distinct difference in the climatic conditions only with the increase in humidity .Sometimes the downpour may continue persistently even for two or three days. In this period, maximum rainfall is received by Vaithiri-Kuttiyadi range in Malabar and Peerumedu in Idukki. The rainfall is comparatively much less in the Lakshadweep islands. In the northern regions of Kerala, the rainfall is around 80% and in the southern regions the rainfall ranges from 40-50%. Actually the existence of the Western Ghats on the eastern side of the state of Kerala creates a barrier across the path of the southwest monsoon. This resulted in the creation of a significant climatic variation with abundant rainfall on the windward side and a dry belt on the lee eastern side. The North East Monsoon begins in the month of October and stops at the end of December. With the arrival of winter there is certain drop in the temperature and you can feel a slight chill due to the cold wind. Winter is truly enjoyable in Kerala and lasts from from November to January or February. Occasionally very little rainfall accompanied by thunder and lightning takes place in the northern region of the state. Highest rainfall is received by Kottayam during this winter season. Last Updated on : May 31, 2011 About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule