Kiran Bedi – Social Activist | ngogateway.com Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Latest : Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Posted 1 year ago MARS FOUNDATION Posted 1 year ago St.Theresa’s Educational Society Posted 1 year ago Ray Welfare Society Posted 1 year ago Narain Sewa Sansthan Posted 1 year ago WOMEN ORGANISATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRUST Posted 1 year ago Sewa Bhav Foundation Posted 1 year ago Panrui Swajan Welfare Society Posted 4 years ago Sampark Samaj Kalyan Sansthan Posted 4 years ago The Catholic Health Association of India Posted 4 years ago Home   >   Personalities   >   Kiran Bedi – Social Activist Kiran Bedi – Social Activist By admin on September 15, 2009 Dr. Kiran Bedi is India’s first and highest ranking (retired in 2007) woman officer who joined the Indian Police Service in 1972. Her experience and expertise include more than 35 years of tough, innovative and welfare policing. She has been voted as India’s most admired woman and fifth amongst all Indians. Education & Career Kiran Bedi did her schooling from the Sacred Heart Convent School, Amritsar, and it is here that she joined National Cadet Corps (NCC). Later, she obtained her B.A in English from the Government College for Women, Amritsar. She then earned a Master’s degree in Political Science from Punjab University, Chandigarh, topping the University. Even while in active service in the Indian Police, she continued her educational pursuits, and obtained a Law degree (LLB) in 1988 from Delhi University, Delhi. In 1993, she did her Ph.D. in Social Sciences from the Department of Social Sciences, the Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi, where the topic of her thesis was ‘Drug Abuse and Domestic Violence’. She began her career as a Lecturer in Political Science at Khalsa College for Women, Amritsar, India. In July 1972, she joined the Indian Police Service. She served in a number of tough assignments ranging from Traffic Commissioner of New Delhi, Deputy Inspector General of Police in insurgency prone Mizoram, Advisor to the Lieutenant Governor of Chandigarh, Director General of Narcotics Control Bureau and also on a United Nations deputation, where she became the Civilian Police Advisor in the United Nations peacekeeping department, and for which she was awarded with the UN medal. She is popularly referred to as Crane Bedi for towing the Prime Minister Indira Gandhi car for parking violation. Kiran Bedi influenced several decisions of the Indian Police Service, particularly in the areas of control over narcotics, traffic management, and VIP security. During her stint as the Inspector General of Prisons, Tihar Jail, Delhi(1993-1995), she instituted a number of reforms in the management the prison, and initiated a number of measures such as detoxification programs, yoga, vipassana meditation, redressing of complaints by prisoners and literacy programs. She was last appointed as Director General of India’s Bureau of Police Research and Development. On 27th November 2007, she had expressed her wish to take Voluntary Retirement from job to take up new challenges in life. On 25th December 2007, Government of India decided to relieve Bedi, who was holding the post of the director general of Bureau of Police Research and Development, from her duties immediately. Other Interests Taking up tennis at an early age, Kiran Bedi won the Junior National Lawn Tennis Championship in 1966, the Asian Lawn Tennis Championship in 1972, and the All-India Interstate Women’s Lawn Tennis Championship in 1976. Besides this, she also won the all-Asian tennis champion, and had won the Asian Ladies Title at the age of 22. A dedicated social activist, Kiran Bedi founded two NGOs in India: Navjyoti for welfare and preventive policing in 1987 and India Vision Foundation for prison reforms, drug abuse prevention, and child welfare in 1994. Awards Kiran Bedi has received a number of Awards, including the following: President’s Gallantry Award (1979) Women of the Year Award (1980) Asia Region Award for Drug Prevention and Control (1991) Magsaysay Award (1994) for Government Service Mahila Shiromani Award (1995) Father Machismo Humanitarian Award (1995) Lion of the Year (1995) Joseph Beuys Award (1997) Pride of India (1999) Mother Teresa Memorial National Award for Social Justice (2005) Related Posts: KRUPA Society India Media Centre Mahila Mandal Barmer Agor (MMBA) ASHA KIRAN HOME The INDIAN DREAM Foundation Civilian Police Degree In Political Science Delhi University Deputy Inspector General Educational Pursuits Government College Indian Police Service Indians Education Indira Gandhi Lieutenant Governor Narcotics Control Bureau National Cadet Corps Parking Violation Prime Minister Indira Sacred Heart Convent Sacred Heart Convent School Social Activist Traffic Commissioner United Nations Peacekeeping Woman Officer About admin Related Posts Sita Gramodyog Vikas Sansthan (SGVS) Sita Gramodyog Vikas Sansthan (SGVS) Rural Education Awareness And Development Society Rural Education Awareness And Development Society JRC HOME FOR HANDICAPPED ,UDHEYWALA ,JAMMU JRC HOME FOR HANDICAPPED ,UDHEYWALA ,JAMMU NEHRUJI SEVA CENTRE, ANNAI INDIRA GANDHI VOLUNTARY ORGANISATION NEHRUJI SEVA CENTRE, ANNAI INDIRA GANDHI VOLUNTARY ORGANISATION 13 Comments chetan pachori December 31, 2009 at 2:26 pm Respected Sir/Madam With Due respect! I CHETAN PACHORI(29 YRS)FROM M.P RUNNING MY OWN PRIVATE SCHOOL IN DEWAS WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST YOU TO KINDLY HELP ME FOR THE EXPANSION OF SCHOOL FOR POOR CHILDREN WHO DON’T GET THE QUALITY EDUCATION,WHO CAN’T AFFORD THE FEES .. I WISH TO GET ASSOCIATED WITH YOU FOR THIS GREAT SPECIAL DEED …… SO, KINDLY ACKNOWLEDGE MY MAIL ,I’LL BE VERY GRATEFUL TO U. THANKING YOU. REGARDS ! CHETAN CONTACT NOS :- 09826211101 C Y Bharadwad February 25, 2010 at 11:42 am CHINYARD is a Non-profit & Non-political Voluntary Organisation working in 310 villages of Dharwad, Haveri and Uttar Kannada districts in Karnataka State. It registered under Bombay Public Charitable Trust act 1950 (No. E –637 / DWD dated 30th January 1990). It is also registered with the Income Tax under 80G of Income Tax Act 1961. CHINYARD is also registered with the Ministry of Home affairs, Government of India under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) of 1976. CHINYARD is conducting various Training to SHGs, Entrepreneurs for skill up-gradation and capacity development through technical, H.R.D. and leadership development training. It has also been conducting Training to NGOs, Banks and other Institutions. We have conducted Training to all Regional Managers of Grameen Banks. We are pleased to inform you that, we have received 2nd State Level Award from NABARD for formation of self-help Groups and Bank Linkages programme for the year 2000-2001. We have also received a National Productivity Council Award from New Delhi and Commissioner of Watershed Development Department Bangalore for Watershed Development work in Dharwad district. Chinyard is working with 2500 Self-help groups covering 42500 families of poor women, Tribals, Dalits, Disables. We are working with totally 3500 SHGs, which include Stree-Shakti SHGs also. The Government authorities advised us to provide credit facilities to Stree-Shakti SHGs also. Therefore, approximately Rs. 10 Crores credit need is in our working area. Most of the Self-Help Groups have considerable savings and fulfilled their consumption needs and they are ready to take-up income generating activities. The groups are requested for loan from Chinyard to start Income Generation Programme. Chinyard is already taken loan from State Bank of India Rs. 50,00,000/- & Rs. 1,50,00,000/- but Chinyard needs 2nd time loan from Allahabad Bank to support them. To fulfil needs of Self-Help Groups i.e. Approximately 10 Crores credit need is there in our service area. So we need further bulk loan for the microfinance activities. Therefore please consider our Seeking for Collaboration and support and do the needful. We would be pleased to provide any more information if you require. Thanking You Yours Sincerely For CHINYARD C. Y. Bhardwad Managing Trustee CHINYARD is a Non-profit & Non-political Voluntary Organisation working in 310 villages of Dharwad, Haveri and Uttar Kannada districts in Karnataka State. It registered under Bombay Public Charitable Trust act 1950 (No. E –637 / DWD dated 30th January 1990). It is also registered with the Income Tax under 80G of Income Tax Act 1961. CHINYARD is also registered with the Ministry of Home affairs, Government of India under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) of 1976. CHINYARD is conducting various Training to SHGs, Entrepreneurs for skill up-gradation and capacity development through technical, H.R.D. and leadership development training. It has also been conducting Training to NGOs, Banks and other Institutions. We have conducted Training to all Regional Managers of Grameen Banks. We are pleased to inform you that, we have received 2nd State Level Award from NABARD for formation of self-help Groups and Bank Linkages programme for the year 2000-2001. We have also received a National Productivity Council Award from New Delhi and Commissioner of Watershed Development Department Bangalore for Watershed Development work in Dharwad district. Chinyard is working with 2500 Self-help groups covering 42500 families of poor women, Tribals, Dalits, Disables. We are working with totally 3500 SHGs, which include Stree-Shakti SHGs also. The Government authorities advised us to provide credit facilities to Stree-Shakti SHGs also. Therefore, approximately Rs. 10 Crores credit need is in our working area. Most of the Self-Help Groups have considerable savings and fulfilled their consumption needs and they are ready to take-up income generating activities. The groups are requested for loan from Chinyard to start Income Generation Programme. Chinyard is already taken loan from State Bank of India Rs. 50,00,000/- & Rs. 1,50,00,000/- but Chinyard needs 2nd time loan from Allahabad Bank to support them. To fulfil needs of Self-Help Groups i.e. Approximately 10 Crores credit need is there in our service area. So we need further bulk loan for the microfinance activities. Therefore please consider our Seeking for Collaboration and support and do the needful. We would be pleased to provide any more information if you require. Thanking You Yours Sincerely For CHINYARD C. Y. Bhardwad Managing Trustee CHINYARD is a Non-profit & Non-political Voluntary Organisation working in 310 villages of Dharwad, Haveri and Uttar Kannada districts in Karnataka State. It registered under Bombay Public Charitable Trust act 1950 (No. E –637 / DWD dated 30th January 1990). It is also registered with the Income Tax under 80G of Income Tax Act 1961. CHINYARD is also registered with the Ministry of Home affairs, Government of India under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) of 1976. CHINYARD is conducting various Training to SHGs, Entrepreneurs for skill up-gradation and capacity development through technical, H.R.D. and leadership development training. It has also been conducting Training to NGOs, Banks and other Institutions. We have conducted Training to all Regional Managers of Grameen Banks. We are pleased to inform you that, we have received 2nd State Level Award from NABARD for formation of self-help Groups and Bank Linkages programme for the year 2000-2001. We have also received a National Productivity Council Award from New Delhi and Commissioner of Watershed Development Department Bangalore for Watershed Development work in Dharwad district. Chinyard is working with 2500 Self-help groups covering 42500 families of poor women, Tribals, Dalits, Disables. We are working with totally 3500 SHGs, which include Stree-Shakti SHGs also. The Government authorities advised us to provide credit facilities to Stree-Shakti SHGs also. Therefore, approximately Rs. 10 Crores credit need is in our working area. Most of the Self-Help Groups have considerable savings and fulfilled their consumption needs and they are ready to take-up income generating activities. The groups are requested for loan from Chinyard to start Income Generation Programme. Chinyard is already taken loan from State Bank of India Rs. 50,00,000/- & Rs. 1,50,00,000/- but Chinyard needs 2nd time loan from Allahabad Bank to support them. To fulfil needs of Self-Help Groups i.e. Approximately 10 Crores credit need is there in our service area. So we need further bulk loan for the microfinance activities. Therefore please consider our Seeking for Collaboration and support and do the needful. We would be pleased to provide any more information if you require. Thanking You Yours Sincerely For CHINYARD C. Y. Bhardwad Managing Trustee bina p warier December 4, 2010 at 4:47 pm Kirangi. i like your tv show for womens rights AAp KI AADLAT i need your help for my family problem consiling from vadodara how i contect you and talk to you for my at the age of 46 my merrige is intercast i am from middle class family nad this marrige is cheat for dowery and contiune they are trying for sepration with my twoteen age daughters and one son its south indian domestc cool vilonce and i am forefully carring responsblities on me all alone with education fees,House rent ,food,tutionfees for daughters and medical all treatment i spend my all saving money for my husbend they emotionally preserised to me and my daughters to harrseing me from my rented house and withdrel the 498 case aginst us they suceed in plan i live my job and from two yers i am not able to surive my family with school fees ,house rent and food my husbend working with 10,000 salary but only he spend when we force him to get grossary or pay house rentor we force him to pay school fees but he refuse to us and lier telling us to manage your self merepass ayge to dunga! he his stying with us only to land lord has put him in to the ligel dava with 2lacs and he harresing us to go your perents house i send msg es to jagori at delhiand bell bajao but i dont get any reply from them they given local domestic vilonce NGO but i send email to pls ctc me i dont hv money to come at yr office and dont have phone balenc to communicate with you my english is not good i am very sorry for troubled to understand pls try to read it correcty and help me and my childern my childern and i any time without house and they are without school this trouble is continue and my daughters are very bed impprsion for his father and i scerd with to take out the world are we safe without any support?we are force fully tolloring this man he is very confident day day with all his wrong step with relation with his south indian women and ther relatives but we are nothing for them .Thanks andwarm regrdes. satish rattan April 9, 2011 at 11:35 am Madam, Kiranji I am local social worker,but I can join you as ngo staff in delhi, if a chance is given to me, I will come to your expectation at present I am unemployed. Thanks & regards, Satish Rattan Santosh NIkam April 24, 2011 at 3:14 pm HI MAM, how are you ? myself Santosh P NIkam from Mumbai Malad I am 26years old i stay with my family i have Father Mother n 4 sister which 2 are married my mother is heart patiens my father is a social worker MR. Prabhakar W Nikam mam i get married before 2 years with one good n rich family background jain caste its a love marriage we run away n done a saadhi and her dad n mom not happy with us but than also they get ready to talk with us after 3 months eveything was ok slowy slowy our life was going better she is working i m also working i earn 10 k per month she earn 12 k per month but mam suddenly her father n mother mostly said her live him we will do in our caste he d’nt have big house he d’nt have much money he is fitting with you why i will fight mam ok sometime we are in tension so she is my wife so i can fight with her only i will not go to other women come i am in tension i want be feel free so please have little fight so i can get happy easy n sorry for that why i will go its means you have to live mam please contact me i d;nt have your number mam please help me in this i need her back in my life not because she is good looking beacuse she is my wife she is good in nature with me but her mind is little child that why she doing this she not doing her dad n mother sayng to do it mam please i request you to do it needful n peahfully mam i want to meet you if you can send me a address of yours so please send it na mam on my mobile 9833429027..mam do it for true love n respect Thanking you your faithfully santosh nikam Savinder Singh September 2, 2011 at 12:51 pm Mrs. Kiran Bedi Madam I personally request you please take care of Mr. Om puri, Every body knows, in this world speaking truth is very difficult.Mr. om puri spoke truth in Mr. Anna Hazarey meeting at Ramlila ground & now feels guilty. Please assure him nothing will happen againest him as he spoke truth. We always with you, Vandey Matram shahid gull September 16, 2011 at 3:05 pm hi! mam. i really salute you for being such a versatile socail activist. i do have an urge to work like you. but unfortunately i am not getting the platform . will you please suggest me how can i work for the country and state as well. ACTUALLY EVERY NOOK AND CORNER OF OUR SOCIETY IS ENGULFED WITH COORUPTION IN ONE WAY OR THE OTHER. WAITING FOR UR REPLY. sunitagupta October 10, 2011 at 7:02 pm Madam, I have a small family .I heartly want to devote some of my time for social cause. I need a right path. Thanks COL (RETD) NS PATHANIA October 18, 2011 at 8:19 pm Respected Madam, Jai Hind.! After my retirement from Army, I am working for the welfare of disabled soldiers, old veterans, widows and ‘VEER NAREES’, BELONGING TO HIMACHAL PRADESH. Presently the number of such people is ten thousand. We have sufficient funds to look into the problems of the wards of our Martyrs, yet, in addition to this we would like to contribute our SINCERE AND HONEST efforts for fighting the corruption. We show our solidarity to your mission and pledge to support THE TEAM ANNA . KINDLY VISIT us when ever you visit Himachal Pradesh, Tehsil Nurpur Village Saliali. Jai Hind… Bande Materm! Blaraman November 13, 2011 at 6:15 pm Dear Madam, Greetings from Morning star Fellowship Society.Chandigarh. I need your advise with guidence to contine my work. I already sent a letter.But not yet received reply from your due to your bussschedule. I hope you will give advice shortly. After wards I will meet you. Only few born are blessed to in happiness.Mostly,the rest or subjected to disease, poverty and starvation. In the beginning few patches appeared over skin and on consulting a doctor it was confirmed that I was affected from leprosy. I took Ayurvetha,Unani and allopathy which resulted I alo suffering other disease piled and asthma.In spite of my skin complaint nerve pain and reaction forced me I rushed to leprosy I was admitted after medical examination at (Central Leprosy Teaching & Research Institute at Chingleput since 4th April,1968 I was admitted and took treatment for the period 3 years.After getting negative i was discharged with negative certificate and domiciliary treatment. I continued my study in high school at Sirvanrhadu,In Tamil Nadu.Slowly I feared that leprosy has taking its toll on my which compelled me to stop my studies off way in the 1971 with 7th standard. During my study I got first position in all subject, particularly in English and social history. Secondly, my plans and desires of achievement something in life came to a stand still. I entered another hospital for treatment and I was under go my claw hand surgery of deformities. During my treatment the hospital authority given me training for dressing and dispensary assistant. I was completely cured leprosy by MDT.Again I got discharged with experience. I came across a NGO Siloam India and served the leprosy patients for a short period. Then on the advise of some good friends I came to Delhi in search of green pastures. After lot hardships, I came across a leprosy colony at Bahadurgarh. Delhi border of Haryana and got settled there. To earn my daily bread I worked as a correspondent and mean time pulling Rickshaw for one and half year. Slowly my work/ services were recognized and in 1985 I was invited by Haryana Kusht Ashram,Ambala Cantt.Haryana, to join as a correspondent. The job profile was mainly to contact government agencies and NGO in order to get their aid to leprosy cured patients for water motor and goat rearing projects. In 1987 I was called by Nirmohi Kusht Ashram,Moga,Punjab, to carry out projects for leprosy cured such as house construction for 32 families, pension for handicapped,oldage,Adopt a granny programme,dairy forming, piggery forming, kitchen gardening and awareness, environment programmes from various agency. These schemes running very successfully at Dasuya,,Rajpura,Muktsar,Chandi Kusht ashram,Chandigarh,Gouri shankar Kusht ashram,Yamuna Nagar,and Saharanpur. These efforts gave birth to a New NGO under the banner of Morning Star Fellowship Society: as a founder of the Society. I worked for the upliftment of leprosy cured. As the need increased tailoring, courses, remedial classes, condensed cources,Creches,Awareness camps through the Social Welfare dept.Chandigarh and Punjab, environment and medical camps with help of SOSVA.Punjab(RCH Programme) were added to the kitty. As per our future programmes are concerned MSFS are going to organize other work to its belt by starting for them rehabilitation, treatment, livelihood future of their children and women. I myself being leprosy cured me don’t want by beg but like to live in the society with respect and dignity. There are no any NGO except HelpAge work for leprosy past 32 years my experiences. So I would like to help my fellows’ brothers. So, I would request all your kind cooperation and help guidance. Let’s join hands in working of the poor, handicapped and the needy. Together we can make a different in their lives. Thanking you, Balaraman bina warier January 20, 2012 at 8:07 pm pls mam i dont have any cooment for courption or crime or domestic viloence in india lady from any well seteele family or educated she live and sufer with all viloence no way to surive the famly and childerns save girl child but all this is for nara from last 3to 4yrs iam asking for help to save me and my childerns from vadodara to surat ,ahmedabad but no police .no court or no any poltician are help to protect us!pls madam give me one chance to met me personally to help against my brother in law, my husband and bilder who take our prpeties and iam helpless to protect my childernanmd me to food cloth and ghar?i submited Domestic vilionce,criminel case kidnping against coorption and crim but they prove me i am a fighter lady and pagal to go all the time behind police and vakil now its inuf iam without any support and mony not able to give right way fight with strong bayground and my daughters even not trus with india’s law and family life after marrige if education is giving more viloance and unsecuried life for women in india !reply and immidate try to contect to support thanks and regrds. poonam March 16, 2012 at 11:37 pm hello madam,ineed help u.i m suffer from (o.c.d)depression problem.i have a baby.i have no money 4 treatment.please help me.i want leave healthy life bcoz 4want became a good mother& wife.from cause of my disease,ican’t care to my family.thankyou Harjeet Theida March 31, 2012 at 7:19 pm Respected Mam, My name is Harjeet. I m working as a Social Worker in Jalandhar, Civil Hospital. I work for Orphan as well as ordinary patients. Like supplying food to orphan patients, locating the address of accident victims by getting the information from their identity card, carrying them across hospital on trolly for their tests / X-rays etc. Mam i m having couple of problems if you can sort out. FIRST ISSUE – In Civil Hospital, Jalandhar many orphan patients come, usually police takes them from outside when they are in terrible physical condition. They need food along with medicines. They are getting medicines but they starve for food. I do whatever i can, but so many orphan patients – daily food it is impossible for me. I work as a computer designer and work as a part time Social worker, 2 hours approx daily. Mam around 9 months ago there was kitchen facility in the hospital, but from 9 months the kitchen has been stopped, that is he main problem , especially T.B. patients need hi- protein food. This order to stop kitchen facility was passed by controlling body for Civil Hospital, based in Mohalli. Mam I will be thankful to you if you can get this Kitchen re-started once again. The Dietician of the Hospital is also desperate for this and is on my side. Mam what is the use of medicines if patients are starving. Mam it is easy for you to do this. The funds needed to run the kitchen is very minimal as compare to salary of one staff member working there. Please request the controlling body for Civil Hospital based in Mohalli to start the Kitchen once again. 2ND ISSUE – Mam when any Policeman takes any orphan to the Civil Hospital, He is left almost without treatment in the hospital. I have witnessed this in my service there.The Orphan Patient is not given proper treatment on following things – a) Patients inner side of mouth is usually infected with sores, no one care this issue. b) When Orphan do potty on bed, the concerned class 4 employees run away from there by giving some excuse and also some times give bad words to Orphan patients, i m slowly slowly trying this. c) Many medicines are free for Orphan Patients, but there are some medicines which are needed to be purchased from private Medical Stores, so funds are the real issue here. I do my best for their treatment, which need not to be mentioned. I do talk to concerned Doctors, Medical Administrator and other authorities, but problems for Orphans are not solved. So Mam if you can solve any of the 2 ISSUES I HAVE SHARED WITH YOU I WILL BE VERY THANKFUL YOU YOU. I m alone in this Service. You can see some of my activities on Facebook by following link http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100003565294738 Thanks Regards Harjeet Theida Servant of Jesus Christ +91 9888081753 You must be logged in to post a comment Login Latest News pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile: A.... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym) –... Posted 8 months ago 0 Society for Peoples Integrated Development General information: Full Name of organization Society for People’s Integrated... Posted 8 months ago 0 Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Address: At – Bhalunka Po- Ramdaspur (Godisahi) Dist – Cuttack... Posted 8 months ago 0 Shri Durga Mahila Mandal (SDMM) Village & P.O. Ghanauli, District Roopnagar (Punjab) Shri Durga Mahila... Posted 8 months ago 0 Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) 1A, D. L. Khan Road,... Posted 8 months ago 0 Feedback Funding Agencies A |