ESSO-INCOIS-Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services ESSO - Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (An Autonomous Body under the Ministry of Earth Sciences, Govt. of India) Menu Hindi Home Vacancies Tenders Library Feedback Sitemap Contact Us Menu Organisation Organisation About Us Mission Activity Spectrum Structure Human Resources Director's Desk Quality Policy Contact Us Services Services Marine Fishery Advisories Potential Fishing Zone Tuna Fishing Advisories Ocean State Forecast Tsunami Early Warnings Storm Surge Warnings Indian Seismic and GNSS Network Coral Bleaching Alerts Coastal Geospatial Applications Vulnerability Index Multi hazard Vulnerability Mapping Updates Of Climate Indices SST Anomaly ElNino IOD Data & Information Data & Information Insitu Data Remote Sensing Live Access Server Tropflux Data QC Manuals Project Datasets Publications Contact Us Ocean Observations Ocean Observations Modelling & Research Ocean Modelling & Research HOOFS HYCOM INCOIS-GODAS MOM TSUNAMI STORM SURGE Satellite Oceanography Satellite Oceanography ChloroGIN SATCORE ITCOocean ITCOocean Quick Links Quick Links International Interface International Interface IOGOOS SIBER IIOE Employee's Corner Employee's Corner INCOIS Mail Employee Self Service Portal INCOIS - INTRANET Weather Bulletins Weather Bulletins Visakhapatnam Chennai Kolkata Awards Immovable Properties Story of the Oceans Ocean Tutor Vacancies Vacancies Regular Temporary Tenders Annual Reports Photo Gallery News News News Clipings Ocean News Letter Library Library ESSO-INCOIS Knowledge Resource Centre eprints@ESSO-INCOIS eprints@MoES Users Feedback Home Modelling & Research Storm Surge Storm Surge What is Storm Surge? Storm surge is the abnormal rise in sea level generated by a hurricane or other intense storm, over and above the predicted or normal astronomical tide. It is caused mainly by atmospheric weather systems such as tropical cyclones, hurricane winds shoving the ocean water up over the coast, although low pressure in the eye also contributes a much smaller amount. The height of water level rise due to storm surge is the difference at the coast between the observed level of the sea surface and the level that would have occurred in the absence of the tropical cyclone. What is the interaction of astronomical tide with storm surge? In general one may expect that if there is a storm surge of x metres and tidal wave of y metres then during high tide total surges would be x+y and during low tide x-y. But, it is found that there is an interaction of storm surge with astronomical tide, and during high tide time the total surge is little less than x+y and during low tide time it is little more than x-y. What are the disaster potential of Storm Surge? Disaster potential due to cyclones is due to high storm surges occurring at the time of landfall. The storm surges are by far the greatest killers in a cyclone as sea water inundates low lying areas of the coastal regions causing heavy floods, erosion of beaches and embankments, damage to vegetation and reducing soil fertility. Flooding due to storm surges pollute drinking water sources resulting in shortage of drinking water and causing out-break of epidemics, mostly water borne diseases Very strong winds (Gales) may cause uprooting of trees, damage to dwellings, overhead installations, communication lines etc., resulting in loss of life and property. Past records show that very heavy loss of life due to tropical cyclones have occurred in the coastal areas surrounding the Bay of Bengal. Cyclones are also often accompanied by very intense & heavy precipitation (exceeding 40-50 cm in a day or about 10cm or more per hour in some places) What are the factors influencing storm surge? The level of storm surge during a storm is influenced by: Size and extent of storm's wind field (radius of maximum winds) Strength of storm winds and Storm's forward speed Storm track Storm's central pressure (contribution of pressure to total storm surge is small compared to wind) Landfall location Coastal elevation Shape and characteristics of the coast What is the vulnerability of our coastline from the point of view of storm surge potential? Entire Indian coast can be categorized into 4 zones Very high risk zones (Surge height > 5m) High risk Zone (Surge height between 3-5m) Moderate risk zone (Surge height between 1.5 to 3m) The coastal areas and off-shore islands of Bengal and adjoining Bangladesh are the most storm-surge prone (~ 10-13m) - VHRZ East coast of India between Paradip and Balasore in Orissa (~ 5-7m) - VHRZ Andhra coast between Bapatla and Kakinada holding estuaries of two major rivers Krishna and Godavari (~ 5-7m) - VHRZ Tamilnadu coast between Pamban and Nagapattinam (~ 3-5m) - HRZ Gujarat along the west coast of India (~ 2-3m) - MRZ What should I do? You need to plan well ahead of time. If you live or work in the coastal area, find out from your local Emergency Services or local council whether you are in a surge-prone area. If you are, decide where you will go in the event of a storm surge. You might have a friend living on higher ground with whom you could go and stay. Wherever your nearest safe high ground shelter might be, work out the safest way to get there. Storm surge prediction model: ADCIRC ADCIRC is a (parallel) ADvanced CIRCulation model for oceanic, coastal and estuarine waters developed by Dr. R.A. Luettich, Jr, University of North Carolina at Chapel hill, Institute of Marine Sciences (email: rick_luettich@unc.edu ) and Dr. J.J. Westerink, Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences, University OF Notre Dame (email: jjw@photius.ce.nd.edu ). The complete information of ADCIRC model can be seen from the below link http://www.unc.edu/ims/adcirc/document/Introduction.html Storm Surge Warnings About Storm Surge Standard Operating Procedure  HudHud Storm Surge Bulletins WebGIS  Feedbacks Menu Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Copy Right © ESSO- Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), Govt of India. All Rights Reserved.