NAIP - A Value Chain on Industrial Agroforestry in Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Agricultural University NAIP á –alue Chain on Industrial Agroforestry in Tamil Nadu Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam - 641 301 Home Project Profile Sub Project Profile Rationale Project Objectives Detailed Programme Project Location and Jurisdiction List of Innovations Role of Consortium Partners Monitoring Indicators Project Impact Work Plan Consortium Advisory Committee Consortium Implementation Committee Consortium Monitoring Unit Base Line Study Project Team FC & RI Lead Institute IFGTB TNPL SPB Vasan Match Works Technologies NAIP Technologies Crop Technology Casuarina Eucalyptus Ailanthus Melia Dubia Anthocephalus Cadamba Leucaena Leucocephala Value Addition Technology Briquetting Technology Agar Technology Value Chain Farmers and Area Demonstration Plot Horizontal Expansion Captive Plantations Other Plantations MIS Market Supply & Demand Pattern Market Price Current Prices Historical Prices Forecasted Prices Contract Farming Value Addtion Products Markets Supply & Demand Price Traders Eucalyptus Casuarina Subabul Fire Wood Pole Others Media Gallery Launch Meet Farmers Training Cluster Demonstration Plot Research Trials Value Addition Mechanization CIC & CAC Review Team Baseline Study Audio Video News and Events News Events Institute Departments and Faculties Education Research Schemes/Projects Extension Contact Us Contact Address Location Map   Research « prev 1 2 3 4 5 6 next » VARIETIES AND TECHNOLOGIES DEVELOPED AND TRANSFERED AT FOREST COLLEGE AND RESEARCH INSTITUTE TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY METTUPALAYAM – 641 301. Indian forests are being denuded at an appalling rate of 1.5 million ha per year but only a tenth of this is being renewed. This has resulted in the accelerated dwindling of forest resources to a meager level of 23.55 per cent of the total geographical area against the mandated requirement of 33 per cent. This low forest cover coupled with poor productivity (0.5 - 0.7 m 3 ha -1 yr -1 ) in comparative global statistics (2.1 m 3 ha -1 yr -1 ) of Indian forest has ushered in a total mismatch between supply and demand of both domestic and industrial wood besides creating environmental de-stability and disequilibrium. The National Forest Policy of 1988 has resolved to phase out the supply of raw material to wood based industries and ultimately totally stopped the raw material supply from the forest. The policy also indicated that wood based industries have to become self reliance in meeting the raw material demand by establishing direct linkages with the farmers by providing lending facilitates and other input needs. This is going to pave the way for a strong industry-farmer nexus, with many farmers attracted towards tree husbandry due to assured marketability and income. As the activity gets intensified, location specific problems warranting solution are also found to be in the ascendancy. Many plantation activities suffer due to non availability of potential varieties suitable to varied edapho-climatic conditions. All these underpins, a strong institute and industrial linkages to develop superior genotypes suitable for various agro climatic zones coupled with intensive silvicultural management for productivity improvement thereby helping to improve the farm net income. Against this backdrop, Forest College and Research Institute has prioritized the following species for variety development productivity improvement through precision silviculture coupled with location specific agroforestry models  besides, creating the value chain. Prioritized species S.No. Prioritized sector Species 1  Industrial wood  Casuarina, Eucalyptus, Ailanthus, Bamboo and alternate species 2  Timber Teak, Red sanders and Silver oak 3  Biofuel  Jatropha, Pungam, Mahua, Simarouba and Neem 4  Medicinal plants  Gloriosa, Withania, Gymnema and Tree Borne Medicinal plants Varieties developed This institute has developed superior clones in Eucalyptus (FCRI 103, 56, 10) and Casuarina (MTP CA1 – Casuarina equisetifolia; MTP CA2 – Casuarina junghuhniana) as a source of short rotation, industrial pulp wood species with a cellulose content of more than 45%, kappa number around 20% with an yield of 100 tonnes/ha. Clonal technology Significant achievements have been made for mass multiplication of superior clones through clonal technology.  This institute has developed a low cost poly tunnel system and promoted decentralized farmers based clonal multiplication system.  Accordingly 16 districts in the state have been identified and promoted clonal multiplication in a decentralized manner.  As on now, more than 20 lakhs clonal seedlings have been produced and used by different levels of farmers. Industrial collaboration This institute has developed industrial collaboration for promotion of pulp wood based contract farming system with the following two industries viz., Tamil Nadu Newsprints & Papers Ltd., Kagithapuram, Karur and M/s.Seshasayee Paper Boards Ltd., Erode.  The institute has designed a quad partite model contract farming system in association with financial institution and promoted industrial wood plantations. Area covered This institute in association with two industries has promoted contract farming through the high yielding varieties identified by the institute and promoted in 16 districts of the state. The details are furnished.       « prev 1 2 3 4 5 6 next » Project Profile Project Team Technologies Value Chain Farmers and Area MIS Media News and Events Institute Contact Us Website Developed by Samantha Technologies No.of Visits