Lakes in Ahmedabad Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Ahmedabad Travel Tourist Map How to Reach Shopping Hotels in Ahmedabad Travel Agents Weekend Trips from Ahmedabad Places to Visit in Ahmedabad Gardens in Ahmedabad Law Garden Bal Vatika Victoria Garden Lakes in Ahmedabad Chandola Lake Kankaria Lake Ahmedabad Wildlife Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary The Kamla Nehru Zoological Garden The Runn of Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary Religious Places in Ahmedabad Bhadrakali Temple Hatheesing Jain Temple Sidi Sayed Jhali Rani Sipri's Mosque Ahmed Shah's Mosque Swaminarayan Temple Akshardham Temple Amusement Parks Ahmedabad Metro Map Route Maps Hyderabad to Ahmedabad Mumbai to Ahmedabad Jaipur to Ahmedabad Goa to Ahmedabad Ahmedabad Map Road Map Railway Map District Map Tehsil Map Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Ahmedabad » Places of Interest » Lakes in Ahmedabad Lakes in Ahmedabad Lakes in Ahmedabad have their own charm. They are indeed a spectacle to watch out for. Flocks of tourists from all over the globe gather here to witness the splendor that is presented before their eyes by mother nature. The clear blue waters of the lakes have an enchanting and mesmerizing effect on the holiday-makes which is why they always return to cherish the scenic grandeur of the lakes in Ahmedabad one more time. There are two main lakes in Ahmedabad:- Chandola Lake - Situated on the Dani Dalmi Road, it serves as a significant reservoir of Ahmedabad. This is also an artificial lake that was the inspiration and dream of an imperial Sultan belonging to the Mughal dynasty, Tajn Khan Nari Ali's better half. Another feature of this lake is the grave of Shah Alam that is present adjacent to it. The domes of this grave was incidentally ornamented with priced jewels by Asaf Khan who happened to be Noor Jahan's sibling. There is a sum total of 18 tiny domes and 3 huge domes. All are exquisitely carved by Saleh Badakshi. Nowadays this lake mainly provides water to carry out irrigation and serve the needs of the industries. This is one of the best lakes in Ahmedabad. Kankaria Lake - This delectable lake is polygonal in shape located on the south-eastern outskirts of Ahmedabad which has 34 corners. This lake used to be the rendezvous point for the Great Mughal king Jehangir and his lovely spouse better known as Noor Jahan. Now it has become the hub of scintillating birds that visit this place quite frequently. The beauty of this lake is augmented by the presence of beautiful gates and an island garden, designated as Nagina Wadi. It is apt for boating pleasures. About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule