NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION MANAGEMENT (MANAGE) Home About Us Our Organization Our Mandate Our Infrastructure Our Director General Our Faculty (List) Our Faculty (Center-wise) Our Officers/Staff Our Citizen's Charter Grievance Redressal Officer Training Annual Calendar English Hindi Research Ongoing Completed Consultancy Ongoing Completed Schemes Extension Reforms ACABC Kisan Call Center Education PGDAEM DAESI PGDM (ABM) Publications Publications Databases Contact Us Home >>Right to Information Right to Information suo motu disclosure under Section 4 of RTI Act, 2005 Particulars of its Organisation, functions, and duties The powers and duties of its officers and employees The Procedure followed in the decision making process, including channels of Supervision and Accountability The norms set by it for the discharge of its functions. The Rules, regulations, instructions, manuals and records, held by it or under its control or used by its employees for discharge of its functions. A Statement of the Categories of documents that are held by it or under its control. The particulars of any arrangement that exists for consultation with or representation by, the member of the public in relation to the formulation of its policy or implementation thereof. A Statement of the Board, Councils, Committee and other bodies consisting of two or more person constituted as its part of or the purpose of its advise, and as to whether meetings of those bodies, councils, committees and other bodies are open to the public, or the minutes of such meetings are accessible for public. A directory of its officers and employees  The monthly remuneration received by each of its officers and employees, including the system of compensation as provided in its regulations. The budget allocated to each of its agency, indicating the particulars of all plans, proposed expenditures and reports on disbursements made. The manner of execution of subsidy programmes, including the amounts allocated and the details of beneficiaries of such programmes. The particulars of receipts of concessions, permits or authorizations granted by it. Details in respect of Information, available to or held by it reduce in an electronic form. The particulars of facilities available to citizens for obtaining information, including the working hours of a library or reading room, if maintain for public use. The name, designation and other particulars of Transparency Officer and Public Information officers Such other information as may be prescribed. Official Visits of Director General, MANAGE