Organic Farming | Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home Organic Farming Organic Farming ORGANIC FARMING In the context of changing world scenario towards organically produced Food, organic farming is gaining importance world wide. India, as a result of "Green Revolution" has attained self sufficiency in food grain production and is able to feed the 1.2 billion mouths. But this has definitely led to overexploitation of our natural resources and indiscriminate use of chemicals for cultivation. With food safety concerns looming large, we have to definitely take a stand on sustainable agriculture by adopting organic farming methods especially in food crops. Realizing this, the following announcement was made by the Hon’ble Minister for agriculture on the floor of the assembly during the Agriculture Demand on 19.04.2012 regarding Organic Farming policy of the State. This announcement has already instilled a sense of responsibility among the stake holders and public and it is imperative to draft the policy immediately. RATIONALE Though our state tends to be a pioneer in most of the technologies and policies, we are found to be lagging behind states like Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Uttaranchal as far as Organic Farming is concerned.  Organic Farming strategies can be devised only based on a strong State policy. The method of implementation and agencies involved can also be defined based on a policy. Hence these attributes form a part of the State Organic Farming Policy. OBJECTIVES To analyze the world Organic Farming Scenario and to determine our role in the global arena of Organic Farming. To bring together eminent brains in the field of Organic Farming in the Country and State and to pool their views and knowledge on Organic Farming. To Draft an Organic Farming Policy for the State which is wholesome and would be a ready Reckoner for all future Schemes and proposals of the State on Organic farming As per G.O Ms.(2D) no.123, Agri (AP3 Dept), dt.11.09.12 the following 18 members were proposed to form the committee to draft the Organic Farming Policy. Dr. Santhosh Babu, I.A.S, Commissioner of Horticulture & Plantation Crops, Chepauk, Chennai-5. Mr. Shiv Das Meena, I.A.S, Commissioner of Agriculture, Chepauk, Chennai Mr. M. Thangaraju, Joint Director of Horticulture, Department of Seed Certification & Organic Certification Dr. Tej Pratap Vice Chancellor, J & K Agricultural University, & President of ICCOA Dr. Yadhav Director, NCOF Mr. Durairaj Director, APOF (Certification Agency) Dr. N Selvaraj  Prof & Head, HRS, Rose Park, Ooty. Mr. Manoj Menon Executive Director, ICCOA, Bangaluru Mr. Rajaseelam Reddy, MD, Sresta Natural Bio-products Ltd, Hyderabad Mr. S. Sunil Kumar, Principal Consultant, Aum Consulting Inc. Chennai Mr. D. Ramakrishnan Malayandipattinam, Pollachi. Dr. Aru. Solayappan, Foundation For Organic Agriculture, Chengalpet Mr. Anantha Sayanan, Founder, "Restore" organic outlets Mr. Parasuraman, M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundations Mr. O.V.R.Somasundaram Farmer, Pollachi Mr. S. Ranganathan Farmer, Mannargudi, Thanjavur. Mr. Arul Michel Henry Farmer, Azhagappapuram, Kanniyakumari. Mr. Gladson Robin Farmer, Udayarvilai, Colachal. G.O for Organic farming Policy THE ICCOA PROJECT: Organic Farming is a holistic and integrated way towards creating a sustainable farming system by lowering input costs, decreased reliance on non-renewable resources, capturing the high-value markets and price premiums, thus boosting farm income. In view of growing demand for organic products in the export market, it is proposed to encourage organic promotion by popularizing production technology. Hence, in line with the objectives of the NHM programme of Govt of India to promote organic agriculture in the State, a project is undertaken by the International Competence Centre for Organic Agriculture (ICCOA), a registered Society under Karnataka Societies Registration Act 1960, covering 1000 hectares of area under organic farming certification program in four districts viz., Vellore, Erode, Theni and Ramanathapuram in the State. This project works in a cluster-based approach where organic farming is encouraged in these districts for farmers cultivating crops viz., Vegetables (temperate), Mango, Banana, Turmeric, Chillies etc. Organic certification is done through SHGC program (Internal Control System), involving educating and providing trainings to farmers and other supports viz., Input Production units, farm input generation and market linkages. The project targets to ultimately link to the potential markets under this project where the farmers' income levels would raise by 25-30% and their self-sustainability. The other outcomes of this project will be effectively supply chain, quality production and deriving organic 'Package of Practices' for the selected crops.   Visitor Counter: 843086 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015