Mental Health — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Health / Mental Health Share Views View State: Open for Edit Info Mental Health WHO defines Mental health as mental well-being in which an individual realizes his or her own abilities, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and is able to make a contribution to his or her community. In this positive sense, mental health is the foundation for individual well-being and the effective functioning of a community. National Mental Health Programme This topic covers the details of the programme. Importance of Mental Health The topic briefs about the importance of mental health, causes, myths and required interventions. Mental retardation The topic describes issues related to mental retardation. Mental illness The topic deals with information related to mental illness. Stress and Psychiatry The topic briefs about stress and psychiatry related issues. Schizophrenia Information on Schizophrenia is provided here. Delusional disorder This topic covers about Delusional disorder, Symptoms, Diagnosis and Treatment. Intellectual Disability Intellectual disability (ID) or general learning disability is a generalized disorder appearing before adulthood, characterized by significantly impaired cognitive functioning and deficits in two or more adaptive behaviors. Intellectual disability is also known as mental retardation (MR) Autism This topic covers about Autism, Diagnosis and Autism in india etc... Guidelines for Parents of Children with Disabilities This topic covers various guidelines for parents to handel children with Disabilities Navigation Women Health Child Health Policies and Schemes AYUSH Nutrition Diseases & disorders Sanitation and Hygiene Mental Health National Mental Health Programme Importance of Mental Health Mental retardation Mental illness Stress and Psychiatry Schizophrenia Delusional disorder Intellectual Disability Autism Guidelines for Parents of Children with Disabilities First Aid Facts for Life Organ donation Health Directory Discussion Forum - Health Related Items Health Delusional disorder Autism Acts for Differently-abled persons more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector See More.... Energy Energy Basics Energy conservation Energy efficiency Energy production Best Practices Women and Energy Policy Support Rural Innovations See More.... e-Governance e-Governance in India About RTI Act 2005 e-Gov Services online Resources for VLEs Mobile Governance Judicial Services in India Services