Jhumpa Lahiri India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Literature » Jhumpa Lahiri   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Jhumpa Lahiri Jhumpa Lahiri Vourvoulias was born as Nilanjana Sudeshna in 1967. Born in London in July 1967 and brought up in South Kingstown, Rhode Island, she won the 2000 Pulitzer Prize in the year 2000 for her book "Interpreter Of Maladies", the first Asian to do so. An Indian American author of Bengali origin, she did her Bachelors in English literature, following it up an M.A. in English, an M.A. in Creative Writing, an M.A. in Comparative Literature and finally a Ph.D. in Renaissance Studies. She was at Provincetown's Fine Arts Work Center during 1997-1998 on a fellowship. She tied the nuptial knot with Alberto Vourvoulias-Bush, a journalist in 2001. Jhumpa taught creative writing at Boston University and the Rhode Island School of Design. Her debut book, "Interpreter of Maladies" looks into issues concerning the lives of Indians or Indian immigrants. Her second book "The Namesake" was published in 2003. A film, the Namesake has been released based on the novel by the same name starring Kal Penn. She has bagged a number of awards. In 1993, she received the TransAtlantic Award from the Henfield Foundation, the O. Henry Award for short story "Interpreter of Maladies" in 1999, the PEN/Hemingway Award (Best Fiction Debut of the Year) for "Interpreter of Maladies" in 2000, The New Yorker's Best Debut of the Year for "Interpreter of Maladies" and the M.F.K. Fisher Distinguished Writing Award from the James Beard Foundation in 2000 besides the coveted Pulitzer prize. In May 2000, her story "The Third and Final Continent" published in a summer 1999 fiction issue of The New Yorker was one of three stories that fetched the magazine a National Magazine Award for Fiction.   Related Links   English Authors Amitav Ghosh Anita Desai Arundhati Roy Jhumpa Lahiri Khushwant Singh Kiran Desai Mulk Raj Anand R. K. Narayan Raja Rao Salman Rushdie V.S. Naipaul Vikram Chandra Vikram Seth Romesh Chandra Dutt Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule