KLF Nirmal Industries - Procures coconuts directly from farmers - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop KLF Nirmal Industries – Procures coconuts directly from farmers Home KLF Nirmal Industries – Procures coconuts directly from farmers Procures coconuts directly from farmers to produce premium quality cooking oil. Exports virgin oil and innovates blended cooking oil “Quality of coconut oil directly depends on quality of coconut. So we at KLF Nirmal Industries procure the finest coconuts directly from farmers without any involvement of middlemen. We have purchase centers across Kerala where farmers have been selling high-quality coconuts for the past 50-60 years. It was all started by my father Late Mr. K.L. Francis 60 years ago,” says Mr. Sunny Francis, CEO and Director. Strategically located direct purchasing centers across Kerala ensure steady supply of high yielding coconuts. “We give competitive prices of coconut to our farmers. It is usually more by one or two rupees than the market price referred as premium price,” he shares. There is no contract for coconut supply between company and farmers as, “We have a hidden understanding with our farmers – that is we give immediate cash and premium rates. Premium rates depend on the market rates and coconut supply,” he adds. Coconuts procured from farmers are sun-dried in hygienic copra drying yards to retain the natural richness, flavor and nutritional value. Dried copra is next processed and crushed to make coconut cooking oil. KLF’s unique patented VSIC processing technology minimizes moisture content, reducing the chances of the oil becoming stale, increasing its shelf life, and cutting down warm up time. The company has oil producing plants at Kerala and Tamil Nadu with a capacity of processing and crushing coconut at 60 ton/kg and 20 ton/kg respectively. Plants run five days a week, rest two days are off for maintenance. “We want to run at 100% capacity but last year we faced shortage of coconut supply. The reason was tremendous price increase of fresh coconut pushing the price of coconut cooking oil to Rs. 180/liter, almost three times more than the earlier price of Rs. 50-60/liter. Things are improving with respect to coconut supply but the market is changing too as many farmers are indulging in value addition process of coconut based products like desiccated coconut, milk, cream, milk powder etc,” informs Mr. Francis. Farmers are inclined towards value addition venture to have better incomes because when coconut is converted into dried copra to make oil the value addition of fresh coconut is at minimum and hence the margin levels are very low. “Another reason for coconut shortage was drought. In many parts of Tamil Nadu trees have dried up and so no yield at all. Approximately more than a lakh trees are dried and replacing this huge number surely will take some time,” he shares. When purchase centers provide only 50-60% of plant requirement then rest of the copra requirement is met from market trades. The company clocks 20% annual exports of Nirmal virgin coconut oil while the rest 80% is sale of normal coconut oil in India. It has two segments of oil, hair oil packed in blue bottles and cooking oil packed in yellow bottle. Both these oil variants are produced from copra while the company also produces virgin coconut oil from fresh coconuts for export orders. In domestic market, South India, Central India and Western India are the main areas of operations. Exports are primarily made to Gulf countries. “We have customers in elite society in foreign countries who do not bother much about price as they consider oil as health supplement. Our virgin oil has neutral smell which is preferred by international buyers,” he shares and adds, “Referred to as VCO in international market virgin coconut oil is on hype mainly in Europe and America. It is considered as miracle oil so the demand is high.” Processing plant of the company has organic certification. When asked about the organically produced virgin coconut oil Mr. Francis shares, “For all the organic products demand is from outside India, and within the country it is negligible. Organically certified virgin coconut oil is 30-40% costlier than the normal coconut oil as it is cold-pressed (made exclusively from fresh coconut instead of copra so the yield is much less). We have a farmer cluster that holds organic certification. When we get any export order for organic oil we buy coconuts from this cluster, they give us organic certification, and we process it at our certified plant and sell the oil to the exporters.” Organic coconut virgin oil produced by KL Nirmal is sold under the brand name ‘Nirmal’. First in the world, KLF Nirmal last month launched blended cooking oil, an innovation. It is sold under the brand name ‘KLF Cocodaily’. It is developed and manufactured in collaboration with Coconut Board of India and CFTRI, Mysore. Elaborating the details, Mr. Francis shares, “It has 80% sunflower oil and 20% coconut oil. Uniqueness of this oil is that it has health benefits of sunflower oil and aroma of coconut oil. The best part of the oil is that it is very reasonably priced when compared to pure coconut cooking oil.” It is officially approved blended oil certified from Agmark. Drive behind the innovation was to give consumers reasonably priced cooking oil as an alternative to expensive coconut cooking oil and adulterated unhealthy cooking oil substitutes supplied by local players. “We are buying sunflower from a certified plant and coconut oil is 100% ours. Oil blended technology has been developed by CFTRI,” he adds. Other than new blended oil, the company is expanding to all coconut based categories, soon it shall be introducing coconut palm sugar. Mr. Francis concludes, “With increase in demand for VCO and our expansion programs farmers have good scope of earning from coconut and so they must focus on this diligently.” Contact details- KLF Nirmal Industries (P) Ltd Fr.Dismas Road, Near Christ College, Irinjalakuda-680121 Thrissur, Kerala-India Tel: +91-480-2826705 Email: klfgroup@klfnirmal.com, care@klfnirmal.com Website: http://www.klfnirmal.com/ Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > KLF Nirmal Industries – Procures coconuts directly from farmers Related – articles, consultants, downloads Mchoose.com – marketing support for farmers Karshakamithram – organic farming Coconut Hybrid Nitya Farms – Software engineer grows organically traditional rice varieties You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water