Madhya Pradesh Government, Government of Madhya Pradesh Home » Madhya Pradesh » Madhya Pradesh Government   Government of Madhya Pradesh Local Government Government and Politics मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Temples and Shrines Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Madhya Pradesh Government The government of Madhya Pradesh is the apex administrative body in the state. Madhya Pradesh Government The state of Madhya Pradesh is made up of 50 districts. In terms of area, it is the second biggest state in India after Rajasthan. The government of Madhya Pradesh is made up of an executive, a legislative, and a judiciary division. The executive branch of the government is headed by the Governor of the state. At present, the Governor of Madhya Pradesh is Ram Naresh Yadav. Similar to other states of the country, the head of the state is the Governor. He is nominated by the President of India with consultation with the union government. The position of the governor is mostly formal. Where is the seat of Madhya Pradesh Government located? The seat of Madhya Pradesh government is situated in Bhopal , the capital of the state. The city also houses the secretariat. Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh The Chief Minister of the state heads the administration and is entrusted with majority of the executive authorities. At present, the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh is Shivraj Singh Chouhan and took over as chief minister of the state on 29 November 2005. Ministries and Departments of Madhya Pradesh Government The various departments and ministries of the government of Madhya Pradesh are as follows: Animal Husbandry 20-Point Implementation Backward Classes & Minorities Welfare Aviation Bio Diversity & Bio Technology Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief & Rehabilitation Commerce & Industry Co-operation Culture Commercial Taxes Farmer Welfare & Agriculture Development Energy Fisheries Finance Forest General Administration Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Protection Home Horticulture & Food Processing Higher Education Indian Systems of Medicine & Homeopathy (Ayush) Housing & Environment Jail Information Technology Law & Legislative Affairs Labour Mineral Resources Medical Education Panchayat & Rural Development Narmada Valley Development Planning, Economics & Statistics Parliamentary Affairs Public Grievances Redressal Public Enterprises Public Health Engineering Public Health & Family Welfare Public Service Management System Public Relations Rehabilitation Public Works Revenue Religious Trusts and Endowments Scheduled Caste & Scheduled Tribe Welfare School Education Rural Industries Social Welfare Science & Technology Technical Education and Man Power Planning Sports & Youth Welfare Transport Tourism Water Resources Urban Administration & Development Women & Child Development Judiciary in Madhya Pradesh The Madhya Pradesh High Court is located in Jabalpur. The High Court has control over the entire state. It was set up on 2 January 1936 as the Nagpur High Court and in accordance with the Government of India Act 1935; Letters Patent. Initially, it functioned from Nagpur. However, following the restructuring of the provinces in November 1956, the court shifted to Jabalpur. The Madhya Pradesh High Court has approved judge strength of 42. The principal bench is located in Jabalpur and there are two other permanent benches in Gwalior and Indore. What is the contact address of Madhya Pradesh High Court? Registrar General Madhya Pradesh High Court Principal Seat, Jabalpur Jabalpur (MP) -482002 Telephone (EPABX): 0761 -2622674, 2620380 Principal Registrar Madhya Pradesh High Court Gwalior Bench Gwalior (M.P.) - 474001 Telephone (EPABX): 0751 - 2402236 Principal Registrar Madhya Pradesh High Court Indore Bench Indore (M.P.) - 452001 Telephone (EPABX): 0731 -2528444, 2528555 Last Updated on : September 26, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule