SDF India - new generation tractor - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop SDF India – new generation tractor Home SDF India – new generation tractor Introduces new generation tractor  in India. Plans to appoint dealers across the country Bhanu Sharma SDF India (P) Limited was established about 12 years ago. In the last 12 years, the company has successfully established itself with high value high technology products for India. It has seen a growth rate of 400% since then. Agriculture is the main focus for SDF. 90% of its segment concentrates on agriculture. The remaining segments are also farmer-related. The Indian factory of the company at Ranipet, Tamil Nadu, produces various tractors for foreign markets such as Europe, America and Australia. Mr. Bhanu Sharma, Managing Director & CEO of SDF India lists the following two reasons for shifting tractor engine lines of the company from Italy to India: • From production cost of view, the country can afford low production cost when compared to European countries. Like other car companies, a lot of production happens here and these tractors are exported back to Europe. Sometimes the cost of transportation is negligible compared to the cost which is spent in India for the production. Besides, India has good engineers to facilitate the production. • India has a large tractor market in the world, therefore it is good to have more varieties and more focused tractors for India. The company is currently concentrating more on exports. By the end of the year or towards the beginning of the next year, it will launch smaller range of tractors in India. Of all the tractors that the company manufactures for farmers, the strongest of the lot is Deutz- Fahr, a German tractor. Deutz- Fahr is very popular in the Indian market. One of the most recent launches of the company in India was the launch of a new generation Lamborghini tractor. The tractor, white in color, has automatic transmission. There are 2 PTO’s – one in the rear which is used in any tractor and one in the center, a power plug and various other features. The pre-launch of the tractor was conducted in the month of December during the biggest agricultural fair in Pune called Kissan Mela. The Lamborghini tractor stands apart in not just technology and quality but also its style. It received tremendous media coverage during the pre-launch. Many inquiries from luxury resorts, golf club, and 5 star resorts followed, for the use of the tractor for grass farming. The tractor is yet to be sold commercially. The company is currently working on the distribution network to reach customers for activities beyond sale, including servicing and providing spare parts. A few units will be released in the market for sale in December. More units will be added next year. The Lamborgini tractor has received inquiries from states, particularly from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Punjab. “Agriculture is evolving greatly. It is a big and challenging business. There are a lot of new generation farmers who are well-informed and use new types of equipment with more features. Our tractors benefit such farming equipment,” shares Mr. Sharma. The company’s tractors also have additional features such as earth moving equipment. For Bio-compo mixture one requires a heavy power and slow(creeper) speed. It goes with stylo bagging and helps in crunching machinery which need a powerful tractor to run. “Overall our tractor is multi-purpose and can be used in agriculture segment, industrial applications, and special applications,” Mr. Sharma adds. Speaking of the affordability of these advanced technology tractor, Mr. Sharma says, “The price is not very high. It is very affordable but in any market segment or in any product there are middle men and there are lower people also. Our product is not affordable for the person who cannot pay. The price is high comparatively but it provides lots of facilities and extra productivity.” Two types of exports are done by the company. It exports directly from its Indian factories to its dealers in specified countries like Africa and Australia. In Europe, the tractors are exported to its parent company which in turn supplies them to distributors and dealers. The customers of the company approach the dealers for purchase of the tractors. These dealers have ample back up from the company’s units. Constant training and monitoring are done for the services provided by the dealers. With new range of tractors soon to be launched in India, the company has acquired about 100 dealers in the country. It aims to double up the number of dealers by the end of the year. Companies which believe in technology and can invest for future are eligible to apply for dealership. SDF India aims to maintain its image as the top most company for working on the highest technology tractor. It wishes to continue making technological growth in the future. It also aims to keep its customers happy through good service and support. It further wishes to increase its sales for business growth, and hence growth in every aspect of business remains the prime focus. Mr. Sharma signs off on a positive note saying, “Starting from next year we will have full range of tractors in India. There will be a lot of Deutz- Fahr and Lamborghini being used by farmers in India.” Our Correspondent Contact details: SDF INDIA (P) LIMITED, 72 M, Sipcot Industrial Complex Ranipet – 632 403 Tamil Nadu, India Phone: 04172-247156 to 63 (Extn: 4202) Fax: 04172-244981 / 246330 Web: www.samedeutz-fahr.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > SDF India – new generation tractor Related – articles, consultants, downloads SDF India – agricultural equipment Next Generation Farmers Lubing India – Offers drinking, conveyor and climate control system for livestock Petkus India – mechanical seed sorting equipment You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water