Agra Weather Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Agra Travel Tourist Map About Agra Weather Shopping Hotels in Agra How to Reach Taj Mahotsav Travel Agents Travel Tips Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri How to Reach Agra Agra Airport Agra Distance Chart Flights to Agra Agra Buses Trains to Agra Agra Route Map Delhi to Agra Varanasi to Agra Bharatpur to Agra Agra to Nanital Agra to Dehradun Agra to Lucknow Agra to Jaipur Agra to Allahabad Agra to Ajmer Tourist Destinations near Agra Mathura Travel Vrindavan Travel Bharatpur Travel Delhi Travel Jaipur Travel Ranthambore Travel more.. Agra Map Location Map Railway Map District Map Road Map more.. Home » Agra » Agra Weather Agra Weather City Map Hotels Flights Railways Agra Weather is sub tropical due to its position (27.18 N 78.02 E) on the earth's surface. Agra is situated at an elevation of 561 feet from sea level. Agra weather is extremely hot during the summers and pleasantly cool during the winter time. Fog occurs during the winter months. During the monsoon season, Agra city receives heavy rainfall and the weather becomes humid. For the traveler, Agra weather hovers between extremes-daytime temperatures can rise up to 40 degrees centigrade in the shade during the summer season, while in winters the temperature can plummet to a chilly 4 degrees centigrade. It is recommended that the traveler should avoid the blazing summer (April to June) and the rainy,wet season (July to September). Agra weather is similar to the weather in the entire state of Uttar pradesh and is warmest during the month of July (average temperature: 38 degrees centigrade) and coolest during the month of December (average temperature: 6 degrees centigrade). The wettest month of the year is May. Rainfall is evenly distributed in Agra city throughout the year. For the tourist the following simple precautions will help him to enjoy his stay in Agra. For Agra weather in the winter months, pack light woolens and a wind cheater or two. For Agra weather in the summer months, the following precautions are to be taken: 1. Try and plan your Agra travel in such a way that allows you to stay out of the heat. 2.Avoid venturing out in the hottest part of the day (11am to 3pm) 3. Wear light and loose fitting clothes-preferably cotton. This will protect you and your travel mates from heat related illnesses. Last Updated on : December 21, 2013 Travel to Agra Tourist Map Shopping Hotels Taj Mahotsav Travel Agents Agra Handicrafts Malls in Agra About Agra Weather Pin Code STD Code About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule