Newspaper - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Newspaper From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search Front page of The New York Times on Armistice Day , 11 November 1918. Journalism News Writing style Ethics Objectivity Values Attribution Defamation Editorial independence Journalism school Index of journalism articles Areas Arts Business Data Entertainment Environment Fashion Medicine Politics Science Sports Technology Trade Traffic Weather World Genres Advocacy Analytic Blogging Broadcast Citizen Civic Collaborative Comics-based Community Database Gonzo Immersion Investigative Literary Muckraking Narrative " New Journalism " Non-profit Online Opinion Peace Photojournalism Scientific Sensor Visual Watchdog Social impact Fourth Estate Fifth Estate Freedom of the press Infotainment Media bias Public relations Press service Propaganda model Yellow journalism News media Newspapers Magazines TV and radio Internet News agencies Alternative media Roles Journalists (reporters) Columnist Blogger Editor Copy editor Meteorologist Presenter  ( news ) Photographer Pundit / commentator Journalism Portal Category: Journalism v t e A newspaper is a periodical publication containing news , other informative articles ( listed below ), and usually advertising . A newspaper is usually printed on relatively inexpensive, low-grade paper such as newsprint . The news organizations that publish newspapers are themselves often metonymically called newspapers. Most newspapers now publish online as well as in print . The online versions are called online newspapers or news sites. Newspapers are typically published daily or weekly . News magazines are also weekly, but they have a magazine format. General-interest newspapers typically publish news articles and feature articles on national and international news as well as local news . The news includes political events and personalities , business and finance , crime, severe weather, and natural disasters; health and medicine , science , and technology; sports ; and entertainment , society , food and cooking, clothing and home fashion, and the arts . Typically the paper is divided into sections for each of those major groupings (labeled A, B, C, and so on, with pagination prefixes yielding page numbers A1-A20, B1-B20, C1-C20, and so on). Most traditional papers also feature an editorial page containing editorials written by an editor, op-eds written by guest writers, and columns that express the personal opinions of columnists , usually offering analysis and synthesis that attempts to translate the raw data of the news into information telling the reader "what it all means" and persuading them to concur. A wide variety of material has been published in newspapers. Besides the aforementioned news and opinions, they include weather forecasts; criticism and reviews of the arts (including literature, film, television, theater, fine arts, and architecture) and of local services such as restaurants; obituaries ; entertainment features such as crosswords, horoscopes, editorial cartoons , gag cartoons , and comic strips ; advice , food , and other columns; and radio and television listings (program schedules). Most newspapers are businesses, and they pay their expenses (such as journalists ' wages, printing costs, and distribution costs) with a mixture of subscription revenue, newsstand sales , and advertising revenue (other businesses or individuals pay to place advertisements in the pages, including display ads , classified ads , and their online equivalents ). Some newspapers are government-run or at least government-funded; their reliance on advertising revenue and on profitability is less critical to their survival. The editorial independence of a newspaper is thus always subject to the interests of someone, whether owners, advertisers, or a government. Some newspapers with high editorial independence, high journalism quality, and large circulation are viewed as newspapers of record . Many newspapers, besides employing journalists on their own payrolls, also subscribe to news agencies (wire services) (such as the Associated Press , Reuters , or Agence France-Presse ), which employ journalists to find, assemble, and report the news, then sell the content to the various newspapers. This is a way to avoid duplicating the expense of reporting. Circa 2005, there were approximately 6,580 daily newspaper titles in the world selling 395 million print copies a day (in the U.S., 1,450 titles selling 55 million copies). [ 1 ] The late 2000s–early 2010s global recession , combined with the rapid growth of free web-based alternatives, has helped cause a decline in advertising and circulation, as many papers had to retrench operations to increase profitability. [ 2 ] The decline in advertising revenues affected both the print and online media as well as all other mediums; print advertising was once lucrative but has greatly declined, and the prices of online advertising are often lower than those of their print precursors. Besides remodeling advertising, the internet (especially the web ) has also challenged the business models of the print-only era by democratizing and crowdsourcing both publishing in general (sharing information with others) and, more specifically, journalism (the work of finding, assembling, and reporting the news). In addition, the rise of news aggregators , which bundle linked articles from many online newspapers and other sources, influences the flow of web traffic . However, as more and more online newspapers go to pay walls, these sources should begin to dwindle. Contents 1 Definition 2 History 2.1 Gazettes and bulletins 2.2 Newspapers 2.2.1 Europe 2.2.2 Americas 2.2.3 Asia 2.2.4 Middle East 2.3 Industrial Revolution 3 Categories 3.1 Frequency 3.1.1 Daily 3.1.2 Weekly and other 3.2 Geographical scope and distribution 3.2.1 Local or regional 3.2.2 National 3.3 Subject matter 3.4 Technology 3.4.1 Print 3.4.2 Online 3.4.3 Custom 4 Organization and personnel 5 Zoned and other editions 6 Format 7 Circulation and readership 8 Advertising 9 Journalism 10 Impact of television and Internet 11 See also 12 Footnotes 13 Further reading 14 External links 14.1 Newspaper archives Definition [ edit ] A newspaper typically meets four criteria: [ 3 ] [ 4 ] Publicity: Its contents are reasonably accessible to the public. Periodicity : It is published at regular intervals. Currency: Its information is as up to date as its publication schedule allows. Universality: It covers a range of topics. History [ edit ] Gazettes and bulletins [ edit ] In Ancient Rome , Acta Diurna , or government announcement bulletins, were produced. They were carved in metal or stone and posted in public places. In China, early government-produced news sheets, called Dibao , circulated among court officials during the late Han dynasty (second and third centuries AD). Between 713 and 734, the Kaiyuan Za Bao ("Bulletin of the Court") of the Chinese Tang Dynasty published government news; it was handwritten on silk and read by government officials. In 1582, there was the first reference to privately published newssheets in Beijing, during the late Ming Dynasty . [ 5 ] In Early modern Europe the increased cross-border interaction created a rising need for information which was met by concise handwritten newssheets, called avvisi. In 1556, the government of Venice first published the monthly Notizie scritte , which cost one gazetta, a small coin. [ 6 ] These avvisi were handwritten newsletters and used to convey political, military, and economic news quickly and efficiently to Italian cities (1500–1700)—sharing some characteristics of newspapers though usually not considered true newspapers. [ 7 ] However, none of these publications fully met the classical criteria for proper newspapers, as they were typically not intended for the general public and restricted to a certain range of topics. Newspapers [ edit ] Main article: History of newspapers and magazines See also: List of the earliest newspapers Europe [ edit ] See also: History of British newspapers Title page of Carolus' Relation from 1609, the earliest newspaper The emergence of the new media in the 17th century has to be seen in close connection with the spread of the printing press from which the publishing press derives its name. [ 8 ] The German-language Relation aller Fürnemmen und gedenckwürdigen Historien , printed from 1605 onwards by Johann Carolus in Strasbourg , is often recognized as the first newspaper. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] At the time, Strasbourg was a free imperial city in the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation ; the first newspaper of modern Germany was the Avisa , published in 1609 in Wolfenbüttel . Other early papers include: The Dutch Courante uyt Italien, Duytslandt, &c. ('Courant from Italy, Germany, etc.') of 1618 was the first to appear in folio- rather than quarto-size . Amsterdam , a center of world trade, quickly became home to newspapers in many languages, often before they were published in their own country. [ 11 ] The first English-language newspaper, Corrant out of Italy, Germany, etc. , was published in Amsterdam in 1620. A year and a half later, Corante, or weekely newes from Italy, Germany, Hungary, Poland, Bohemia, France and the Low Countreys. was published in England by an "N.B." (generally thought to be either Nathaniel Butter or Nicholas Bourne ) and Thomas Archer . [ 12 ] The first newspaper in France was published in 1631, La Gazette (originally published as Gazette de France ). [ 6 ] The first newspaper in Portugal, A Gazeta da Restauração , was published in 1641 in Lisbon . [ 13 ] The first Spanish newspaper, Gaceta de Madrid , was published in 1661. Post- och Inrikes Tidningar (founded as Ordinari Post Tijdender ) was first published in Sweden in 1645, and is the oldest newspaper still in existence, though it now publishes solely online. [ 14 ] Opregte Haarlemsche Courant from Haarlem , first published in 1656, is the oldest paper still printed. It was forced to merge with the newspaper Haarlems Dagblad in 1942 when Germany occupied the Netherlands. Since then the Haarlems Dagblad has appeared with the subtitle Oprechte Haerlemse Courant 1656 . Merkuriusz Polski Ordynaryjny was published in Kraków , Poland in 1661. The first successful English daily, The Daily Courant , was published from 1702 to 1735. [ 11 ] [ 15 ] Americas [ edit ] See also: History of American newspapers Diario de Pernambuco , founded in November 1825 is the second oldest circulating newspaper in South America, after El Peruano , founded in October of that same year. In Boston in 1690, Benjamin Harris published Publick Occurrences Both Forreign and Domestick . This is considered the first newspaper in the American colonies even though only one edition was published before the paper was suppressed by the government. In 1704, the governor allowed The Boston News-Letter to be published and it became the first continuously published newspaper in the colonies. Soon after, weekly papers began publishing in New York and Philadelphia. These early newspapers followed the British format and were usually four pages long. They mostly carried news from Britain and content depended on the editor's interests. In 1783, the Pennsylvania Evening Post became the first American daily. [ 16 ] In 1752, John Bushell published the Halifax Gazette , which claims to be "Canada's first newspaper." However, its official descendant, the Royal Gazette , is a government publication for legal notices and proclamations rather than a proper newspaper; In 1764, the Quebec Gazette was first printed 21 June 1764 and remains the oldest continuously published newspaper in North America as the Quebec Chronicle-Telegraph . It is currently published as an English-language weekly from its offices at 1040 Belvédère, suite 218, Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. In 1808, the Gazeta do Rio de Janeiro [ 17 ] had his first edition, printed in devices brought from England , publishing news favourable for the government of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves since it was produced by the official press service of the Portuguese crown. In 1821, after the ending of private newspaper circulation ban, appears the first non-imperial printed publication, Diário do Rio de Janeirothough there it was already the Correio Braziliense , published by Hipólito José da Costa at the same time of the Gazeta, but from London and with a strong political and critical ideas, aiming to show the administration faults (see Portuguese Wikipedia [ 18 ] ). The first newspaper in Peru was El Peruano , established in October 1825 and still published today, but with several name changes. Asia [ edit ] Main articles: Print media in India , Japanese newspapers and History of Chinese newspapers Chinese newspaper Kaiyuan Za Bao was the first newspaper to be published in Asia. As it was hand written on silk, technically it cannot be considered as a newspaper. [ 19 ] The first recorded attempt to found a modern day newspaper in South Asia was by William Bolts , a Dutchman in the employ of the British East India Company in September 1768 in Calcutta. However, before he could begin his newspaper, he was deported back to Europe. A few years later, the first newsprint from this region - Hicky's Bengal Gazette - was published by an Irishman James Augustus Hicky . He used it as a means to criticize the British rule through journalism. [ 20 ] Middle East [ edit ] Main article: History of Middle Eastern newspapers Industrial Revolution [ edit ] By the early 19th century, many cities in Europe, as well as North and South America, published newspaper-type publications though not all of them developed in the same way; content was vastly shaped by regional and cultural preferences. [ 21 ] Advances in printing technology related to the Industrial Revolution enabled newspapers to become an even more widely circulated means of communication. In 1814, The Times (London) acquired a printing press capable of making 1,100 impressions per hour. [ 22 ] Soon, it was adapted to print on both sides of a page at once. This innovation made newspapers cheaper and thus available to a larger part of the population. In 1830, the first penny press newspaper came to the market: Lynde M. Walter's Boston Transcript . [ 23 ] Penny press papers cost about one sixth the price of other newspapers and appealed to a wider audience. [ 24 ] In France, Émile de Girardin started " La Presse " in 1836, introducing cheap, advertising-supported dailies to France. In 1848, August Zang , an Austrian who knew Girardin in Paris, returned to Vienna to introduce the same methods with " Die Presse " (which was named for and frankly copied Girardin's publication). [ 25 ] Categories [ edit ] Vladimir Lenin reading Pravda While most newspapers are aimed at a broad spectrum of readers, usually geographically defined, some focus on groups of readers defined more by their interests than their location: for example, there are daily and weekly business newspapers and sports newspapers. More specialist still are some weekly newspapers, usually free and distributed within limited areas; these may serve communities as specific as certain immigrant populations, or the local gay community. Frequency [ edit ] Daily [ edit ] A daily newspaper is issued every day, sometimes with the exception of Sundays and occasionally Saturdays, [ 26 ] and often of some national holidays . Saturday and, where they exist, Sunday editions of daily newspapers tend to be larger, include more specialized sections and advertising inserts, and cost more. Typically, the majority of these newspapers' staff members work Monday to Friday, so the Sunday and Monday editions largely depend on content done in advance or content that is syndicated. Most daily newspapers are published in the morning. Afternoon or evening papers, once common but now scarce, are aimed more at commuters and office workers. UK—daily vs. Sunday Main article: Sunday editions In the UK, unlike most other countries, "daily" newspapers do not publish on Sundays. In the past there were independent Sunday newspapers; nowadays the same publisher often produces a Sunday newspaper , distinct in many ways from the daily, usually with a related name; e.g., The Times and The Sunday Times are distinct newspapers owned by the same company, and an article published in the latter would never be credited to The Times . Similarly, the left-wing Guardian publishes six days a week but also owns the formerly independent Sunday Observer . Weekly and other [ edit ] Main article: Weekly newspaper Weekly newspapers are published once a week, and tend to be smaller than daily papers. Some newspapers are published two or three times a week; in the United States, such newspapers are generally called weeklies. [ citation needed ] Some publications are published, for example, fortnightly. Geographical scope and distribution [ edit ] Local or regional [ edit ] A local newspaper serves a region such as a city, or part of a large city. Almost every market has one or two newspapers that dominate the area. Large metropolitan newspapers often have large distribution networks, and can be found outside their normal area, sometimes widely, sometimes from fewer sources. National [ edit ] Newspaper stand in Salta ( Argentina ). Most nations have at least one newspaper that circulates throughout the whole country: a national newspaper . Some national newspapers, such as The Financial Times and The Wall Street Journal , are specialised (in these examples, on financial matters). There are many national newspapers in the UK , but only few in the United States and Canada . In the United States, in addition to national newspapers as such, The New York Times is available throughout the country. [ 27 ] International newspapers on sale in Paris , France There is also a small group of newspapers which may be characterized as international newspapers . Some, such as The International Herald Tribune , have always had that focus, while others are repackaged national newspapers or "international editions" of national or large metropolitan newspapers. In some cases articles that might not interest the wider range of readers are omitted from international editions; in others, of interest to expatriates , significant national news is retained. As English became the international language of business and technology, many newspapers formerly published only in non-English languages have also developed English-language editions. In places as varied as Jerusalem and Mumbai , newspapers are printed for a local and international English-speaking public, and for tourists. The advent of the Internet has also allowed non-English-language newspapers to put out a scaled-down English version to give their newspaper a global outreach. Similarly, in many countries with a large foreign-language-speaking population or many tourists, newspapers in languages other than the national language are both published locally and imported. For example, newspapers and magazines from many countries, and locally published newspapers in many languages , are readily to be found on news-stands in central London. Subject matter [ edit ] General newspapers cover all topics, with different emphasis. While at least mentioning all topics, some might have good coverage of international events of importance; others might concentrate more on national or local entertainment or sports. Specialised newspapers might concentrate more specifically on, for example, financial matters. There are publications covering exclusively sports, or certain sports, horse-racing, theatre, and so on, although they may no longer be called newspapers. Technology [ edit ]