Ethan Marcotte is a web designer & developer who lives in Boston. About Writing Portfolio Contact Ethan Marcotte is a web designer & developer, a speaker and author. Ethan lives in Boston, Massachusetts, and is passionate about beautiful design, elegant code, and the intersection of the two. He is a popular and experienced speaker, having been featured at An Event Apart, Carsonified Workshop, and South by Southwest, and co-hosts the Handcrafted CSS seminar series with Dan Cederholm. More fun facts: Ethan has a blog , and blathers incessantly on Twitter . His clientele has included People Magazine , New York Magazine , the Sundance Film Festival, The Boston Globe , and the World Wide Web Consortium. Also, he is tall. Ethan’s available for new engagements from September 2013 . If you'd like to get in touch, please do ! About Writing Portfolio Contact Selected Writing Responsive Web Design by Ethan Marcotte (A Book Apart, 2011) Designing with Web Standards, Third edition by Jeffrey Zeldman with Ethan Marcotte (New Riders, 2009) Handcrafted CSS by Dan Cederholm with Ethan Marcotte (New Riders, 2009) Articles: Responsive Web Design A List Apart, May 2010 Fluid Images Unstoppable Robot Ninja, April 2009 Fluid Grids A List Apart, March 2009 Where Our Standards Went Wrong A List Apart, February 2007 About Writing Portfolio Contact Selected Work SVA MFA in Interaction Design Services Provided: Design; HTML / CSS development Stanford School of Humanities & Sciences Services Provided: Creative direction; HTML / CSS / JS development Sundance Film Festival 2008 Services Provided: HTML / CSS / JS development Garret Keizer Services Provided: Design; HTML / CSS development Red 5 Studios Services Provided: Design; HTML / CSS / JS development About Writing Portfolio Contact Drop Me A Line Ethan’s available for new engagements from September 2013 . If you'd like to get in touch, use the form below to do so! Hey, Ethan! My name is , and my email address is  . So! I have an amazing thing I’d like to discuss with you. Here’s some more information : Once you’re done, just ! And of course, thanks very much. ( This field is blank. Please leave it that way: ) Copyright © 2015 Ethan Marcotte.