Puducherry District Map Home » Maps » Pondicherry » Puducherry District Map   Pondicherry पुडुचेरी का नक्शा Puducherry Map Puducherry City Telephone Codes Districts Puducherry Karaikal Yanam Mahe                    more... Location Map How to reach Railway Road Places to Visit in pondicherry Travel to Pondicherry Museums in Pondicherry Beaches in Pondicherry Temples in Pondicherry Hotels in Puducherry Pondicherry Hotels Ashram Geography and History Weather Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Infrastructure Language Education Universities in Pondicherry Cuisine Transport Facts Lat Long Pin Code Std code       Puducherry District Map District Map of Puducherry Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing all the districts of Puducherry. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Puducherry, formerly known as Pondicherry is a Union Territory of India and is located on the Coromandel Coast in South India. Puducherry was formerly a French colony and formed part of French India and has been carved out of former French enclaves and as a result of this, Puducherry is also known as the "French Riviera of the East". Being ruled by the French meant that the city was designed on the French Grid Pattern and French architectural styles are very common around Puducherry. The population of Puducherry is 946,600 and the Union Territory covers an area of 492 km sq. Administration of Puducherry: Puducherry is represented by a Lieutenant Governor and the Central Government is directly involved in the financial well being if the Union Territory. Since Puducherry is a Union Territory and not a state, governance and administration of the area falls directly under the Federal authority in New Delhi. Tourism in Puducherry: Given its French charm and beautiful beaches, Puducherry is very popular among domestic and international tourists alike. Another huge draw to Puducherry is the Aurobindo Ashram, where Sri Aurobindo spent his last years. Other than that there are many temples and mosques and parks in Puducherry which are popular among tourists. List of Districts in Pondicherry S No. District Headquarters Population (Census 2011) Sex Ratio (per 1000) Average Literacy 1 Karaikal Karaikal 200,222 1047 87.05% 2 Mahe Mahe 41,816 1184 97.87% 3 Puducherry Puducherry 950,289 1029 85.44% 4 Yanam Yanam 55,626 1038 79.47%   Buy this Map     Related Links               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule