:: State Horticulture Mission, Bihar, Patna ::         About us    Organisation    Objective    Strategy    Action Plan    Guideline    Statistics    Norms    Progress Report    Notices    Circulars & Notifications    Meetings    Cold Storage    Growers Database    Employees Database    Publication    Photo Gallery    RTI Act, 2005    Download    Useful Links    Online Reporting    HORTNET (GoI) Updated on : 20.04.2015 Horticulture is the science or art of cultivating fruits, vegetables, flowers, or ornamental plants. Etymologically, "horticulture" can be broken down into two Latin words: hortus (garden) and cultus (tilling) . As William L. George explains in his definition of horticulture: " Horticulture involves five areas of study. These areas are floriculture (includes production and marketing of floral crops), landscape horticulture (includes production, marketing and maintenance of landscape plants), floriculture (includes production and marketing of vegetables), pomology (includes production and marketing of fruits), and postharvest physiology which involves maintaining quality and preventing spoilage of horticultural crops." Horticulture is the cultivation of garden plants, fruits, berries, nuts, vegetables, flowers, trees, shrubs and turf. Horticulturists work for plant propagation, crop production, plant breeding, genetic engineering, plant biochemistry, plant physiology, storage, processing and transportation. They work to better crop yield, quality, nutritional value and resistance to insects, diseases, and environmental pollution. Horticulturalists use modern nurseries for the production of seedlings and mother plants. These plants are propagated through different methods such as seeds, inarching, budding, veneer grafting, patch budding and soft wood grafting. Financial for Organic Adoption and certification will be opened on 28.04.15 Advertisement for Technical Enquiry for Project Planning and Monitoring Unit in State Horticulture Mission, Bihar. Last date for submitting application is 06.05.2015, time 11.30 a.m. Tender Enquiry for Supply of Tissue Culture Banana Plant during 2015-16 in the State of Bihar. Expression of Interest for empanelment of service provider/agency for Adoption leading to Certification of Organic Horticultural crops on turnkey basis. RECRUITMENT OF PROFESSIONAL FOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT (AGRICULTURAL MARKETING). More notices >>>       Total Hits :   Home | Contact Us |  Tenders | Download | Useful Links | Site Map   Progress Report | Growers Database | Employees Database | Publication | RTI Acts, 2005   Maintained By Data Entry Operators of NHM (Copyright ©2009 www.horticulture.bih.nic.in)