Amritsar Massacre Memorial Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Amritsar Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Amritsar Places to Visit in Amritsar Golden Temple Wagah Border Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Durgiana Temple Ram Bagh Ram Tirath Mata Temple Tarn Taran Sahib Faridkot Fort Govind Garh Fort Pul Kanjari Jama Masjid Khairuddin Khoo Kalyanwala Historical Banyan Tree Massacre Memorial Baba Atal Rai Tower Bathinda Fort Cities to Visit Near Amritsar Ludhiana Travel Chandigarh Travel Dalhousie Travel Dharamshala Travel Delhi to Amritsar Route Map About Amritsar History Climate Punjab Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Punjab Places to Visit in Punjab Home » Amritsar » Tourist Attraction » Amritsar Massacre Memorial Amritsar Massacre Memorial The Amritsar massacre memorial reminds one of the fateful day of the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre. It was on the thirteenth of April in the year nineteen hundred and nineteen, when the British General, Edward Dyer, ordered his soldiers to open fire on a big group of ten thousand people killing more than a thousand innocent people. The crowd had gathered in Jallianwala Bagh, a garden in Amritsar that contains a religious shrine, order to protest against the arrest of two freedom fighters. They were unarmed as they wanted a peaceful protest. There were also many women and children in the gathering. The British General ordered his men to cover the only narrow entrance of the garden. They fired rounds after rounds on the unarmed, helpless people. At least a thousand of them were killed and many were seriously injured. This brutal act of killing people ruthlessly is one of the most disgraceful days in the history of the world. This event is known as the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre or Amritsar Massacre. On thirteenth April nineteen hundred and sixty-one, a memorial was built in the Jallianwala Bagh to offer respect to all those who died in the merciless mass murder. The Jallianwala Bagh massacre memorial was inaugurated by, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, the then-President of India. The bullet marks are still visible on the walls of the 'bagh' and on the adjacent buildings. The well in the Jallianwala Bagh has been made a protected monument, where many helpless people jumped into, in a fruitless attempt to save themselves. The Jallianwala Bagh is only a five minutes walk from the famous Golden Temple in Amritsar. The tourists and local people visit the place and the Massacre Memorial in Amritsar to pay their humble homage to all those people who lost their lives on the fateful day. Last Updated on 14 January 2011 Tourist Attractions Golden Temple Wagah Border Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Durgiana Temple Ram Bagh Ram Tirath Mata Temple Tarn Taran Sahib Faridkot Fort Govind Garh Fort Baba Atal Rai Tower Bathinda Fort Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Travel to Amritsar Places to Visit Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Information People Population Location Restaurant & Bar Shopping Cuisine Living SGPC Transportation Nightlife Banks Municipal Corporation Places to Visit in Amritsar Golden Temple Wagah Border Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Durgiana Temple Ram Bagh Ram Tirath Mata Temple Tarn Taran Sahib Faridkot Fort Govind Garh Fort Massacre Memorial Baba Atal Rai Tower Bathinda Fort About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule