Siddhivinayak Temple in Mumbai - Timings, Address, Entry Fee, Opening Days | My India Business Travel Unusual India Cricket Education Events Food Beverages Breads Breakfast Chinese Continental Desserts and Sweets Festival and Celebration Cuisines Italian Kids Special Low Calorie Recipes Main course Non Vegetarian North Indian Pickles and Chutneys Raita Salad Seafood Soups South Indian Starters Street Food Vegetarian Government History India Reviews Book Reviews Indian Restaurant Food Reviews Movie Reviews Movies Politics Cities Social Issues Automobiles Society Subcontinent Technology Uncategorized Home / Travel / Siddhivinayak Temple, Mumbai Siddhivinayak Temple, Mumbai May 30, 2013 by Priyanka Siddhivinayak Temple, Mumbai Dedicated to Lord Ganesha, the popularity and faith of devotees in the Siddhivinayak Temple is inexpressible. Built in 1801, the architecture of the temple portrays elegance and beauty. The ambience and the atmosphere of the temple will take you into an everlasting world – a blessed world of peace and faith. Each day over 25,000 devotees visit the sacred temple and is even frequently visited by celebrities. Attractions : ‘ Phool Gali ‘ (flower street) – There are a lot of shops selling flowers, prasad and puja thalis . The temple is overcrowded on Tuesdays as the day is dedicated to Lord Ganesha and special aartis (prayers) are offered. The idol of Ganesha is made of a single, 2.5 feet tall black stone. On either sides of the main idol, there are idols of ‘Goddess Riddhi’ and ‘Goddess Siddhi’. The ‘gabhara ‘ or shelter covering the idol is octagonal in shape, beautifully designed and plated with gold. The view inside the ‘mandap ‘ or the temple hall is eternally divine. The wooden doors of the temple have also been carved with excellence and have eight different postures of the deity. It is believed that all your wishes come true if you pray here. You will find devotees walking barefoot to the temple to attain the esteemed blessings of the Lord. Location : Prabhadevi, Mumbai, Maharashtra Reaching there : Taxi and autos are a convenient option to reach there. Buses to Prabhadevi locality are also available. If you wish to travel by the local trains, Dadar is the nearest station for the temple. Places around the temple : Shivaji Park Beach, Worli Sea Link, Nehru Centre Entry Fee : Commercialization in the name of God is the only thing that is dejecting. The entry is free is you are willing stand in the long queues but there is also a paid entry with a special pass for direct entry into the temple. Quick Tips : While buying the prasad from hawkers and vendors, make sure he is weighing it authentically or you may end getting even less than half of what you paid for. Avoid visiting the temple on Tuesdays and weekends. It is heavily crowded or go early morning. Finding a parking spot would be difficult. Do not carry valuables or wear heavy jewellery to the temple. Photography is prohibited inside the temple premises. If you are in Mumbai, a visit to the temple would be among the best of experiences to recollect. Here, I conclude this write up with a small prayer in the name of Lord Ganesha: “Ganaanaam Twam Ganapathi Gam Havaamahe Kavim Kaveenam Upamasra Vastamam Jyeshta Raajam Brahmanaam Brahmanasapatha Aanashrunvanna Oothibhi Seedha Saadanam” Through the above lines are from a shloka (prayer), the devotees are inviting the Lord of Spiritual Faith to visit their home and bless them with a prosperous life. For more related information, you may refer to the following: Religious places in Mumbai How to explore the best of Mumbai in One Day Siddhivinayak Temple Haji Ali Dargah Top 10 temples of India Richest Temples in India   Maharashtra Mumbai Temple Temples in Mumbai Priyanka I am an independent person who respects the virtues of patience, versatility and creativity. I like to travel around and if by chance I cannot, my dreams help me explore the world! More articles from Priyanka : Khusro Bagh – A tranquil garden surrounding Mughal structures Ocean Park in Hyderabad An Architectural Wonder called the Shore Temple at Mahabalipuram Teli Ka Mandir in the Gwalior Fort: Stunning Blend of North and South Indian Architecture Historical Treasures of Gujari Mahal Archaeological Museum Comments Click here to cancel reply. Your name (required) Your email (required) Website Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Comments Showing 1 Comments : Darpana Athale February 22, 2014 at 3:04 pm Hi Priyanka – just for records – the current Siddhivinayak Temple was not built in 1801, but there was an original small shrine. This new building and design came about in the 90s, and it was designed by Architect Sharad Athale, Propreitor of SK Athale and Associates. Reply Tweet Email Login Sign in to MyIndia New to MyIndia? Register Recent Posts Most Viewed 15 Bollywood Dialogues Fit for Real-Life Situations By: Nandni Book Review: An Insider’s View of Emotional Traumas By: Dr Deepak Pawar India’s First Gay Matrimonial Advertisement By: Sujatha Seventh Pay Commission: Expectations and Controversies By: Debu C The What and How of RuPay Card By: Sanchita Paul FDI Norms for NRIs Relaxed – Foreign Investments Anticipated By: Sujatha Takeaways From Recent Twitter-Google Partnership By: Rituparna Sengupta Secret behind ISRO’s next Interplanetary Mission By: Debu C 7 Celebrity Weddings That Should Happen Soon! By: Nandni Air India Introduces Psychometric Testing of Pilots By: Sujatha Most Viewed 1 Day | 7 Days | 30 Days | 365 Days Like us on Facebook Top Authors Recent Comments Hitendra yadav on Atal Pension Yojana(APY) for Social Security in India rajkumar on Do we still need a reservation or quota system in India? prakash rathod on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd faiyyaz ahmed on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits Baidyanath sah on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd omprakash on MUDRA Bank – Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd VIJAY MANGLIK on Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) – An accidental insurance scheme Imteyaz Naiyar on MUDRA Bank: Weighing the Possible Benefits ven Dr Sumedh Thero on Who Was Hsuan Tsang? thangaraj.r on Indian Cricket Team – How to Select It? Archives Select from the Drop Down to view archives May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012