India Market Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI India Market India Money Market Indian Share Market India Commodity Market India Financial Market India Debt Market Indian Equity Market India Market Research Indian Retail Market Emerging Market India Indian Gold market India Market Size India Stock Market Indian Bullion Market India Market Growth Indian Food Market Bombay Stock Exchange : BSE India Market Report India IT Market India Marketing Indian Stock Market Quotes India Market Entry India Telecom Market Indian Car Market Indian Stock Market Analysis Indian Real Estate Market Investing in Indian Stock Market Indian Market 2007 Stock Tip Falling Rupee against Dollar You would like to see India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home   » India-market » India Market India Market Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  15  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 A market is described as a platform where buyers and sellers are allowed to trade, exchange goods, services, and information. These involvements of the goods and the parties to trade simplify the demand and supply concepts and are thus the fundamentals of an economy. Any type of trade can take place in a market. The two major dependant factors by which a market can operate are buyers and sellers. It is in an India market place that the physical meeting of the buyers and sellers take place such that they can trade. Nobody can deny the importance of physical India market places, but still there are virtual marketplaces mainly supported by IT networks such as the internet. Some India markets are really very competitive - with a large number of players (vendors) selling the same kind of products or services. On the other hand, few of the markets have very low or no competition at all (with a single player in the market). It depends on the number of buyers and sellers in the market that how much will be the price of the good or service that is sold in the market. This determines the law of demand and supply in the market. In an India market place, where there is more number of sellers than the buyers, the supply is bound to bring down the prices. On the other hand, if there are more buyers than sellers in a market place, the reciprocative action would take place - demand pushing up prices. Types of India Market - Free Markets - Usually free markets are operational under the 'laissez-faire' conditions - where there is no government intervention. A free market may get distorted if there exists a monopolistic situation (seller controlling major portion of the supply) or a monopsonistic situation (a buyer having power on majority of the demand). In case of these distortions, the government or business bodies make an entry to ensure that the free markets operate smoothly. Currency Markets - Currency markets are among the largest traded markets in the globe, on a continual basis. Money flows are continuous around the globe - governments, banks, investors and consumers - all of them are involved in buying and selling currency round the clock. That is the velocity of money is huge with so many constantly changing hands. Stock Markets - Stock markets seem to be the backbone of any economy - and of late they have become the most complex structure allowing investors the scope of buying and selling shares in multitude companies. Majority of the Indian stock markets are operating on an electronic network, with a physical location being maintained for buyers separately. This is the place where the parties involved can interact with each other directly. Types of Consumer India Markets - Previously, India Markets originated from the center of villages and towns, where there was a sale or barter of farm produce, clothing and tools and various other products. Later on these street markets went on to become consumer-oriented markets like the specialist markets, shopping centers, supermarkets. 1.Commodity Markets - In India, with high oil and food prices, the commodity markets have again gathered all the attention. The prices of the essential commodities steer the economy to a desired level. Commodity markets deal in energy (oil, gas, coal, and biodiesel), soft commodities and grains (wheat, oat, corn, rice, soya beans, coffee, cocoa, sugar, cotton, frozen orange juice, etc), meat, and financial commodities like bonds. 2.Capital Goods & Industrial Markets - India capital goods market help businesses to buy durable goods that can be used in industrial and manufacturing methods. There are usually wholesale trades that take place with bulk goods being transacted at very cheap prices. Importance of India market - Markets in India after the liberalization era have been leveraged to the extent that they are well protected by legal procedures and boasts of efficient administrators. The government has always been proactive in its strategies to make the future of India market lucrative and attractive. India market has witnessed outstanding growth over past few years. The liberal and transparent financial policies have steered the economy towards free flow of FII and that is why India Market has achieved a sound place in the international arena. The returns on investments in the India market have been substantially moderate from all the listed stocks. Public Private Partnership (PPP) is the new trend in the Indian marketplace, with red tape and bribes being shed off to quite an extent. The few public enterprises like IOC, ONGC, BHEL, NTPC, SAIL, MTNL, BPCL, HPCL and GAIL, SBI, LIC etc are giving the private players a run for their money. Whereas at the same time, private players like Reliance Industries Limited, Infosys, Tata, Birla Corporation, Jet Airways, Ranbaxy, Biocon, Bajaj Auto, ICICI have been performing exponentially in all the financial years. >> More about India Market Market Information Insurance Market Bond Market Globalization of Market Marketing Project Report Automobile Market Two Wheeler Market Derivatives Market Luxury Car market Telecommunication Market About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED