Business plan for Consultancy Business Plans Format BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Advertising Agency Travel Agency Restaurant India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Multinational Company Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Medical Agriculture Business Leaders Dhirubhai Ambani Azim Premji Mukesh Ambani Anil Ambani Anand Mahindra Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Mergers Acquisitions Refinance Top 10 Financial Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India SBI Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank HDFC Bank Vijaya Bank Allahabad Bank UCO Bank Top Brands in India Red Wine Shoe Vodka Beer Headphones Handbags Chocolate Rum Laptop Cosmetic Bag Watch B-Schools Top B Schools in India Online Business School IIM website IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi IIPM Pune S.P. Jain institute Industries we cover         Automobile Aviation Aluminium Cement Cottage Communications Dairy Education Food Fertilizer Hotel Investment Insurance IT Jute Logistics Paper and Pulp Pharmaceutical Petroleum Petrochemical Polymers Retail Steel Software Sugar Telecom Tourism Textile Small Scale Business Ideas in India Home Based Business Low Investment Business Ideas For Beginners For Women For Professionals For Accountants For Musicians For NRI For Retired People For Valentine's Day For Christmas For Creative People Home   » business-plan » Business plan for Consultancy Business plan for Consultancy Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  5  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 A consultant is an expert in a specific area who works as a counselor either to a firm or to another entity. Consultancy businesses are on an expansion spree with more than USD12 billion being spent on consultancy in the year 1998. Hence, a Business plan for Consultancy must help in identifying comprehensible, succinct and convincing strategies that assist them in attaining pre-meditated operational plans. It should proficiently direct the information users through a tested data and statistics. A strategic consultancy business plan should help the firms in elevating equity from risk assets and private equity; safeguard debt subsidizing from banks, finance firms, etc.; tie-up, attain or divest the firm or subordinate; project new prospects to considered investors or associates; benefit interest from the managing team and board of directors; and astutely planning the expansion goals and strategies. plan for Consultancy - Things to Consider The Consultancy Business Plan is an all-inclusive, official document that provides details on the startup and current administration of a flourishing consulting business. There are certain points which should be considered while formulating a comprehensive Business plan for Consultancy. They are: The Consultant Business Plan must include Table of Contents highlighting entire divisions of an official strategy in a format sanctioned and anticipated by loan officials and investors. The Consultant Business Plan must provide techniques for predicting future sales; information on the area's demography, quality and easy comprehensible content supported by thorough fiscal assessment, costing principles, evaluation of the consulting sector and a brief Executive Summary. The Consultant Business Plan must offer the line of attack for a comprehensive fund development and features the cash flow required for a business advisor to attain his pre-meditated goals. The Consultant Business Plan must have details section on how to expand the current customer list, promotional methods, Value-Based costing techniques, client populace, Demographics, predicted profit and loss, staff planning, Break Even Assessment, estimated Cash Flow and balance sheet. The Consultant Business Plan must have monthly fiscal forecast assessment of the business revealing how the entrepreneur will utilize his finance. Business plan for Consultancy - Features The business manual must entail all guidelines required to finish the business plan for a consultancy. It must comprise models, diagrams, charts, and tables. The plan must develop a mission declaration to coordinate your firm's operations with a concise corporate aim. It must entail comprehensive instructions on how to tailor your business strategies. It must entail strong estimating equipments and an absolute, incorporated fiscal plan. Arrange promotional and sales policy with systems for establishing best strategies, methods and costing. The plan must include alternative system to review stratagems before formulating plan. It must comprise diagrams and graphs that can be useful for the prospective lenders and other users. Incorporate the services that you will offer your clients. Various chapters of the business workbook should deal with abstract, firm details, products and facilities, Startup rate and Capitalization, functional and fiscal plans, etc. The business plan must by up to date. Create an impression on your information seekers with a specialized, eye-catching text certified by the endowers, chief financers, etc Follow simple and precise steps Include the deadline by which the bank loans will be forfeited, in accordance to the government regulations. Auxiliary to the comprehensive business plan for consultancy, offer reference to important business resources. Business Plan Presentation For Airlines For Acquisition For Banking Industry For BPO For Consultancy for Event Management For Financial Services Format For Hospital For Hotel For Restaurant For Software Company For Travel Agency For Advertising Agency For Venture Capital About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED