Fairs and Festivals of Madhya Pradesh Home » Madhya Pradesh » Fairs and Festivals   Madhya Pradesh मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Indore Bhopal Jabalpur Gwalior Ujjain Sagar Neemuch Morena                    more... Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals The cultural diversity of India has paved the way for the celebration of numerous fairs and festivals in all its states. Madhya Pradesh is not an exception.Madhya Pradesh fairs and festivals are widely popular because they display the real cultural values of Indians residing in its rural areas. Madhya Pradesh fairs and festivals are not restricted to any particular community. The fairs and festivals of Madhya Pradesh are celebrated by all the communities. But the fairs and festivals of Madhya Pradesh that attract thousands of people are the tribal fairs and festivals whereby you get the opportunity of witnessing the tribal rituals and tradition of India. During the Madhya Pradesh fairs and festivals, you also get to see the traditional costumes, dance, music, food and arts and crafts of the local tribes. Apart from Holi, Diwali, there are many such fairs and festivals that are exclusively the fairs and festivals of Madhya Pradesh. Such Madhya Pradesh fairs and festivals include Bhagoria Haat at Jhabua, Khajuraho festival of dance, Tansen music festival of Gwalior, Madai festival, Dussehra, Karma and fair of Nagaji. Madhya Pradesh fairs and festivals are the mirror that reflect the cultural face of India to the rest of the world. You will not get to see so many tribes together making fun with the common urban from the city anywhere else in India.The fairs and festivals of Madhya Pradesh offer various items for sale which are made by the local tribes there. You get them there at very reasonable prices. Khajuraho Festival If you want to learn about Indian art and culture, Khajuraho is the best place to visit for it represents truly the Indian art and culture.Khajuraho festival of dance adds up to the Khajuraho glory which is derived from the exquisite architectural designs of its temples. The Khajuraho festival of dance in Madhya Pradesh is organized in locations with well decorated temples in the background. This is because most of the dance forms have been developed in the silent and pure environment of temples. At Khajuraho festival, you can check out various kinds of dances including Kathakali, Kuchipudi, Manipuri, Kathak, Odissi and Bharatnatyam. These dances are performed by both male and female performers. Moreover, Khajuraho festival of dance is also not restricted to any particular religion. Everyone can participate or can watch the performances. But the star attraction of Khajuraho festival of dance at Madhya Pradesh is the classical dance performance in an open air auditorium in front of the Chitragupta temple and the Vishwanatha temple. You must not miss them.The Khajuraho festival of dance in Madhya Pradesh is organized every year for seven days in the months of February and March. Bhagoria Haat Festival Bhagoria Haat Festival of Madhya Pradesh is one of the most amusing tribal festivals in India because during this festival, young boys and girls are allowed to elope after choosing their partners. The Bhagoria Haat Festival belongs to the local tribes called Bhils and Bhilalas.Bhagoria Haat Festival is organized in the district of West Nimar and Jhabua. The haat is organized in the form of a 'swayamvar' or a marriage market where young girls and boys are allowed to choose their partners.Bhagoria Haat Festival has an agricultural significance attached to it, that is, it coincides with the end of harvesting. So some people also celebrate it to mark the completion of harvesting. But the star attraction of Bhagoria Haat Festival of Madhya Pradesh is the running away of young boys and girls with their partner who are later accepted as husband and wife by the society. During the Bhagoria Haat Festival in Madhya Pradesh, the boys put red powder on the face of the girl to whom he wants to get married, if the girl too wishes to marry the same boy, she has to put the same red powder on the boy's face after which both of them run away from that place. But if the girl does not agree in the first chance, the boy can go behind her to persuade her and may win her heart. So the Bhagoria Haat Festival in Madhya Pradesh is worth a visit because you will not get to witness the same festivity and spirit anywhere else.Bhagoria Haat Festival at Madhya Pradesh is celebrated in the month of March before the Holi festival. Madai festival Madai festival is one of the most colorful tribal festival of Madhya Pradesh. The Madai festival of Madhya Pradesh is held in various villages in line from Mandla to Bastar. The Madai festival is one of its kind festival to be celebrated in Bastar. The Madai festival of Madhya Pradesh is held every year in the third or fourth week of February. The Madai festival is mainly celebrated by the Gond tribe who travel long distances to reach this place to meet their friends and relatives and buy their whole year's supply of things such as salt, spices and cooking oil, etc. When the Gond tribe reaches these villages, they all get into the festivity mood and hence the Madai festivalis celebrated. In most of the villages, the arrangements for Madai festival are done beforehand. The star attraction of Madai festival at Madhya Pradesh is a village named Narayanpur which lies in the district of Bastar. The day on which Madai festival is celebrated is of great spiritual significance and this is why people perform various religious rituals. Many people gather under the shade of a sacred tree to sacrifice a goat and offer it to the Mother Goddess. All this is accompanied by loud chanting of hymns and religious rhymes, drum beating and ringing of bells.At Madai festival of Madhya Pradesh, you will get to witness the tribal lifestyle, culture and customs. Moreover, you can also check out their traditional clothes, music, dance and arts and crafts, food, etc. Tansen music festival Tansen music festival which is held in Gwalior every year is organized in the memory of one of the nine gems in the court of Emperor Akbar and the great musical legend named Tansen. The Tansen music festival is also known as Tansen Sangeet Sammelan or the Tansen Utsav. Further, Gwalior itself has a long history of producing great musicians and singers. Tansen music festival in Madhya Pradesh is organized every year near the tomb of the great musician Tansen at Behat.The Tansen music festival of Madhya Pradeshgoes on for five nights. Renowned musicians, singers and vocalists from all across the country gather at Tansen music festival in Madhya Pradesh to perform in front of the large audience who comes from various corners of India. For five nights, the air of Gwalior carries the fragrance of the Tansen music festival to every corner of the town and intoxicates everyone with its soft and sweet music. Classical music has its own charm. People who have knowledge about it say that this kind of music do not require words rather they speak through their tunes, one needs to understand every tune and note. If you appreciate classical music, then you must visit the Tansen music festival at Madhya Pradesh. Believe it, at the end of the festival you would be left craving for more. The Tansen music festival in Madhya Pradesh is held every year in the freezing months of November and December. Last Updated on : 14 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule