Tripura Government Home » Tripura » Tripura Government   Tripura त्रिपुरा का नक्शा Tripura Map Districts of Tripura South Tripura Dhalai West Tripura North Tripura Agartala City Map Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Tripura Location Lat Long Map Travel to Tripura Places to visit in Tripura Wildlife Sanctuaries Bhuvaneswari Temple Tripura Sundari Temple Agriculture Map Tripura Forests Parliamentary Constituencies- East Tripura Parliamentary Constituencies- West Tripura Economy Government Geography Society and Culture Hotels in Tripura Attractions History STD Code PIN Code Assemblypolls Sex Ratio Universities In Tripura       Tripura Government The Tripura government is a well-organized government, which provides almost all the services that are expected from a good state government of India. The chief minister of Tripura is Manik Sarkar and the governor is Padmanabha Balakrishna Acharya. Other than the chief minister, there are several council of ministers of the state Tripura has a couple of policies, which have helped and are still helping the state to progress in all the various spheres of life. Tripura government is also taking a lot of initiative to spread mass awareness of the various policies meant for the development of the region. The National Liberation Front of Tripura is a significant part of the history of government of the state. It was established in the year 1989 with an aim to establish a separate identity of Tripura as a full-fledged state. The government of Tripura follows parliamentary democracy. And the people who reside in the district are allowed to vote. The three major parts of the government at Tripura are legislature, judiciary system and Tripura Legislative Assembly. The Deputy Speaker or the Speaker controls the meetings of the assembly. The chief minister heads the council of ministers. This council has the executional power of the state. The governor is appointed by the Indian President. The post of the governor is an ornamental and respectful position. There are two main political parties in Tripura. These are the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Indian National Congress. Political Parties There are several political parties in Tripura that are vying to attain a stronghold in the political scenario of the northeast Indian state. Apart from the dominant national parties like the Congress and the CPI (M), several prominent state parties have mushroomed in the state. Although these parties are local state based political groups, they are by no means insignificant and are doing phenomenal work to make their presence felt. Amongst the notable political parties of Tripura, the Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura is one of the noteworthy parties that was formed on 9 June 1997 by the coalition of the Tripura Tribal National Conference with the Tripura Hill People's Party. The insurgence operations and the guerrilla attacks of the National Liberation Front of Tripura indirectly paved the way for the Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (IPFT) to win the elections. Another leading political party that spearheads the governance of Tripura is the Janganotantrik Morcha (People's Democratic Front). Popularly known by the acronym PDF, the party was formed by Ajoy Biswas, a disgruntled member of the CPI(M).The formation of this party, however resulted in a lot of political unrest in the state that was caused by a divide in the teacher's movement of the CPI (M). Cabinet of Ministers The Cabinet Ministers of Tripura take several important decisions in matters related to the social, economic and political development of the state. Judiciary The Judiciary of Tripura comprises of a Department of Law that takes note of all the legal cases of the state. The Law Department of Tripura is headed by the honorable Chief Minister of the state. An integral part of Tripura government, the State Judiciary deals with civil as well as criminal cases. The judiciary of Tripura is under the strict jurisdiction of the High Court of Guwahati. Tripura has several lower courts that effectively deal with civil and criminal cases. The native population is allowed to appeal in the High Court of Guwahati, in case they are not satisfied with the decision of the lower courts of Tripura. The Law Department of Tripura has introduced several measures to effectively deal with the judicial cases of the state. The Nodal Officers of the Law Department hold responsibility for quick dispatch of cases related to a particular department. They keep a record of the development of a particular case and accordingly inform the Law Department. The Law Department further takes important decisions in regard to the expansion of infrastructure of the state judiciary, construction of new buildings for courts, formation of new posts in the field of judiciary and maintenance of budget for the state judiciary. Government Departments The Tripura Government Departments are responsible for the administration of the various sectors of the state's economy as well as the infrastructure. The government of the northeast Indian state is trying its level best to spruce by the basic facilities and augment the state's prospects for growth and development. Following are the various departments of the Government of Tripura: Departments of Agriculture Department of Tribal Welfare (Excluding TRP, PTG) Department of Animal Resource Development Departments of Finance Department of Revenue, Public Works (Excluding Drinking water and sanitation) Departments of School Education Department of Health and Family welfare and Law Departments of Power Department of Urban Development Department of Rural Development (Panchayat) Department of Transport Departments of Rural Development (Excluding Panchayat) Department of Forest Department of Industries & Commerce (Including Information Technology) Departments of Co-operation Department of Fisheries Departments of Tribal Welfare (TRP & PTG) Department of Printing and Stationary Departments of Social Welfare & Social Education Department of Welfare of OBC Department of Science, Technology and Environment Departments of Minority Development Department of Labour Department of Sports and Youth Affairs Departments of Higher Education Department of Food, Civil supplies and Consumers Affaires Department of Information Department of Cultural Affairs Departments of Welfare of Scheduled Caste (SC) Department of Public Works (Drinking Water and Sanitation) Department of Tourism WBST141014 Last Updated on : October 15, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule