 Welcome to Food Corporation of India Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A हिन्दी मे देखे भारतीय खाद्य निगम Food Corporation of India Home Contact Us Sitemap Corporate Email Headquarters FCI Operations Procurement Storage & Contract Movement Finances Sales Stocks Quality Control Engineering Import & Export Industrial Relation-Labour Open Market Sale Scheme Introduction MTF for sale of wheat under.. MTF for sale of wheat under.. Policy for Bulk Sale through E-Auction.. Policy for sale of wheat through.. Status of Sale of wheat under.. Status of Sale of rice under.. Public Distribution System Brief note on PDS and other.. Commodity/Scheme wise allotment and offtake under.. Quality Standard of issuable Ready Stocks.. National Food Security Act 2013.. Allotment And Off-take under NFSA .. FCI Highlights Home About Us Objective Board of Directors (As on 23.04.2015).. Code of Conduct and Ethics Citizens Charter of FCI High Level Committee Organisational Structure Zonal / Regional Offices North Zone Delhi Region Haryana Region HP Region J&K Region Punjab Region Rajasthan Region UP Region Uttarakhand Region East Zone Bihar Region Jharkhand Region Orissa Region WB Region West Zone Chhattisgarh Region Gujarat Region Maharashtra Region MP Region South Zone A P Region Karnataka Region Kerala Region Tamil Nadu Region North-East Zone Arunachal Region Assam Region Manipur N&M Region NEF Region Institute of Food Security Personnel Seniority List Staff Body Election 2014 Vigilance Manpower FCI Regulations Immovable Property Returns of Cat.I (Page-1) Immovable Property Returns of Cat.I (Page-2) Blank APAR forms of Cat-I Employees corner Information Technology Sports & Welfare Activities EPS Claims Downloads CPF Claims List Of Hospitals Empanelled By Headquarters Postings / Transfers / Promotions orders MIS & KPIs Format for Regions MIS & KPI's Formats for Zones Proforma of PEG Scheme Recruitment FCI invites application for the Post of Management Trainee (General/ Depot/ Movement/ Accounts/ Technical/ Civil Engineering / Mechanical Engineering / Electrical Engineering)and Manager (Hindi) for manning posts in its Depots and Offices spread all over Training Institute Immovable Property Returns Photo Gallery Press Release Press Releases by FCI FCI In News RTI RTI Manuals RTI Act-2005 RTI Report /Suo Motu Disclosure Appellate Orders Contact Us HeadQuarter North Zone Delhi Region Haryana Region HP Region J&K Region Punjab Region Rajasthan Region UP Region Uttarakhand Region East Zone Bihar Region Jharkhand Region Orissa Region WB Region West Zone Chhattisgarh Region Gujarat Region Maharashtra Region MP Region South Zone A P Region Karnataka Region Kerala Region Tamil Nadu Region North-East Zone Arunachal Region Assam Region Manipur N&M Region NEF Region Institute of Food Security Ministry Tenders Circulars Related Sites MOCAF&PD CWC IISFM FAP E-GRAINS IRRS Raj Bhasha E-Litigation E-Tendering Procurement Management System(PMS) News & Updates FCI invites application for the Post of Management Trainee (General/ Depot/ Movement/ Accounts/ Technical/ Civil Engineering / Mechanical Engineering / Electrical Engineering)and Manager (Hindi) for manning posts in its Depots and Offices spread all over FCI (Staff) Regulations-the 1971st and Appendix RFP for Selection of System Integrator of Depot Online System. Orders for 1203 promotions within category-III posts in North Zone. Same can also be viewed at Employee corner in North Zone. Delegation of powers in respect of matters connected with Personnel Administration. EP-09-2015-10 dated 30.04.2015 Introduction of Stagnation Impact Amelioration Scheme 2014 for Category-III & IV employees of Food Corporation of India MoU 2015-16 signed between Ministry and FCI Tentative List of Assistant Grade - I Employees Likely to be promoted to the post of Manager during 2015 in North Zone Draft Concession Agreement, RFP for construction of Silos (As on 26.03.2015) "Report of the High Level Committee on Reorienting the Role and Restructuring of Food Corporation of India" Public Notice Important Notice about fake websites Uploading of the Immovable property Return of Category-II and III employees. Do's and Don'ts of Cyber Security Policy Cyber Security Policy for FCI MSP of Paddy, Wheat and Coarse Grain for 2014-15 MoU between the Food Corporation of India and Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, department of Food & Public Distribution View More Ensuring Food Security of Nation Staff Body Election 2014 1. Notification of Election including Code of Conduct  and guidelines. 2. N omination form 3. Electoral list as on 01.05.2014  Voter list of the Zone/Region Names of the Presiding and Polling Officers North Zone Names of Presiding and polling Officers Delhi Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers H.P Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers Haryana Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers J&K Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers Punjab Region   Names of Presiding and polling Officers   Rajasthan Region   Names of Presiding and polling Officers   U.P Region   Names of Presiding and polling Officers   Uttarakhand   Names of Presiding and polling Officers   South Zone Names of Presiding and polling Officers Andra Pradesh Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers Karnataka Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers Kerala Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers Tamilnadu Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers East Zone Names of Presiding and polling Officers Bihar Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers Jharkhand Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers Odisha Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers West Bengal Region Names of Presiding and polling Offices West Zone Names of Presiding and polling Officers Chattisgarh Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers Gujrat Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers M.P Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers Maharastra Region Names of Presiding and polling Officers North East Zone Names of Presiding and polling Officers Arunachal Pradesh Names of Presiding and polling Officers Assam Names of Presiding and polling Officers N&M Names of Presiding and polling Officers NEF DO Aizawal and DO Agartala NEF RO Shillong and DO Shillong Names of Presiding and polling Officers Headquarters Names of Presiding and polling Officers IFS Gurgaon Names of Presiding and polling Officers CRO Order dated 18-03-2014 Check List Corrigendum for Contact Numbers Corrigendum of Scrutiny and withdrawal  Notice Notification Corrigendum to the office Notification dated 11-03-2014   Food Corporation of India: 16-20, Barakhamba Lane, New-Delhi-110001, India , Phone: 011-43527462 Home Recruitment Recruitment-2013 FAQ Feedback Contact Us Sitemap Terms & Condition Privacy policy Disclaimer Site is designed and hosted by National Informatics Centre Contents on this website is published and managed by Food Corporation of India, Govt. of India. For any query regarding this website please contact Deputy General Manager (Information Technology), dgmit.fci@nic.in ©2015 Food Corporation of India, Govt. of India. All rights reserved.