Vadodara City Map Home » Maps » Gujarat » Vadodara City Map   Gujarat Cities Ahmedabad Anand Dwarka Gandhinagar Jamnagar Rajkot Somnath Surat Vadodara                        more.. गुजरात का नक्शा About Gujarat History Geography Weather Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Region Map District Map Road Map Railway Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Port Map Ahmedabad Metro Map Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Gujarat Places to visit in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Beaches Wildlife Sanctuaries Hotels in Gujarat Ahmedabad Hotels Saputara Hotels Surat Hotels Vadodara Hotels Rajkot Hotels Jamnagar Hotels              more... How to reach Airports Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Schools Universities in Gujarat India Map in Gujarati World Map in Gujarati Gujarat Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Gujarat       Vadodara City Map City Map of Vadodara Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Vadodara Map showing roads, railways, hotels, hospitals, waterbody, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Formerly known as Baroda, Vadodara is one of the largest cities in Gujarat. Located at the banks of Vishwamitri river, it is also the administrative headquarters of the Vadodara district. It is also the city from where the national highway and the railway line connecting Mumbai and Delhi pass through. The modern Baroda was a memorial of its former ruler Sayajirao Gaekwad III who had a dream of making it an educational, industrial and commercial centre. The city has had different names in the past. Earlier, it was called Chandravati after its ruler Raja Chandan. Then it was named Viravati, which means the abode of the brave. Then its name was changed to Vadpatra due to abundance of banyan trees on the banks of the Vishwamitri river. The name Baroda or Vadodara was then derived from Vadpatra. It is regarded as the cultural capital of Gujarat and often known as the 'Cultured City'. The city has a cosmopolitan lifestyle. It is ever-changing and dynamic. The highlights of its vibrant culture can be seen during the celebrations of festivals like Diwali, Navratri, Ganesh Chaturthi, Eid, Christmas and many more. Places to Visit There are many places in Baroda to explore and look out for. Some of the places of interest in the city are given below: Champaner-Pavagadh Archaeological Park: Champaner-Pavagadh Archaeological Park is a UNESCO World Heritage site that includes fortifications, palaces, religious buildings, residential precincts, agricultural structures and water installations from the 8th to 14th centuries. It was built by Sultan Mahmud Begada of Gujarat. On the top of Pavagadh Hill, there is a Kalikamata temple, which is considered to be an important shrine and attracts large numbers of pilgrims throughout the year. Laxmi Vilas Palace: It is a huge building of the Indo-Saracenic school built by Sayajirao Gaekwad III in 1890. The most famous feature of the palace is the Darbar Hall, which generally serves as a venue for concerts and other similar events. It also has a museum that has a rich collection of art works belonging to the royal family. Nyaya Mandir: It is the 'Temple of Justice' and houses the district court of Vadodara in Gujarat. The building reflects the Gothic, Renaissance and Mughal styles of architecture. Aurobindo Ashram: It was the residence of Aurobindo Ghosh when he used to stay in Baroda. The house has been transformed into an ashram now and houses a library that features literary works of Aurobindo, a sales emporium and a study room. Kirti Mandir: It is the 'Temple of Fame' built by Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III in the memory of his ancestors. The building is constructed in the shape of letter 'E' with many balconies, terraces and domes and its central 'sikhara' is a major tourist attraction in the city. Sursagar Lake: Rebuilt in the 18th century, the lake is located in the heart of the city. Formerly known as Chandan Talao, it is about 60 feet deep. It is one of the important tourist attractions due to the boating activities. During the weekends, special lightings are done around the lake. Lalbaug: The garden situated at a distance of about four kilometres from the main city is an important attraction of the city. Beautiful array of flowers, serene environs and a play park make it a perfect picnic spot for families Other places of interest in the city are Hazira Maqbara, Pratap Vilas Palace, Sardar Patel Planetarium, Maharaja Fateh Singh Museum, Sayaji Baug Zoo and many more. How to Reach Vadodara Airport is the main airport of the city that connects it other cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. The city is expected to get an international airport soon. Vadodara railway station is the main railway station that connects it to other cities. National Highway 8 passes through the city and connects Delhi with Gandhinagar, Ahmedabad and Mumbai. Indian National Expressway 1 connects Vadodara to Ahmedabad. Buses, taxis and auto-rickshaws fulfill the public transport needs of the city. WBST110515 WBVDA Vadodra City Information Country India State Gujarat District Vadodra Established In 1950 Area 148.95 km2 (57.51 sq mi) Population 1602424 as Census January 2011 Population Density 10,335/km2 (26,770/sq mi) as Census January 2011 Language Gujarati, Hindi, Marathi, English Official Languages Gujarati, Hindi, Marathi, English Literacy Rate 81.21% as Census January 2011 Sex Ratio 934/1000 Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) Pin code 391431 Area code 265 Lat Long 22.3000° N, 73.2003° E Religion Hinduism, Islam, Jainism Festivals Diwali, Uttarayana, Holi, Eid, Gudi Padwa and Ganesh Chaturthi, Navratri, Garbha University Maharaja Sayajirao University Sister Cities Edison, New Jersey, United States Sports Moti Bagh Stadium (Cricket), Laxmi Vilas Palace golf course, Vadodara Marathon is an AIMS Airport Vadodara Airport or Civil Airport Harni Railway Station BRC/Vadodara Junction (7) Railway Station Tourist Attractions Laxmi Vilas Palace, Nazarbaug Palace, Makarpura Palace, Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, Kirti Mandir, Kirti Stambh, Nyay Mandir, Khanderao Market, Aurobindo Ashram Nearby Tourist Attractions Dabohi, Dakor, Ahmedabad city Popular Things Laxmi Vilas Palace, ISKCON Baroda, Sri Sri Radha Shyamasundar Mandir Temple, Baps Swaminarayan Mandir Notable People Premanand Bhatt, Yashodev Suri, Dongre Maharaj, Nayan Mongia, Jacob Martin, Pathan Brothers Irfan Pathan and Yusuf Pathan National Highway NH-8 Last Updated on : May 25, 2015 Cities in Gujarat Ahmedabad Ambaji Amreli Anand Bharuch Bhavnagar Bhuj Bilimora Dahod Botad Veraval Jetpur Navagadh Dwarka Gandhinagar Garia Godhra Jamnagar Junagadh Navsari Palanpur Mahesana Muzaffarpur Patan Mandvi Porbandar Rajkot Somnath Surat Surendranagar Vadodara Valsad Vapi Palitana Gandhidham Nadiad Morbi             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule