Turmeric Exporters STAR EXPORTS Ambattur Tamil Nadu India List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory STAR EXPORTS Member Since : 2014 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Company Information Star exports is a trusted exporter, distributor, and supplier of a wide range of agro and allied food products. Our sample products of rice, sugar, chilli, turmeric, pulses, cereals, cooking oil, coir products, coriander powder, corriander leaves, neemoil, thulsi, all indian vegetables, spices, cashew, ground nuts, bananas and etc. By holding the goodness of nature, we bring forth a large range of beautiful products. Our transparent deals, timely delivery, safe transportation and supreme quality products contribute a lot in our success. The pick of the farm is brought to you with the authentic taste preserved. Onions (nashik bellary, south bellary, rose, pickle and podisu onions), variety of red chillies, jaggery powder, maize or yellow corn, salt, potatoes and few seasonal agricultural products fall in our standard product range and we strive to offer the very best quality products worldwide. Customer satisfaction is a critical issue in the success of any business system, traditional or online. In a turbulent commercial environment, in order to sustain the growth and market share, companies need to understand how to satisfy customers, since customer satisfaction is critical for establishing long term client relationships it is evidenced by the fact that over the last five years, customer satisfaction surveys have become common in many financial institutions. Thus a fundamental understanding of factors impacting customer satisfaction is of great importance to business. Other Info Possessing Spices Board, APEDA Certification : Star Exports Possess Spices Board, Agricultural & Processed Food Products Export Development Authority certificates one of the major certification boards in India for exporters. Company Facts Business Type : Exporters / Wholesale Suppliers Year of Estd. : 1913 Ownership : Partnership Business Markets : India Featured Products/Services Turmeric Tamarind Pods White Sugar Black Pepper Seeds Poppadom Fresh Red Onion Maize Organic Jaggery Fresh Garlic Search Contact Details SENTHILKUMAR » More detail Product Range » Basmati Rice » Betel Leaves » Black Pepper Seeds » Dried Red Chilli » Fennel Seeds » Fresh Coconut » Fresh Garlic » Fresh Red Onion » Green Cardamom » Himalayan Edible Rock Salt » Himalayan Rock Salt » Himalayan Rock Salt Soap Bar » Idli Rice » Iodised Salt » Maize » Organic Jaggery » Ponni Rice » Poppadom » Poultry Eggs » Red Chilli Powder View more products Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com