Meghalaya District Map Home » Maps » Meghalaya » Meghalaya District Map   Districts of Meghalaya West Khasi Hills East Garo Hills West Garo Hills South Garo Hills              more.. मेघालय का नक्शा Meghalaya Meghalaya Map Cities in Meghalaya Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Shillong City Map Cherrapunji City Map Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Agricultural Map Geography Media in Meghalaya Government Education Universities in Meghalaya History Mineral Map Society Information Travel to Meghalaya Places to visit in Meghalaya Wildlife Sanctuaries Elephant Falls Cherrapunji Travel Hotels in Meghalaya Shillong Hotels Sex Ratio Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Polls Pincode STD Code       Meghalaya District Map Click any District on the map and get the detailed District Map Meghalaya District Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * The Map Highlights all the Districts in the state Meghalaya along with State Capital and District HQ. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Meghalaya is located in the north east of India and is a popular tourist attraction given the natural beauty of the state. The name Meghalaya literally means "abode of the clouds". The capital of Meghalaya, Shillong is a popular hill station and is also known as the "Scotland of the East". Meghalaya is also home to Mawsynram and Cherrapunji, two of the wettest spots in the world. The population of Meghalaya is 2,964,007 (2011 census) and the state covers an area of 22,429 km sq. Districts and Administration in Meghalaya: Meghalaya has eleven districts, which are divided into eight sub divisions and thirty nine blocks, blocks comprise of town municipalities and village panchayats. Each district of Meghalaya is governed by a Deputy Commissioner who is appointed by the Indian Administrative Service. The Deputy Commissioner is in charge of the overall administration of the district and covers the roles of a Magistrate and Collector as well. As a Deputy Commissioner he is responsible for the overall smooth functioning of the district, as a Magistrate he takes care of the law and order situation of the district and as a Collector he oversees revenue collection and recovery. The Superintendent of Police is responsible for the Police Administration of the district. Tourism in Meghalaya: Meghalaya is considered to be one of India's most beautiful states of India and is known for its thick forest cover. Apart from that Meghalaya has a lot of options for adventure sports such as; rock climbing, hiking and trekking and water sports. Other places of interest in Meghalaya are; Cherrapunji, Elephant Falls, Bishop Falls, Sweet Falls, Hot springs at Jakrem, Umiah Lake, The Eco PARK, Botanical Gardens, Lady Hydari Park and the Garo Hills among others. List of Districts in Meghalaya S No. District Headquarters Population (Census 2011) Sex Ratio (per 1000) Average Literacy 1 East Garo Hills Williamnagar 317,917 972 73.95% 2 East Khasi Hills Shillong 825,922 1011 84.15% 3 Jaintia Hills Jowai 395,124 1013 61.64% 4 Ri Bhoi Nongpoh 258,840 953 75.67% 5 South Garo Hills Baghmara 142,334 945 71.72% 6 West Garo Hills Tura 643,291 984 67.58% 7 West Khasi Hills Nongstoin 383,461 980 77.87% ABMOD Last Updated on : January 28, 2015             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule