Weekly Commodities Prices | Food Security Portal Food Security Portal About Us Contact Us Join Login Supporters About Documentation Data API Weekly Commodities Prices Temporal Info:  Weekly Units:  USD Source:  FAO 2014; US EIA 2014 Footnote:  FAO (2014). Available at: http://www.fao.org/economic/est/prices U.S. Energy Information Administration (2014). Available at: http://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/pet_pri_spt_s1_w.htm Weekly spot prices of major agricultural commodities for the current year. All agricultural data is in US dollars per ton; oil data is in US dollars per barrel. For full dataset of weekly spot prices dating back to 1998, view the Agricultural Commodity Prices and Returns tools . View data Data Print Original file   IFPRI gratefully acknowledges the European Commission (EC) and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) for their financial support of the Food Security Portal. Facebook Twitter About Us The Food Security Portal, facilitated by IFPRI, aims to provide improved food security for the world's poor and increased resilience of global food systems against food and financial crises. The project brings together international, regional, and country-level data, news, and research aimed at meeting countries' immediate food security needs, as well as building long-term global food security. The open-access project encompasses a global research-based monitoring and capacity-strengthening device for successful identification and implementation of the appropriate policy actions in response to food crises. The Food Security Portal is designed to pool information in structured ways and ensure data quality, timeliness, and relevance, as well as the opportunity for collaboration among policymakers, development professionals, and researchers. About Documentation Data API Partners Contact Us Food Security Portal   |   Facilitated by IFPRI   |   2033 K St, NW   |   Washington, DC 20006-1002 USA Copyright ©2012 All Rights Reserved Share Home Countries Commodities Policy Analysis Tools Data Dashboard Blog Food Security News About Us Contact Us Join Login Supporters