Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute Indian Council of Agricultural Research CENTRAL MARINE FISHERIES RESEARCH INSTITUTE English | हिंदी Regional / Research Centres Regional Centres Mandapam Visakhapatnam Veraval Research Centres Mangalore Kozhikode Mumbai Vizhinjam Karwar Tuticorin Chennai Marine Capture Fisheries Fishery Resources Assessment Demersal Fisheries Crustacean Fisheries Molluscan Fisheries Pelagic Fisheries Mariculture Biodiversity Marine Biotechnology Fishery Environment Fishery Economics & Extension Monitoring marine fish production in Indian EEZ Assessing small-scale fisheries Relating marine fisheries with changes in environment Technologies for sea cage farming Finfish breeding and hatchery technologies Development & Promotion of bivalve farming technologies. Studying impacts of fisheries Marine Biodiversity Assessments Welcome to Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute was established by Government of India on February 3 rd 1947 under the Ministry of Agriculture and later it joined the ICAR family in 1967. During the course of over 65 years the Institute has emerged as a leading tropical marine fisheries research institute in the world. Since its inception, the CMFRI grew significantly in its size and stature and built up adequate research infrastructure and recruited qualified staff. During the first half of the five decades of its existence, the CMFRI devoted its research attention towards the estimation of marine fisheries landings and effort, taxonomy of marine organisms and the bio-economic characteristics of the exploited stocks of finfish and shellfish. View More + Research Updates Effect of Testosterone Hormone on performance of male broodstock of Black Tiger Shrimp Penaeus monodon In domestication and development of captive broodstock of tiger shrimp Penaeus monodon mating failures due to poor performance of ... Read More Policy guidance on cuttlefish fishery using Fish Aggregating Devices Policy guidance on cuttlefish fishery using Fish Aggregating Devices Read more...... Read More Status of India's Exploited Marine Fishery Resources in 2013 The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute start collected and estimation of marine fish landings for the peninsular coast of... Read More Estimates of Marine Fish Landings in India for the year 2014 released [Click to download PDF] All India marine fish landings India’s marine fish landings (excluding Lakshadweep and Andaman &am... Read More Amyloodinium ocellatum infestation in the broodstock of silver pompano and its therapeutic control. A case of amyloodiniosis caused by infestation of the dinoflagellate Amyloodinium ocellatum in the silver pompano (Trachinotus blo... Read More Food and feeding habits of Nemipterus japonicus (Bloch) from Malabar coast, Kerala Food and feeding habits of Nemipterus japonicus from the Malabar region was studied by analysing 12164 specimens. The study showed... Read More LATEST NEWS Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR visited VRC of CMFRI, Visakhapatnam... Virtual tour of CMFRI Marine Biodiversity Museum and Library launched... Stakeholder meeting held at Visakhapatnam RC of CMFRI on 18.04.2015... 'CAA5' the 5th International Symposium on Cage Aquaculture in Asia is being organised at Kochi, India during 11-14 November, 2015... List of candidates selected for the post of Technician, Technical Assistant and Technical Assistant (Hindi Translator) ... International Training Course of NF-Pogo Alumni Network for Oceans (NANO) at CMFRI, Mandapam... Report on the stakeholders workshop conducted at CMFRI on 18 April 2015... EVENTS International Training Course of NF-Pogo Alumni Network for Oceans (NANO) at CMFRI, Mandapam Press Meet for the release of estimates of Marine Fish Landings in India for 2014 Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR visited VRC of CMFRI Harvest of cultured Red Snapper at Calicut CMFRI Team at ICAR Inter zonal sports meet fish watch Daily landings at major harbours Home About Us Directors Message Research Projects Research Projects NICRA CMFRI in Media Library and Publications Museum Related Links Latest Research Findings Fish Catch Estimates Fished Taxa Listing Right to Information Training Courses Job Opportunities Tenders Patents Awards KVK / ATIC / Services KVK ATIC Staff Scientific Staff Technical Staff Administrative Staff Skilled Support Staff Canteen Staff Consultancy CMFRI WebMail Downloads Contact Us Institutional Repository CMFRI Intranet cmfri films PHOTO GALLERY Indian Journal of Fisheries   EVENT CALENDAR Prev Next May 2015 27 28 29 30 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 SUBSCRIBE NEWSLETTER- CADALMIN Get quarterly newsletter E-mail : contact@cmfri.org.in Home | About Us | Contact us | Sitemap | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Terms & Conditions All rights reserved with CMFRI, Kochi, India. Powered by Meridian Solutions Inc. Hit Counter : 130303 Webadmin  |   Development Team Last Updated on : 2015-05-27