NAIP - A Value Chain on Industrial Agroforestry in Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Agricultural University NAIP á –alue Chain on Industrial Agroforestry in Tamil Nadu Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam - 641 301 Home Project Profile Sub Project Profile Rationale Project Objectives Detailed Programme Project Location and Jurisdiction List of Innovations Role of Consortium Partners Monitoring Indicators Project Impact Work Plan Consortium Advisory Committee Consortium Implementation Committee Consortium Monitoring Unit Base Line Study Project Team FC & RI Lead Institute IFGTB TNPL SPB Vasan Match Works Technologies NAIP Technologies Crop Technology Casuarina Eucalyptus Ailanthus Melia Dubia Anthocephalus Cadamba Leucaena Leucocephala Value Addition Technology Briquetting Technology Agar Technology Value Chain Farmers and Area Demonstration Plot Horizontal Expansion Captive Plantations Other Plantations MIS Market Supply & Demand Pattern Market Price Current Prices Historical Prices Forecasted Prices Contract Farming Value Addtion Products Markets Supply & Demand Price Traders Eucalyptus Casuarina Subabul Fire Wood Pole Others Media Gallery Launch Meet Farmers Training Cluster Demonstration Plot Research Trials Value Addition Mechanization CIC & CAC Review Team Baseline Study Audio Video News and Events News Events Institute Departments and Faculties Education Research Schemes/Projects Extension Contact Us Contact Address Location Map   CULTIVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF EUCALYPTUS « prev 1 2 3 next » Introduction: Eucalyptus belongs to the family Myrtaceae with about 300 species of the genus. The species is one of the fastest growing trees in the world and many species attain great heights. Eucalyptus amygdalin is the tallest known tree with specimens attaining a height of as much as 480 feet. Basically, a native of Australia and Tasmania, Eucalyptus was introduced in India, by the British in 1843 in Nilgiri Hills as an experiment to find high yielding species for fuel and timber. It soon became a favoured species for the foresters/ commercial plantations, owing to its fast growth, non exacting, non- browseable and drought resistant nature and adaptability to a variety of agroclimatic conditions. Eucalyptus is popularly known as gum tree, red iron tree, nilgiri or safeda. Many fast growing species suitable for commercial cultivation in India have been identified. Eucalyptus tereticornis and E. grandis are important commercial species with a clean straight bole and compact crown. Hybrid eucalyptus (combination to E. tereticornis and E. grandis /E. urophylla/ E. camaldulensis) has shown greater vigour and drought and insect resistant characters in the field conditions and are preferred planting stock for commercial plantations. Botanical Features: Eucalyptus is a fast growing, medium- sized to tall tree attaining 20-50m in height and upto 2m in diameter. The tree has a deep tap root system with mycorrhizal associations which increases its ability to draw nutrients and water. The tree has a smooth silvery white stem. The leaves are leathery in texture, hang obliquely or vertically and are studded with glands containing aromatic oil. Flowering takes place during July-August. Flowers in bud are covered with a cup- like membrane (whence the name of the genus, derived from the Greek 'eucalyptus' meaning- 'well covered'), which is thrown off as a lid when the flower expands. The fruiting occurs during September - October. The fruits are surrounded by a woody, cup-shaped receptacles and contain numerous minute seeds. Silvicultural Characteristics : Eucalyptus is versatile, fast growing and strongly coppicing tree possessing a wide range of soil and climatic adaptability. E.tereticornis has the most extensive latitude range (9-38 0 S) of any species in the genus. Basically a light demander, the growth of the species is very much reduced under shade. Eucalyptus is known for its drought hardiness, although annual rainfall of 800 mm is preferred. The species is also moderately salt tolerant and relatively fire resistant. Eucalyptus is generally regarded as frost sensitive, though in Uruguay, E. tereticornis has known to come up with reasonable success in regions where unseasonal frost is likely to occur. The species is known to suffer cholrosis and die-back due to the reduced iron absorption in alkaline soils. The species grows under a wide range of climatic/soil conditions from warm to hot, sub humid to humid and from good to degraded soils. The range of agro-climatic conditions of the species ( E. tereticornis) is given as under: Climate Altitude range : 0 - 1000 m above sea level. Mean annual rainfall : 500 - 3000 mm Rainfall regime : summer, winter, bimodial: uniform Dry season duration : 0 - 8 months Mean annual temperature : 10 - 27 0 C Mean maximum temperature of hottest month : 22 - 42 0 C Mean maximum temperature of coldest month : -2 - 19 0 C Absolute minimum temperature : > -8 0 C ( data for upper limit NA) Soil and Physiography Soil texture : light, medium, heavy Soil drainage : Free, seasonally waterlogged Soil reaction : acidic, neutral Special soil tolerances : saline Soil types : alluvial soils, gravely soils, ferral soils, red soils, sandy soils   « prev 1 2 3 next » Project Profile Project Team Technologies Value Chain Farmers and Area MIS Media News and Events Institute Contact Us Website Developed by Samantha Technologies No.of Visits