Places to Visit in Allahabad and Tourist Destinations near Allahabad Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Allahabad Travel Tourism How to Reach Restaurants Hotels in Allahabad Places to Visit Allahabad Khusro Bagh Swaminarayan Mandir Anand Bhavan Triveni Sangam Allahabad Fort Allahabad University Tourist Destinations Near Allahabad Travel to Lucknow Travel to Varanasi Travel to Shravasti Travel to Kanpur About Allahabad Allahabad Map Road Map District Map Railway Map Uttar Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Home » Allahabad » Places to Visit in Allahabad Places to Visit in Allahabad Though the city is known for its religious tourism, there are many other tourist places that one visit. Religious tourism attracts many tourists each year and with the on-going development within the city there is an evident increase in the number of tourists visiting Allahabad every year. Following are some of the must see places in Allahabad. Places to See in Allahabad Allahabad Fort Category : History & Culture This magnificent fort was built by the Mughal king Akbar in 1583 and is situated near the banks of the Yamuna River, close to the Triveni. An amazingly beautiful view of the fort can be seen from the river side. The fort is presently under the custody of Indian army and also is not open for visitors; visitors who wish to visit this palace must take prior permission from the Commandant. Visitors can call on the following contact number, +91-532-2621854 to visit the fort. Khusrau Bagh Category : Garden This marvel piece was finally completed in the year 1662, under the guidance of the great Mughal King Jahangir. This historic garden was made in the memory of his son Khusro. The graves of both, son Khusro and wife Shah Begum are buried at this historic Garden, this garden is extremely beautiful and offers a wide range of flora. Not only in this term this garden is historic but also this place plays an important role during the times of Independence. This place is famous for its mangoes. Anand Bhavan Category : History & Culture This place plays a pivotal role during the times of evidence; this was the place where almost all the important and secret meetings used to be held. This was actual an ancestral property of Nehru-Gandhi family. This place actually witnessed the era of independence, but now this place is converted into a museum containing memorable items of Nehru-Gandhi family. This place is closed on Mondays. This converted museum is a must visit in Allahabad. Triveni Sangam Category : Religious This place is one of the most famous and also one of the most visited places in Allahabad among the tourists. An apt example of scenic beauty, this is the historic place where the three most sacred rivers (Ganga, Saraswati and Yamuna) in India meet. Triveni Sangam is also known as Sangam, which means Union. It is an enthralling experience to visit the place during sunrise or sunset; the beauty is at its best at these two times. Three very important fairs, Kumbh Mela, Ardh Kumbh Mela and Maha Kumbh Mela are held at the banks of this sacred place. This place is visited by many devotees and tourists every year during the Magh Mela too. More... Other Tourist Places in Allahabad Besides these places, if time remains there are several other places in the city worth a visit. These include: Allahabad Museum Allahabad Planetarium Allahabad University Alopi Devi Mandir All Saints Cathedral, Allahabad Pratisthan Pur (Jhunsi) Someshwar Mahadev Temple Tourist Destinations Near Allahabad Varanasi Varanasi is one of the most famous and most visited tourist destinations around Allahabad. It is among the most religious destinations in India. Varanasi is also known by the names of Kashi and Banaras. According to believers this city was founded by Lord Shiva, therefore Varanasi is visited by many devotees throughout the year. This place is also very famous for Paan and Sarees. Lucknow The next option that one can explore after visiting the city of Allahabad is the city of Lucknow. Lucknow is also as the city of Nawabs, mainly known for its etiquettes and politeness. This is one of the few newly emerging tourist destinations in India, with the on-going development within the city. The best time to visit Lucknow is during the months of October to March, though this city welcomes tourists throughout the year, many people visit Lucknow for the purpose of business, as this place is famous and deals in Chikan cloth, for which the city is famous in all over the world. More... Last Updated on : July 17, 2013 Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Aligarh Hotels Allahabad Hotels Bahraich Hotels Balrampur Hotels Bareilly Hotels Basti Hotels Bhadohi Hotels Ghaziabad Hotels Gorakhpur Hotels Greater Noida Hotels Jhansi Hotels Kanpur Hotels Kosi Hotels Kosi Kalan Hotels Kushinagar Hotels Lucknow Hotels Mathura Hotels Meerut Hotels Mirzapur Hotels Moradabad Hotels Muzaffarnagar Hotels Noida Hotels Orai Hotels Rampur Hotels Sahibabad Hotels Sravasti Hotels Varanasi Hotels Travel to Uttar Pradesh Travel to Agra Travel to Allahabad Travel to Ayodhya Travel to Ghaziabad Travel to Gorakhpur Travel to Jhansi Travel to Kanpur Travel to khushinagar Travel to Lucknow Travel to Mathura Travel to Noida Travel to Sarnath Travel to Sravasti Travel to Varanasi Travel to Vrindavan Places to visit in Uttar Pradesh Places to visit in Agra Places to visit in Allahabad Places to visit in Ghaziabad Places to visit in Gorakhpur Places to visit in Jhansi Places to visit in Kanpur Places to visit in kushinagar Places to visit in Lucknow Places to visit in Mahura Places to visit in Noida Places to visit in Sarnath Places to visit in Shravasti Places to visit in Varanasi About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule