Top Brands of Red Wine in India Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Top-Brands-India         Educational Food Products Kitchen Appliances Life Insurance Mutual Fund Consumer Durables DTH Laptop Retail Matress Brands AC Brands Beer Brands Bi Cycle Brands Biscuit Brands Desktop Computer Brands Basmati Rice Brands Namkeen Brands Shampoo Brands Tea Brands Baby Food Brands Jewelry Brands Perfume Brands Apparel Brands Chocolate Brands Digital Camera Brands Lipstick Brands hotel Brands Shirt Brands Men Clothing Brands Milk Brands Newspaper Brands Restaurant Chain Brands Car Brands Coffee Brands ice Cream Brands Mobile Brands Detergent Brands Face Wash Brands Baby Toy Brands Skin Care Cream Brands Soap Brands Tooth Paste Brands Bathroom Fittings Brands Washing Machine Brands Watch Brands Microwave Oven Brands Shoe Brands TV Brands Ketchup Brands Motor Bike Brands Soft Drink Brands Noodle Brands Scooty Brands Shaving Cream Brands Top Online Retailers You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Top brands India » Top 10 Brands of Red Wine in India Top 10 Brands of Red Wine in India Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  3  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 A decade earlier, ‘Indian Wines’ and ‘Indian Wineries’ were words that seldom got into our ears; people didn’t even know that India had vineyards. However, there has been a tremendous change in the Indian wine industry lately. As of now, the Nashik region in Maharashtra and Karnataka are regarded as hotspots in India. Though, the Indian wine industry is quite young and immature, but it is evolving and thus being recognized in India and the world over. H2: List of Top 10 Red Wine Brands in India Grover La’ Reserve Grover La’ Reserve offered by the Nashik-based Grover Zampa Vineyards may not be the costliest red wine one gets in India, but it offers just enough spiciness and long aftertaste to live up to your senses. It is aged in French oak barrels that offer it a distinctive oak flavour. Very much within the buying range of most people in India, a 750 ml bottle comes around Rs. 800 only. Following are the main brand heads of Grover Zampa Vineyards in India: Chairman – Kapil Grover CEO – Sumedh Singh Mandla Director – Ravi Jain Operations Director – Neeraj Deorah Following are its social media details: Facebook – https://www.facebook.com/GroverZampa Twitter – https://twitter.com/groverzampa YouTube – https://www.youtube.com/user/GroverZampa LinkedIn – https://www.linkedin.com/company/grover-zampa-vineyards Chene Grand Reserve This is also a product of Grover Zampa Vineyards. Its major feature is its colour – deep ruby. It won the 2013 Hong Kong International Wine Award and bagged a Bronze medal at the 2012 Decanter World Wine Awards in the U.K. It is among the costliest red wines available in India. It gives a mixed flavour of berries and plums with tinge of spices. It is stored in oak barrels from which it gets a distinctive flavour. One can have it with a wide array of dishes such as stews, pastas, roasts and grilled vegetables, and even rice! It is a 2010 vintage wine and 750 ml costs almost Rs. 1,700. SETTE From the collection of Fratelli Wines, based in Akluj, SETTE is one of the leading brands of red wine in India. It got a Silver medal at the 2013 Decanter World Wine Awards in the U.K. It has a citric taste that can be found in ripe fruits. It also has a smidgen of vanilla, which is evident from its taste. It is a very good companion of spicy Indian dishes. It is a 2009 vintage and 750 ml costs around Rs. 1,650. The brand heads of Fratelli Wines are the Secci brothers, Andrea and Alessio from Italy, along with the Sekhri brothers Kapil and Gaurav and the Mohite-Patil brothers Ranjitsinh and Arjunsinh from India. Following are its social media details: Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/Fratelli.Vineyard Twitter - https://twitter.com/Fratelli_Wines Instagram - www.instagram.com/fratelliwines Cabernet Sauvignon Reserve It is a vintage wine produced by Reveilo Wines. Its colour is a combination of purple and deep red. This wine may not have won any major awards but people do prefer this because it has a fruity taste and a full body. It also has hints of pepper, cinnamon and nutmeg that further enhance the taste. Aromas of leather, spice and dark fruit with the 14.5% strength, this proves to be a real "fruit bomb". Lamb-based preparations go well with this wine, which is a 2005 vintage and costs near about Rs. 1,345 for 750 ml. The Facebook address of Reveilo Wines is https://www.facebook.com/ReveiloWines. Rasa Shiraz Rasa Shiraz won a wine award in 2010 and is produced by the well-known Sula Vineyards, which is based in Nashik. Its aroma is fruity and lively. It is also thought to be one of the best brands of Indian red wines when it comes to export. Normally, Sula produces only 1,700 cases of this wine, which makes it a collector’s item. Its taste is complex and goes well with experimental food and barbecues. One can also have soft cheese with it. It is a 2007 vintage wine and 750 ml costs Rs.1,175. The Facebook address of Sula Vineyards is https://www.facebook.com/Sula.Vineyards. Barique Reserve Shiraz This is supposed to be one of the finest products of Four Seasons Vineyards and is regarded as a masterpiece. It is a full-bodied dry wine and does not taste sweet. Four Seasons makes this wine at their plant that is located in Baramati, Maharashtra. It taste is like an amalgamation of spices and ripe blackberries. It goes very well with red meat, mushroom and barbecued food. Matured cheese also tastes nice with it. It is a 2009 vintage and comes around Rs. 900 for 750 ml. Following are its various social media details: Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/FourSeasonsWines Twitter - https://twitter.com/FourSeasonsWine YouTube - https://www.youtube.com/user/fourseasonswines Google Plus - https://plus.google.com/113212293598629366802 Dindori Reserve Shiraz of Sula Vineyards Dindori Reserve Shiraz of Sula Vineyards has been successful at the Sommelier India Wine Competition in 2009. It has a taste like that of lush berry and it can be described as a full-bodied wine. It goes best with lamb dishes and hard cheese. It is a 2007 vintage wine and 750 ml is worth approximately Rs. 850, which makes it one of more economic options. La’ Reserve La’ Reserve is yet another offering from Grover Zampa Vineyards. This too is a full-bodied wine and has strong taste to go with a spicy smell. One can get tastes of chocolate, coffee beans and vanilla. This wine goes very well with soft cheese as well as kebabs and biryani. It is a 2010 vintage and highly affordable at almost Rs. 800 for 750 ml. h3: Seagram’s Nine Hills This is a product from the Seagram’s brand that is primarily reputed for its whiskeys. It was awarded at the 2007 Indian Wine Challenge. Its aroma is pleasant and resembles that of a cherry with a smidgen of vanilla. It has soft velvety tannins and leaves you with fruity notes of cherry and strawberry on the nose. It goes very well with spicy dishes as well as deep fried ones. It is a 2007 vintage and 750 ml costs almost Rs. 565. The company responsible for this magnificent product is Pernod Ricard India. Chateau d’Ori Cabernet Merlot 2007 It is produced by Chateau d’Ori winery. It is made from Merlot, an elegant grape, and Cabernet Sauvignon grapes, which have strong tastes. It is a deep red wine and has an intense aroma. It has also hints of candied and spiced prunes. The wine tastes rather smooth and there is a smidgen of oak, which stays on for a long time. It goes with any kind of meat. The Facebook address of Chateau d’Ori is https://www.facebook.com/Chateaudori. Last Updated on : May 28, 2015 More Products New Product Launches New Insurance Product Petrochemical Products Leading dairy Product About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED