 CII - AVANTHA Centre Home About Us Services Manufacturing Excellence Energy Audit & Management Human Resources Management Cost Management Corrosion Management E-Learning Training Publications Advertise Forthcoming Events HR EXCELLENCE MISSION 3-June-2015 Read More >> Impressions Cluster activity has been an eye opener for us. It brought world class tools to our doorsteps, teaching us how to 're-look' at processes, tools & techniques, etc. Shrenik Mehta CII has helped us transform from an ordinary company to one which is ready to face the competition. We have achieved tremendous tangible and intangible benefits with the help of CII Counselors. Virender Garg The programme was excellent and a great learning. We have enjoyed working with CII. This has changed the mindset of management and total work force in the factory. By introducing new methods in the factory we feel we are better equipped to face the world competition. Rakesh Rathour Improve Profitability Man run companies to system run companies Improvement in Bottom Line and Top Line Through structured and systematic approach designed by Professor Yoshikazu Tsuda Manufacturing Excellence Cost Competitiveness Energy Management HR Management Empowering success with right approach Welcome to CII- AVANTHA Centre For Competitiveness For SMEs Established in 2004, today Chandigarh based CII-AVANTHA Centre for Competitiveness for SMEs is a single point of reference for meeting the needs of small and medium enterprises for enhancing SME competitiveness. With a pan India approach, the Centre plays role of a guide and mentor for SMEs by its ‘Cluster Approach’, which enables SMEs to learn through sharing of knowledge with other Cluster companies. Best Practices and a detailed road map for enhancing productivity and efficiency of Cluster companies is charted and implemented by the seasoned counselors of the Centre. The Centre works exclusively to enhance the competitiveness of MSMEs, through interventions in areas such as Manufacturing Excellence, Energy Efficiency, Cost Management, Total Employee Involvement, Corrosion Management etc. Our Pro-active International Engagements ensure that we are in tune with the cutting edge of global Competitiveness in order to transmit the same to the Indian SMEs. More than 220 Training programmes have been held in the last 3 years, benefitting more than 3500 delegates. ﻿ CLUSTERS 7th National Cluster Summit 2014 PHOTO GALLERY Learning Through Sharing Site Counter (W.E.F. 01 Apr 2014) 685722 Successful Clusters Ongoing Clusters Upcoming Clusters Careers Media Coverage Testimonials Training Calendar Disclaimer Privacy Policy Contact Us Ask a Query Copyright © 2013 . All Rights Reserved. Designed by: Credence