Edge India Agrotech - supplies Green houses, Planting materials, Seeds - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Edge India Agrotech – supplies Green houses, Planting materials, Seeds Home Edge India Agrotech – supplies Green houses, Planting materials, Seeds Shimla based company’s vision is to develop livelihood and alleviate poverty of poor farmers and strengthen country’s economy Vivek Sharma Edge India Agrotech was established in 2009 in New Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. The     founders of this company are Mr. Mahesh Sood and Mr. Vivek Sharma. Edge India Agrotech are consultants in generation next (agro) technologies. It provides all agro related solutions under one umbrella and undertake projects on turnkey basis. The company deals in manufacturing and supplying Green houses, Planting materials, Seeds, Irrigation solutions, Agronomy supports, Pre and post crop management and finally providing marketing solutions for the end produce. Edge India Group of companies work with a mission and vision to improve the lives of farmers and to provide economic stability to rural masses. Its latest revolutionary division is Edge India Agrotech, which has been launched with a deep vision to excel the lives and reframe economic conditions of farmers by providing them best of the global technologies and agro-inputs to extract more and best quality assured produce with zero percent fear of natural calamities. The company was started in 2006 with the biggest polyhouse project in Himachal Pradesh covering almost 25,000 sq.mtr., which failed due to misguidance and lack of proper consultancy. This failure pushed the duo to go deep into the subject. So they tied up with the best global consultants from Israel, Holland, Italy, Japan and California. They got the true picture of subject and revived their projects from a failure to the biggest success story in Himachal Pradesh. This year the company’s turnover has touched Rs.15 crore (approx). Edge India Agrotech has got plans to come up with polyhouse farming, hydroponics, soilless cultivation, automated drip irrigation system and fan pad system. Edge India’s main concern is to educate farmers particularly farming community in North India, as they lack in education and farming exposure. To educate farming community, Edge India Agrotech organizes educative seminars and workshops, wherein global consultants are invited to give lectures and demonstrations. The company also participates in agro fairs and interacting directly with progressive farmers. The main focus are Northern India, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab and wish to spread the farming activities to other states like Bihar, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. In Shelter farming, crops are grown under controlled condition in a Polyhouse. Important parameters like temperature, humidity, carbon di oxide concentration and light spectrum are altered. In this way crops grow healthily and gives high yield. In Edge India Agrotech, 25 employees are working. The company prefers employees from agriculture background either academically or practical experience in the farming field. Edge India Agrotech’s Technical Director is Mr. Vivek Sharma and he is a B.E in Chemical Engineering from Punjab University. He is in the farming field for the past 6 years. Mr. Vivek Sharma says that plant management is the core of success which is totally missing in our agri sector. There is no one in our industry with their own R & D center on different crops done under the Polyhouse. The whole concept revolves around high returns which are directly related to production, quality and consistency. All these important parameters are dependent on plants. “Agro is the industry with vertical growth, and a lot more is yet to happen in this sector. We are far behind than many other countries in terms of productivity per unit resources. Competition leads to continuous improvement and we are always ready for such a healthy competition,’’ says Vivek Sharma. “We, at Edge India Agrotech work 18 hours a day, and so I gained 9 years of experience in agri field in 6 years even though I am a B.E graduate,’’ proudly recollects Vivek Sharma. Our Correspondent For further information, contact, Mr. Vivek Sharma, Technical Director, Edge India Agrotech, D-37, Sector-1, Phase-1, New Shimla – 171009, Himachal Pradesh, India. Phone: 080910 33305 Email: edgerupesh@yahoo.co.in Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Edge India Agrotech – supplies Green houses, Planting materials, Seeds Related – articles, consultants, downloads Filbert Industries – Green houses, shade houses Sriroz Consultants – Green house Blue Stallion’s Agricultural Sprayers and Green Houses, etc. Gayatri Agrotech – greenhouses You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water