IKYA Global :- IKYA Global is a leading Education, Engineering, Rural, IT, Bpo HR solutions company, with specialised service offerings in Executive Search, we provide world class Education services through our company-owned offices across India. HOME About IKYA About Us IKYA Global is a group company of MTN.Inc, USA; head quartered in Hyderabad. We provide services in Agriculture, Education & Training, Engineering, IT & BPO, and Management Consulting. We extend our services across USA, UK and Dubai Read more... Vision and Mission VISION To empower people for a social change with a strong emphasis on triple bottom-line congruous for Education, Employment, and Empowerment Read more... Products & Services Agriculture Our mission is to bridge the gaps among various segments in rural areas through a collaborative approach, by bringing together Institutions and Organizations of National and International repute Read more... Engineering Our mission is to provide a platform for innovators of various backgrounds. We develop user-friendly, customized engineering solutions for clients throughout the country Read more... Education IKYA Global EDU offerings are in youth empowerment, education and skill development. We work in collaboration with credible organizations of the govt., industry, and educational institutions Read more... IT & BPO Our mission is to improve efficiency in IT industry by implementing global practices for software product development and technological innovation Read more... Consulting Our mission is to optimize existing resources to meet the vision & objectives of organizations through synergistic associations and simplify for them to meet Business Objectives Read more... Foundation Media Newsletter December November October September September August July June May April March Feb Jan Events I-Day Celebrations Vanamahotsavam Field Visit Orientation Programme: Organic Fertilizers Plantation Drives School Competitions Careers Life @ IKYA As an organization that seeks to revolutionize the way things work, we are forever looking for individuals who have the enthusiasm, and are always willing to start with themselves first. Read more... Contact Content on this page requires a newer version of Adobe Flash Player. PARTNERS GALLERY VIDEOS © - Powered by IKYAGlobal