Home: Uttarakhand Government Portal, India JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . 29 May 2015 (Fri) 02:01:45 PM Screen Reader Access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A हिन्दी में Uttarakhand Government Portal (.. an initiative of NIC Uttarakhand) Home Contact us Sitemap Home Who's Who State Profile Apex Bodies Divisions Districts GOI Websites Welcome to Uttarakhand Uttarakhand was formed on 9th November 2000 as the 27th State of India, when it was carved out of northern Uttar Pradesh. Located at the foothills of the Himalayan mountain ranges, it is largely a hilly State, having international boundaries with China (Tibet) in the north and Nepal in the east. On its north-west lies Himachal Pradesh, while on the south is Uttar Pradesh. It is rich in natural resources especially water and forests with many glaciers, rivers, dense forests and snow-clad mountain peaks. Char-dhams, the four most sacred and revered Hindu temples of Badrinath,Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri are nestled in the mighty mountains. It’s truly God’s Land (Dev Bhoomi). Dehradun is the Capital of Uttarakhand. It is one of the most beautiful resort in the submountain tracts of India, known for its scenic surroundings. The town lies in the Dun Valley, on the watershed of the Ganga and Yamuna rivers. Read more Chief Minister Sri Harish Rawat Governor Dr. Krishan Kant Paul MP(LS) MP(RS) MLAs Council of Ministers Courtesy - Uttarakhand Vidhan Sabha Uttarakhand at a Glance Area:53,483 sq.km. Population: 100.86 lakh Capital: Dehradun(Temporary) Districts: 13 Literacy Rate: 78.80% Latitude: 28°43' N to 31°27' N more>> Website of the Day Government Releases Government Orders Gazettes Government Disclosures Tenders News Advt./ Announcements Search your name in voter list Websites (Forms & Guidelines) Cert-in Guidelines Districts State Government Websites Departments Directorates Organisations/ Boards Rajeev Gandhi Navodaya Vidyalaya more » Universities Central Universities State Universities Deemed Universities more » Other Links Uttarakhand Power Corporation   Uttarakhand Jal Sansthan  Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority   more » Spotlight Uttarakhand Board Result - 2015 श्री देव सुमन उत्तराखंड विश्वविद्यालय हेतु कुलसचिव पद पर प्रतिनियुक्ति इ डिस्ट्रिक्ट परियोजनाओं के अंतर्गत विभिन्न प्रमाणपत्रों एव अन्य नागरिक सेवाओ को कम्प्यूटरीकृत माध्यम से डिजिटल हस्ताछर सहित उपलब्ध कराये जाने के सम्बन्ध में इ डिस्ट्रिक्ट परियोजनाओं के अंतर्गत जनपद स्तर पर निर्गित कम्प्यूटरीकृत प्रमाणपत्र एव अन्य सेवाओ के लिए शुल्क निर्धारण के सम्बन्ध में प्रस्तावित उत्तराखंड फिल्म नीति 2015 हेतु सुझाव आमंत्रित करने विषयक Formation of District Level Committee for Disaster Management and Rehabilitation Report Crime against women with NCW Citizen's/Client's Charter Relief Distribution Photo Gallery CLICK TO VIEW PHOTO GALLERY