Forestry :: Wildlife Management | Home | About Forestry | Eco-Tourism | Forestry Addresses | FAQs | Contact Us | Wildlife Management SOLAR POWER FENCE INTRODUCTION HOW DOES THE SOLAR ELECTRIC FENCE SYSTEM WORK? SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE SOLAR ELECTRIC FENCE SYSTEM ADVANTAGES OVER CONVENTIONAL FENCES APPLICATIONS OF ELECTRIC FENCE SYSTEMS HOW TO MAINTAIN AN ELECTRIC FENCE SYSTEM? CONTACT ADDRESS FOR ERECTING SOLAR FENCE INTRODUCTION Top The Solar Perimeter Security Electric Fence system is a modern day alternative to conventional methods of fencing to protect your crops & property. Electric Fence is an effective way to reducing losses caused by animals. HOW DOES THE SOLAR ELECTRIC FENCE SYSTEM WORK? Top When an animal or human being comes into contact with the electric Fence, they receive a sharp, short, painful but safe electric shock. The shock does not cause any physical damage. The electric fence acts as a strong psychological barrier as any intruder avoid coming into contact with the electric Fence once they experience the shock. After a period of conditioning, the mere presence of the fence acts as an effective barrier even if it is not powered 'ON'. Electric fence can be made to detect a fault on the fence like shorting or cutting of the wire due to tampering on the fence with the Alarm system. SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE SOLAR ELECTRIC FENCE SYSTEM Top Electric Fence can be built alongside existing fences except in case of barbed wire fences. Existing posts can be made use of provided the corner / end poles are strong. The shock does not physically harm animals or human beings. The Solar Electric Fence System conforms to National and international Standards. The Solar Energizers are tested by ETDC, Govt. of India. ADVANTAGES OVER CONVENTIONAL FENCES Top The major advantages of Electric Fences over traditional fences are: Fence posts are erected 6 - 8 mts apart depending upon the terrain. No barbed wires are used. Only plain High tensile (Strong) wire is used. A long life as the fence is not subjected to physical pressures of wear and tear. Selective barriers possible. For example, Elephant barriers can be designed to allow smaller animals like cattle to move in and or out. It is used in more than 165 countries all over the world. It is the most effective method of fencing, and is safe to all kinds of animals and to human beings. It is easily constructed and maintained. It is long lasting and can be modified, extended, shifted and re-erected from one place to another, without loss of materials and waste of labour. This is the only method of fencing, which can effectively keep all kinds of wild animals out. It is not dependent on regular electricity supply as it operates on battery. APPLICATIONS OF ELECTRIC FENCE SYSTEMS Top Electric fence systems have varied application in Agriculture, Industrial and Forestry or Plantation sectors. With increasing crime in urban areas, this proven technology has now been adapted for domestic security applications, too. Industrial: Security Electric Fence systems provide 100% protections against theft, pilferage, arson, sabotage. The fence systems can also be integrated with other security devices like sirens, flood lights etc., making it impenetrable. Domestic: The wall top system for residential applications is sleek, aesthetic and ideal for compounds, rooftops, farm houses and apartments. HOW TO MAINTAIN AN ELECTRIC FENCE SYSTEM? Top Solar Electric Fence system requires very little maintenance. The following tips help you in proper maintenance of the fence: Ensure that your solar electric fence is a complete electric fence system with all the correct accessories. Make sure that the Energizer I Control unit is protected from rain and housed inside a secured area. Clean the top surface of the solar panel regularly to remove accumulated dust if any. Ensure that the solar panel mounting is proper in the North – South direction at an angle of 15 degree. During heavy storm and lightning, disconnect the energizer from the fence. This will prevent severe damages to the energizer. Earthing is very important for good performance. Use good number of Super   Earth Kits. Do not install the earth kit near mains earthling. Check for vegetation growths regularly. Keep the fence line clean. BATTERY MAINTENANCE Ensure that the terminals are clean. Use petroleum jelly periodically. The specific gravity of the battery should be maintained between 1150 - 1250. Add distilled water to maintain the level of electrolyte in each cell of the battery. Keep the battery in an upright position on a wooden plank. Never add acid to the battery. Ensure that the initial charging of the battery is done properly. Do not keep the battery unused for more than one month. ADVANTAGES There are a number of reasons for choosing Solar Electric Fencing: Stand alone non-lethal system . Low cost - electric fences require less materials and labour than conventional fences. Easily constructed - with fewer and lighter materials. Long life - due to reduced physical pressure. Universal application - will contain all types of animals while discouraging predators and trespassers. Improves existing fences - by including 1 or 2 electrified wires in your conventional fence or by adding offsets. This will extend the fence life. Simplicity and flexibility - a quick and easy way to effectively subdivide a paddock for intensive grazing, improving pasture management and production. Low maintenance - due to reduced stock pressure. Less damage to stock - the shock from an electric fence causes no physical damage to stock and if they are forced through electric fences by wild animals or bush fires there is reduced likelihood of injury. | Home | About Forestry | Eco-Tourism | Forestry Addresses | FAQs | Contact Us | © All Rights Reserved. TNAU-2014.