Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Departments    Incubation Centre Incubation Centre Faculties 1. Dr.V.R.Sinija  - Associate Professor and Head 2. Dr.V.Hema  - Assistant Professor 3. Dr.Durga devi   - Assistant Professor                 Increased urbanization, improved standards of living, and the convenience needs of dual income families increases market potentials of processed foods in the country. Furthermore, by processing and value addition, the producer and trader can enhance their income levels and the food availability for domestic consumption and for export will increase. In India, the annual consumption of 'value-added' foods alone is greater than Rs.2,25,000 crores per year which is larger than the entire manufacturing sector. Ironically India looses 25 to 50% of the fruits and vegetables, 10 to 30% of the grains and oil seeds in the post harvest chain. These losses translate to a whopping monetary loss worth Rs. 60,000 crores per year. Preserving and value adding these wastages will help to enhance the income levels of farmers, traders and the country as a whole. Wide and untapped scopes exist for the farmers, entrepreneurs and unemployed youths to improve their economic status by investing into food processing sectors. Due to the lack of technical knowledge on processing, preservation and value addition of the agricultural produce no new ventures in food processing sector come in. Food processing and value addition are promising commercial business prospects at cottage levels and for village youth and women self help group member. To encourage new entrepreneurs to participate in the business of food processing and value addition, they have to be technically trained by providing hands-on experiences. They need to see and work for themselves on processing and value addition of foods. They have to be provided with incubation facilities for market testing their products. To fulfill all these basic needs, recently we have created a hi-tech food processing incubation cum training centre in IICPT. Objectives of the IICPTs Training cum Incubation Center Food processing technology transfer through trainings to entrepreneurs, rural youths, self help group members To help these clientele to establish new and innovative food processing businesses To develop, test and commercialize new processed food products. To use the center as an incubation unit to interested stake holders for product development and market testing. ISO & HACCP Certification for Food Processing Business Incubation Centre IICPT today prides itself as the first Indian institute to secure this all three certificates. We are proud to have achieved ISO & HACCP certification which attests to the robustness and quality of our Food Processing Business Incubation process. The following certificates were received for the Food Processing Business Incubation Centre activities. The scope and importance of the above mentioned certificates are as below: S.No Certificates Scope & Importance 1. ISO 22000:2005 (FSMS) Production of value added agricultural and horticultural products 2. ISO 14001:2004 (EMS) Safe and eco friendly network in our institute 3. ISO 9000/ HACCP(QMS & HACCP) Provision of food processing technology transfer programs, Incubation amenities, Technical consultancy services, Turn key projects Training Shedule    No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com