Ministers of Andhra Pradesh Home » Andhra Pradesh » Goverment » Andhra Pradesh Ministries   Economy Andhra Pradesh Agriculture Hydel Power Plants Thermal Power Plants आंध्र प्रदेश का नक्शा Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Ministries Secretariat Departments Panchayats                    more.. About Andhra Pradesh History Geography Climate Cities Hyderabad Tirupati Vishakhapatnam Vijayawada Warangal                    more.. Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map River Map Road Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel to Andhra Pradesh Places to visit in Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels         more... How to reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Andhra Pradesh       Ministries of Andhra Pradesh About Andhra Pradesh Government Similar to the other states of the independent India, the Government of this south eastern state of the country even constitutes the following 3 forms: Executive Legislative Judiciary As per the Constitution of India, the Governor is considered to be the head of the state, who appoints the state's Chief Minister as well as the Council of Ministers. Though the Governor is the constitutional head, however the Chief Minister along with his or her Council of Ministers, who are vested with some of the major legislative powers, are responsible for the administrative affairs of this state of south India. Both the Governor and the Chief Minister holds their respective office for a term period of 5 years. As far as the judiciary form is concerned, High Court is vested with the supreme power for each and every appeals made on a state level. Andhra Pradesh Ministries The Government of Andhra Pradesh has been sub-divided into different departments and ministries. Concentrating on the dedicated fields, these ministries of the Andhra Pradesh Government work towards the betterment of the state. Following are the names of some of the major Ministries of Andhra Pradesh: Ministry of Coal Ministry of Education Ministry of Finance Ministry of Health Ministry of Home Ministry of Law Ministry of Social Welfare Ministry of Transport Ministry of Tourism All of these ministries are further divided into numerous departments, which focus on the administration as well as development of a particular segment. Listed below are names of some of those divisions and their current ministers: Agriculture cum Agriculture Technology Mission: Sri Kanna Lakshminarayana Animal Husbandry, Fisheries, Dairy Development and Veterinary University : Sri Viswarupu P. A. P. (Andhra Pradesh) Aids Control Society, A. P. V. V. P., Health and Family Welfare : Sri D. L. Ravindra Reddy Backward Classes Welfare : Sri Baswaraju Saraiah Buildings and Roads :Sri Dharmana Prasada Rao Cinematography, Information and Public Relations, A. P. Film, Television (T. V.) and Theatre Development Corporation : Smt. Aruna D. K. Child Welfare, Women and Self Help Groups' Development, Juvenile Welfare, Disabled Welfare, Pensions and Indira Kranthi Patham : Smt. Sunitha Laxma Reddy V. Civil Supplies, Legislative Affairs and Legal Metrology, Food and Consumer Affairs : Sri Sridhar Babu D. Communications and Information Technology : Sri Ponnala Lakshmaiah Co-operation : Sri Kasu Venkata Krishna Reddy Courts and Law : Sri Erasu Prathap Reddy Culture and Tourism, Youth Services and Sports, Archives, Archaeology and Museums and N. C. C. : Sri Vatti Vasant Kumar Employment, Labor, Industrial Training Institutes and Training and Factories : Sri Danam Nagender Endowments : Sri C. Ramachandraiah Finance, Small Savings, Planning and State Lotteries : Sri Anam Ramanarayana Reddy Forest, Science and Technology, Environment : Sri Satrucharla Vijayarama Raju General Administration, Commercial Taxes, Law and Order, Energy, Public Enterprises and Coal and Boilers : Sri N. Kiran Kumar Reddy (Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh) Geology and Mines : Smt. Aruna Kumari Galla Higher and Technical Education : Sri Damodar Raja Narasihma C. (Deputy Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh) Home, Fire Services, Jails, Sainik Welfare, Stationary and Printing : Smt. Sabitha P. Horticulture, R. S. A. D. and Sericulture : Sri Ramreddy Venkata Reddy Housing, A. P. Co-operative Housing Societies Federation, Weaker Section Housing Program and A. P. Housing Board :Sri Capt. N. Uttam Kumar Reddy Investments and Infrastructure, Airports and Ports, Natural Gas : Sri Ganta Srinivasa Rao Major Industries, Commerce, Sugar and Export Promotion : Smt. Geetha Reddy J. Minor Irrigation, Lift Irrigation, Ground Water Development, A. P. I. D. C. and Walamtari : Sri T. G. Venkatesh Minority Welfare, Urdu Academy and Wakf : Sri Syed Mohammad Ahamadullah Medical Education, Health Insurance, Medical Infrastructure, Drug Control Administration, Arogyasree and Yogadhyayana Parishad and Ayush : Sri Kondru Murali Mohan Medium and Major Irrigation, A. P. Water Resources Development Corporation : Sri Sudarshan Reddy P. N. R. E. G. S. and Rural Development : Sri Dokka Manikya Varaprasada Rao Primary Education, Adult Education, S. S. A., A. P. Open Schools Society, A. P. Mahila Samata Society, Jawahar Bal Bhavan, Public Libraries, S. I. E. T., A. P. Text Book Press, S. C. E. R. T. : Dr. Sailajanath S. Prohibition and Excise : Sri Mopidevi Venkataramana Rao Registration and Stamps : Sri Thota Narasimham Revenue, Rehabilitation, Relief and U. L. C. : Sri Raghuveera Reddy N. Rural Water Supply and Panchayat Raj : Sri Jana Reddy K. Secondary Education, A. P. Residential Educational Institutions Society, Govt. Examinations, Intermediate Education and Hyderabad Public School :Sri Parthasarathi K. Social Welfare : Sri Pithani Satyanarayana Textiles, Handlooms, Small Scale Industries, Spinning Mills and K. and V. I. Board :Sri Gaddam Prasad Kumar Transport : Sri B. Satyanarayana Tribal Welfare : Sri Balaraju P. Urban Development and Municipal Administration :Sri Maheedhar Reddy M. Warehousing and Marketing: Sri Mukesh Goud M. Last Updated on 20 June 2013 Economy of Andhra Pradesh Agriculture Thermal Power Plants Hydel Power Plants Government of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Commissions Governor Ministries Panchayats Political Parties Secretariat Departments Elections Election Results Andhra Pradesh Parliamentary Constituencies Adilabad Amalapuram Anakapalli Anantapur Bapatla Bhadrachalam Bobbili Chittoor Cuddapah Eluru Guntur Hanamkonda Hindupur Hyderabad Kakinada Karimnagar Khammam Kurnool Machilipatnam Mahbubnagar Medak Miryalguda Nagarkurnool Nalgonda Nandyal Narasapur Narasaraopet Nellore Nizamabad Ongole Parvathipuram Peddapalli Rajahmundry Rajampet Secunderabad Siddipet Srikakulam Tenali Tirupathi Vijayawada Visakhapatnam Warangal             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule