Gitanjali Herbal Garden - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Gitanjali Herbal Garden Home Gitanjali Herbal Garden Located in Khamara Nuagaon in Cuttack district, Orissa. Engaged in the commercial production of cashew, mango and amla saplings, and medicinal and herbal plants Ms. Gitanjali Mohanty Gitanjali Herbal Garden was set up by Ms. Gitanjali Mohanty in 2002. The farm is located in Khamara Nuagaon in Cuttack district, Orissa. It is engaged in the commercial production of cashew, mango and amla saplings, and medicinal and herbal plants. The farm is spread over an area of 32 acres. Ms. Mohanty started with planting champa, ashok, nageswar and bakul flower trees. Later she took up the cultivation of medicinal plants. The garden comprises 10 acres of amla, 4 acres of safed musli, 4 acres of lemongrass, and 8 acres of colease. In 2004, she started planting cashew and mango. Initial Research : Speaking about the initial research done, Ms. Mohanty says, “I attended national level seminars on medicinal plants conducted by the government in Goa, Hyderabad and Bhubaneswar. I also undertook extensive studies for the plantation of amla, safed musli, and lemon grass. I was also guided by government officials as well as professionals from OUAT.” Medicinal Plants : With the purpose of intercropping, Ms. Mohanty planted ashwagandha, stevia, sarpagandha, aloe vera, and shatavari. “Cultivation of a single commodity may have the scale of commercialization but the risk factor is unlimited. When you have 4 to 5 commodities the risk is reduced. In any case 4 to 5 acres of any commodity is always recommended,” she adds. “I decided on farming 4-5 varieties also to make it a demonstration farm to encourage other farmers. By 2005, I gathered a group of around 100 farmers and registered the association, Orissa Agro Herbal Growers Association. The aim of the association was to encourage new farmers to cultivate medicinal plants and to liaise with the appropriate governments,” she adds. According to Ms. Mohanty, aswagandha is easy to cultivate and profitable. “In addition, amla, sarpagandha, satabari, and aloe vera are a few more to supplement the income,” she says, adding, “The condition of the soil, PH content, climate, skilled laborers, farmyard, manure, vermin-compost, irrigation and above all personal attention and care are necessary for medicinal plants farming. Proper harvesting, grading, packaging and marketing monitor the profitability.” Cashew Cultivation : The cashew varieties grown at Gitanjali Herbal Garden are Vengurla IV, varieties 2/16, and 1608. There are two other varieties developed by OUAT – Jagannath and Balabhadra. “As per our experience, and in Orissa climate, 2/16 and 1608 give good yield,” says Ms. Mohanty, adding, “For better yield, cashew plants require regular annual maintenance. They have to be properly pruned and sufficient manure should be provided. Regular irrigation/drip irrigation is recommended. Cashew plants that are not maintained go wild and reduce fruiting.” Mango Farming  : Gitanjali Herbal Garden is also into mango cultivation. “As on date I have 600 mango plants and I want to increase the number to 1000. This addition will be of dasari variety because of the local market demand,” says Ms. Mohanty.  “Like grafted cashew, grafted mango plants also demand attention and care. Annual maintenance is a must. It should be clear that the modern way of commercial plantation is much different than the age old mango garden,” she informs. Commenting on the care required for better yield, she says, “Better farming is directly related to personal attention, care and love. Land selection, timely cultivation, quality seeds and plant materials at the beginning and later adequate manuring, irrigation and weed removal give results.” Challenges : Speaking about the challenges faced, Ms. Mohanty says, “Herbal farming has not been classified as agricultural farming. As a result, the government support like supply of electricity, water and easy finance are not available. Marketing and fixation of base price has not yet been organized, significant research centers are not available to fight diseases organically. To top it all, the unavailability of skilled man power and laborers is a stumbling block.” She mentions one setback, “I have a vermin unit in my farm. It is fairly big and at any point of time I have nearly one or two quintals of vermin worm in the pit. To my dismay one fine morning I found almost all my worms were dead. It was a great shock not because I lost financially but these creatures died under my care and custody. It was like a mass suicide and till date I have no clue why it happened.” Ms. Mohanty graduated from Ravenshaw College, Cuttack, Odisha. She undertook environmental studies, and a certificate course in Civil Defense. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Ms. Gitanjali Mohanty, Gitanjali Herbal Garden Phone: 9437017442 Email: mumukshu_m@yahoo.com Web: http://gitanjaliherbalgarden.com/ Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Gitanjali Herbal Garden Related – articles, consultants, downloads Maxeema Biotech – organic/herbal agriculture inputs Amazing Herbal Remedies’ Herbal & Ayurvedic products Farmwealth Biotech’s Herbal & Ayurvedic Products Mango Farms You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water