SJDP Mini Mission-II (Mm-II) of Jute Technology Mission (JTM)        1.1:   The Government has given special importance to jute crop. The Ministry of Textiles has announced the National Textile Policy, 2000 which recognizes the significance of jute in India 's economy especially for the eastern and northeastern part of the country. Realising the problems of the jute economy and the need to make it more competitive, the Government took initiative to launch Jute Technology Mission (JTM) for overall development of Jute Sector. In the meantime, the Government has announced the National Jute Policy, 2005 which inter-alia gave more thrust on the development of jute sector. The Jute Technology Mission has been launched during 2006 jointly by the Ministry of Textiles and Ministry of Agriculture to achieve the following objectives. i) Develop high yielding varieties to improve productivity and acceptability in markets: ii) Improve retting practices to get better quality fibre; iii) Transfer of cost effective technologies to the farmers; iv) Create strong market linkages; v) Expand the scope for marketing of diversified jute products within the country and abroad.   The Mission-wise activities and the related organizations are indicated hereunder:   Mini Mission Activity Related organisations Mini Mission – I Research activities on Jute ICAR (DARE) Mini Mission – II Development/extension of raw jute agriculture Ministry of Agriculture(DAC), Govt. of India , State Govt. Mini Mission – III Marketing of raw jute Ministry of Textiles Govt. of India Mini Mission – IV Processing, utilisation and industrial aspects of raw jute Ministry of Textiles, Govt. of India   1.2: The Mini Mission-II (MM-II) of the JTM will look after the development/extension of jute cultivation and it will be coordinated by the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India. Considering the various aspects in jute sector and the Government policy, it is proposed to launch the development programme in the name of Mini Mission-II (MM-II) of the Jute Technology Mission (JTM).       Objective and Strategy of IJDP under MM-II of JTM       Area of operation and coverage under the programme        Components and Pattern of Assistance of MM-II of JTM                   GUIDELINES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF CENTRALLY SPONSORED SCHEME   ON   MINI MISSION-II   OF   THE JUTE TECHNOLOGY   MISSION   ( JTM ) 1.   Background   1.1         The Government has given special importance to jute crop. The Ministry of Textiles has announced the National Textile Policy,   2000 in   which the Textile Ministry has mentioned that Government recognized the significance of jute in   India ’s economy especially for the eastern and north-eastern part of the country. The Government has given a special impetus to the jute sector in the country. Accordingly, to improve the jute sector, a National Policy on Jute has been announced by the Government of India considering its special importance. Realizing the problems of the jute economy and to make it more competitive, the   Jute Technology Mission (JTM)   has been launched with effect from 2006-07. The Jute Technology Mission has four Mini Missions, viz., Mini   Mission -I, Mini Mission-II (MM-II), Mini Mission-III and Mini Mission-IV. The Mini   Mission -I will look after the research activities on jute; Mini Mission-II will look after the development/extension of raw jute ( jute , mesta and allied fiber ); Mini Mission-III will look after the marketing of raw jute and Mini Mission-IV will look after the processing, utilization and industrial aspects of raw jute. The entire activities on Jute Technology Mission will be coordinated by a Common Body i.e. Empowered Committee. The Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India is responsible to draw up programme under the Mini Mission-II of the Jute Technology Mission. Accordingly, a detailed programmes for development of raw jute( hereafter jute in short) have been developed    under Mini Mission-II of JTM.   2. Objectives and Strategy   2.1     The main objective of MM-II of JTM is be to increase the productivity and to improve the quality of fiber. To achieve these objectives, following strategies are being adopted.   2.2    Since the prospect of horizontal expansion of the area under jute and mesta is        limited, there would be a thrust on increasing productivity to achieve the higher production level and also to achieve improvement in quality of the fibre keeping in view the prospect of price and diversified uses of jute;   2.3      Production of breeder seed/foundation seed/certified seed would be accelerated;   2.4     Providing technical know-how through a well managed extension services at the grass-root level;   2.5     Coordinating the existing level of services, adaptive research, extension, input supply;   2.6     In addition to jute and mesta, development programme also will be extended to sunnhemp, ramie and sisal crops;   2.7     For ramie crop, facilities will be created for production and distribution of rhizome.   3.    Area of operation and coverage under the programme   3.1         The programme will be implemented in most of the major jute and allied fiber growing states. The programme will cover jute and allied fiber crops, such as jute, mesta, sunnhemp, ramie, sisal.   However, for ramie, the programme will be implemented in some selected districts to be decided by the State Governments and only in a concentrated manner within the district.     3.2          The programmes on   jute   will be implemented   in the states of   Assam ,   Bihar , Meghalaya, Orissa, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and   West Bengal .   3.3           The   mesta   programmes will be implemented in the states of Andhra Pradesh,   Bihar ,   Meghalaya , Orissa and Tripura .   3.4              The programmes of   sunnhemp   will be implemented in the State of   Uttar Pradesh .   3.5         The   ramie   programmes will be implemented in   five   states, namely,   Arunachal Pradesh ,   Assam , Meghalaya, Nagaland and   West Bengal .   3.6          The Department will have the flexibility to include or exclude States in the Mini Mission-II depending on the ground situation in consultation with States.     4.     Target     4.1          The objective of the scheme     is to increase the production,     productivity of the crop along with the improvement in quality of fibre.     State-wise target of production will be fixed on yearly basis .     5.     Components of Mini Mission-II of JTM           Considering the objective and strategy of the programme, various components have been included in the MM-II.    A Centrally Sponsored Scheme on Special Jute Development Programme (SJDP) has been in operation, which has been subsumed under the Macro Management Mode from October, 2000. On launching the MM-II of JTM, the existing SJDP under Macro Management Mode in the concerned states will cease to operate. Some of the components of the programme will be implemented by the state governments and the fund for these components will be released to the concerned state governments. Some of the components of the programme will be implemented by different organizations and to be directly coordinated by the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation through the Directorate of Jute Development, Kolkata and the funds for these components will directly be released to the concerned organizations. The components of MM-II of JTM and the pattern of financial assistance are indicated at   Annexure-I   5.1      Components to be implemented by the State Government                   The components and the pattern of financial assistance are indicated at   Annexure-I . The funds for the components will be released to the state governments by the Government of India. The sharing of funding of the components will be 90:10 between Central and State Governments. However, in some of the components, 100 per cent share will be borne by the Central Government. The components to be implemented by the state governments are indicated hereunder: I. Seed/Planting Material:   i)                       Distribution of certified jute seed/quality seed of mesta / sunnhemp; ii)                      Distribution of ramie rhizome; iii)                    Distribution of jute/mesta seed minikit.   II. Implements   i)                       Multi-row seed drill; ii)                      Wheel-hoe; iii)                    Ribboner; iv)                    Sprayer. III. Technology Demonstration i)                       Production Technology of jute, mesta, sunnhemp and ramie; ii)                      Retting Technology.   IV. Essential Nutrient Minikit for Jute/Mesta and Ramie.   V. Foliar Spray of Urea.   VI. Distribution of Soil Ameliorant.   VII. Post Harvest Operation i)                       Development of retting facility through retting scheme; ii)                      Individual kutcha retting tank; iii)                    Individual pucca retting tank; iv)                    Distribution of fungal culture; v)                     Distribution of DAP Molasses kit; vi)                    Distribution of Decorticator; vii)