Fote Develops New Products: Biomass Briquette Machines AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale Fote Develops New Products: Biomass Briquette Machines Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Fote Develops New Products: Biomass Briquette Machines LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 6 Hours Ago #1 rachel123 Join Date May 2015 Posts 10 Fote Develops New Products: Biomass Briquette Machines After making so many breakthroughs, Fote Heavy Machinery has signed a lot of biomass briquette machine manufacturing and supplying contracts with customers all over the world. Fote new biomass briquette machines not only gain good social and economic benefits, but also cater to the national sustainable development policy. Our biomass briquette machine has an excellent performance in the biomass material processing field. It is mainly applied to make biomass briquettes or coal balls for direct burning or metallurgy use and, and at the same time increase the additional value and realize resource recycling. The biomass briquetting machines aim to reduce dust, control the volume weight of coal and improve the product transporting performance. Our biomass briquette plant is made up of three parts: feeder which aims to provide raw materials uniformly and rationally, drive which offers power to the main engine of the briquette machine, and briquetting device which refers to the main body and press rolls of the equipment. Fote Machinery is specialized in researching and developing the biomass briquetting machine. Our equipment is favored by customers for its features of one-time compressing, high briquetting efficiency and firm product property. With high yield, Fote biomass briquette machine has been widely applied by departments of power plant and biomass briquette plant etc. Now our biomass briquette machine has prevailed on the market worldwide and it not only increases manufacturers’ profit, but also saves much energy. For more information, please leave us a message on: FTM China - Wood Pellet Mill & Briquetting Machine Leading Manufacturers . Our professionals will reply as soon as possible. Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 03:06 PM .