Welcome to agMOOCs | agMOOCs Menu Home Courses About Us Login / Register Welcome to agMOOCs Massive Open Online Courses or MOOCs enable thousands of learners to access high quality education in a single offering. India is a nation with a massive need for upgradation of skills and knowledge at various levels from landless workers to professionals in a large number of sectors. MOOCs seem to be very appropriate to meet this need. Agriculture is a critical sector on which India’s well-being is built. It is also the sector where the need for improved skills is the greatest and most massive. The agMOOCs has been created to address a part of this challenge. AgMOOCs is an initiative under the umbrella of the National Project on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL) . It is offered by a consortium of leading institutions of India and the Commonwealth of Learning (COL) . The consortium is anchored in Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IITK) . Indian Institute of Management Calcutta (IIMC) and the University of Agricultural Sciences- Raichur (UASR) are members of the agMOOCs consortium. Our intent is to design and deliver MOOCs on topics that are critical to the continued enrichment of knowledge and skills of professionals in agriculture sector. We want to reach tens of thousands of learners through these MOOCs, deliver at least a dozen MOOCs and conduct rigorous evaluation of learning. Certificates will be provided to learners who establish their eligibility through active participation in the MOOCs and with reasonably good scores in the tests. We plan to offer MOOCs in English and Hindi initially. We will offer MOOCs in other languages of India in phases.   Who should attend these MOOCs?   Students in State Agriculture Universities (all subjects and levels, including veterinary and animal sciences, fisheries, dairy technology, forestry, nutrition and social sciences) Faculty in SAUs who are interested in continuing professional development Subject Matter Specialists in extension services Researchers who wish to explore additional topics of interest Professionals in the rural development sector Professionals in private sector organizations serving farmers   Do I need to pay for the registration?   These MOOCs are offered free of cost . In a few MOOCs, proctored examinations may be necessary for certification. Those who opt for certificates through such examinations may be required to pay a fee (likely to be INR 1000) to cover local costs. We do not plan to charge fee or levy other charges to generate revenue.   Who are the faculty members offering these MOOCs?   Every MOOC will have a senior faculty member serving as course director; she/he will be joined by additional faculty who would be nationally and globally renowned experts in their own specialisations. For example, MOOCs on ICT for agriculture will be offered by faculty from IIT-Kanpur (mainly from the Computer Science and Engineering department). Faculty from other institutions may participate in this MOOC for specific topics.   Certificates   agMOOCs is offered under the umbrella of NPTEL .  Participation certificate and Competency certificate will be given to qualifying students based on their engagement and performance. Required participation for certificates may vary slightly from one MOOC to another. In general, very active participation in browsing course materials, in online discussion spaces, in quizzes, tests and assignments will be required. Participation in a final test (online) and a reasonable score will be compulsory to obtain the certificate.   How is agMOOCs organised?   Every MOOC will be delivered as a collection of short lectures (about 5-10 min in length or a little longer). All these lectures will be delivered as streaming videos. Slides and demonstrations (where required) will be included. The MOOC platform will allow learners to pose queries to the course faculty and to other learners. An online digital library would be available. Learners will be encouraged to form online communities and groups of interest and to socialize around key ideas and questions. On occasions, the course faculty will organize online chat sessions. We are making efforts to help learners integrate their regular online social presence in the MOOC platform. Quizzes and tests will be conducted periodically and learners are expected to participate in at least some of them. Participation in online discussions and forums will be tracked for every individual learner. The combined score for eligibility for a certificate will include quantitative evaluation of such participation. Such data can be made available to learners. We will publish a few short videos on how to participate successfully in a MOOC.   Ethical conduct for the courses   Participation in our MOOCs is totally dependent upon adherence to ethical norms and conduct. A learner and a faculty member will conduct herself / himself as if she/he is in a real classroom in a renowned university. Unethical conduct of any kind is not tolerated. The Course Director can, at any time, remove a participant from the MOOC space for unethical conduct. Serious violations can result in a participant being disallowed permanently from agMOOCs.   What is the course duration?   A MOOC is normally expected to be of duration of six continuous weeks. Occasionally, it may be little longer by a week or two.   Learner commitment   About four to five hours per week on an average and about four hours for a large assignment towards the end of a MOOC may be required. In MOOCs where proctored examinations are mandatory, learners will need to spend additional time to appear in those examinations.   How to do a MOOC Upcoming Course More... Planned Courses ICT Advanced Sensors Nanotechnology GIS applications Download Brochure Tweets by @agMOOCs Copyright © 2015, agMOOCs .