Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh and Tourist Destinations near Andhra Pradesh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andhra Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Mosques & Shrines in Andhra Pradesh Parks in Andhra Pradesh Caves in Andhra Pradesh Churches in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Temples in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Museums in Andhra Pradesh Cities to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Travel to Srisailam Travel to Tirupati Travel to Visakhapatnam Travel to Vijayawada Travel to Hyderabad Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Srikakulam Hotels in Kurnool Hotels in Tirupati Hotels in Vijayawada Hotels in Nellore About Andhra Pradesh History Climate Home » Andhra Pradesh » Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh The South Indian state of Andhra Pradesh presents one with an wide range of attractive tourist "Destinations" that enthralls and enchants the tourist. Andhra Pradesh is blessed with the bounty of nature that is very appealing to the tourist. The natural and scenic beauty of the place overwhelms the tourist and fills them with an utmost sense of satisfaction. The capital of Andhra Pradesh, "Hyderabad" is one of the most important tourist destination. The city boasts of the rich architectural legacies of the "Nawabs" who had ruled the city for a considerable period. The splendid monuments, palaces, and forts are architectural marvels of the by gone days. The "Port City" of "Vishakapatnam" attracts many tourists. Amidst the picturesque landscape of the place, Vishakapatnam is blessed with many attractive tourist spots that captures the imagination of the poet. An important religious place for the Hindus, the holy land of "Tirupathi" draws several devotees through out the year to seek divine blessings of the Lord Venkateswara. The scared land of the "Puttaparthy" is one of celebrated place for the Hindus who visit the place in search of solace and eternal happiness. The place of "Puttaparthy" is the birth place of the great religious leader of Sri Satya Sai Baba who is believed to be the re- incarnation of Sri Sai Baba of Shirdi in Maharashtra. The ancient city of "Warrangal" display the artistic skills and the architectural creation of the rulers of the Kakatiya dynasty. The city has many monuments and structures that bears the imprint of the rich architectural past of South India. The beautiful town of "Nagarjuna Sagar" is blessed with one of the most longest Dams of Asia which draws many visitors through out the year. Places to See in Andhra Pradesh Discerning traveler finds a wide range of tourist attractions in Andhra Pradesh. The history of the region dates back to some 300 B.C. The numerous monuments, located all over the region, bear the legacy of the Mauryas, the Pallavas, the Cholas, the Satavahanas, the Chalukyas and the Vijayanagar - the several dynasties that ruled. Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Charminar Category : History & Culture The Charminar is the one of the biggest tourist attractions in Andhra Pradesh. The legend says Mohammed Quli Qutb Shah, the founder of the city built this magnificent square shaped edifice to ward of ward off the break out of an epidemic at the center of the original city in his time. Four 48.7 metre high minarets built of Granite flanking four grand arches explains the name Char (four) minar. A lotus leaf structure, which was a special recurrent motif in Qutub Shahi buildings, supports the base of each minar.The arches support two floors and gallery of archways. The first floor housed a madarasa (college) during the Qutub Shahi period. The second floor houses a mosque on the western side. It requires a special permission from the Archaeological Survey of India to go to the top of the minarets, which offers a spectacular view of the city. The monument is open all the days. Golconda Fort Category : History & Culture It is one of the famous forts of India and derives its name from the Telugu words "Golla Konda" meaning "Shepherd's Hill". Golconda was originally a mud fort and the origin dates back to the Kakatiya period. Later in course of history it passed to the Qutb Shahis (1518 to 1687 A.D). First three Qutb Shahi kings rebuilt Golconda, over a span of 62 years. The fort is famous for its acoustics, palaces, factories, ingenious water supply system and the famous Fateh Rahben gun, one of the cannons used in the last siege of Golconda by Aurangzeb, to whom the fort ultimately fell. An evening light and sound show brings alive the history of the Golconda Fort. Qutb Shahi Tombs Category : History & Culture The tombs of the Qutb Shahi kings are the oldest historical monuments in Hyderabad. The uniqueness lies in the fact that this is a graveyard where an entire dynasty has been buried at one place. Located close to the Golconda Fort, the tombs, built of gray Granite with with stucco ornamentation, reflect a unique blending of Persian, Pathan and Hindu architectural styles. Osmania University, Hyderabad Category : History & Culture This is one of the oldest universities in India established in 1918. it derives its name from Mir Osman Ali Khan, the Nizam of Hyderabad. The splendid building, especially the Arts College building, display a perfect example of example of Indo-Saracenic architecture. Ramoji Film City Category : History & Culture Located at the outskirts of Hyderabad, sprawling over nearly 1000 acres, Ramoji Film City is largest, most comprehensive and professionally planned film production centre in the world. It is open everyday from 09:00 AM - 05:30 PM and the visitors can take a conducted tour organized by the authority. Museums of Andhra Pradesh The Salar Jung Museum, Hyderabad Category : History & Culture This one-man collection of antiques by Mir Yousuf Ali Khan Salar Jung III is the biggest in the world. The museum houses a superb collection of: Persian carpets, Moghal miniatures, Chinese porcelain, Japanese lacquer ware sculptures including the Veiled Rebecca and Marguerite and Mephistopheles Daggers belonging to Queen Noor Jahan and the Emperors Jahangir and Shah Jahan, the sword of Aurangzeb and many other antiques The Nizam's Museum, Hyderabad Category : History & Culture The stately palace of Purani Haveli, which was acquired by the second Nizam in the year 1750, is now converted to a museum. The museum showcases the gifts & mementos presented to the last Nizam on the occasion of Silver Jubilee Celebration in 1937. The fabulous collection includes a 1930 Rolls Royce, Packard & a Mark V Jaguar are among the vintage cars displayed. There is an interesting collection of models made in silver of all the prominent buildings of the city & citations in Urdu about H.E.H Mir Osman Ali Khan, gold burnished wooden throne used for the Silver Jubilee Celebrations, gold Tiffin box inlaid with diamonds, gold model of Jubilee Pavilion and a silver filigree elephant with mahout to name only a few. The museum is open on all days except Friday from 10.30 am to 05.00 pm. Caves and Valleys in Andhra Pradesh Araku Valley and Borra Caves, Vishakhapatnam Category : Nature Perched at an altitude of 3,100 feet on the Eastern Ghats at a distance of 112 km. from Visakhapatnam, the picturesque Araku Valley is popularly known as the Ooty of Andhra. A visitor to the valley will be greeted by smooth flowing silvery streams and 46 tunnels & bridges by a train journey. Traditional folk dances like the Dhimsa and Mayuri are still performed here by the native Adivasis. The biggest attraction of Araku valley is the Borra Caves. Located at 90 km away from Visakhapatnam, these one-million-year-old natural caves sprawl over an area of 2 square kilometers at a height 1400 feet above the sea level. The Gosthani River once upon a time flew over the limestone area. Due to the water pressure on the mineral deposits the limestone dissolved and gradually the caves were formed giving rise to interesting forms like a mushroom, a temple, a mosque, a church and many more. Belum Caves Category : Nature A team of European speleologists led by Mr Gebaner in 1982 discovered Belum caves, which are the second largest natural caves in Indian Sub-continent after Meghalaya caves. Lying underground a flat agriculture field, these caves have 3 well-like cavities with the central one being the main entrance to the caves. The central one leads to the main entrance to the caves after a descent of 20 meters at the entrance. The 3229 meters long horizontal caves have long passages, spacious chambers, fresh water galleries and siphons inside, which make it a geological & archeological attraction across the globe. Religious Centres in Andhra Pradesh Nagarjuna Konda, Nagarjunasagar Category : Religious It is located at a distance of about 150 kms to the southeast of Hyderabad. Once upon a time this area was one of India's richest Buddhist sites. Now it lies almost entirely under the Nagarjunasagar Dam. Statues, friezes, coins and jewellery were found during the excavation for the constructions of the dam, which are now housed in a museum on the island and give a fascinating insight into the daily lives of this ancient Buddhist centre. The monasteries and chaityas were reconstructed on top of a hill called Nagarjunakonda (konda is the Telegu word for hill), which rises from the middle of the lake. The area takes its name from the Buddhist monk, Nagarjuna, who lived around the turn of the 2nd century AD and was the exponent of the philosophy of sunyata (void). Amaravati, Vijaywada Category : Religious An envouy of Emperor Ashoka, who went to propagate Buddhism in the region, laid the foundation of the Great Stupa at Amaravati the ancient Dhanyakataka. It has a brick-built circular vedica (drum) and platforms projecting in the four cardinal directions. There is also a small Archaeological Museum on the site containing archaeological findings from the site. The Statue of Lord Buddha, Hyderabad Category : Religious In the placid waters of the hussain Sagar Lake, stands the tallest monolithic statue of Lord Buddha (72 feet tall and weighing 450 tons). 200 sculptors took 2 years to chisel it out of a white granite rock. The statue was erected on 12th April 1992 on a pedestal. There is beautifully landscaped Lumbini Park attached to it. A visit to Buddha statue by boat from the park is a memorable experience. Since ancient times Andhra Pradesh has been a rich site of Buddhism in India. From the ports of Andhra Pradesh Buddhism crossed the Bay of Bengal to spread in Sri Lanka and Burma. Lord Venkateswara Temple, Tirupati Category : Religious This temple is probably the richest and most renowned temple in India. Tirumala can be approached only after crossing a range of hills of the Eastern Ghats. Almost all the kings from great dynasties of the southern peninsula - Pallavas, Pandyas, Cholas, Vijayanagar kings have revered and worshipped the presiding deity The Lord Venkateswara, also referred to as Lord of the Seven Hills. The temple, which is a magnificent example of Indian temple architecture, was developed mainly by the contributions made by kings during their rule. Some of the kings have their statues installed within the temple. There are a number of temples in and around Tirupati. Some of them are: Padmavati Devi Temple, Sri Govindarajaswami Temple, Kodandaramaswami Temple, Sri Kapileswaraswami Temple. Beaches and waterfalls in Andhra Pradesh Category : Nature There are quite a few beaches and spectacular waterfalls among the tourist attractions in Andhra Pradesh. Beaches: Bapatla Beach (Suryalanka) Ramakrishna Beach Rishikonda Beach Waterfalls: Ethipothala Waterfalls, Kuntala Waterfalls, Pochera Waterfalls, Rampachodavaram Last Updated on : 2/09/2013 Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Adoni Hotels Eluru Hotels Hyderabad Hotels Kakinada Hotels Kurnool Hotels Nellore Hotels Ongole Hotels Puttaparthy Hotels Puttaparti Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Srikakulam Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Vizianagaram Hotels Travel to Andhra Pradesh Travel to Hyderabad Travel to tirupati Travel to Vizag Travel to Vijayawada Travel to Warangal Places to visit in Andhra-pradesh Places to visit in Hyderabad Places to visit in Tirupati Places to visit in Vizag Travel Agents Chittoor Guntur Hyderabad About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule