Arundhati Roy India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Literature » Arundhati Roy   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Arundhati Roy Born on November 24, 1961, Arundhati Roy won the Booker Prize in 1997 for her novel, The God of Small Things. In 2002, she won the Lannan Cultural Freedom Prize. Arundhati Roy has been in the news for her opposition to the Narmada Dam project, which she has stated would only help the wealthy landowners of Gujarat. Those who argue that the dam will benefit poor peasants have roundly criticized this. Born in Assam to a Keralite Syrian Christian mother and a Bengali Hindu father, she studied architecture at the School of Planning and Architecture in New Delhi . She enacted the role of a village girl in the award-winning movie Massey Sahib, and wrote the screenplays for In Which Annie Gives it Those Ones and Electric Moon. Roy became a celebrity overnight when her book The God of Small Things was published in1996. In the aftermath of the runaway success of The God of Small Things, Roy has published many essays and worked for social causes. She has been a vociferous critic of the neo-imperialist policies of the United States and has criticized India's nuclear weapons programme. Roy wrote The End of Imagination (1998), in which she castigated the Indian government's nuclear policies. In June 2005, Arundhati Roy took part in the World Tribunal on Iraq. Roy was awarded the Sydney Peace Prize in May 2004 and was awarded the Sahitya Akademi award in 2006, which she declined to accept. She has been involved in a fair bit of controversy including her article on Shekar Kapur's celebrated film 'Bandit Queen', about Phoolan Devi, in which she accused Kapur of exploiting Phoolan Devi and misrepresenting the events related to her life. In 2002, Roy was convicted of contempt of court by the India's Supreme Court and sentenced to symbolic one day's imprisonment besides paying a fine of Rs. 2000.   Related Links   English Authors Amitav Ghosh Anita Desai Arundhati Roy Jhumpa Lahiri Khushwant Singh Kiran Desai Mulk Raj Anand R. K. Narayan Raja Rao Salman Rushdie V.S. Naipaul Vikram Chandra Vikram Seth Romesh Chandra Dutt Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule