Ajmer City Map Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Ajmer City Map   Rajasthan Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar Amer Barmer Bharatpur Pali Sikar Nagaur                         more.. राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan History and Geography Weather Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Ajmer City Map Ajmer City Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Ajmer city map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. In this era of communalism and religious intolerance, Ajmer comes across as an extremely secular town and a unifying shrine in Rajasthan . Founded in the 7th century by Raja Ajpal Chauhan, Ajmer served as the Bastion of he Chauhan kings. The city passed on to the Mewar kings and was at last annexed by the Mughal Emperor Akbar. Ajmer is renowned for the Shrine dedicated to the Muslim saint lovingly known as Khwaja who longed to unite the people of the land in a common bond or brotherhood. Ajmer City is well connected to the rest of the country and the world through regular flights plying to and from Jaipur Airport. Jaipur (138 km) is also connected to Ajmer by an excellent bus service and the route takes 2 hours to cover. Ajmer is a major junction in the Indian Railways network and connects the city to other parts of the country. The Urs Ajmer Sharif is the city's major festival and eulogizes the Sufi seer Khawaja Moinuddin Chishti. Qawwalis and festive songs are sung at the famed durgah or shrine in the city. Millions of devotees visit the city during the Urs and offer prayers and supplications. The major attractions of the city of Ajmer are Dargah Khwaja Sharif - One of the most famous mosques in India. Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs and Christians visit this 13th century shrine and pay obeisance to the Divine. All prayers are believed to be granted here and the heart of the visitor is filled with a hitherto unknown calm and peace. Tara Garh or the Star Fort Adhai Din Ka Jhonpda Akbar Palace Rajputana Museum Abdulla Khan's Tomb Ana Sagar Lake Khobra Bheroon Temple Visal Sar Foy Sagar Man Mahal Pushkar Lake Nasiyan (Red) Temple Mayo College Shah Jahan's Mosque Circuit House The local artisans and vendors flock to Ajmer especially during the Urs and the city resembles a carnival. The streets are lined with colorful displays and handicraft items such as splendid rugs, dyes and block printed textiles, embroidered durries, silver baubles and golden jewellery. The sequined and embroidered leather footwear called Mojaris and the scented natural oils called Atar of Ajmer are famous. Madar gate, Station Road, Purani Mandi, Naya Bazaar, Kaisarganj and Nala Bazaar are favorite shoppers' haunts. To accommodate the throng of tourists during the Urs and even at other times, Ajmer has well provided accommodation facilities including Luxury Hotels (e.g. Man Singh Palace), Budget Hotels (e.g. RTDC Khadim, Hotel Ambassador, Hotel Chitvan etc.) and other arrangements such as guest houses. Blogs about Ajmer Prithviraj Smarak, Ajmer: An Icon of Royal Valour : The Prithviraj Smarak is a memorial to Prithviraj Chauhan, the great hero of the Rajput Chauhan dynasty. Located on the Taragarh Road in Ajmer, the memorial has a statue of the king in black stone, mounted on a horse. Prithviraj Chauhan has been shown with a bow and arrow in his hand. Prithvi Raj Chauhan (originally Prithvi Raj III) was the last ruler in the lineage of Chauhans. He was enthroned to rule the twin… read more... The Scenic Ana Sagar Lake of Ajmer : Location: Ajmer, Rajasthan Surrounded by the magnificent Aravalli Hills, the city of Ajmer is one of the oldest and the most beautiful cities of Rajasthan. Thousands of tourists from all over the country visit the city for one of the most revered shrines of India: Dargah of the Sufi Saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti or “Ajmer Sharif”. But there is one more place that proves to be a feather in the cap for Ajmer. It is… read more... A Spiritual Abode – Ajmer Sharif : Location: Ajmer, Rajasthan A shrine of Sufi saint, Moinuddin Chishti, Ajmer Sharif in Rajasthan is popular as Dargah Sharif. It is among the most popular places to see in the country and a preferred pilgrimage destination. The Buland Darwaza, the Shahjahani Gate and the Nizam Gate, which is the main gate, speak of the associations of the Dargah with the era of royals. The Dargah compound is captivating. Once you enter, you feel and sense… read more... Last Updated on : 7/8/2011 Cities in Rajasthan Ajmer Alwar Amer Banaswara Barmer Bharatpur Bhilwara Bhiwadi Bikaner Bhadra Bundi Chittaurgarh Kishangarh Didwana Nohar Pratapgarh Churu Dungarpur Jaipurcity Jaisalmer Jhalawar Jodhpur Kota Kumbhalgarh Mount Abu Ganganagar Hanumangarh Gangapur Jalore Sojat Nathdwara Niwai Nagaur Neemrana Pali Pushkar Ranakpur Sawai Madhopur Shekhawati Sikar Udaipur Tonk Baran Dausa Laxmangarh Merta Ladnun Rawatbhata Hotels in Rajasthan Ajmer Hotels Alwar Hotels Behror Hotels Bharatpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Dausa Hotels Jaipur Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jhunjhunu Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Khimsar Hotels Kumbhalgarh Hotels Mandawa Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Pali Hotels Phalodi Hotels Pushkar Hotels Ranakpur Hotels Sadri Hotels Sawai Madhopur Hotels Shree Mahavirji Hotels Sri Ganganagar Hotels Udaipur Hotels Places to Visit in Ajmer The Dargah of Khawaja Saheb Adhai-din-ka-jhonpra Nasiyan Temple Lakes in Ajmer Forts in Ajmer Museums in Ajmer             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule