Privacy Policy Shopping Cart 0 item(s) - Rs 0.00 Your shopping cart is empty! Home My Account Checkout CD Databases Wall Maps Globes & Atlas Home » Privacy Policy Privacy Policy We welcome you to IndiaMapStore.com We aim to make your browsing experience as comfortable, user friendly and informative as much we can on IndiaMapStore.com All products/services and information displayed on IndiaMapStore.com constitute an "invitation to offer". Your order for purchase constitutes your "offer" which shall be subject to the terms and conditions as listed below. IndiaMapstore.com reserves the right to either accept or reject your offer. IndiaMapStore.com takes seriously the issue of your privacy. We do not provide your credit number, billing and shipping information to anyone else when you buy products or services advertised on this site. We also request you to have a look at Privacy Policy. IndiaMapStore.com also takes seriously the issue of security. Every time you send us your credit card number and your billing and shipping information, we use the industry-standard Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) technology to prevent the information from being intercepted. Learn more about security measures and your protection in the Privacy Policy. PRODUCT & SERVICE DESCRIPTIONS We at IndiaMapStore.com attempt to be as accurate as possible. However, IndiaMapStore.com does not warrant that product descriptions or other content of this site is accurate, complete, reliable, current, or error-free. If in your opinion a product offered by IndiaMapStore.com itself is not as described, your sole remedy is to return it in unused condition. If you are not satisfied with some or any service being offered at IndiaMapStore.com then your sole remedy is to discontinue using this web site. IndiaMapstore.com reserves the right to add, delete or modify content, information and other services of IndiaMapstore.com in any way whatsoever and at any time. IndiaMapstore.com reserves the right in its sole discretion to terminate this Service. PRICING Except where intimated otherwise, the List Price displayed for products on our web site represents the full retail price listed on the product itself, suggested by the manufacturer or supplier, or estimated in accordance with standard industry practice. Such List Price is a comparative price estimate and may or may not represent the prevailing price in some particular area on any particular day. With respect to items or goods sold by IndiaMapStore.com sometime despite our best efforts, a small number of the items in our catalogue may be mispriced. Upon discovering a mispricing, we will do one of the following: If item's correct price is lower than our stated price, we will charge the lower amount and ship you the item. If an item's correct price is higher than our stated price, we will, at our discretion, either contact you for instructions before shipping or cancel your order and notify you of such cancellation. IndiaMapStore.com expressly disclaims any responsibility or liability for any damage, loss, or injury arising out of: The activities of any merchant in third party contracts with IndiaMapStore.com The goods or services offered or the content displayed by any of the merchants, Your final purchase, Inability to purchase any goods or services. All prices and availability of products are subject to change without prior notice. Sometime goods or services offered from IndiaMapStore.com Shopping may be prohibited in your area. When you take delivery of any such products and posses them then you do it on your personal risk. Only you are responsible for paying the entire amount due on your purchase done at this site, including any applicable taxes, shipping and other charges assessed by us. But IndiaMapStore.com has no responsibility whatsoever for any miscalculation or omission of applicable taxes on any sale. You also represent and warrant that you are at least 18 years of age and that you possess the legal right to use IndiaMapStore.com Shopping in accordance with the stated terms and usage policies. You hereby also agree to supervise the usage by, and be responsible for the actions of, any minors or other family members, or anyone else with access to your computer and private information in conjunction of credit cards and/or registration account to access IndiaMapStore.com Shopping. Return Policy We at IndiaMapStore.com are dedicated to provide you superior customer service and quality products. All products and services offered in the IndiaMapStore.com meet or exceed quality standards and are guaranteed. If at any time, you are not satisfied with your product purchase, then in stipulated time but not exceeding more then 4 weeks we will gladly refund your purchase price less the Shipping and Handling charges prevailing in market at that time, upon our receipt of product in original and unopened packaging of your purchase. If, however, in rare instances, your product(s) arrive to you in poor quality, we will review the returned product in question. If found to be the result of a manufacturer defect then we will replace product at no extra cost to you. But there will be no refund. If you are not satisfied with the replacement offer then you may choose other goods from the site catalogue with value not exceeding the amount you originally bought goods for. There will be no refund in case user try to use this refund policy with wilful desire to play fraud and IndiaMapStore.com reserve the exclusive right to determine which outcome will apply to each individual incident and you agree to bind by the final decision of IndiaMapStore.com in such instances. Payment Method Instructions IndiaMapstore.com conduct online transactions but in certain situation banker's cheque/ demand draft and payment through bank transfer is accepted if there is a valid reason to do so. Cash on delivery mode is also applicable for deliveries within Delhi, Noida & Gurgaon.For the details you have to write to Support@indiamapstore.com Shipping & Handling Policy with Force Majeure All products ordered from this site are shipped via Blue Dart or other courier company of repute or Govt Postal services. Prior to shipment the orders are subject to a handling/processing procedure of 2 days for orders placed on weekdays and 3 days for orders placed on weekends. IndiaMapStore.com takes care and strives to provide best delivery services to the user. However there is no liability upon IndiaMapStore.com in case of goods lost or stolen on way to the user or not delivered on time due to third party negligence or act of god or natural calamity or on account of sudden change in government policy covering such transactions. Nothing withstanding explained above but not limited to that, in event of user not satisfied with service or products or in event of loss or any damage arising due to use or non availability of goods on time IndiaMapStore.com shell have no other liability except, at the most, replacement of such good or return the equalling amount in case of any damage caused by way of products used or any other kind of consequential damage financial or otherwise, suffered in any derivative form. IndiaMapStore.com may change the policy from time to time or revise it according to the user traffic or change in policy. Please do come back from time to time and check the updates made herein this policy. Your continued use of this site as per the terms of use enumerated in Copyright Policy will constitute that you are aware of the contents of all legal notices available on this site and have understood and agreed upon them. Unless otherwise stated, copyright and all intellectual property rights in all material presented on IndiaMapstore.com (including but not limited to text, photographs, audio, video or graphical images), trademarks and logos appearing on IndiaMapstore.com are the property of Strategic Solutions., affiliates and associates and are protected under applicable Indian laws. Brand names or trade logos of 3rd party vendors belong to them exclusively. IndiaMapStore.com do not claim or purport those Trade Marks to be own and duly acknowledge the intellectual property rights of other. Any infringement shall be vigorously defended and pursued to the fullest extent permitted by law.   Continue ﻿ Information About Us Delivery Information Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Customer Service Contact Us Returns Site Map Extras Brands Gift Vouchers Affiliates Specials My Account My Account Order History Wish List Newsletter