Places to Visit in Madhya Pradesh and Tourist Destinations near Madhya Pradesh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Madhya Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Madhya Pradesh About Madhya Pradesh Places to Visit in Madhya Pradesh Sunder Mahal Phool Bagh Chaturbhuj Temple Sanchi Stupa Scindia Museum Bhimbetka Caves Upper Lake Lower Lake Birla Museum Crescent Water Park Cities to Visit in Madhya Pradesh Gwalior Travel Bhopal Travel Indore Travel Orchha Travel Sanchi Travel Ujjain Travel Mandu Travel Khajuraho Travel Madhya Pradesh Hotels Bhopal Hotels Gwalior Hotels Indore Hotels Khajuraho Hotels Orchha Hotels Ujjain Hotels Khandwa Hotels Home » Madhya Pradesh » Places to Visit in Madhya Pradesh Places to Visit in Madhya Pradesh The state of Madhya Pradesh is literally the 'heart' of India.Madhya Pradesh tourism is a journey to the center of the magical and mysterious country known as India. Madhya Pradesh tourism reveals the heart of central India.Madhya Pradesh tourism brings to light the many monuments, exquisitely carved temples, forts and palaces that dot the state of Madhya Pradesh. Madhya Pradesh tourism lays bare the irresistible natural beauty of the state. The topography of the beautiful land is predominantly a plateau, and that plateau is interspersed by stunning mountain ranges, gurgling streams, meandering slow rivers and miles and miles of dense, thick forestland. Madhya Pradesh tourism permits the visitor to Madhya Pradesh state an eye-opener to the rich folk culture and tribal traditions. This culture finds its expression in the many exuberant and lively festivities conducted by its people. Madhya Pradesh tourism also encourages the visitor to experience first hand a slice of ancient Indian history. The Sanchi Stupa was built by the Mauryan Emperor Ashoka, then a governor of Ujjain. Khajuraho in Chhattarpur district is famous for its unique temples. The temples were built by Chandela rulers during the time period of 950 to 1050 AD. The Indian state of Madhya Pradesh has a number of important pilgrimage centers. Ujjain and Omkareshwar have special significance due to shrines having two of the twelve Jyotirlingas. Madhya Pradesh tourism also means wildlife tourism. Bandhavgarh is a small national park set within the Vindhyas and is known for its thriving tiger population. Travel Maps Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Madhya Pradesh Travel Map Places to See in Madhya Pradesh Bhopal The capital city of the state boasts of an archaeological wealth. Old palaces and mosques and the teeming bazaars promises sheer romance. It would also remind you of one of the world's worst industrial disaster. Read More..... Khajuraho The place is one of the biggest tourist attractions in Madhya Pradesh, where religion is married to eroticism. Erotic fantasies are sculpted in stone in the temples facades. The sculptures keep changing their hues with the pace of sun in a day. Read More..... Gwalior A glorious chapter of Indian history comes alive in the rugged forts and palaces of Gwalior. The city is witness to many decisive battles, blood and death. Read More..... Kanha Kanha Tiger Reserve was made famous by Rudyard Kipling. Being one of the finest and best-administered National Parks in Asia, it is an irresistible attraction to the true wild life enthusiasts. Read More..... Orchha Once the capital of the Bundellas, the city houses the famed Orchha Fort, which is an architectural wonder. Bandhavgarh Perched in the heart of the Vindhya Mountain Range in Central India, Bandhavgarh National Park boasts of the highest population of tigers in India. One can do elephant safari here. Last Updated on : September 18, 2013 Travel to Madhya Pradesh Travel to Bhopal Travel to Gwalior Travel to Indore Travel to Jabalpur Travel to Khajuraho Travel to Mandu Travel to Orchha Travel to Sanchi Travel to Ujjain Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Bhopal Places to visit in Gwalior Places to visit in indore Places to visit in jabalpur Places to visit in Khajuraho Places to Visit in Mandu Places to visit in Orchha Places to visit in Sanchi Places to visit in Ujjain About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule