Aurangzeb India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » History » Aurangzeb   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Aurangzeb Among the mughal rulers, Aurangzeb took the Mughal empire to its zenith. He was born on 21st October, 1618 and was the third son of the emperor Shah Jahan and Mumtaz Mahal. He had three brothers Dara Shukoh, Shah Shuja, and Murad Baksh and three sisters Jahanara, Roshanara and Gauharara. He married Rabia Daurani and had six children, five sons and a daughter. He was superior to his elder brothers Dara Shikoh and Shuja in terms of competence and character. He was industrious, judicious, a dynamic administrator and also a great scholar of the Persian, Arabic and Hindi languages. Since his father favored Dara Shikoh, so Aurangzeb took his father into custody at the Agra Fort, Uttar Pradesh permanently. He ascended the throne in July 1658 after winning the battles against his brothers and reigned till 1707. During the 48 years of his rule, Aurangzeb tried to bring the entire sub-continent under his rule which was his cherished dream. The Mughal Empire reached its zenith during his rule in the matter of area. He was a deeply religious man and led a very simple life. As a religious and honest Muslim, throughout his life he earned his living by sewing caps and copying the Holy Quran in his free time. When he died he did not own any personal wealth. He build the Badshahi Mosque in Lahore. Aurangzeb was a staunch Muslim, it is argued that in his zeal to promote Islam he made several bitter enemies. The killing of the ninth Guru of the Sikhs, Guru Tegh Bahadur was a fall out of this development only. A tax called Jazia is also credited to Aurangzeb. Auranzeb is the only ruler who ruled over the single largest state ever in Indian history. Aurangzeb was an efficient and skilled administrator and ruled the country with a strong hand till his death in 1707. In fact besides British, Aurangzeb is the only ruler who ruled over such a single largest state ever in the Indian History.   Related Links   Medieval India Alivardi Khan Krishna Deva Raya Rana Sanga Kautilya Ibrahim Lodhi Jehangir Noor Jehan Iltutmish Mumtaz Mahal Harihar and Bukka Muhammad Bin Tughlaq Ghiasuddin Balban Jijabai Aurangzeb Chatrapati Shivaji Allauddin Khilji Bairam Khan Akbar Rana Pratap Babar Birbal Humayun Tanaji Prithviraj Chauhan Shah Jahan Sher Shah Suri Samudragupta Tansen Razia Sultana Qutubuddin Aibak Rajendra Chola Rajaraja Chola Raja Todar Mal Raja Man Singh Last Updated on : February 1, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule