Indian Chamber of Commerce - Assisting Business Since 1925 - Welcome to our website Home About Us Economic Reports Sectors Media Room Newsletters Events Global Initiatives Membership Contact Us ICC Theme for the year 2014-15 : "Development through Connectivity" Brief about ICC Theme of the Year Committee Members Expert Committee Past Presidents Publications Policy Papers Priced Publications Budget Memorandums Agro & Food Processing Energy Banking & Finance Minerals & Metals IT & ITES Logistics Infrastructure Tourism Health Care External Trade & WTO Environment Media Coverage Forthcoming Events Past Events Corporate Trainings Overseas Delegation Successful Partnerships Country Report MOU Partners Current Issue Archives Eligibility Membership Charges Membership Forms Contact Info Important E-mails Feedback Advertise with us On West Bengal On External trade On Banking & Finance On Infrastructure On Company Law & Taxation On Agro & Food Processing   Guest Column A communique on the economy Read More..   Corporate Members ICCECONOMIQUE       Welcome to ICC The Indian Chamber of Commerce, or ICC as it is popularly known, is the premier body of business and industry in Eastern and North-Eastern India. The membership of the Chamber comprises several of the largest corporate groups in the country, with business operations all over the country and abroad. Set up by a group of pioneering industrialists led by Mr G D Birla, the Indian Chamber was closely associated with the Indian Freedom ....... more     Shree Modi Addressing 'Vibrant Growth Model' organized by ICC    Shree Modi with ICC Office Bearers in         Interactive Session organized by ICC " I take this opportunity to heartily congratulate you for leading the NDA to a resounding victory in the Lok Sabha Elections 2014, and sincerely believe that under your very dynamic leadership, the country will scale greater heights during the next 5 years. I am certain that your vision, pro-activeness and prudent policy-making will pave the way for a better and stronger India where growth will be sustainable and inclusive. The magnitude of this victory is clearly reflective of the charismatic leadership quality of yours, as well as the huge degree of trust and confidence that the people of India have chosen to repose in your party and in your leadership; and I believe soon India will be in the top league of economically vibrant and strong economies, with you at the helm of affairs. I wish you all the best, and hope that the Indian Industry will hugely benefit from the enabling policies & programmes that your able Government will undertake in the coming years. As the largest Chamber in the East & North-East of the country, and the only National Chamber headquartered in Kolkata, the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC), will be extremely honoured and happy to partner your Government in India's future progress, through various strategic initiatives. We have had the privilege of hosting a very successful Interactive Session with you last year in Kolkata, and we hope we will continue to receive your guidance, support and encouragement in the future. Congratulations once again." - Dr. Rajeev Singh   Director General   Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC)   Highlights Stop news scroll Play news scroll Energy Sector BRIEF ON ICC ENERGY INITIATIVE: Energy is one of the ma... More Environment Article More India's North-East Diversifying Growth Opportunities More Mineral & Metal The rise in global population, growth in the Chinese economy, ... More ICC Falicitates Honorable President of India Highlights More Global Updates Global Updates for September 2012 More National Updates National Updates for September 2012 More