New Page 1   Organic farming for quality produce and conserving fragile eco-system   Home History Organisation Citizen Charter Developmental activities Photo Gallery High Value Agriculture                                                  History            Land, Soil and climate   Organisation   Developmental activities   High Value Agriculture   Krishi Vigyan Kendra   Citizen Charter   Photo Gallery   Application forms   Mail us                     History and Objectives     Staff     Vocational Training   FLD    OFT   Collaborative Projects   Other Extension Activities   Women Cell Activities    Other Programmes             Krishi Vigyan Kendra Lakshadweep                History & Objectives            Indian Council of Agrl Research was pleased to sanction one KVK and allotted to the administration of U.T. of  Lakshadweep in  the  year  1998  with its headquarters  at  Kiltan.  KVK  was established    during   August  1998  and   commenced  functional activities from January 1999 onwards.            Considering the peculiar conditions of Lakshadweep, the thrust  areas of Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Lakshadweep given  by  the Indian  Council of Agricultural Research are  Horticulture,  Fish product   development,  Soil  Conservation   and   Fresh    Water Harvesting/Conservation  of  Rain Water.           Krishi   Vigyan  Kendra's  are  the   grass-root  level vocational  training institutions designed for bridging the  gap between  the available technologies  at  the  one end and  their application for increased production at the other.  BASIC PRINCIPLES:-           1. Accelerating Agricultural and Allied productions  is  the prime goal.           2.`Teaching  by doing' and `Learning by doing' are  the principal methods of imparting skill training.           3.  Training  efforts to make  economically  poor  ones good,  so as to raise the living condition  of  the poorest of the poor. OBJECTIVES OF KRISHI VIGYAN KENDRA          1. Planning & conducting production oriented need based short  and long duration training courses both on campus  and off campus.           2.  Developing  and  organizing  non-formal   education  programmes by way of field days, farm visits, farmers fair, radio talk, Farm Science Clubs etc.           3.  Organizing  farm  Science  Clubs,   both  in  Rural Schools and in Villages in order to induce in younger generation a liking  and interest for Agricultural & Allied sciences.           4.  Developing and maintaining farms and  Demonstration Units  on scientific lines as the facilities for  providing  work experience to the trainees and also disseminating latest  technical know how.           5.  Providing  practical  training  facilities  of  the Kendra  to   the   teachers  and   the   students  of  vocational Agricultural of High Schools & Higher Secondary Schools.           6.   Imparting   some  general   education   to   rural illiterates and school drop-out's in order to make them not  only good farmers but also better Citizens.              7. Providing added training facilities in the areas of home science and nutrition education for rural community.            History and Objectives     Staff     Vocational Training   FLD    OFT   Collaborative Projects   Other Extension Activities   Women Cell Activities    Other Programmes     Home History Land, Soil & Climate Organisation Developmental activities High Value Agriculture   Krishi Vigyan Kendra Citizen Charter Photo Gallery Application forms Mail us   Designed and Maintained by: Department of Agriculture, U.T.of Lakshadweep Resolution 800 x 600 for  better display    