Microsoft Word - Eligible Courses.doc Eligible Courses for selection under Agriclinics and Agribusiness Scheme The scheme is open to following categories of candidates: 1. Graduates in agriculture and allied subjects from SAUs/ Central Agricultural Universities/ Universities recognized by ICAR/ UGC. Degree in Agriculture and allied subjects offered by other agencies are also considered subject to approval of Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Government of India on recommendation of the State Government. 2. Diploma (with at least 50% marks)/Post Graduate Diploma holders in Agriculture and allied subjects from State Agricultural Universities, State Agriculture and Allied Departments and State Department of Technical Education. Diploma in Agriculture and allied subjects offered by other agencies are also considered subject to approval of Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Government of India on recommendation of the State Government. 3. Biological Science Graduates with Post Graduation in Agriculture & allied subjects. 4. Degree courses recognized by UGC having more than 60 percent of the course content in Agriculture and allied subjects. 5. Diploma/Post-graduate Diploma courses with more than 60 percent of course content in Agriculture and allied subjects, after B.Sc. with Biological Sciences, from recognized colleges and universities. 6. Agriculture related courses at Intermediate (i.e. plus two) level, with at least 55% marks. 7 One-Year Certificate Course Conducted by Sericulture Department, Govt. of Manipur. 8. Diploma in Agriculture offered by Gandhigram Rural University, Dindigul, T.N 9. Diploma in Feed Milling Technology offered by Periyar University, Salem, T.N 10. Bachelor of Rural Studies (BRS) offered by the Gram Vidyapeeths affiliated to different Universities in Gujarat. 11. B.Sc (Rural Development Science) graduates of Madurai Kamaraj University, T.N (completed only after 1987). 12. Retired/unemployed candidates with Two Years Agriculture Field Assistants course given by Gram Sevak Training Center, SAMETI, Pasighat, Auranachal Pradesh in agriculture and Allied Fields after 10th standard. 13. Two Years Integrated Training Course with 55% aggregate marks after 10th standard offered by Gram Sevak Training Center, Department of Agriculture, Government of Manipur. 14. Diploma in Bio-security & Incursion Management offered by National Institute of Plant Health Management (NIPHM) MOA, GOI. 15. Diploma in Plant Health Engineering offered by National Institute of Plant Health Management (NIPHM) MOA, GOI. 16. Diploma in Vertebrate & Structural Pest Management offered by National Institute of Plant Health Management (NIPHM) MOA, GOI. 17. Diploma in Bio control Input Production Management offered by National Institute of Plant Health Management (NIPHM) MOA, GOI.