Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Travel to Himachal Pradesh Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Road map City Map District Map Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Subhash Baoli Shivkul Dal Lake Solang Valley Christ Church The Ridge Sankat Mochan Baba Balak Nath Temple Cities to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Dalhousie Travel Dharamshala Travel Kullu Travel Manali Travel Shimla Travel Mandi Travel Hamirpur Travel Lahaul Travel Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Kangra Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una About Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate Places to Visit in Kullu Manali Home » Hotels » Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Himachal Pradesh HOTEL SEARCH Search by Location Search by Places Select State Select City Location of Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing the location of hotels in Himachal Pradesh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Himachal Pradesh is also known as the Devbhumi, which means Land of the Gods. It is a state that lies to the east side of India and western Himalayas. When you plan for a trip to Himachal Pradesh, you have plenty of options for accommodation. The state is known for fantastic tourist destinations including Kullu Manali, Simla, Dalhousie, Dharamshala and more. Being a popular tourist destination, you will find plenty of hotels in the state. So you do not have to worry about the kind of accommodation in Himachal Pradesh. The government has also taken care of accommodation and has constructed many world class hotels here. Most of the hotels here are built surrounded by nature, which is why tourist loves these hotels. There are some bungalows that were used by the British, which are now used as hotels and guests are allowed to stay here for as long as they want. You can also enjoy the tents that are provided by hotels. You can get one with nature and enjoy a splendid time living outdoors. Heritage property is also available that will relive the bygone times. If you love the snow, then choose hotels that are amidst nature. The tariff of all the hotels here is different. There are some five star hotels that cater to the people who love luxury. Some budget hotels can also be found in the city area which are a great convenience and within the budget. The most expensive ones are the heritage hotels which are nothing less than a palace and you will get the facilities fit for a king. Some of the standard facilities offered by luxury hotels include room service, laundry service, conference hall, hot/cold water, television, internet connectivity, doctor on call, car parking, travel desk/car rental, swimming pool, credit card acceptance, gymnasium/health club, deposit locker, STD/ISD/Fax facility, pick up and drop and others. Himachal Pradesh is a huge state that comprises of hundreds of hotels that have rooms namely the classic suite, super deluxe suite, premier room and deluxe room. If you are interested in resorts, you will find them in plenty here. Check out the tariffs online so that you will not be disappointed when you reach there. Booking the hotel room in advance is always a good thing as Himachal Pradesh is always full of tourists at all seasons.   Hotels in Himachal Pradesh   Hotels in Indian States Last Updated on : 25/06/2013 Hotels by City and Destination Hotels in Goa Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Mahabaleshwar Hotels in Ooty Hotels in Manali Hotels in Mysore Hotels in Puri Hotels in Nainital Hotels in Udaipur Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Pondicherry Hotels in Mount-abu Hotels in Aurangabad Hotels in Bhopal Hotels in Jodhpur Hotels in Kanpur Hotels in Mussoorie Hotels in Delhi Hotels in Jaipur Hotels in Bangalore Hotels in Mumbai Hotels in Hyderabad Hotels in Pune Hotels in Chennai Hotels in Agra Hotels in Chandigarh Hotels in Mangalore Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Mathura Hotels in Nashik Hotels in Noida Hotels in Raipur Hotels in Rishikesh Hotels in Bhubaneswar Hotels in Ahmedabad Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Amritsar Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Gurgaon Hotels in Dehradun Hotels in Haridwar Hotels in Lucknow Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Nagpur Hotels in Allahabad Hotels in Secunderabad Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Surat Hotels in Thane Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Shirdi About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule