Experience in contract farming - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Experience in contract farming Home Experience in contract farming Four companies doing contract farming explain the problems and challenges they face Natural Remedies in Karnataka, Dev & Group in Madhya Pradesh, Rainbow Agro Enterprises in Andhra Pradesh and Ashrams Bio Health in West Bengal are actively involved in contract farming. Natural remedies works with farmers very closely providing true price for cultivated medicinal plants, Dev & Group work with farmers across the country, while Rainbow Agro contains 500 contract farmers associated with 2500 acres of its land. Ashrams Bio Health focuses on both organic and inorganic contract farming. Natural Remedies has been undertaking contract farming since the year 2000. All farmer groups associated with the company have buy-back agreement. They have also started to provide price linked to quality. Dr. Ashoka, Manager, agronomy department of Natural Remedies says, “contract farming is always good, if they associate with a genuine company. All the variables can be minimized, traceability issue can be solved. Planned supply can be assured. Farmers will get the assured price at their doorstep.” “We need to motivate more farmers for contract farming. To maximize profitability companies need to choose the best available farmers. Once suitable farmers have been identified it is then necessary to develop trust, as contracts will only work when both parties believe they are better off by engaging in them”, Mr. Ramesh Jain, Proprietor of Rainbow Agro Enterprises adds. Mr. R.K. Singhal, Director of Ashrams Bio Health believes contract farming is very effective and secure from the farmer’s point of view. Challenges of contract farming include selection of genuine farmers, company, crops, whether it is suitable for the soil, quality issues and logistic part. “Farmers get assured market for their material marketed, so the most crucial aspect of farming is taken care for the farmers through contract farming. Although, farmers are always ready to welcome contract farming service but on a petty level or with suspicion rather than a collective effort to grow with the contract farming service provider,” opines Mr. Devesh Sharma, Proprietor, Dev & Group. Farmers should approach in a group so that any company will come forward and promote contract farming in one location. Rate fluctuations should be a separate clause to address if the farmer gets fewer yield due to poor rain fall and other factors. Crop insurance is possible if they approach in a group. There is lot of scope for lower level value addition at source in group approach. According to Mr. Sharma, market fluctuations, lack of understanding of the market by the farmer, farmers breaking their commitments just for peanuts, and cultivation in lesser area of land are the main concerns with regard to contract farming. In order to cope up with these issues and yet try to take the benefits of contract farming farmer has to think bigger as per market, must associate with genuine people and learn to understand market conditions. “Only then farmers and buyers can succeed in this relationship because always you cannot expect total profit as market goes up & down. Further, survival is only possible if the chain remains united”, avers Mr. Sharma. He further adds, “farmers get be-fooled by the middlemen. This can change only when farmers stop dealing with people who speaks exclusively their local language and start thinking big”. It is crucial that if farmers want to earn higher profits they must work genuinely as per the code of the business. He has to be alert and stop expecting all farming inputs like seed & selling at his door step. Government agencies also help companies in promoting cultivation of medicinal plants. A couple of District Horticultural Officers in Karnataka are actively involved in promoting medicinal plants. Hence things are changing slowly and farmers are getting convinced about contract farming of medicinal plants. We further interacted with each of these companies, to know more about their experiences with contract farming. Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Agriculture loans - Interest rates Natural Remedies - Medicinal plants Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Experience in contract farming Related – articles, consultants, downloads Ashrams Bio Health – Contract farming Rainbow Agro Enterprises – Contract farming Contract Farming of Medicinal Plants IIM, Ahmedabad – Management program in contract farming You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water