Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Departments    Food Safety and Quality Testing Food Safety and Quality Testing Faculties 1.  Sh.S.Kumaravel - Assistant Professor and Headi/c 2. Smt. S.Sulochana - Assistant Professor 3.  Dr.K.Suresh Kumar  - Associate Professor 4. Smt.R.Vidhyalakshmi  - Assistant Professor 5. Dr.S.Bhuvana - Assistant Professor (NABL Accredited Laboratory) IICPT has a world class hi-tech food testing laboratory accredited by National Accreditation Board For Testing And Calibration Laboratories Under ISO/IEC 17025:2005. We have experienced and quality scientific and technical man power in the food testing laboratory with world class analytical equipments and high quality man power, our food testing laboratory is one of its kind and unique in serving the food industries, research institutes and other stake holders in areas of food processing. Our Food Testing Laboratory is equipped to analyse the Physico-chemical characteristics of Food materials including raw materials and finished products. We have wide range of equipments to analyse Food composition, Textural properties, Viscosity, Elemental analysis and Toxin analysis in Food grains, Water analysis and phytochemical analysis in Fruits and Vegetables. Samples from different industries like Food Processing Industries, Edible Oil industries, Exporters & Importers and Pharma and Biotech industries and sent to us for analysis. The samples are analysed with the standard protocols like AOAC, AACC and BIS standards. The food testing industry works closely with manufacturers to ensure that all products are scientifically tested and proved to be safe for human consumption at a variety of stages, from raw material to production line, to finished product. Food testing can cover many aspects of the food manufacturing process. Most commonly, a common set of scientific techniques are used to analyse, assess and record the safety and viability of a product in terms of microbiological stability and chemical composition. Services Food Testing Laboratory supports regulatory analysis of food and agri products. We Assists the food industry commissions for nutritional labeling, food safety evaluations, and trace analysis and shelf life studies. We also offering consultancy for setting up of Quality Testing Laboratory in Food processing and allied industries. We also are providing hands on training in various hi-tech equipments. Products tested The multivariate products sent to our laboratory for analysis can be grouped as follows: Processed food products Fruits & vegetables Beverages Spices Pulses & cereal foods Confectionery Meat & meat products Milk & milk products Water Medicinal plants Seaweeds Pharmaceutical Drugs Analytical Services The following different qualities in food samples can be analysed in our food testing laboratory. Proximal analysis by AOAC Water soluble vitamins by HPLC (B1, B2, B3, and B6) Fat soluble vitamins by HPLC (A, D3, E, K1, K3) Food additives by HPLC Amino acids profile by HPTLC Trace analysis Pesticide residues analysis by GC-MS and HPLC Drug residues Antibiotic residues Mycotoxin analysis by HPLC and HPTLC Determination of Secondary metabolites by GC-MS Determination of Flavonoids by HPLC and HPTLC method Element analysis in water and foods by (ICP-OES) Analysis of Food Texture Viscosity measurement by rapid Visco Analyser Determination of MAP gases by GC -TCD Food adulterants by AOAC method Fatty acids profile by GC-MS See weed analysis Nutritional labeling of Food products Estimation of Antioxidant activity Microbiological Analytical services Students Projects M.sc, M.Phil and Doctoral students from different institutions are permitted to do their research work in our labs. Training We are giving short term training in handling of equipments like GC-ECD/FPD, GC-MS, HPLC, HPTLC, ICP-OES, Rapid Visco Analyser and Food Texture analyser to students and others. Consultancy Services Consultancy is offered for the setting up of Quality testing laboratory in Modern Rice Mills, Oil Industries, Food industries, Mineral water analysis and Fruit Processing industries. We also provide Turn-key-project for setting up of quality testing laboratories. Laboratory Facilities Analytical Instruments and Equipment UV Spectrophotometer Flame Photometer Colorimeter Gas Chromatography (GC) Gas Chromatography Mass spectrophotometer (GC-MS) Inductively Coupled Plasma Optical Emission Spectrometry (ICP-OES) High Pressure Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) High Pressure Thin Layer Chromatography (HPTLC) Food Texture Analyser Rapid Visco Analyser Rotary Vaccum Evaporator Microwave Digestor No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com