 Indian Commodities Home About Us Why Us Managerial Team Our Services Our Clients Our Presence Careers News & Events Contact Us About Us Indian Commodities is one of the first agricultural collateral management companies incepted in India over a decade ago. As the undoubted leader in the Indian Agro sector, Indian Commodities has for almost decade, dedicated itself to provide end to end Agro solutions to farmers and the Agro sector across the country. Indian Commodities is working with different financial institutes and agricultural clients to give them professional warehousing solutions and collateral management services. Indian Commodities is a division of Suvidh Commodities.e.com Pvt. Ltd. and backed by one of the largest Commodities trading group in India with turnover more than 300 cr., offering Complete Solutions in Commodity Management and with immense experience in cotton trading and certification. Indian Commodities is backed by highly professional directors having immense experience in the field of agricultural commodity management and trading. Indian Commodities is managed by expert managerial team from the fields of Central Warehousing Corporation, Collateral Management Organizations, Indian Navy, etc. Our Vision “To eradicate agri-produce wastage from India by 2020.” Our Mission The company is committed to:- • Develop the nations post-harvest infrastructure • Provide comprehensive solutions for procurement, storage, preservation, protection and valuation of agri-produce. Our Aim Empower agri-businesses to succeed by providing easy access to • State-of-the-art technology • Integrated trading & supply chain solutions • Grading and standardization • Incisive Market Intelligence • Risk mitigation strategies Our Philosophy SIMPLY GROW Provide, to all depositors and business associates, a service that is • Professional • Single-windowed • Hassle-free • Customized • Economical • Value-added Home | FAQs | Sitemap | Feedback | Disclaimer © Indian Commodities ( A Division of Suvidh Commodities E Com Pvt. Ltd.) Website designed by Compusoft Technologies