cibrc (GSR 1650, DT. 9-10-1971) In exercise of the powers conferred by section 36 of the Insecticides Act, 1968 (46 of 1968), the Central Government, after consultation with the Central Insecticides Board, hereby makes the following rules, namely :-   CHAPTER I PRELIMINARY 1. Short title and commencement 1. These rules may be called the Insecticides Rules, 1971/ 2. They shall come into force on the 30 th day of October, 1971. 2. Definition In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires :- a. "Act" means the Insecticides Act, 1968 (46 of 1968); b. [***] c. "expiry date" means the date that is mentioned on the container, label or wrapper against the column `date of expiry’;] d. "form" means a form set out in the First Schedule; e. "laboratory" means the Central Insecticides Laboratory;]| f. "schedule" means a schedule annexed to these rules; g. [***] h. "pests" means any insects, rodents, fungi, weeds and other forms of plant or animal life not useful to human beings;] i. "primary package’ means the immediate package containing the insecticides; j. "principal" means the importer or manufacturer of insecticides, as the case may be; k. "registration" includes provisional registration; l. "rural area" means an area which falls outside the limits of any Municipal Corporation or Municipal Committee or a Notified Area Committee or a Notified Area Committee or a Cantonment; m. "Schedule" means a Schedule annexed to these ruled; n. " secondary package" means a package which is neither a primary package nor a transportation package; o. "section" means a section of the Act; p. "testing facility" means an operational unit where the experimental studies are being carried out or have been carried out in relation to submission of data on product quality or on safety or on efficacy, or an residues or on stability in storage of the insecticides for which the application for registration is made. q. "transportation package" means the outermost package used for transportation of insecticides.) r. `Commercial Pest Control Operation’ means any application or dispersion of Insecticide(s) including fumigants in household or public or private premises or land and includes pest control operations in the field including aerial applications for commercial purposes but excludes private use; s. 'Pest Control Operators'; means any person who undertakes pest control operations and includes the person or the firm or the company or the organization under whose control such a person(s) is operating. CHAPTER II FUNCTIONS OF THE BOARD, REGISTRATION COMMITTEE AND LABORATORY 3. Functions of the Board The Board shall, in addition to the functions assigned to it by the Act, carry out the following functions, namely: a. advise the Central Government on the manufacture of insecticides under the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951); b. specify the uses of the classification of insecticides on the basis of their toxicity as well as their being suitable for aerial application; c. advise tolerance limits for insecticides, residues and an establishment of minimum intervals between the application of insecticides and harvest in respect of various commodities; d. specify the shelf-life of insecticides; e. suggest colourisation, including colouring matter which may be mixed with concentrates of insecticides, particularly those of highly toxic nature; f. carry out such other functions as are supplemental, incidental or consequential to any of the functions conferred by the Act or these rules. 4. Functions of Registration Committee The Registration Committee shall, in addition to the functions assigned to it by the Act, perform the following functions namely : a. specify the precautions to be taken against poisoning through the use or handling of insecticides; b. carry out such other incidental or consequential matters necessary for carrying out the functions assigned to it under the Act or these rules. 5. Functions of Laboratory The functions of the Laboratory shall be as follows : a. to analyse such samples of insecticides sent to it under the Act by any officer or authority authorized by the Central or State Governments and submission of certificates of analysis to the concerned authority; b. to analyse samples of materials for insecticide residues under the provisions of the Act; c. to carry out such investigations as may be necessary for the purpose of ensuring the conditions of registration of insecticides; d. to determine the efficacy and toxicity of insecticides; e. to carry out such other functions as may be interested to it by the Central Government or by a State Government with the permission of the Central Government and after consultation with the Board. CHAPTER III REGISTRATION OF INSECTICIDES 6. Manner of registration 1. a. An application for registration of an insecticide under the Act shall be made in Form I and the said Form including the verification portion, shall be signed in case of an individual by the individual himself or a person duly authorized by him; in case of Hindu Undivided Family, by the Karta or any person duly authorized by him;in case of partnership firm by the managing partner; in case of a company, by any person duly authorized in that behalf by the Board of Directors; and in any other case by the person in-charge or responsible for the conduct of the business. Any change in members of Hindu Undivided Family or partners or the Board of Directors or the person in charge, as the case may be, shall be forthwith intimated to the Secretary, Central Insecticides Board and Registration Committee and the Licensing Officer. b. The Registration Committee may, if necessary, direct inspection of the `testing facility’ for establishing the authenticity of the data. 2. An application form duly filled together with a bank draft, drawn in favor of the Accounts Officer, Directorate or Plant Protection, Quarantine & Storage, payable at Faridabad towards registration fee shall be sent to the Secretary, Registration Committee, Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine & Storage, NH-IV, Faridabad-121001, Haryana. The fee shall be payable as follows:- i. rupees five thousand each in case of application for registration under Sections 9(3) and 9(3B) of the Insecticides Act, 1968; ii. rupees two thousand five hundred in case of application for registration under Section 9(4) of the Insecticides Act, 1968. 3. The registration fee payable shall be paid by a demand draft drawn on the State Bank of India, Faridabad, in favour of the Accounts Officer, Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage, Faridabad, Haryana. 4. The certificate of registration shall be in Form II or Form II-A, as the case may be and shall be subject to such conditions as specified therein. 6A. Issue of duplicate certificate of registration A fee of rupees one hundred shall be paid in the form of demand draft drawn on the State bank of India, Faridabad in favour of the Accounts Officer, Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine & Storage, Faridabad, Haryana for a duplicate copy of a Certificate of Registration if the original is defaced, damaged or lost. 6B. Addition, deletion or alteration on the Certificate of Registration including labels and leaflets A Fee of rupees one hundred shall be paid in the form of demand draft drawn on the State Bank of India, Faridabad, in favour of the Accounts Officer, Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage, Faridabad, Haryana on each occasion for each Certificate of Registration for addition, deletion, alternation on the Certificate of Registration including labels and leaflets. 7. Appeal 1. An appeal against any decision of the Registration Committee under section 9 shall be preferred in writing [in Form II-B, in duplicate] to the Central Government in the Department of Agriculture. 2. The appeal shall be in writing and shall set out concisely and under distinct heads the grounds on which the appeal is preferred. 3. The appellant can submit a DD of Rs.100/- towards fee as per stay order of High Court of Gujarat. However, the appellant shall have to pay the revised fee for registration as per the out come of Writ Petition No.5303/1999 filed by Gujarat Pesticides Formulators Association vs. Union of India pending for final disposal in the Hon'ble High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad". 4. The fee payable for preferring an appeal shall be paid by a demand draft drawn on the State Bank of India, New Delhi in favor of the Pay and Accounts Officer, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, New Delhi. 8. Manner of publication of refusal to register or cancellation of certificate of registration A refusal to register an insecticide or a cancellation of the certificate of registration of an insecticide shall also be published in any two English and Hindi newspapers which have circulation in a substantial part of India and in any of the journals published by the Department of Agriculture of the Government of India. CHAPTER IV GRANT OF LICENCES 9. Licences to manufacture insecticides 1. Application for the grant or renewal of a licence to manufacture any insecticide shall be made in Form III or Form IV, as the case may be, to the licensing officer and shall be accompanied by a fee of rupees two thousand for every insecticide and a maximum of rupees twenty thousand for all insecticides for which the licence is applied. 2. If an insecticide is proposed to be manufactured at more than one place, separate applications shall be made and separate licences shall be issued in respect of every such place. 3. A licence to manufacture insecticides shall be issued in Form V and shall be subject to the following conditions, namely: i. The licence and any certificate of renewal shall be kept on the approved premises and shall be produced for inspection at the request of an Insecticide Inspector appointed under the Act or any other officer or authority authorized by the licensing officer. ii. Any change in the expert staff named in the licence shall forthwith be reported to the licensing officer. iii. If the licensee wants to undertake during the currency of the licence to manufacture for sale of additional insecticides, he shall apply to the licensing officer for the necessary endorsement in the licence on payment of the prescribed fee for every category of insecticides. iv. An application for the renewal of a licence shall be made as laid down in rule 11. v. The licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Act and the rules made there under for the time being in force. vi. The licensee shall obtain ISI Mark Certificate from Bureau of Indian Standard within three months of the commencement of the manufacture. vii. No Insecticides shall be sold or distributed without ISI Mark Certification. 4. A licensing officer may, after giving reasonable opportunity of being heard, to the applicant, refuse to grant any license. 4A. No license to manufacture an insecticide shall be granted unless the licensing officer is satisfied that necessary plant and machinery, safety devices and first-aid facilities, etc., exist in the premises where the insecticide is proposed to be manufactured. 5. A fee of rupees one hundred shall be paid for a duplicate copy of a licence issued under this rule, if the original is defaced, damaged or lost. 10. Licence for sale, etc., of insecticides 1. Applications for the grant or renewal of a licence to sell, stock or exhibit for sale or distribute insecticides shall be made in Form VI or Form VII, as the case may be, to the licensing officer and shall be accompanied by the fees specified in sub-rule (2). 2. The fee payable under sub-rule (1) for grant or renewal of a licence shall be rupees five hundred for every insecticide for which the licence is applied subject to maximum rupees seven thousand five hundred. There shall be a separate fee for each place, if any insecticide is sold, stocked or exhibited for sale at more than one place: PROVIDED that the maximum fee payable in respect of insecticides commonly used for household purposes and registered as such shall be rupees seven thousand five hundred for every place: PROVIDED further that, if the place of sale is established in the rural areas, the fee shall be one fifth of the fee specified in this rule. 3. If any insecticide is proposed to be sold or stocked for sale at more than one place, separate applications shall be made and separate licences shall be issued in respect of every such place [and for every insecticides.] 3A. Pest Control Operators— i. Any person who desires to undertake pest control operations, with the use of Aluminum Phosphide, Methyl bromide. Ethylene dibromide or as notified shall apply for a licence in Form VI-A with a fee of rupees one thousand for each place of operation. The licence granted for such operations shall be valid for a period of five years provided that the licence shall be renewed after verification or inspection at the expiry of this period on application in Form VI-B for a further period of five years with an application fee of rupees one thousand. ii. A licence to stock and use insecticides for pest control operators will be issued in Form VI-C. iii. Any person who applies for grant of licence for undertaking pest control operations should be at least a graduate in Agriculture or in Science with Chemistry as a subject with a certificate of minimum 15 days training from any of the following Institutions-Central Food Technological Research Institute, Mysore; Indian Grain Storage Institute, Hapur and National Plant Protection Training Institute, Hyderabad. iv. For undertaking fumigation, the pest control operators shall have to obtain special permission from the Plant Protection Adviser to the Government of India in addition to obtaining licence. The Plant Protection Adviser will grant such permission as per procedure or guide lines approved by the Registration Committee. v. The commercial pest control operators shall adhere to the prescribed guidelines or procedures as laid down by the Plant Protection Adviser to the Government of India in regard to the fumigation operations undertaken by them. 4. A licence to sell, stock or exhibit for sale or distribute insecticides shall be issued in Form VIII and shall be subject to the following conditions, namely: i. The licence shall be displayed, in a prominent place in the part of the premises open to the public. ii. The licence shall comply with the provisions of the Act, and the rules made there under for the time being in force. iii. Where the license wants to sell, stock or exhibit for sale or distribute any additional insecticides during the currency of the licence, he may apply to the licensing officer for necessary endorsement on the licence on payment of fees specified in sub-rule (2). iv. If the licensing officer is satisfied that a particular insecticide is harmful to human beings, animals or environment, he may after recording reasons and referring the Insecticide to the Insecticide analyst, prohibit temporarily its sale for a period of thirty days or till he obtains the report of the Analyst, whichever is earlier. 4A. i. Every person shall along with his application for grant or renewal of a licence to undertake operation or sell, stock or exhibit for sale or distribute Insecticides, file a certificate from the principal whom he represents or desires to represent the Form VI-D. ii. The certificate to be issued by the principal shall be addressed to the licensing officer of the concerned area and shall contain full particulars of the principal including their registration and manufacturing licence numbers, full name and address of the person proposed to be authorized and also the type of formulations to be used in commercial pest control operations, sold, stocked or exhibited, for sale or distribution. iii. In order to verify the genuineness or otherwise of the certificate, principal shall send to the licensing officer of the State where he intends to sell his products an adequate number of copies of the specimen signature or the specimen signatures of the persons authorized in writing to issue the principal’s certificate. iv. In case of suspension, revocation or cancellation of the certificate, the principal shall forthwith intimate the licensing officer having jurisdiction. 5. A licensing officer may, after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the applicant refuse to grant any licence. 6. A fee of rupees one hundred shall be payable for a duplicate copy of a licence issued under this rule if the original is defaced, damaged or lost. 10A. Segregation and disposal of date-expired pesticides a. Immediately after the date of expiry all such stocks after being segregated and stamped `not for sale’ or `not for use’ or `not for manufacture’, as the case may be, shall be kept by the licensee in a separate place specially demarcated for the purpose with a declaration, date-expired insecticide, to be exhibited on the conspicuous part of the place. b. All such stocks then shall be disposed of in an environment friendly manner as may be specified from time to time by the Central Government in consultation with the Central Insecticides Board and shall not be used for remanufacture. 10B. Special provision with regard to sulphur With regard to insecticide sulphur and its formulations, all licensees shall,-- a. observe all precautions to prevent its theft; b. report any such theft to the nearest police authorities promptly; and c. maintain a separate register showing names and addresses of all the persons to whom it has been sold or distributed and the quantities to be sold or distributed. 10C. Prohibition against sale or storage of insecticides in certain places No person shall manufacture, store or expose for sale or permit the sale or storage of any insecticide in the same building where any articles consumable by human beings or animals are manufactured, stored or exposed for sale. Explanation : Nothing contained in this rule will apply to the retail sales of household insecticides from the building wherefrom other articles consumable by human beings or animals are usually sold provided such household insecticides have been registered as such and are packed and labelled in accordance with these rules. 11. Duration of licences a. Any licence issued or renewed under this chapter shall, unless sooner suspended or cancelled, be in force for a period of two calendar years: PROVIDED that the licence to manufacture insecticides, if any, issued on the basis of provisional registration granted under sub-section (3-B) of section 9, shall expire on the date of expiry of the provisional registration: PROVIDED further that the licence granted by endorsement on the main licence under clause (iii) of sub-rule (8) of rule 9 or under clause (iii) of sub-rule (4) of rule 10 or under sub-rule (3) of rule 10-A shall expire or be renewable along with the main licence. b. An application for the renewal of a licence shall be made before its expiry and if such an application is made after the date of expiry but within three months from such date, a late fee of— i. rupees five hundred for the first month or part thereof, rupees one thousand for the second month or part thereof and rupees one thousand and five hundred for the third month or par thereof, in case of licence to manufacture insecticides or to carry pest control operations; ii. rupees one hundred for the first month or part thereof, rupees two hundred for the second month or part thereof and rupees three hundred for the third month or part thereof, in case of any other licence shall be paid along with the application for renewal: PROVIDED that where the main pest control operation unit or the place of sale is located in the rural areas, the late fee shall be one-fifth of the said late fee: PROVIDED further that n case of death or disability of the licensee, the Licensing Officer may after recording reasons in writing, exempt the applicant from payment of the late fee. Explanation: (1) Where an application for renewal is made before the expiry of the licence and the order regarding refusal or renewal is passed after the expiry of the licence, the applicant shall be deemed to have been carrying on his business in accordance with the expired licence till the date of communication of the final order on that application. 2. Where an application for renewal is made after the expiry of the licence with late fee, the applicant shall be deemed to have been carrying on his business in accordance, with the expired licence (from the date of expiry) till the date of communication of the final order on that application. c.