What We Do The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Advocacy Written by Administrator on 04 May 2014 . Posted in Services FINER helps in articulating the policy perspective and needs of the industries to the government, other businesses, institutions and opinion leaders of the State and country. The objective is to discuss the issues of concern, push for critical policy reforms and initiate focused business and developmental action with government officials, industry leaders, investors, technocrats and the academic world. And, to impact public policy, FINER would interact with elected public representatives to exchange ideas on subjects ranging from finance, science and technology, defense to rural development. Read More Comment (0) Hits: 592 Events Written by Administrator on 04 May 2014 . Posted in Services FINER is pro-active in organizing different events, workshops, meeting and seminars on behalf of the industries associated with it.  The Chamber also organizes special programs on subjects of topical interest to Members. The programs have participation of senior officers of various Ministries of Government and of other bodies and experts on various subjects who are available for consultation to members. These programs are carried out in the form of Human Resource Development programs, workshops, lecture-cum-discussions and seminars. Information about these programs is circulated to members through circular letters and the Bulletin. Read More Comment (2) Hits: 696 Networking Written by Administrator on 04 May 2014 . Posted in Services FINER has close linkages with strategic leaders and different institutions. A vital FINER business development dimension will be reaching out to different trade fair organizers at regional as well as national level to help promoting the industries of this region. FINER aims to act as catalyst between SME and the large industries through contract exchange for the growth of the economy in the State. Another aim is to market the growth potentiality of the state, particularly in the SME sector to benefit the economical growth. FINER encourages its members to participate in different exhibitions to build effective networks and linkages. Read More Comment (0) Hits: 580 More Articles... Trade Facilitation Capacity Building ECONOMIC AGENDA Representation 1 2 3 » End Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Twitter Feeds Tweets by @fineroffice Home About Finer What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com