Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Social Welfare / NGO-Voluntary Sector / Government of India Schemes for NGOs / Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment Share Views View Edit Suggest Contributors State: Open for Edit Info Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment This topic covers the information related to Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment Schemes for NGOs Contents Assistance to Disabled Persons for Purchase / Fitting of Aids / Appliances Objective The main objective of the Scheme is to assist the needy disabled persons in procuring durable, sophisticated and scientifically manufactured, modern, standard aids and appliances that can promote their physical, social and psychological rehabilitation, by reducing the effects of disabilities and enhance their economic potential. The aids and appliances supplied under the Scheme must be ISI. The quantum of assistance and income limit under the ADIP scheme is as follows: Total Income Amount of Assistance i. Up to Rs. 6,500/- per month i. Full cost of aid/appliance ii. Rs. 6,501/- to Rs. 10,000/- per month ii. 50% of the cost of aid/appliance The scheme is implemented through implementing agencies such as the NGOs, National Institutes under this Ministry and ALIMCO (a PSU). Eligibility of Implementing Agency The following agencies would be eligible to implement the Scheme on behalf of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, subject to fulfillment of laid down terms and conditions: Societies, registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 and their branches, if any, separately. Registered charitable trusts District Rural Development Agencies, Indian Red Cross Societies and other Autonomous Bodies headed by District Collector/Chief Executive Officer/District Development Officer of Zilla Parishad. National/Apex Institutes including ALIMCO functioning under administrative control of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment/Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. State Handicapped Development Corporations. Local Bodies- Zilla Parishad, Municipalities, District Autonomous Development Councils and Panchayats. Nehru Yuvak Kendras. Grant-in-aid under the Scheme will not be given for commercial supply of aids/appliances. The NGOs should preferably possess professional/technical expertise in the form of professionally qualified staff (from recognized courses) for the identification, prescription of the required artificial aids/appliance, and fitment and post-fitment care of the beneficiaries as well as the aid/appliance. The NGO should also preferably possess infrastructure in the form of machinery/equipment for the fabrication, fitment and maintenance of artificial aid/appliance to be given to a disabled person under ADIP Scheme. Implementing Organisations should network and establish linkages with medical colleges/district hospitals/rural hospitals/PHCs/fitment centers of ALIMCO/DRCs/ any other professionally competent agency to acquire/avail the requisite infrastructure for fitment and maintenance of aids/appliances distributed under ADIP Scheme available with these bodies. The Implementing Agencies shall also avail of the professional/technical expertise of above-mentioned agencies for fitment and post-fitment care of the beneficiaries as well as aids/appliances. National Institutes, fitment centers of ALIMCO and DDRCs functioning under the administrative control of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment shall also assist DRDAs and other autonomous organizations to develop requisite manpower and infrastructure over a period of time to provide satisfactory service to the beneficiaries under the Scheme. Such organizations while applying for the grant under the Scheme shall produce sufficient proof of linkages with the professional agencies preferably in the form of a Memorandum of Understanding. For More Information: ADIP Scheme Assistance to Voluntary Organizations for Welfare of Other Backward Classes-(OBCs) Objective The programme of giving grant-in-aid to Voluntary Organizations under the Backward Classes sector has been taken up by the Govt. of India during the Ninth Five Year Plan. The main purpose behind the scheme of grant-in-aid to voluntary organisation for taking up welfare activities among the OBCs is, to improve the educational and socio-economic conditions of these communities through voluntary efforts. The aim of the scheme is to involve the voluntary sector to improve educational and socio – economic conditions of the target group i.e. OBCs, with a view to upgrade skill to enable them to start income generating activities on their own or get gainfully employed in some sector or the other. The principle that good voluntary organisations should not only be assisted but also consciously built up, has been the guiding spirit behind the formulation of the scheme. Target Group and Eligibility Criteria of OBCs The NGOs will select only such OBCs as indicated below: The beneficiaries should belong to OBCs as per notified list in the Central List of Backward Classes. The beneficiaries whose parents / guardians income from all sources including the income of the beneficiary does not exceed Rs. 1.00 Lakhs annually will be eligible for availing the benefit under the scheme. Scope Assistance under the scheme will be given to eligible voluntary organisations fulfilling the eligibility conditions laid down as under: In order to be eligible for assistance under this scheme, an Organisation should have the following characteristics: It is a registered body under an appropriate Act so that it gets a corporate status and a legal personality and a group liability is established for its activities. It has an appropriate administrative structure and a duly constituted managing / executive committee. The aims and objects of the organisation and programmes in fulfillment of those aims and objects are precisely laid down The organisation is initiated and governed by its own members on democratic principles, without any external control It should not run for profit to any individual or body of individuals. The Ministry will identify reputed and established NGOs which could be asked to set up facilities in those areas where various facilities for OBCs have not developed and rural and other inaccessible areas either themselves or in partnership with other NGOs. For More Information: Assistance to Voluntary Organizations for Welfare of Other Backward Classes-(OBCs) Free Coaching for SC and OBC Students Objective The objective of the Scheme is to provide coaching of good quality for economically disadvantaged Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Other Backward Classes (OBCs) candidates to enable them to appear in Competitive examination and succeed in obtaining an appropriate job in Public/Private sector. The courses for which the Coaching will be imparted shall be as follows: Group A and B examinations conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), the Staff  Selection Commission (SSC) and the various Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs); Group A and B examinations conducted by the State Public Service Commissions; Officers’ Grade examinations conducted by Banks, Insurance Companies and Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) Premier Entrance Examinations for admission in (i) Engineering (eg. IIT-JEE & AIEEE),(ii) Medical (eg. AIPMT), (iii) professional courses like Management (eg. CAT) and Law (eg. CLAT) and (iv) such other disciplines, Ministry may decide from time to time. Finishing courses/Job oriented courses for employment in the private sector like IT, Bio-technology etc. in need of soft skill and other professional courses specified by the Government from time to time. Implementing Agencies The Scheme will be implemented through the reputed institutions/centres run by the Central Government/State Governments/UT Administrations/PSUs/autonomous bodies under Central/State Governments; Universities (both Central and State including the Deemed Universities in the private sector) and, Registered private institutions/NGOs. Eligibility The students must have secured percentage of marks in the qualifying examinations as prescribed for the courses/examinations for which free coaching is being imparted under the scheme The students should be selected based on merit prepared on the basis of marks obtained by them in the qualifying examinations for appearing in the relevant competitive examinations for which coaching is to be imparted Only students belonging to SCs and OBCs having total family income of Rs.3.00 lakh per annum will be eligible under the scheme Benefits under the scheme can be availed by a particular student not more than twice, irrespective of the number of chances; he/she may be entitled to in a particular competitive examination. The coaching institution will also be required to take an affidavit from the students that they have not taken benefit more than twice under the scheme. Where examination is conducted in two stages viz. Preliminary and Main, the candidates will be entitled for free coaching for both the examinations. However, coaching for the main examination will be available only to those candidates who have cleared the preliminary examination; and The selected students shall have to attend all classes. In the event of any student remaining absent for more than 15 days, without any valid reason, benefits of free coaching to him/her shall be discontinued and another students shall be taken in his/her place. For More Information: Central Sector Scheme of Free Coaching for SC and OBC Students Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation Scheme The umbrella Central Sector Scheme of this Ministry called the "Scheme to Promote Voluntary Action for Persons with Disabilities" was revised w.e.f. 01.04.2003 and was renamed as the "Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation Scheme (DDRS)". However, while revision of the scheme took place in 2003, the cost norms of 1999 had remained unchanged. The revision of the cost norms has become imperative to compensate for the price rise. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) for Industrial workers has risen by 38% from 1999 to 2007. It has been decided to revise the cost norms for honoraria, recurring items and nonrecurring items of expenditure. The scheme has also been revised to the extent that there has been widening of the scope of the model projects. Objectives The objectives of the scheme are: To create an enabling environment to ensure equal opportunities, equity, social justice and empowerment of persons with disabilities. To encourage voluntary action for ensuring effective implementation of the People with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities and Protection of Rights) Act of 1995. Approach and Strategy The approach of this Scheme is to provide financial assistance to voluntary organizations to make available the whole range of services necessary for rehabilitation of persons with disabilities including early intervention, development of daily living skills, education, skill-development oriented towards employability, training and awareness generation. With a view to inclusion of persons with disabilities in the mainstream of society and actualizing their potential, the thrust would be on education and training programmes. In order to achieve the objectives of the scheme the key strategies will be as follows: To enhance educational opportunities at all levels and in all forms and enlarge the scope of vocational and professional opportunities, income generation and gainful occupations. To support all such measures as may be necessary for promoting formal as well as nonformal employment and placement opportunities. To implement outreach and comprehensive Community Based Rehabilitation programmes in urban and rural environments. To support manpower development activities to train required personnel at different levels for all programmes/ projects/activities for persons with disabilities. To support the development, publication and dissemination of information, documentation and training materials. To set up well equipped resource centres at different levels. To promote and support the development of self-help groups, parent organizations and independent living. To encourage coordination, cooperation and networking and multi-sectoral linkages. To support people with disabilities in projects which are environment friendly and ecopromotive. To support construction and maintenance of buildings, provision of furniture and fixtures and installation and maintenance of machinery and equipment. To establish and support facilities for sport, recreation, leisure-time activities, excursions, creative and performing arts, cultural and socially inclusive activities. To support and acilitate the availability of appropriate housing, homes and hostel facilities. To support the conduct of surveys and other forms of epidemiological studies. To promote research in various development areas, innovative strategies, assistive devices and enabling technologies and support production of such devices ensuring quality control. To support effort to ensure protection of human, civil and consumer rights of persons with disabilities. To support legal literacy, including legal counseling, legal aid and analysis and evaluation of existing laws. To support such other measures, which may meet the needs of the persons with disability and fulfill the obligations as prescribed in the People with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities and Protection of Rights) Act of 1995. Grants-in-aid to NGOs To facilitate delivery of various services to persons with disabilities by voluntary organizations, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is administering DDRS scheme and providing grants-in-aid to NGOs for the following projects:- Vocational Training Centres Sheltered Workshops Special Schools for the Persons with Disabilities Project for Cerebral Palsied Children Project for Pre-School and Early Intervention and Training Home based Rehabilitation Program / Home Management Programme Project for Rehabilitation of Leprosy Cured Persons (LCPs) Project relating to Survey, Identification, Awareness and Sensitization Project for Community Based Rehabilitation Project for Human Resource Development Seminars / Workshops / Rural Camps Project for Legal Literacy, Including Legal Counselling, Legal Aid and Analysis and Evaluation of Existing Laws Environment Friendly and Eco-Promotive Projects for the Handicapped Grant for Purchase of Vehicle Construction of Building Grant for Computer Project for Low Vision Centres Half Way Home for Psycho-Social Rehabilitation of Treated and Controlled Mentally Ill Persons District Disability Rehabilitation Centres (DDRCs) The maximum level of support could be up to 90% of the eligible amount of grant for the project. For More Information: Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment Grant-in-Aid to Voluntary Organizations working for Scheduled Castes Objective The main objective behind the scheme is to involve the voluntary sector and training institutions of repute to improve educational and socioeconomic conditions of the target group i.e. Scheduled Castes with a view to upgrade skill to enable them to start income generating activities on their own or get gainfully employed in some sector or the other. The principle that good voluntary organizations should not only be assisted but also consciously built up has been guiding spirit behind the formulation of the Scheme. Scope Assistance under this Scheme will be given to eligible voluntary and other organizations fulfilling the eligibility conditions In order to be eligible for assistance under this scheme, an organization should have the following characteristics: It should be Registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (XXI of 1860) or any relevant Act of the State / Union Territory or A public trust registered under the law for the time being in force; or A charitable company licensed under Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1958; or Indian Red Cross Society or its branches; and or Any other public body or institution having a legal status of its own: The voluntary organization should have been registered for, at least two years, at the time of applying for grant under the scheme. This can, however, be waived by the Secretary, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, for reasons to be recorded in writing, in exceptional cases. Number of Scheduled Caste beneficiaries is not less than 60% in cases of voluntary organizations. Any other organization or training institution of repute, which may be approved by the Secretary, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. For More Information: Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment Integrated Programme for Older Persons Introduction There has been a steady rise in the population of older persons in India. The number of elder persons has increased from 19.8 million in 1951 to 76 million in 2001 and the projections indicate that the number of 60+ in India will increase to 100 million in 2013 and to 198 million in 2030. The life expectancy, which was around 29 years in 1947, has increased manifold and now stands close to 63 years. The traditional norms and values of the Indian society laid stress on showing respect and providing care for the aged. However, in recent times, society is witnessing a gradual but definite withering of the joint family system, as a result of which a large number of parents are being neglected by their families exposing to lack of emotional, physical and financial support. These older persons are facing a lot of problems in the absence of adequate social security. This clearly reveals that ageing has become a major social challenge and there is a need to provide for the economic and health needs of the elderly and to create a social milieu, which is conducive and sensitive to emotional needs of the elderly. Aims and Objectives The main objective of the Scheme is to improve the quality of life of the Older Persons by providing basic amenities like shelter, food, medical care and entertainment opportunities and by encouraging productive and active ageing through providing support for capacity building of Government / Non-Governmental Organizations / Panchayati Raj Institutions / local bodies and the Community at large. Approach Assistance under the scheme will be given to the Panchayati Raj Institutions / local bodies and eligible Non-Governmental Voluntary Organizations for the following purposes: Programmes catering to the basic needs of Older Persons particularly food, shelter and health care to the destitute elderly; Programmes to build and strengthen intergenerational relationships particularly between children / youth and Older Persons; Programmes for encouraging Active and Productive Ageing; Programmes for proving Institutional as well as Non Institutional Care / Services to Older Persons; Research, Advocacy and Awareness building programmes in the field of Ageing; and Any other programmes in the best interests of Older Persons. For More Information: Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment Page Rating (2 votes) 2.5 Post Your Suggestion (If you have any comments / suggestions on the above content, please post them here) Name Your Message   Type the word given below Navigation Women and Child Development Scheduled Caste Welfare Scheduled Tribes Welfare Backward Classes Welfare Unorganised Sector Welfare Differently- abled Welfare Community power Financial Inclusion Unorganised Sector Minority Welfare Senior citizens Welfare Rural Poverty Alleviation Urban Poverty Alleviation NGO-Voluntary Sector Government of India Schemes for NGOs Ministry of Culture Ministry of Tribal Affairs Ministry of Women & Child Development Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Ministry of Human Resource Development National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) Policies and Acts Disaster Management Fight against social evils Skill development Social Security