G20 India Representatives of G20 members, invited countries and international organizations attended the meeting. Participants discussed matters related to progressing the G20 development agenda under the five priority areas, namely (i) Infrastructure, (ii) Domestic Resource Mobilization, (iii) Human Resource Development, (iv) Financial Inclusion and Remittances, and (v) Food Security and Nutrition. In addition, the DWG members exchanged views on enhancing policy coherence with G20 Investment and Infrastructure Working Group and Employment Working Group on related agenda items. Investment and Infrastructure Working Group Representatives of G20 Finance Ministries and Central Banks as well as experts from international organizations attended. G20 introduced a new narrative that addresses the investment strategies by building on the existing works of the IIWG and utilizing capabilities of international organizations, multinational development banks, and the Global Infrastructure Hub (GIH). This narrative compliments reaching the 2% growth goal through concrete and ambitious country specific investment strategies in line with the Brisbane Action Plan. The ongoing IIWG work streams are the main building blocks in which case the facilitators are the main policies that help members achieve their investment targets. Safeguards, on the other hand, are the critical policies for the efficiency and success of the investment strategies. The Working Group discussed the progress in the following priority areas constituting the facilitators and safeguards of the G20 investment and infrastructure agenda for 2015: Supporting improvements in investment climate Mobilizing MDB (Multilateral Development Banks) resources and roles Facilitating financial intermediation for infrastructure and SMEs Infrastructure and SME data gap dissemination Appropriate legal and institutional settings Improving project planning and prioritization process The next meeting of the IIWG will be held in May in Singapore. G20 Framework Working Group G20 Leaders at the Pittsburgh Summit held in September 2009 had committed to work together to ensure that global growth is strong, sustainable and balanced. To that end, the Framework for Strong. Sustainable and Balanced Growth was launched. In the framework, the G20 members (i) agree on shared policy objectives, (ii) assess the implications of national policy frameworks for global growth and (iii) agree on policy actions to meet the common objectives. The G20 Framework Working Group is co-chaired by Canada and India. Since 2009, decisive actions have been undertaken by G20 to restore and strengthen global growth and to put it on the sustainable path. Nevertheless, global economic recovery is still fragile and large downside risks to the outlook remain, thus spurring the need for in-depth analysis of economic policies and well-coordinated actions of the G20's member economies. During the Australian Presidency in 2014, Framework Working Group met 4 times. Based on the deliberations and discussions, assessment of progress in respect of each G20 member has been made and an updated report on Accountability Assessment has been prepared and presented. Agreed documents of the Brisbane G20 Summit also include the 2015 G20 Accountability Assessment Process . G20 Agricultural Deputies met in Ankara on 23rd March to begin preparation of the meeting of G20 Agriculture Ministers on 8th May. The main focus was on developing the draft of the communiqué the ministers will release. May’s meeting will be only the second meeting of G20 Agriculture Ministers – the first was in 2011 under the French Presidency. It will be a major political event in the G20 calendar and an integral part of the Turkish Presidency. It is expected to play an important role in achieving policy coherence and driving progress on major global issues in agriculture and food security. The second G20 Sherpas Meeting under the Turkish Presidency was held in İzmir on 26-27 March 2015. Sherpas exchanged views on energy, employment, anti-corruption, development and trade. The Turkish Presidency briefed Sherpas on the outcomes of the first working group meetings and on progress to date regarding the expected deliverables. Sherpas also discussed global economy, financial regulation, tax, growth strategies, infrastructure investment and international financial architecture. Turkish Central Bank and Treasury presented the state of progress in finance track issues In the second Sherpa meeting, Turkey’s proposal to establish Women-20 as a full-fledged G20 engagement group was also discussed. Turkey, as the Presidency of the G20 for 2015, hosted representatives from government, business and academia from G20 countries for a one day workshop on “Inclusive Business” (IB) in Ankara on Wednesday, the 8th of April. IB is a private sector approach to providing goods, services, and livelihoods on a commercially viable basis to people at the base of the pyramid by making them part of the value chain of companies’ core business as suppliers, distributors, retailers, or customers. The workshop has built upon the G20’s previous IB–related work and the knowledge generated within the IB field to–date in order to address how the policy environment can advance opportunities for private sector companies to reach the poor. Keynote speakers included Mr. Ivar Blanken, Unilever VP of Finance, Professor Ted London of University of Michigan and Professor Zeynep Gürhan-Canlı of Koç University. In the session on the “Role of Governments in Supporting Inclusive Business”, Germany, Brazil and Mexico presented how their countries have contributed to IB. Specific business cases that are taking place in Kenya, India, Mexico, Brazil, the Philippines and also Turkey have been highlighted during the workshop. IB has continued to gain momentum across sectors and geographies. Large and smaller companies, both local and multinational corporations, are now explicitly integrating poor consumers, producers and entrepreneurs into their core business models. These businesses aim to generate social change while being profitable at the same time. On the margins of the IMF-WB Spring Meetings, G20 Ministers and Governors gathered in Washington DC for their second meeting under Turkish G20 Presidency. The meeting commenced in the evening of April 16th with the first session on “Global Economy and Framework for Strong, Sustainable and Balanced Growth”. This session allowed Ministers and Governors to review recent global economic developments since their last gathering in February in Istanbul and to explore the progress in monitoring the implementation of the commitments made in national growth strategies. Following this session, a joint G20 – Low Income Developing Countries Ministerial Working Dinner was held to facilitate a frank discussion among the participating countries. Simultaneously, G20 Governors at their working dinner focused on the “uncertainty and volatility”. In the morning of the April 17th, a joint G20/IMFC meeting was held on the IMF 2010 Quota and Governance Reform. After the conclusion of this meeting, G20 Ministers and Governors continued their discussion with investment and infrastructure, where they examined the scope for boosting investment in G20 countries via concrete and ambitious investment strategies. The meeting was concluded with concise working sessions on financial regulation and international tax agenda that allowed Ministers and Governors to review the progress in the respective commitments and provide momentum towards G20 objectives. Upon the conclusion of the meeting, the agreed Communique of the meeting was released. This is the default dialog which is useful for displaying information. The dialog window can be moved, resized and closed with the 'x' icon.    /    FAQs    /    CONTACT US    /    SITEMAP    |                    About Us     G20     Current Presidency G20 Outreach Groups G20 India Secretariat Who represents India in G20 G20 Support Structure in Government of India India's Participation DEA Research Programme on G20 Issues Seminars/Conferences/Events hosted by G20 India Secretariat In Summit In FMs and CBGs Meetings In Sherpas Track In Ministerial Meetings In Working Groups and Task Forces Overview of G20 History and Past Presidencies Members Leadership and Structure Process of Working Turkey in G20  Priorities  Summit  Ministerial Meetings  Finance Track Sherpas Track Investment and Infrastructure Macro-economic Coordination Strengthening Tax Systems Reforming Global Institutions Financial Regulation Transparency in Energy and Commodity markets Energy Efficiency and Green Growth Sound Regulation of Energy infrastructure Global Marine Environment Protection (GMEP) IMF Quota and Governance Reform Global Liquidity Indicators Development of Local Currency Bond Market Regional Financial Arrangements (RFA) and Cooperation with the IMF Government Borrowing and Public Debt Sustainability 2013 IFA Working Group Work Program Employment Trade Anti-corruption Development Energy Sustainability Business20 Civil20 Labour20 Think20 Youth20 G20 Calendar 2015 G20 Resource Center News  Useful Links FAQs Members' Area Updates The G20 International Tax Symposium was held from 6-8 May, 2015 in İstanbul The G20 Agriculture Ministers Meeting was held from 7-8 May, 2015 in İstanbul to discuss sustainable food systems The Second meeting of the G20 Employment Working Group was held on May 7-8, 2015 in Istanbul The second G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meeting was held on April 16-17 in Washington DC The second meeting of the G20 Development Working Group was held on 9-10 April in Ankara G20-B20 Workshop on Inclusive Business was held on April 8, 2015 in Ankara. The second Sherpa Meeting under the Turkish Presidency was held on 26-27 March 2015 at Izmir, Turkey The first G20 Agricultural Deputies Meeting was held in Ankara, Turkey on 23rd March 2015. The first G20 Anti-Corruption Working Group Meeting was held in Istanbul, Turkey on 4-5 March 2015. The first G20 Employment Working Group Meeting was held on 26-27 February 2015 in Antalya, Turkey. The ​f​irst meeting of the G20 Energy Sustainability Working Group under the Turkish Presidency was held on 24-25 February 2015 in Antalya. The G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meeting was held on 9-10 February,Istanbul, Turkey. G20 Agriculture Experts met on 2 February 2015 in Istanbul to discuss issues related to the G20 Agriculture Ministers meeting planned to be held in May. The first meeting of the G20 Development Working Group (DWG) under Turkey’s G20 Presidency was held in Istanbul on 2-3 February 2015. G20 Investment and Infrastructure Working Group Meeting met on January 29-30, 2015 in Ankara. First Framework Working Group Meeting under the Turkish Presidency was held in Vancouver, Canada on January 20-21, 2015 First G20 Sherpa Meeting under Turkish Presidency held in Istanbul on December 15-16, 2014 Click here for the Speech delivered by the Deputy Prime Minister of Turkey at the G20 Sherpas’ Meeting. First G20 Finance and Central Bank Deputies meeting under Turkish Presidency held in Istanbul on December 11-12, 2014 Click Here for the Speech delivered by Deputy Prime Minister of Turkey at the G20 Finance and Central Bank Deputies Meeting Australia has shared Key Outcomes of the Brisbane Summit and Policy Notes Turkish Presidency has issued G20 Priorities 2015 The 9th G20 Leaders’ Summit has been held in Brisbane, Australia on November 15-16, 2014. The Summit was preceded by Finance Ministers meeting, Sherpas meeting and Finance Deputies’ meeting during November 12-15, 2014. Indian delegation to the Summit was led by Shri Narendra Modi, Hon’ble Prime Minister of India. Shri Suresh P. Prabhu, Minister for Railways and G20 Sherpa of India also participated in the pre-Summit and Summit meetings. G20 Leaders have issued a Communique  during the Summit. In support of the Communique Leaders have issued a number of documents. These are available at the G20 Resource Center . In addition, Leaders have issued a statement on Ebola outbreak as a mark of their concerns regarding the serious humanitarian, social and economic impacts. G20 Presidency in 2015 will be held by Turkey. The 10th G20 Leaders Summit is scheduled on November 15-16, 2015 in Antalya.