Alumni Resources | Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering University Home About OSU Academics Faculty and Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Growing Oklahoma Search... Division Home Calendar Campus Map OSU Quicklinks Local Weather Menu           Division Home People Faculty (All) Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Resources CEAT Giving Page DASNR Giving Page CASNR Alumni Page OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation Hire OSU Grads BAE Newsletters OSU Job Search Employment Opportunities Student Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Degree Options Degree Sheets and Flowcharts Recruitment and Application Process Scholarships and Financial Aid Senior Design Projects Study Abroad Student Projects Student Links Graduate Student Welcome Graduate Programs Biomechanical Systems Bioprocessing and Biotechnology Environment and Natural Resrouces Food Processing BAE Graduate School Application Process Assistantships BAE Graduate Courses BAE Research Labs Graduate Student Links Accreditation Research BAE Research Labs Advanced Technology Research Center BioEnergy BioEnvironmental BioTechnology BioPhysical Properties Bioprocessing Lab Environmental Preperation FAPC Ground Water Machine Testing Machine Vision Research Shop Sensors Lab SPREC Welding and Engines class Wind Tunnel BAE Research Shop Bio Products and Energy Hydraulic Engineering OK-FIRE EPSCoR Extension Extension News Agriculture Machinery Systems AgWeather Applications Engineers BAE Fact Sheet Biobased Products and Energy Center OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Stored Products Research and Education Center (SPREC) Stormwater and Low Impact Development SUNUP Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Program News and Events News Events BAE Newsletters Publications and Outreach Impact Statements – April 2014 Archive Links Professional organizations American Society of Agriculturaland Biological Engineers North American Benthological Society American Society of Civil Engineers Energy Management Institute American Meteorological Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Automotive Engineers Collegiate organizations Alpha Epsilon ASABE student club ASABE Facebook page Cowboy Motorsports BAE Sites AGMACH$ Agricultural Machinery Systems Agweather BAE Extension fact sheets BAE Labs OSU Biobased Products and Energy Center Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit OK EPSCoR BREOI Oklahoma Mesonet OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Poultry Waste Management Stormwater and Low Impact Development Sun Grant Initiative – South Central Region Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Programs DASNR Sites DASNR OCES county office directory Robert M. KerrFood & Agricultural Products Center SUNUP CEAT OSU Sites OSU Home Hire OSU Grads News OSU Athletics Stillwater Resrouces Oklahoma Resources Oklahoma Departmentof Agriculture, Food, and Forestry Oklahoma Bioenergy Center Oklahoma Departmentof Environmental Quality Federal Resources Agriculture Research Service ARSGrazinglands Research Laboratory ARS, Conservationand Production Laboratory USDA U.S. Departmentof Energy – Bioenergy U.S. National Science Foundation U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency, Region 6 Other Resources Worldwide Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Directory The Environmental Working Group Microsoft Research Maps (formerly Microsoft Terra Server – satellite photos) Ground Water Protection Council, GWPC Center for Advanced Spatial Technologies, CAST Contact Us BAE Links BAE Home About BAE Archive People Undergraduate Resources Graduate Students Resources Research Extension News and Events Links and Resources Alumni Resources Contact Us Alumni Resources BAE newsletters Click here to  email us  your updates for the BAE newsletter. OSU Job Search Hire OSU grads.com OSU Foundation OSU Alumni Association CASNR alumni page DASNR Giving CEAT Giving BAE giving opportunities Please click here to be directed to the OSU Foundation web page designated for all BAE funds. Please contact the department (contact information below) prior to making a donation if you wish your gift to be designated as “directly spendable” rather than to increase the endowment for a particular fund. For more information about each of the individual funds tied to BAE, please read the following list. Department of Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Scholarships   AGCO Engineering Scholarships AGCO is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and distributors of agricultural equipment, with sales in more than 140 countries. Two major manufacturing facilities are located just north of Oklahoma (Hesston and Beloit, Kansas). Recognizing the importance of qualified engineers for the industry’s future, AGCO has established the AGCO Engineering Scholarship Fund at OSU, with the first award being made in 2009.   BAE General Scholarship Fund: 21-26600   BAE Student Professional Development Fund: 21-48000   Dudley Barefoot Memorial Scholarship in Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering: 21-64300 Professor Dudley Barefoot was a popular faculty member who served as advisor and friend to many students. A native of Hollis, Oklahoma, he earned two degrees from the department and later served on the faculty from 1969 to 1986. Following his passing in 2002, donations from colleagues and friends enabled a scholarship to be awarded in his memory the following spring. Since 2004, the Dudley Barefoot Memorial Scholarship has been funded through the generosity of former colleagues.   Terry D. Allen Agricultural Engineering Scholarship Terry Allen grew up in Stillwater, OK and is a 1971 graduate of the department. He began his career as an engineer with Cargill, Inc. In 1975, he left Cargill and became a part of the family business, Payne County Implement, an International Harvester dealership. Mrs. Diane Allen and her sons Thomas and Terry Jr. established a scholarship in memory of Terry in 2014. Terry believed “that an education was essential for success.”   Annette and Bill Barfield Scholarship: 21-26600 Dr. Bill Barfield served with distinction as Head of the Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department from 1992 to 2000, and continued to conduct research and teach courses in the department until his retirement at the end of 2003. Dr. Barfield was a very effective leader who moved the department forward in a number of areas. He established this scholarship in 2005 to support BAE students and to honor his wife Annette and all that she has done for the department over the years.   Wendell Bowers Scholarships: 21-26600 Professor Wendell Bowers was a key member of the departmental faculty from 1967 to 1985. He was an outstanding extension engineer and also served as Assistant Director of Agricultural Programs for the Oklahoma Cooperative Extension Service. Now retired and living in Arizona, Professor Bowers has been widely recognized for his leadership in volunteer programs assisting young people in the community. The Wendell Bowers Scholarship was first awarded in 2007.   Gerald Brusewitz Scholarship: 21-26600 Dr. Gerald Brusewitz served on the departmental faculty for nearly 33 years, retiring in 2002. He then continued to teach for several years on a part-time basis. An excellent researcher and educator, Dr. Brusewitz rose to the rank of Regents Professor. Donations made at the time of his retirement, along with continuing support from Dr. Brusewitz, have enabled the awarding of this scholarship each year since 2003.   Samuel Alton Clayton Memorial Scholarship: 21-26600 Mark Farabee is a B.S. (1989) and M.S. (1991) graduate of the department. He currently works in management for Halliburton Energy Services in Utah. Samuel Alton Clayton, the brother of Mark’s grandmother, graduated from OSU in engineering and had a successful career. Mark established a scholarship in Mr. Clayton’s memory and also in honor of Mark’s grandmother. The scholarship was first awarded in 2004.   ConocoPhillips Scholarship: 21-48000 One of the country’s largest integrated energy companies, ConocoPhillips has a strong legacy in Oklahoma and a proud history of supporting Oklahoma State University. The company has provided the Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department with special funding to support professional development and enrichment opportunities for students, and the ConocoPhillips Scholarship was awarded for the first time in 2009.   Leon Crain Endowed Scholarship Fund: 21-40300 Leon Crain graduated in the 1930’s with a major in Architectural Engineering. He worked in a farm environment and was said to have “acted like an agricultural engineer.” Mrs. Pearl Crain established a scholarship endowment in memory of her husband in 1991, and the first Leon Crain Memorial Scholarship was awarded in 1992. Dr. James and Ruby Garton Endowed Scholarship Fund: 21-50700 Dr. James Garton served on the faculty of the Agricultural Engineering Department from 1949 to 1985 and was a key contributor to its growth and success. He was a productive and innovative researcher and an excellent instructor known for injecting humor into the classroom. A native of Oklahoma, Jim received his B.S. degree from the department. He established the James and Ruby Garton Scholarship endowment in 2007 and the first award was made in 2008, less than a month after Jim’s passing.   Si & Kay Grider Endowed Supporting International Experiences/BAE: 21-50600 Si Grider was very involved in international business, and he and his wife Kay appreciate the value of enrichment experiences for students. Their daughter, Annette, and her husband Dr. Bill Barfield (emeritus BAE professor and previous department head); established this endowment in honor of the Griders. The funds are used to support international experiences for students majoring in Biosystems Engineering at OSU. In 2010 the awards are being made to BAE students participating in study abroad courses to Brazil, Honduras, and Italy.   Tom and Jan Haan Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Endowed Scholarship: 21-42900 Dr. Tom Haan served very effectively as Head of the Agricultural Engineering Department from 1978 to 1985, and continued as an outstanding researcher and teacher in the department until his retirement in 2001. Dr. Haan is a member of the prestigious National Academy of Engineering. On the occasion of his retirement, colleagues and friends contributed to a scholarship endowment that has been augmented by the Haans and others over the years. The Tom and Jan Haan Scholarship was first awarded in 2001.   Halliburton Power of Six Scholarship in BAE: 21-63900   Sam and Sheila Harp Scholarship: 21-26600 This scholarship honors Sam Harp for his leadership in starting and building the DASNR/CEAT Application Engineering Extension program to be a national leader in engineering extension with more than a billion dollars of economic impact to the state. It also honors Sam for his leadership role in the Energy Extension program and for the role he played in launching and building the New Product Development Center. The scholarship also honors Sheila Harp who contributed substantially to the progress and stature of Oklahoma State University through her service to the College of Agriculture, the President’s office, and the Board of Regents.   Greg Hart and Kristen Kollman Hart Scholarship Endowment Fund: 21-62000 Both 1979 graduates of the department, Greg and Kristen Hart were outstanding students who met at OSU and later married. Greg’s highly successful career with John Deere has led to ever increasing responsibilities including senior management positions in Europe and in the Dallas and NorthWest Sales Branches. Kristen was recognized for her outstanding work as a professional engineer in Kansas. The Greg a