Saina Nehwal: Profile, Biography and Records India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Sports » Saina Nehwal   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Saina Nehwal Saina Nehwal, an Indian badminton player, was born on 17 March 1990 in Hisar District, Haryana. She is currently ranked number 1 in the world by the Badminton World Federation, and is the first Indian woman to achieve this feat. She is also the first Indian to win the World Junior Badminton Championships and a medal in Badminton at the Olympics. She won a Bronze medal at the 2012 London Olympics, becoming the second Indian women to win an individual medal at the sports event. She is supported by the Olympic Gold Quest. Saina started her badminton training under the apt guidance of S.M. Arif, who was a Dronacharya Awardee. She is currently coached by Indonesian badminton legend Atik Jauhari along with the former all England champion and national coach Pullela Gopichand as her mentor. Being born to Harvir Singh Nehwal, who is a scientist at Directorate of Oilseeds Research and Usha Nehwal, Saina Nehwal has always received the support of her family members. Saina Nehwal trains at Pullela Gopichand Academy in Hyderabad. From her initial years as a badminton player, she has always shown a lot of potential in herself. Being a National Junior champion, she has performed well in major tournaments, both in national and international ones. She has clearly made a mark of her own. The Junior Czech Open, which took place in the year 2003, was the beginning of her career, as she went on to win the tournament. She came second in the 2004 Commonwealth Youth Games. Saina became the first player to win the Asian Satellite Badminton tournament twice, once in 2005 and then again in 2006. In 2006, Saina Nehwal became the first Indian woman to win a super-series tournament, the Philippines Open. In 2008, she became the first Indian to win the World Junior Badminton Championships. She also won the 2008 Chinese Taipei Open Grand Prix Gold, the Indian National Badminton Championships and the Commonwealth Youth Games in the same year. She was declared as the most promising player in 2008. In 2009, she became the first Indian to win the most prominent badminton series of the world - the Indonesia Open. She also reached the quarterfinals of world championship. Saina Nehwal was honoured with the Arjuna award and her coach Gopichand was also honoured with the Dronacharya award in August 2009. In January 2010, Saina Nehwal was awarded with the Padma Shri award. She also won the India Open Grand Prix Gold, the Singapore Open Super Series, the Indonesia Open Super Series and the Hong Kong Super Series in the same year. On 29 August 2010, Saina was awarded the highest national sporting award - the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna. As one of the eight brand ambassadors of the 2010 Commonwealth Games, Saina won a gold medal creating an epic moment in the history of Indian badminton. In 2011, she won the Switzerland Swiss Open Grand Prix Gold and came second in the Malaysia Open Grand Prix Gold, the Indonesia Open Super Series Premier and the BWF Super Series Masters Finals. In 2012, Saina won the Swiss Open Grand Prix Gold, the Thailand Open Grand Prix Gold and reclaimed the Indonesia Open Super Series Premier, making it her third Indonesian open title-win. In the 2012 London Olympics, Saina Nehwal won a bronze medal and became the first Indian to win an Olympic medal in badminton. For her huge achievement the state governments of Haryana, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh offered her huge cash prizes and the Sports Minister promised Saina a job equivalent to the rank of an IAS officer. Her success at the Olympics has surely opened new doors for sports to grow in India. Saina Nehwal clinched her fourth title of the year by lifting the Denmark Open Super Series Premier trophy with a dominating win defeating Germany's Juliane Schenk by 21-17, 21-8 in 35 minutes. This was her first tournament after the London Games. Winning this tournament made her the only Indian after Prakash Padukone to win a Danish Open Super series title. Awards and Accolades : 2009: Arjuna Award 2009-2010: Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna 2010: Padma Shri For winning the Bronze medal in 2012 London Olympics, she received:- 1 crore rupees cash award from the Haryana Government 50 lakh rupees cash award from the Rajasthan Government 50 lakh rupees cash award from the Andhra Pradesh Government 10 lakh rupees cash award from the Badminton Association of India An honorary doctorate degree by Mangalayatan University Last Updated on : March 31, 2015   Related Links   Famous Badminton Players of India Anup Sridhar Prakash Padukone Saina Nehwal Aparna Popat Pulella Gopichand Dipankar Bhattacharya Chetan Anand Parupalli Kashyap P. V. Sindhu             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule