Pure Sandalwood Powder Manufacturer by Earth Friendly Trade-The All Possibilities Company List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Earth Friendly Trade-The All Possibilities Company Member Since : 2010 | Country : United States Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Miswak, Miswak Powder, Peelu Powder, Fulvic, Fulvic Acid, Fulvic Minerals Company Information Earth Friendly Trade-The All Possibilities Company is dedicated to offering products and technologies which will help humans, animals and the environment to better health. Our health products are the purest and most effective. For instance, you will never find higher quality Fulvic Acid Mineral products, used both for humans and animals, nor will you find any safer or higher quality Seaweed Extract Powder for human consumption, and our Mineral Water is as rich as any in the world. Our liquified rock minerals are miracle workers and can not only be used for the improving the health and protection from disease for humans and animals, but are also highly effective in quickly purifying bodies of water that contain viruses, bacteria, heavy metals, etc. Our Wastewater Treatment technology based on ceramics is unmatched in economy and efficiency, and can be quickly employed in any location in the world.. Our alternative energy technology offerings are on the cutting edge of economy and efficiency. This includes our powerful energy generation systems using Wastewater or Saltwater, purifying it to even Medical Grade, and then extracting Hydrogen from a small amount of the water that is used to run a jet turbine engine and generate whatever amount of megawatts are needed. These energy generating systems are very portable, as well. We also offer fuel oils at highly competitive prices and offer an oil technology which will economically transform heavy crude into light crude, as well as separate oil from water in oil production wastewater pool helping to restore the oil to usefulness. Our fully sustainable buses, which run on water from which hydrogen is extracted to run an electric motor, are unmatched in economy and efficiency. Imagine not having to put fuel in the tank of a bus, nor recharge its batteries every few kilometers. Please contact us for any needs that you have in the areas that we specialize in and any other related areas. You will always find us highly responsive, providing full knowledge and explanation for everything, and always courteous and kind to our clients. We greatly value our business relationships and honor our clients first as fellow human beings before anything else. We greatly look forward to your inquiry, and always look forward to working together with our clients for our mutual health and wealth. Company Facts Business Type : Manufacturer / Exporters / Wholesale Suppliers Year of Estd. : 1996 Company Turnover : Below USD 0.1 Million Approx. Ownership : Individual (Sole proprietorship) Website : http://www.earthfriendlytrade.com Featured Products/Services Pure Sandalwood Powder Natural Non-Synthetic Camphor Gum Mineral 40 Petroleum Fuels Miswak Powder Organic Neem Oil Brown Seaweed Extract Mineral Water Fulvic Acid Mineral Search Contact Details Mr. Jonathan Schwamm Telephone : +1-6414696000,+1-6414696000 Mobile Phone : +1-8082649433,+1-6414696000 » More detail Hot Products » Brown Seaweed Extract » Fulvic Acid Mineral » Mineral 40 » Mineral Water » Miswak Powder » Natural Non-Synthetic Camphor Gum » Organic Neem Oil » Petroleum Fuels » Pure Sandalwood Powder Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com