Home - Florida Department of Agriculture & Consumer Services Skip to Main Content @FreshFromFL Adam H. Putnam Commissioner Concealed Weapons Consumer Resources Business Services Agriculture Industry Forests & Wildfire Food and Nutrition Education Energy Water Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services Search Navigation Navigation Main Menu Home Pay Online Food and Meat Inspection About Meet Commissioner Putnam Our History Divisions & Offices Administration Agricultural Environmental Services Animal Industry Aquaculture Consumer Services Florida Forest Service Food Safety Food, Nutrition and Wellness Fruit and Vegetables Licensing Marketing and Development Plant Industry Agricultural Law Enforcement Agricultural Water Policy Communications Energy General Counsel Inspector General Forms & Publications Forms Publications News & Events Press Releases Media Advisories B-Roll Video Commissioner's Email Update Commissioner's Guest Opinions Consumer E-Newsletter Event Calendar Media Resources Hot Topics Contact Contact the Commissioner Consumer Complaints Customer Service Feedback Public Records Requests Report Fraud, Waste and Abuse Hours, Holidays and Closures Employment Commissioner Putnam Commissioner Adam H. Putnam Commissioner of Agriculture Adam Putnam oversees the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services and serves as a member of Florida's Cabinet.  Meet Commissioner Putnam Commissioner's Weekly Newsletter Search How Can We Help You Today? Enter keywords to quickly find information about programs, divisions, events and more.  Search Hotline: 1-800-HELP-FLA  |   LIVE CHAT (1-800-435-7352) - [Mon. - Fri. 8am - 5pm EST] In the News In the News Strengthened Charity-Related Laws Protect Consumers in Wake of Hurricanes and other Disasters May 28, 2015 While the last hurricane to hit Florida was 10 years ago,there is no telling what the 2015 hurricane season will bring. As Floridians develop their disaster preparedness plans , Commissioner Adam H. Putnam encourages Floridians to visit FreshFromFlorida.com , where they can research charitable organizations. Recipes / Recetas "Fresh From Florida" Recipes Florida watermelon is in season, so now is the perfect time to cool off with a Florida Watermelon Fizz . For more cooking ideas, browse our recipes . Recetas en Español Concealed Weapons Resources Eligibility Requirements Apply Online Check the Status of Your Application Update Your Address See All Concealed Weapon License Resources Apply for a Concealed Weapon License Interested in applying for or renewing a concealed weapon license? You can apply by mail or in person at one of our eight regional offices in Florida. First, find out more about the program, its requirements and your eligibility. Learn More About Concealed Weapon Licenses Apply for a Private Investigation License Interested in applying for or renewing a private investigation license? You can apply by mail or in person at one of our eight regional offices in Florida. First, find out more about the program, its requirements and your eligibility. Learn More About Private Investigation Licenses Apply for a Private Security License Interested in applying for or renewing a private security license? You can apply by mail or in person at one of our eight regional offices in Florida. First, find out more about the program, its requirements and your eligibility. Learn More About Private Security Licenses Apply for a Recovery and Repossession License Interested in applying for or renewing a recovery and repossession license? You can apply by mail or in person at one of our eight regional offices in Florida. First, find out more about the program, its requirements and your eligibility. Learn More About Recovery and Repossession Licenses Consumer Resources Resources Search A-Z Resource Guide Florida's Do Not Call List File a Complaint Little Black Book of Scams Buy Fresh From Florida Find Recreational Opportunities Points of Interest See All Consumer Resources Avoid Unwanted Sales Calls Tired of unwanted sales calls? Protect your residential and mobile phone numbers from solicitors by subscribing to the Florida Do Not Call List.  Floridians can sign up for free! Your number will remain on the Florida Do Not Call List for five (5) years.  Subscribe Now Find Florida Products, Activities and Events Use our interactive map to help plan your trip to Florida, find local agricultural resources or learn about the different festivals and markets around our great state. Begin your exploration here! Protect Yourself Against Fraud and Deception Help fight fraud with the department’s Little Black Book of Scams . It explains many common types of fraud, including those involving charitable organizations, taxes, telemarketing and identity theft. It also offers tips to avoid becoming a victim. Business Services Resources Search by Business Grant Opportunities Pay for Registration Online View a Business's Status or Complaint History See All Business Services Resources Save Time, Register Online Businesses and individuals required to register with the department can now save time by registering, renewing and managing their licenses online. The process is easy, secure and faster than registering by mail. It eliminates the need to mail in most forms. After completing the online process, a confirmation email will be sent for your records. All fees submitted to the department are non-refundable. The following forms of payment are accepted: VISA and MasterCard (credit/debit). Visit Our Online Payment Service Center Agriculture Industry Resources Search by Industry Find Florida Products, Activities and Events Browse the Florida Market Bulletin Find Business Development Resources See All Agriculture Industry Resources Join "Fresh From Florida" Through the “Fresh From Florida” brand, the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services works to raise awareness and promote the sale of the high quality products and commodities produced and grown in Florida. Florida farmers and ranchers who join the Fresh From Florida Program benefit from advertising, retail partnerships and use of the widely recognized "Fresh From Florida" logo.   Learn More About the Program and How to Join Fresh From Florida Magazine Has a New Look Browse the first edition of the new and improved   Fresh From Florida magazine . Read about the growing demand for Florida commodities in international markets, water conservation methods used by farmers, and other exciting news from the state’s $108 billion agriculture industry. Protect Florida’s Rural and Working Agricultural Lands Commissioner Putnam is inviting Florida agricultural land owners to apply for the Rural and Family Lands Protection Program. The deadline is May 30. The program protects valuable agricultural lands and natural resources by creating conservation easements. Learn More About the Rural and Family Lands Protection Program Forests & Wildfire Resources Prevent Wildfire Find Recreation Opportunities Search Florida State Forests Find Resources for Landowners Find Resources for Communities Read About Silviculture BMPs See All Forest & Wildfire Resources Join the Florida Forest Service The Florida Forest Service consists of more than 1250 dedicated employees with the mission to protect and manage the forest resources of Florida, ensuring they are available for future generations. In addition to managing over one million acres of state forests for multiple public uses including timber, recreation, and wildlife habitat, they also provide services to landowners throughout the state with technical information and grant programs. Learn more about the Florida Forest Service Prevent Timber Losses: Apply for the Southern Pine Beetle Assistance Program The Florida Forest Service is now accepting applications for the Southern Pine Beetle Assistance and Prevention Program . The program offers financial assistance for practices aimed at preventing outbreaks of the southern pine beetle, one of the most destructive insect pests of pines. The program is open to non-industrial private forest landowners in 44 northern Florida counties. The application period runs through June 30. Explore Florida Forests Florida's state forests yield many benefits to the environment: forests preserve wildlife habitats and protect valuable natural resources. Florida state forests also provide a variety of recreational opportunities for the public to enjoy Florida's natural beauty.  There are 37 state forests that total over 1 million acres. Plan Your Visit to One of Florida's State Forests Food and Nutrition Resources Buy Fresh From Florida Search Recipes Learn Tips for Food Safety Learn About the School Nutrition Program See All Food & Nutritional Resources Florida's Roadmap to Living Healthy Discover Florida's Roadmap to Living Healthy , an interactive map that can help government agencies, nonprofits and other organizations identify gaps in service and improve access to nutritious food. Enter the 2015 Student Chef Cook-Off Students going into fourth through 12th grade are invited to enter the department’s 2015 Student Chef Cook-Off. The deadline is Sept. 13. Participants must create an original snack recipe and submit with a photo. Recipes will be judged on nutrition, presentation/appeal and originality. Learn More About the Cook-Off "Living Healthy in Florida" Promotes Healthy Lifestyles "Living Healthy in Florida" is a multi-agency campaign providing free tools to promote healthy lifestyles in our state. The tools include Florida-produce facts, recipes, videos, activities for kids, and more. Learn More About Living Healthy in Florida Florida Watermelon Fizz Florida watermelon is in season, so now is the perfect time to cool off with this frosty drink . For more cooking ideas, browse our recipes .  Education Resources Find Tools for Educators Find Programs for Kids Find Research Services Find Community Resources See All Educational Resources Test Your Consumer Knowledge LifeSmarts is a flexible classroom or group activity that teaches teens to be smart and responsible consumers and citizens. The content and competition questions focus on five key areas of consumer knowledge that teens need to know to function effectively in today's marketplace. Read More About The LifeSmarts Consumer Challenge Energy Resources Learn About the NG Fuel Fleet Vehicle Rebate Learn About Renewable Energy Tax Incentives See All Energy Resources   Conserve Energy and Save Money at Home By answering just a few simple questions about your home, including the size, shape and year it was built, the “My Florida Home Energy” tool can help you conserve energy and save money! The tool takes you on an interactive tour through your home and offers tips for how you can improve its energy efficiency. In addition, it provides you with a customized plan for your home and estimates how much money you can save by increasing energy efficiency.  Visit MyFloridaHomeEnergy.com to Start Your Tour Water Resources Enroll in BMPs Evaluate Your Irrigation System Agricultural Permit Exemption Determinations See All Water Resources Improve Your Water Use Across the state of Florida, almost 10 million acres of farm, ranch, nursery and forest lands have applied agricultural Best Management Practices (BMPs) to protect and conserve water resources. BMPs utilize innovative technologies to reduce the runoff and leaching of nutrients into Florida's surface and ground waters and to enhance water conservation.  By implementing BMPs, Florida agriculture saves more than 10 billion gallons of water each year.  Learn More About Agricultural BMPs Employment FAQ Public Notices Contracts Privacy Policy Site Map Website Help Facebook Twitter Linkedin ©2013 Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services Florida Capitol - Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0800 Questions? 1-800-HELP-FLA (1-800-435-7352) - [Mon. - Fri. 8am - 5pm EST] | LIVE CHAT Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat