Dehradun City Map Home » Maps » Uttarakhand » Dehradun Map   Cities in Uttarakhand Dehradun Haridwar Nainital Mussoorie Almora                    more... उत्तराखंड का नक्शा Uttarakhand Uttarakhand Map Districts of Uttarakhand Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Uttarakhand Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Places to visit in Uttarakhand Travel to Uttarakhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Jim Corbett National Park Mussoorie Tourist Map Tourist Map of Rishikesh places to Visit in Nainital Lakes in Nainital Nainital Zoo Naini Lake Naina Devi Temple Mineral Map Agriculture Map Uttarakhand Forests Industrial Map Assembly Poll Uttarakhand Lok Sabha Elections History Geography Information Newspapers Hotels in Uttaranchal Nainital Hotels Srinagar Hotels Mussoorie Hotels Haridwar Hotels Dehradun Hotels Rishikesh Hotels               more... Society Important Numbers Education Universities in Uttarakhand Government Uttarakhand Images Haridwar Location Map Uttaranchal Hills Map District Map in Hindi Pin Code       Dehradun Map City Map of Dehradun Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map Showing Major roads, Education Institutes, Hotels, Hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Uttarakhand   Auli City Map Badrinath City Map Dehradun City Map Haridwar City Map         Mussoorie City Map Nainital City Map Almora City Map   Travel to Uttarakhand   Mussoorie Tourist Map Haridwar Tourist Map Dehradun Tourist Map Rishikesh Tourist Map         Map of Jim Corbett National Park Uttaranchal and Dehradun Visiting Uttaranchal is like a dream come true. Uttarakhand is a newly formed state that has enchanted people since centuries with its natural beauty, pilgrimage importance, adventurous activities and wildlife. The state has everything to offer to all types of people. Carrying map While visiting the place it is important to carry along a map that can tell you accurately about the places of importance, the major cities, the airport, the wildlife sanctuaries, lakes, rivers, roads etc. The state has a well developed network of transport and is very convenient for the tourist to reach their destination without any hassle. The maps can give details about the roads that can help reach your destination. What to see in Uttaranchal The state has been blessed with immense natural beauty on all sides. It has been carved out of the hilly parts. Although not an industrial place, the state is famous as a tourist destination and a great pilgrimage place for the Hindus. You can visit various places of importance like the rivers, temples, etc. The Gangotri and the Yamunotri have their own importance among the Hindus. They comprise of Char Dham along with Badrinath and Kedarnath temples. Uttaranchal has popular hill stations like the Mussourie and Nainital. The places have a rich history since the time of the British raj and were their summer destination. The Corbett national park is a world famous wildlife sanctuary and India's first tiger sanctuary. You can experience the rough and the wild inhabitants and sneak a peek into their life. The forest here is thick with green foliage that can hide anything. Apart from these you can also explore your adventurous side by trying out trekking, hiking, river rafting and water sport. Rishikesh is a good place for water sport. Visit Auli for ski destination. Destination Dehradun Dehradun is the capital of Uttaranchal and is the most preferred destination of the Indians. It is a beautiful hill station that is popular for its adventure, spiritualism and the beautiful nature that the place is blessed with. You can visit Shhastradhara, which is a great scenic spot, Tapkeshwar temple of Lord Shiva, Santaula devi temple, Guchhupani, Lachhiwala, Chandrabani and many more. The state of Uttaranchal is vast and therefore it is highly advised to carry a map of the state so that you know about the roads you move on. Maps can also help you to locate nearby hotels, hospitals, restaurants etc. Maps can guide you to have a most pleasurable vacation. Dehradun Facts City Name Dehradun State Uttarakhand District Dehradun District Headquarters Dehradun Tehsil/Taluk Dehradun Ward MC-60 Lat Long 30.314018, 78.030524 Area 300 km2 (100 sq mi) Population as per 2011 578,420 Official Languages English, Hindi, Punjabi,Urdu, Garhwali, Nepali Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) STD Code 0135 Transport Air, Road, Rail Vehicle registration UK-07 Food and Cuisine Milk and Milk Products, Vegetarian - Non vegetarian Food, lentils, Singodi, Kandalee ka Saag, Kumaoni Raita, Gahat ki Dal, Aloo ke Gutke, Sani Hui Muli, Nimbu, Kaafli, Gulgula, and Kulath Phanu, Jhangora ki Kheer, Bal Mithai and Famous Arsa etc. Religion Hindu, Buddhist, Sikh, Gorkhali Festival Jhanda Fair, Tapkeshwar Fair, Laxmansidh Fair, Bissu Fair, Mahasu Devta Fair, Shaheed Veer Kesri Chandra Fair etc Monuments Sir George Everest's House, Dehradun Clock Tower, The Kalinga War Memorial Places of interest Rajaji National Park, Robber's Cave, Santala Devi Temple, Tapkeshwar Temple, Laxman Siddh, Malsi Deer Park, Sahastradhara, Tapowan, Forest Research Institute, etc. Hospital Max Super Speciality Hospital, Synergy Institute of Medical Sciences, Ashirwad Hospital, The Eye Clinic, Shri Mahant Indresh Hospital, Navjyoti Eye Hospital, Doon Hospital, etc. Hotels The Solitaire, Hotel Aketa, Hotel Doon Castle, Hotel Great Value, Hotel President, Hotel Pacific, The Central Hotel, Hotel Madhuban, Hotel Shiva Residency, Hotel Softel Plaza etc. Markets Paltan Bazaar, English Book Depot, Mall Road, Connaught Place, Gandhi Road Market, Tibetan Market, Rajpur Road, Ashley Hall etc. Industries Sachin Lime Industries, Seerat Agro Industries, Food Corporation of India, Swad India Food Product, Gulri Food Supplier, Atal Foods Private Limited, Fast Food Joshis, Deep Enterprises, Windlas Biotech Limited, Intas Pharmceuticals Limited, Goodcare Pharma Private Limited, Nehal Pharma Pvt. Ltd. Etc. University Uttarakhand Technical University, Doon University, Graphic Era University, Icfai University, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Uttaranchal University, Dehradun Institute of Technology, Uttaranchal Institute of Technology etc. Notable people Shriya Saran - Indian Film Actress and Model, Urmila Bhatt - Actress, Ramachandra Guha - Indian Historian and writer, Raghav Juyal - Indian Dancer and Choreographer, Monisha Kaltenborn - Sauber Formula One Team, Manish Maithani - Indian Football Player, Namrata Rai - Indian Classical Dancer, Kulraj Kaur Randhawa - Actress, Vandana Shiva - Philosopher, environmentalist, Himani Bhatt Shivpuri - Actress, Archana Puran Singh - Indian television Presenter Personality and Film Actress etc. Last Updated on : July 7, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule