Assam Map Home » Maps » Assam Map   Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Silchar Jorhat Haflong Nagoan Guwahati Tezpur Dispur Sibsagar                          more... असम का नक्शा Districts of Assam Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map National Parks of Assam Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Economy & Development Society Travel to Assam Places to Visit in Assam Wildlife Sanctuaries Kamakhya Temple National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Education in Assam Universities in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info       Assam Map Map of Assam Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing major roads, railways, rivers, national highways, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Assam Location Map Assam District Map Assam Tehsil Map Assam Cities Map         Assam Road Network Map Assam Rail Network Map Assam Physical Map Assam Travel Map Assam , a northeastern state of India has Dispur as its capital. It is divided into 27 districts and consists of northern Brahmaputra valley, the middle Karbi and Cachar hills and the southern Barak Valley. Assam is a multi-etnic society. Forty Five different languages are spoken by various communities of Assam.The flora, fauna, wildlife and rivers of Assam have great natural beauty to offer to tourists. There are also many lodging facilities and hotels. It is also famous for its finest and some of the most expensive teas in the world. It is also an important producer of natural gas and crude oil. Real estate and Tourism also lend their share in its economy. Asom State Information Capital Dispur Date of formation 1912 (Assam Province - British India), 15 August 1947 Governor Janaki Ballav Patnaik Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi Tourist attractions Kamakhya temple, Umananda (Peacock Island), Navagraha (temple of nine planets), Basistha Ashram, Dolgobinda Festivals Bihu, Sivaratri Mela, Baishagu Major dance and music forms Bihu Arts and crafts Jappi (traditional hat), toys made of clay, cork, wood and bamboo. Satras or monasteries to preserve art and culture. Languages Assamese, Bodo, Karbi, Bengali Size 78,438 sq. kin Population (Census 2011) 31,205,576 (Census 2011) Rivers Brahmaputra, Manas, Subansiri, Sonai Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Kaziranga NP, Manas NP, Orang Sanctuary State animal One-horned rhinoceros State bird White winged wood duck State flower Foxtail orchid State tree Hollong Major crops Rice, jute, tea Factoids It's name has been changed to Mom. Tezpur was called the 'city of blood' after a mythical battle between Shiv and Vishnu filled it with blood. No. of District 27 Blogs about Assam Madan Kamdev Temple: The Mini Khajuraho in Assam : While most of us are aware of the Khajuraho temple, not many of us know that we have a similar temple in Assam. In fact, the erotic sculptures in the Madan Kamdev temple have made it known as the Mini Khajuraho of the Northeast India. This temple, just 40 km away from Guwahati, is situated atop a hill by the name of Dewangiri in Kamrup district. The Madan Kamdev temple is a place of utmost… read more... The Mystery of Jatinga : In one of my articles on the North East, I came across a comment by a reader about Jatinga, which is situated in my home state of Assam. Although, I was aware of the existence of this place, it was through the comment that I came to know that here migratory birds come to commit suicide. It’s very strange at times when you get to hear some extraordinary facts related to a place. This made… read more... Faded sheen of BJP in By-poll, big setback but too early to conclude : Except from the initial counting trends, it was clear that the stronghold of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) enjoyed by the party in Lok Sabha elections in May, was fading. After counting it became obvious that results of by-polls are far different from the results of Lok Sabha elections. Party's performances in prime states viz UP, Rajasthan and Gujarat was far below the expectations, the same states where BJP had clean victory in Lok Sabha… read more... Jahnabi, the first MS Word processor in Assamese : Indian technology has been taking important steps in the last few years towards becoming more empowered and a major part of this movement has been contributed to by the indigenous developers. Recently several techies from Assam have volunteered to create a MS Word processor named Jahnabi, which will be operated in the local language. Incidentally, a regional variation of the MS Word in Bengali has been developed as well. In all probability, this medium too… read more... Kaziranga National Park in Assam : A World Heritage Site : Location: Asom (Assam) A bastion of diversity, the Kaziranga National Park is one of the most significant achievements of India in terms of wildlife conservation. Stretching across an area of 429.93 sq km, the park is the homeland of two-third of the One Horned Rhinoceros in the world along with other species of wildlife. It also boasts of  having the highest density of tigers around the world and so was declared as a Tiger Reserve… read more... Last Updated on : October 16, 2014 Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Travel to Assam Travel to Dispur Travel to Manas Travel to Haflong Places to visit in Assam Places to visit in Guwahati Travel to Guwahati             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India