Security Trade Show,Security Products Exhibition,Security & Protection Trade Fair JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Security & Protection Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Security & ProtectionTrade Shows Date : 17 Nov - 20 Nov 2015 Milipol Paris -  France Milipol Paris 2015 is the international exhibition of internal state security, which is providing an ideal place for the related industry and related professionals. Venue : Paris Expo Porte de Versailles ,Paris France Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Nov - 20 Nov 2015 Milipol Paris 2015 -  France Milipol Paris, the well-established international exhibition for Internal State security, provides the ideal place for suppliers of security products and services to meet relevant decision-makers and advisors from around the.... Venue : Paris Nord Villepinte Exhibition Centre ,Villepinte France Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Sep - 30 Sep 2016 Security Essen -  Germany Security Essen is one of the most foremost event for information security professionals. Held at Messe Essen, Norbertstrasse D, Nordrhein-Westfalen, Germany for 4 days, the event is aimed towards providing an unrivaled forum for addressing.... Venue : Messe Essen GmbH ,Essen Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Jan - 19 Jan 2016 Intersec Thailand -  United Arab Emirates The Thai Intersec country is a professional trade and information platform for products and services related to security. The fair presents new specialized technologies, equipment and services in the areas of personal protection, fire and.... Venue : Dubai International Convention and Exhibition Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Sep - 20 Sep 2015 Security Moldova -  Moldova, Republic of The Exhibition would contribute to effective and mutual collaboration of scientific, industrial, business and governing circles. Taking into consideration the status and public importance of the exhibition, as well as its positive role in the.... Venue : International Exhibition Centre ,Ghioceilor Moldova, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Mar - 17 Apr 2016 ISNR 2016 -  United Arab Emirates International Security National Resilience 2015 is provides the best solutions for public and private sectors and civilian entities alike to detect, prevent, protect, respond to and recover from any danger, be it small in proportions or.... Venue : Abu Dhabi International Exhibition Centre (Adiec) United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Dec - 10 Dec 2015 FIRE RESISTANCE IN PLASTICS 2015 -  Germany Fire Resistance in Plastics is one of the comprehensive event in Germany. The exhibition will be attaract many visitors for different part of the world. A conference also will be held in conjunction with the event. Venue : Maritim Hotel ,Cologne Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Oct - 11 Oct 2015 India International Security Expo -  India India's largest show case of goods and services related to Homeland Security, Fire Safety, Traffic Management, Industrial Safety and Public Safety, Hospitalty and Reality Security. Venue : Pragati Maidan ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Jul - 10 Jul 2015 Office Security Expo -  Japan Office Security Expo (OSEC) is the exhibition specialized in physical security in an office. OSEC exhibits all kinds of products and services against physical threats such as unlawful entries, thefts, disasters and so on. Venue : Tokyo International Exhibition Center (Tokyo Big Sight) ,Tokyo Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 29 Sep - 01 Oct 2015 APS, the Security Show -  France APS (Alarms Protection Security)2015 is at the heart of the security industry, a trade show totally devoted to providing opportunites to make high-quality contacts. for the numerous professionals, specifiers and purchasers who take part, aps has.... Venue : Paris Porte de Versailles ,Pavilion 5.1 France Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Aug - 29 Aug 2015 OIL & GAS AFRICA -  Tanzania, United Republic of The first Oil & Gas Africa - Int'l Trade Exhibition, will be held from the 27th to the 29th of August 2015. This event will be the hub for key players in the Oil and Gas industry, attracting leading oil, gas and petroleum companies from.... Venue : Mlimani Conference Centre, ,DAR-ES- SALAAM Tanzania, United Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 May - 05 May 2015 Maritime And Transportation Security Expo-Baltimore -  United States Maritime And Transportation Security Expo-Baltimore 2015 is one of the most successful international exhibition and conference on protecting ports, harbors, bridges, cargo, containers, oil rigs, railroads, trucks, power plants, and cargo &.... Venue : Baltimore Convention Center ,Maryland United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Apr - 29 Apr 2015 4TH OIL & GAS 2015 -  Kenya The 4th Oil & Gas Africa - Int\'l Trade Exhibition, 27th to 29th April 2015, is a hub for key players in the oil and gas community, attracting leading oil, gas and petroleum companies from around the world. This regional trade event serves the.... Venue : Kenyatta International Conference Centre ,NAIROBI Kenya Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Apr - 25 Apr 2015 Fdic - Fire Departments Instructors Conference -  United States FDIC has become synonymous with world-class firefighter training and universally recognized as the premiere fire industry conference and exhibition. We pride ourselves in providing comprehensive training for today’s serious firefighter and.... Venue : Indiana Convention Center & Lucas oil Stadium ,Indianapolis United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Apr - 17 Apr 2015 LAAD -  Brazil LAAD Defence & Security – Defence and Security International Exhibition – reaches its 9th edition as the leading exhibition for the sector in Latin America. The biennial event brings together Brazilian and international companies.... Venue : Rio Centro Conference and Exhibition Centre ,LAAD Brazil Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 11 Apr - 11 Apr 2015 11th Buildint Kenya 2015 -  Kenya Buildint Kenya 2015 is international building & construction trade exhibition, and this event will be showing there vast range of products would be displayed building & construction - interiors & decoration, safety.... Venue : Sarit Centre ,Nairobi Kenya Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Feb - 27 Feb 2015 Marho Shop-Kiev -  Ukraine Marho Shop-Kiev 2015 is one of the leading manufacturers and suppliers of equipment for shops, fast-food sellers, and reflects all the changes taking place in the professional equipment market. Venue : Kiev Expo Plaza Exhibition Center ,Kyiv Ukraine Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Feb - 11 Feb 2015 NDSS Symposium -  United States The NDSS Symposium-2015 is a three day conference brings together innovative and forward thinking members of the Internet community including leading-edge security researchers and implementers, globally-recognized security-technology experts, and.... Venue : San Diego Convention Centre ,CA United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Jan - 29 Jan 2015 Marine West Military Expo -  United States Marine West, founded in 1992, is hosted and held at Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton, at the Pacific Views Event Center. Marine commands throughout Southern California send delegations to visit this annual exposition. Marine West showcases the.... Venue : Marine Corps Base(MCB) ,California United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Jan - 28 Jan 2015 e-Crime Congress -  Germany E-Crime Provides Unique Insights Into Progressive Operational And Strategic Methodologies Being Deployed By Global Businesses, Government, And Law Enforcement To Tackle Cyber-Crime.   Venue : Westin Grand Frankfurt ,Frankfurt Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Jan - 20 Jan 2015 Intersec Dubai -  United Arab Emirates The leading Trade Fair for Safety & Security Worldwide! Renowned as the world’s largest and most comprehensive trade and networking exhibition for the Security and Safety industries, Intersec 2015 offers you a.... Venue : Dubai international exhibition centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Jan - 17 Jan 2015 IBEX INDIA 2015 -  India IBEX INDIA, has been established as a unique and comprehensive platform for all stakeholders in the Indian Banking Industry to come together to understand, facilitate and encourage the growth of the industry through the use and implementation of.... Venue : MMRDA Grounds ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 19 Dec - 21 Dec 2014 New Year Shooping Festival-2014 -  India The NEW YEAR SHOPPING FESTIVAL-2014 on 19,20 & 21 December-2014 presents a showcase for all the trendy and designer stuff ranging from home interiors, furniture & furnishing, Kitchen Accessories, Modular Kitchens, Bathroom Fittings, Decorative.... Venue : Chennai Trade Centre ,Chennai ,Tamil Nadu India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Oct - 24 Oct 2014 INTERPOLITEX 2014 -  Russian Federation Homeland Security Safety and security Venue : All-Russian Exhivition Centre (VDNH) ,Moscow Russian Federation Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration « Prev 1 Next » Trade Shows by Month May 2015 Jun 2015 Jul 2015 Aug 2015 Sep 2015 Oct 2015 Nov 2015 Dec 2015 Jan 2016