Forestry - Small Farms / Alternative Enterprises - Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Extension Main Page About Us Extension Offices EDIS Publications Conference Info Forestry Land use in Florida is undergoing significant change as many agricultural enterprises shift to the establishment of forest tree plantations on old agricultural fields and pastures. This is occurring on top of an already extensively forested land base. More... Christmas Trees Production, pest management, caring for cut trees, and marketing.  Florida producers have and very limited success in this area.  Less than 1% of the Christmas trees sold are grown in Florida Economics & Management Budgets, taxes, and marketing. Environmental Management Best management practices (BMPs) and prescribed fires. Firewood Production Managing the forest landscape, and gathering, preparing, and storing firewood. Forest Farming / Agroforestry Establishment, estimating profitability, productive conservation, riparian buffers, and other topics. Forest Grazing / Silvopasture Forest management, conversion of pasture and pine forests to silvopasture systems, forage management, and other topics. Hardwood, Saw Palmetto & Wetland Species Common marketable wood and plant species. Pest Control Insect management, weeds, diseases, and tree health care. Pine Production & Straw Pine species, regeneration, soils and fertilizers, and pine straw production and management. UF/IFAS Sites Agroforestry School of Natural Resources and Environment Florida Forestry Stewardship Program--School of Forest Resources & Conservation School of Forestry Resources & Conservation UF/IFAS Publications Conservation Easements: Options for Preserving Current Land Uses Environmentally Sound Forest Harvesting Florida's Renewable Forest Resources Selecting a Consulting Forester What is in a Natural Resource Management Plan? State & Federal Agencies Bureau of Land Management--U.S. Department of the Interior Florida Forest Service--FDACS Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS)--USDA Southern Research Station--USDA Forest Service Timber and Log Price Reports--USDA Forest Service U.S. National Arboretum Agroforestry--(USDA) Other University Sites Subtropical Forestry-- University of Georgia Timber Mart-South-- University of Georgia Warnell School of Forest Resources-- University of Georgia Master Tree Farmer-- Clemson University Related Links Income Tax Deduction for Timber Casualty Loss- National Timber Tax Website   Download Adobe Acrobat Reader to view pdf files. Organizations & Associations Association of Consulting Foresters Fire Science Online Florida Forestry Association Florida Society of American Foresters Forest Landowners Association National Association of State Foresters National Tree Trust National Urban & Community Forestry Advisory Council Society of American Foresters Tall Timbers Research Station Planning & Management Food Safety Livestock & Forages Crops IPM Forest Products, Environmental & Recreational Uses Forestry Tourism Wildlife & Hunting Freshwater Aquaculture & Farm Ponds Organic Production Other Enterprises State & Federal Agencies Agricultural Weather Copyright 2006 | University of Florida | Site Feedback | EOI