Lodge your complaint with National Commission for Women | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > Lodge your complaint with National Commission for Women Lodge your complaint with National Commission for Women National Commission for Women (NCW) > Ministry of Women and Child Development Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Lodge your complaint online with the National Commission for Women. You need to fill up this complaint form with details of complainant or victim such as name, address, contact numbers, date of birth and respondent details etc. You need to write your complaint in the given space to submit it online. Related Links Lodge complaint in NRI cell of National Commission for Women National Commission for Women (NCW) > Ministry of Women and Child Development Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   File complaints in NRI cell of National Commission for Women, under Ministry of Women and Child Development. Any NRI (Non Resident Indian) woman can file complaint against her in laws or husband or for any other issue. For lodging complaint, one needs to provide complainant details, details of victim, details of respondent and details of complaint. Contact details of State Commission for Women National Commission for Women (NCW) > Ministry of Women and Child Development Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find the contact details of the state and Union Territories Commission for Women by the National Commission for Women (NCW). Information about the chairperson, members along with the name, office and residence address, email, website and other contact details is available. Information about Legal Cell of National Commission for Women National Commission for Women (NCW) > Ministry of Women and Child Development Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Information about the Legal Cell of National Commission for Women (NCW) is given. Get details of provisions of the NCW Act. Links to new bills or laws proposed, important court interventions and court judgements related to the Commission are also available. Information on Non Resident Indian cell of National Commission for Women National Commission for Women (NCW) > Ministry of Women and Child Development Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about the Non Resident Indian (NRI) cell of National Commission for Women (NCW). Details about NRI cell, its functions, procedure of working, achievements and contact details are given. Access to information about contact details of Indian missions and embassies, important case laws, booking NRI marriages, do’s and don’ts related to NRI marriages, National Domestic Violence Helpline in USA and scheme for legal and financial assistance to Indian women deserted by their overseas Indian spouses is given. List of Indian Women’s Organisations, Indian Community Associations, NGOs empanelled with the Indian Missions, posts abroad to provide legal or financial assistance to Indian Women deserted by their overseas spouses is also available. Link to online registration of complaint is given. Information on Public Relation cell of National Commission for Women National Commission for Women (NCW) > Ministry of Women and Child Development Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Get information about Public Relation (PR) cell of National Commission for Women (NCW). Access to press releases and new clippings of NCW is given. Link to newsletter Rashtra Mahila is also available. Official website of National Commission for Women National Commission for Women (NCW) > Ministry of Women and Child Development Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome  