National Bamboo Mission | Objectives Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture S No Topics 1 Background 2 Mission Objectives 3 Mission Strategy 4 Mission Structure I National Level II State Level III District Level IV Bamboo Technical Support Group (BTSG)   Procedure For Approval And Implementation   Mission Interventions   Research and development   Plantation development   Establishment of Nurseries   Certifying Agency for Planting Materials   Tissue Culture Laboratories   Raising New Plantations   Planting Scheme   Forest Areas   Non Forests   Improvement of Existing Stock   Technology Transfer & HRD in Plantation Development   Micro Irrigation (Non Forest Area)   Technology Dissemination through front line Demonstrations   Workshop/Seminars/Training at the National ,State and District level   Pests and Disease Management   Innovative Interventions   Post Harvest Storage and Treatment Facilities   Handicrafts, Bamboo Marketing and Exports   Bamboo Wholesale and Retail Markets near Village Level Micro processing Units   Bamboo Bazaars   Retail Outlets (Showrooms)   Participation in domestic trade Fairs   Participation in International Trade Fairs   Market Surveys   Monitoring and Evaluation   Overall Targets under National  Bamboo Mission   1. BACKGROUND Bamboo is a versatile group of plants which is capable of providing ecological, economic and livelihood security to the people. Till recently, it has remained confined to the forests (12.8% of forest cover); two third of the growing stock located in the North-Eastern States. Importance of the crop as a source of raw material for industrial and domestic use with its growing demand all over the country necessitated its cultivation in farm lands as well. Keeping in view the vast untapped potential of the bamboo plant, it has been decided to implement a scheme on National Bamboo Mission for addressing the issues relating to the development of bamboo in the country.  The National Bamboo Mission will be a Centrally Sponsored Scheme, in which the contribution of the Central Government will be 100%. The Scheme will be implemented by the Division of Horticulture under the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation in the Ministry of Agriculture, New Delhi.                                                                                                                                                             [ top ] 2. MISSION OBJECTIVES   The main objectives of the Mission are:   To promote the growth of the bamboo sector through as an area based regionally differentiated strategy; To increase the coverage of area under bamboo in potential areas, with improved varieties to enhance yields; To promote marketing of bamboo and bamboo based handicrafts; To establish convergence and synergy among stake-holders for the development of bamboo; To promote, develop and disseminate technologies through a seamless blend of traditional wisdom and modern scientific knowledge.  To generate employment opportunities for skilled and unskilled persons, especially unemployed youths.                                                                                                                             [ top ] 3. STRATEGY   To achieve the above objectives, the Mission would adopt the following strategies:   Adopt a coordinated approach covering production and marketing to assure appropriate returns to growers/producers. Promote Research and Development (R&D) of varieties and technologies for enhanced production. Enhance acreage (in forest and non-forest areas) and productivity of bamboo through varietal change and improved agriculture practice. Promote partnership, convergence and synergy among R&D and marketing agencies in public as well as private sectors, at all levels. Promote where appropriate, cooperatives and self-help groups to ensure support and adequate returns to farmers. Facilitate capacity-building and Human Resource Development. Set up National, State and sub-State level structures, to ensure adequate returns for the produce of the farmers and eliminate middlemen, to the extent possible.                                                                                                                                                              [ top ] 4. MISSION STRUCTURE (I) National Level   (a) National Apex Committee (NAC)   4.1.   The Mission will have a National Apex Committee (NAC) under the Chairmanship of Union Minister of Agriculture.   The composition of the Apex Committee will be as follows: Minister of Agriculture Chairman Ministers - Environment and Forest, Textiles, Science and Technology, Commerce, Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Urban Development and Poverty Alleviation, Development of North Eastern Region, Small Scale Industries Member(s) Member (Environment & Forests) Planning Commission Member Ministers of Forest/Agriculture/Horticulture of select States Member(s) Experts in the field of production, processing, marketing and value added products. Member(s) Mission Director Member Secretary    4.2.   The Apex Committee will be the policy making body giving overall direction and guidance to the Mission, and will monitor and review its progress and performance. 4.3.   The Committee will meet once every year to provide overall guidance, monitoring and review.   (b) National Steering Committee (NSC)   4.4.   There will be a National Steering Committee (NSC) headed by the Secretary, Deptt. of Agriculture & Cooperation,  to oversee the activities of the Mission and approve the  Action Plans.  The NSCB will comprise the following:   Secretary (A&C) Chairman Secretaries – Environment and Forest, Textiles, Science and Technology, Commerce, Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Urban Development and Poverty Alleviation, Development of North Eastern Region and Small Scale Industries Member (s) Representative from NABARD Member Experts in the field of production, processing, marketing and value added products Member (s) Mission Director Member Secretary   4.5.   The Committee will meet at least quarterly every year for reviewing the progress and approving projects. The Committee will ensure that there is no duplication between the activities of the Mission and the National Mission on Bamboo Applications (NMBA) set up in the Ministry of Science & Technology.  The NSC will be empowered to approve State specific proposals and those from National level agencies. It will also be empowered to make revisions, alterations, adjustments, modifications and to include new Schemes as and when required during the implementation period. The National Steering Committee will have the discretion and authority to re-allocate funds earmarked for various components within the Mission outlay as per the need and requirement based on feed back or evaluation.   4.6.       The Horticulture Division in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation will provide the necessary support to the National Steering Committee and will administer the NBM. The National Steering Committee will ensure smooth functional linkages among different agencies.   4.7.             National Bamboo Cell :A National Bamboo Cell (NBC) will be established, which will be headed by the Mission Director, NBM, in the DAC, Govt. of India. To begin with, a Technical Support Group (TSG) comprising of three consultants having expertise in varied aspects of bamboo development will be engaged for assisting the NBC. The NBC would also ensure networking with various financing institutions to facilitate availability of credit.             4.8       Working Groups :Working Groups will be set up to oversee each of the sectors viz. Research, Plantation Development, Handicrafts and Marketing. The Mission Director will be the Chairman of all the Working Groups. The Deputy Director General, Indian Council of Forestry Research & Education (ICFRE) will co-chair the Working Group meetings on Research and Development and Plantation Development. Whereas Development Commissioner (Handicraft) will Co-chair the Working Group meetings on Handicrafts and Marketing. The composition of each Working Group is at Annexure 1 the working group will initially screen the proposal and also will work as 'Think Tank' to provide proactive support to the bamboo sector as a whole.                                                                                                                                        [ top ] (II) State Level: (c)     State Bamboo Steering Committee:    4.9               At the State Level, State Bamboo Steering Committee (SBSC) will be formed under the Chairmanship of the Secretary Agriculture/ Horticulture / Environment and Forests as may be decided by the State Government concerned.  State Mission Director, to be appointed by the State Government will be the Member Secretary.  This Committee will have representation from the concerned line Departments, Research Institutes, progressive growers and entrepreneur’s etc. for overseeing the implementation of the programmes. Central Government will nominate its representative who will be a Member in the SBSC.  This Committee shall be responsible for approving the Action Plan and ensuring effective implementation and monitoring of the scheme.  The SBSC will comprise of the following: Secretary (Agriculture/ Horticulture/ Forestry) Chairman Secretaries – Environment & Forests, Agriculture/Horticulture, Finance, Textiles, Science and Technology, Commerce, Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Urban Development and Poverty Alleviation, Development of North Eastern Region, Small Scale Industries Member (s) Nominee of DAC, Ministry of Agriculture Member State Mission Director Member Secretary   (d)    Bamboo Development Agency (BDA)   5.0     In Government forest lands, bamboo plantation programme will be undertaken through the Forest Development Agencies (FDA) and the Joint Forest Management Committees (JFMCs). However, in case of Non-Forest Areas, the Bamboo Development Agencies (BDAs) will be the nodal agency to whom funds will be released by the Ministry of Agriculture for onward disbursement to the beneficiaries. BDA will be set up in each State with the Director, Agriculture/Horticulture/Environment & Forests or any other officer considered appropriate by the State Government as Mission Director.  BDA will have representatives from concerned departments such as Forests, Rural Development, Urban Development, Handicrafts, Panchayati Raj. The Panchayati Raj Institutions existing in the State would be fully involved in the implementation structure.  The funds will be released by the Ministry of agriculture to the beneficiaries (such as NGOs or Self-Help Groups) through BDA.  BDA will be responsible for implementation and overall coordination of NBM within the State.     5.1.      The State Level Agency will have the following functions: Prepare perspective and annual State Level Action Plan in consonance with Mission ’s goals and objectives in close coordination with Bamboo Technical Support Group (BTSG) and oversee its implementation; Receive funds from the national mission authority, the State Government and other sources for carrying out the mission’s activities, maintain proper accounts thereof and submit utilization certificates to the concerned agencies. Furnish periodic progress reports to the Ministry of Agriculture. Release funds to the implementing organizations and oversee, monitor and review the implementation of the programmes. Organize base-line survey and feasibility studies in different parts (District, sub-District, or a group of Districts) to determine the status of bamboo production, its potential and demand, and tailor assistance accordingly. Similar studies would also be undertaken for other components of the programmes; Assist and oversee the implementation of the Mission’s programmes in the State through Farme