Microsoft Word - ACC ENGLISH ADVERTISEMNT.docx No.44011/37/2013-E-II Government of India Ministry of Agriculture Department of Agriculture & Cooperation ------- Subject: :- Engagement of 4 (Four) Consultants (Accountant/Junior Accountant) for performing Accounts related work on contract basis in the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation- reg The undersigned is directed to invite applications from eligible and suitable officials for engagement of 2 Consultants (Accountant) and 2 Consultants (Junior Accountants) for performing Accounts related work on contract basis in the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture. Persons retired form Government Services as Accountant/Junior Accountant or Assistant/UDCs who have undergone Cash and Accounts Training or have handled Accounts Work during service are eligible to apply. 2. Selected candidates 2 Consultants (Accountants) and 2 Consultants (Junior Accountants) shall be paid a Consolidated remuneration of Rs. 20,000/- and Rs. 15,000/- per month respectively. They will be initially appointed for a period of 6 months which may or may not be extended at the discretion of the Department. Services of the consultants are liable to be terminated at short notice in the event of shortfall in performance or other reasons. 3. Candidates are also required to furnish copy of their PPO attested by the Department/Ministry/ Office from which they retired. 4. Interested applicants may send their application (as per bio-data, enclosed) to the Under Secretary (Pers.II), Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Room No.37, Ground Floor, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi-110001 within a period of 60 days from the date of publication of this Advertisement in the Employment News. 5. Candidates are also advised to go through the official website of Department of Agriculture & Cooperation – www.agricoop.nic.in (Link – Recruitment – Vacancies) for more details and downloading of bio-data format. (K. SANJAYAN) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tele:- 2338 3053 (To be submitted in duplicate) BIO-DATA 1. Name:- 2. Date of Birth:- 3. Date of retirement:- 4. Department /Office from which retired:- (Enclose copy of retirement order) 5. Address for communication 6. Phone No./Cell No.:- 7. Last pay drawn:- 8. Particulars of experience:- Sr.No. Post held From TO Department/Office Brief Account of Work Performed. 9. Detail of Knowledge in handling Computer:- Signature Place: Date:     Affix your latest  passport size  photograph here. 