Travel to Assam - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Assam Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Asaam Places to Visit in Assam National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Kamakhya Temple Temples in Assam Kamakhya Temple Nabagraha Temple Rudreswar Temple Monuments and Museums Rang Ghar The planetarium Gargaon Palace Namdang Stone Bridge Charaideo Majuli Island Tourist Destinations in Assam Travel to Manas Travel to Haflong Travel to Dispur Travel to Guwahati Assam Hotels Hotels in Guwahati Hotels in Dibrugarh Hotels in Tezpur Hotels in Jorhat Hotels in Kaziranga About Assam Geography History Home » Maps » Assam Map » Travel to Assam Travel to Assam Travel Map of Assam Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Assam Tourism Assam is often called "The land of Red River (the Brahmaputra is called Lohit in Assamese) and blue hills (the Eastern Himalayan range)". The mighty river of Brahmaputra, originating from the Mansarovar Lake in Tibret, meanders through the wooded hills and the rolling plains of the Assam. Travel to Assam for age-old myths, enticing songs and dances, world famous tea, diverse colourful tribes and last but not the least important - rare species of one horned Rhinoceros. Added to that warmhearted people and exotic aroma of a cup of Assam Tea would make your travel to Assam a cherished memory. Brush up your knowledge on Assam with a few fast facts, before you travel to Assam. Assam Demographics Location North Eastern part of India Bhutan at the North Arunachal Pradesh at the East Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram at the south Meghalaya at the Southwest Bengal and Bangladesh to the West Latitude 22o19' to 28o16' North Longitude 89o42' to 96o30' East Area 78,438 sq km Climate Summer - Warm Winter - Cool Max Temperature 38.0 C Min Temperature 6.0 C Average Annual Rainfall 160 cms. Capital Dispur Population 26.6 million Languages Assamese, Bengali Hindi, English Religion Hinduism, Islam, Others Best Time to Visit October to March Clothing Summer - Cotton Winter -Woollen How to Reach Assam Assam is the gateway of northeast region in India, so necessity for improved transportation in the state is essential for future expansion in the Northeast region. Assam is well linked with the rest of the country by air, rail and road network. By Air The main airport in Assam is the Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport in Guwahati, the largest city of Assam. The airport links to major cities in India with daily flights. Other airports in Assam are at Jorhat, Dibrugarh, Tezpur and Silchar. Regular back and forth flights operate from these airports too. By Rail The North Eastern Railway zone of the Indian Railways connects the largest city of Assam, Guwahati and the rest of the country together. Guwahati is the railway headquarters of the northeast region. Travelers can reach conveniently to Assam via rail as it is well connected to all major cities of India. Some cities within the state are linked up through train services from Guwahati. By Road Being the gateway of Northeast India, Assam has a well connected network of national highways and other roads to different cities and towns in and around the state. The National Highway Number 37, 31, 40, 38 and 52 connects Assam with other states in India. The State Transport and other private operators run daily bus services for commuters. Taxis and jeeps can also be hired for commuting within the state. Distance to Guwahati From Shillong- 100 km From Siliguri- 429 km From Patna- 889 km From Kolkata- 1020 km From Ranchi- 1046 km Shopping in Assam Since the state is traditionally rich in handicrafts, shopping in Assam is a delightful experience. Wide range of handicrafts is available in Assam. Assam also excels in tradition handloom products. Assam is well known producer of exclusive silks. While shopping in Assam, watch out for : Hand made toys made from clay, cork (pith), wood and bamboo and an admixture of cloth and mud Silk fabric of various types like - Muga (the golden silk exclusive only to this state), Paat, Eri Handloom products like Laichampi (quilt-like material) Cane and bamboo work Decorative items in bell metal and brass Furniture made of bamboo and cane Tribal arts, including masks bhaonas Products of bell metal Assam Tea There are a large number of Government Emporia and private shops in the state. The main shopping centres are Fancy Bazaar, Paltan Bazaar and Pan Bazaar in Guwahati. Like any destination in India, local vendors flock in street side evening bazaars offering good shopping in Assam. A little bargain would ensure variety and price. Places to See in Assam Kamakhya Temple Haflong Sibsagar Majuli Island Manas National Park Kaziranga National Park Hajo Agnigarh Last Updated on : 5/09/2013 Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Travel to Assam Travel to Dispur Travel to Manas Travel to Haflong Places to visit in Assam Places to visit in Guwahati Travel to Guwahati Flights to Assam Flights to Dibrugarh Flights to Guwahati Flights to Jorhat Flights to Silchar About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule