Contract Farming of Medicinal Plants - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Contract Farming of Medicinal Plants Home Contract Farming of Medicinal Plants Increasing demand for medicinal plants has generated huge interest in the farming community in growing medicinal crops under contract farming arrangement. But are there many reliable companies providing these buy back arrangements? Let’s find out Members of the Agriculture Information.com in quire about growing medicinal plants. Member Pravin is interested in medicinal plant cultivation and wants to learn if he can get into buy back agreement or contract farming for hos products. Similarly member “Layabulliyya” says, “We are interested in cultivation of medicinal plants like aleo vera/ kalmegh (nelavemu) and sarpagandha, in Addateegala, East Godavari district Andra Pradesh.” Dr. P. Santhan, Senior Botanist, Natural Remedies Private Limited, informs that his company is encouraging the cultivation of medicinal plants by giving buy back agreement and planting materials and cultivation guidance. He gives a list of plants and the price at which they want to acquire: • Kalmeg/Andrographis paniculata (tam– siriyanangai, kan- nilabevu, nelavemu): 1.0 tons/acre in 4-10 months days; Rs.30-35/kg (cost of seed Rs 400/kg) June • Tulsi/Ocimum: 2-3 tons /acre/year/ Rs 30- 35/kg dried leaves; cost of seed Rs 200/kg; cultivation can be started now itself • Solanum nigrum/(Tel: Kasi soppu, Tam-Manathakkali, makoy): 2-3 tons/acre in one year; Rs 25 /kg; cost of seed Rs 100/kg; cultivation initiated now itself • Bhumi amla /Phyllanthus amarus (Tam-Kilanelli, Kan – Kiranelli, Nelausiri): 1.5 – 2 tons Rs. 40 – 45/kg 120 days; cost of seed Rs 700/kg; cultivation can be initiated now. • Mucuna seeds/ (Tam- Poonaikaali vidai, Kounc Beej, Nasagunni Beej-Kan): 500-600kg /acre in 6 months; price around 40.00(cost of seed Rs 50/kg); July • Coleus forskohlii (Patanchur): 500-600 kg per acre in 6 months; price Rs 140-150/Kg (cost of cuttings Rs 2500/acre); July onwards • Asparagus racemosus (Shatavari):18 months; yield – 2 tons dried roots; profit 1.2 lakhs in 18 months; expenses 50,000/acre. • Salacia oblonga/ S. chinensis ( Ekanayakam, saptharangi, swarnamoola, Nerani (Tel), Kadalanchi (Tam)), woody climber: perennial crop, maintained and harvested after 2- 3 years; 4-5 ton /acre; Rs.80- 100/kg; can be planted along water canals, hedges; exclusive plantation also be maintained. • Withania somnifera (Ashwaganda): Root 250 – 300 kg /per acre; Rs100/kg; June – July; rainfed cultivation; 6 month crop; black soil is suitable; 5- 6 kg seeds per acre. Switching to Medicinal Plants Member Jason says, “Medicinal plants can be good source of income, as they are quite important for pharmaceutical companies. We can make good profit out of our agriculture field by growing medicinal plants in them.” Member Pravinvala wants to know how to switch to medicinal plants and asks, “I have 15 acre land in Gujarat, close to Ahmedabad, and just on the river banks with water availability. Soil type is mild red sandy soil and generally we grow cotton, castor and even tomatoes in this soil. Please suggest what kinds of medicinal plants can be grown and cost per acre and yield and supports you would provide.” Member gvs_vsp too wants to switch to medicinal plants farming. He has 5 acre of land in Anakapalli region, 30 km from Visakhapatnam, AP. Member Vinay says, “I am having 20 acres of black soil land (non-irrigated). I am interested in medicinal plant cultivation. Can anybody refer to visit the running forms in an Arroud Kurnool (AP)? At present we are earning 30K per acre. It would help if you can refer any other products / growths suitable to black soil lands and gives more benefits.” Optimum Conditions Required Talking about the optimum conditions     required for medicinal plants Dr. Santhan says, “Soil and climate is crop specific. For example coleus grows well on slopes, need sandy red soil preferable at medium altitude (300-900m above the sea level) with sufficient water. Bacopa monnieri (Nir brahmi) needs paddy field like condition. Ashwaganda wants black soil and rain fed land. For each crop we need to fix harvest season to optimize the active constituents. Certain medicinal plants grow best in certain countries. For example, glycyrrhiza grows well in Mediterranean region, while kutki (pycrorrhiza) grows only in specific belts in Himalayas.” Coleus contract farming proposal Offering coleus contract farming proposal, member Dick Matthews says, “Coleus is a crop that gives quality returns, as its every part is sold, from shoot to root. An additional bonus is its shoot part, which is used as planting material. Coleus Forskohlii Herb is used in urinary ailments. It also reduces the blood pressure. Forskholii is extracted from coleus dry roots and it is an important constituent found in medicines related to heart.” He adds, “It generates profits of Rs.65000 to Rs.100000 per acre/year (approximately). We offer planting material at Rs.10/kg and buyback at Rs.105/kg. Other than providing genuine planting material of coleus, we purchase and sell coleus dry roots from many states of India and supply to the needy.” Mr. P.R. Kumaresh, proprietor, Sanjivini Herbals points out, “Right now coleus is a crop that gives quality returns, as its every part is sold, from shoot to root but after six months? When the production is 100 times more, we may see the worst part of coleus in the coming year. (As in the case of turmeric) It is the principle. One high year means next lean year.” Shatavari Seeds Member Mr. T. S. Rao wants buy the seeds of Shatavari (Asparagus Racemosus) and would like to get more details on availability and price.  “Yes, we can provide shatavari seeds in bulk quantity and our minimum order quantity is 10 kgs,” says Mr. Soni. Dr. Ubaid Khan, Pioneer Aromatics & Agri Solutions, Lucknow, adds, “We can provide best quality fresh season shatavari seeds  (both nepali yellow shatavari and desi shatavari). The quality of shatavari seeds from our region is the best in India. We also purchase final outcome of this crop to meet our export needs. So you can get full buyback support for selling dried roots.” Challenges of Contract Farming Member Swamy expresses his concern about contract farming. He maintains that medicinal plants contract farming has its caveats. According to him companies draw up agreement at their own terms and conditions, neglecting farmers’ interests. “Companies want large quantity of area in single stretch where most of the farms are small holdings. Farmers feedback on contract farming is discouraging as they had bad experience for them when they had contract farming assignment,” he says. Mr. Kunal Soni, CEO, Greenfield Agro Forestry Products, puts up his argument against Swamy’s. Greenfield is engaged in medicinal products trading. The company offers white kinvach seeds; white sandal seeds; shataward seeds; katanga bamboo seeds; eucalyptus; bael seeds; and cassia sammia. The company procures the seeds from farmers/growers. Mr. Soni says, “I would say it’s a matter of negotiation. A company has its own reason for putting up the conditions. When a company goes for contract farming for first time there are lot of losses they face due to lack of experience and attention to details. With every new contract a company implies condition which carries correction of their past mistake.” He states his own experience with contract farming, “I can explain with our own example. We provided 2.5 crore plants of jatropha with help of contract farming with our local farmers and after that my personal experience says that it’s not always like “poor are always innocent”. The contract was that we will provide farmers seeds and they will return us plants at cost at which they will make profits. In order to get maximum plants farmers sowed seeds very densely as seeds were free for them, which resulted in thin plants which customers denied to buy, ultimately we were forced to negotiate with customer to sell them at a lower price. Consequently we incurred loss. “Secondly, we worked at four different sites as getting land on a single stretch was not possible, it seriously damaged our management and killed our time beyond our expectation. It’s very difficult to keep an eye on them. At one of our sites we are still under the impression that the farmer had sold our seeds at comparatively lower price than market but as seed was free to him he got profits out of it. “Hence I would like to say that a farmer must read the contract carefully before signing because there are a few companies who follow brutal practices but still not all companies are that bad. They are just refining their mistakes with every new contract they go for, and I am sure a farmer does the same when he attains some experience.” Dr. Khan adds that Pioneer Aromatics & Agri Solutions also offers contract farming with full buyback support. They also provide consultancy services for the entire crop duration. He says, “We buyback final output without any quality evaluation only from those clients who purchase planting material from us and follow our instructions during crop production phase.” Dr. Santhan too adds that Natural Remedies Private Limited cultivates more than 10 species of medicinal herbs through contract farming. They confirm the list of plants to be cultivated and area that needs to be covered. They provide the planting material and cultivation method. They draw up one year and 3 years buy back arrangements depending on the reliability of the farmer. “If rate increases at the time of harvest it will be considered and the purchase price will be fixed, similarly if the price decreased in the market the price will be fixed discussing with the grower. It is a team work. Cooperation of the grower is very much required here,” he maintains. Future Growth Prospects Dr. Khan says, “The future prospects of medicinal plant industry in India are fairly good. The growth of this industry is directly associated with interest of farmers for cultivating medicinal plants. In the quest for earning better returns from the land, farmers have been resorting to cultivation of medicinal and aromatic plants instead of conventional agriculture. As compared to the traditional crops, the cultivation of medicinal crops has many advantages. These include: 1. Medicinal crops provide better returns than traditional crops 2. Have very high domestic and export demand 3. Fetch better prices in the market with lower price fluctuations 4. Could be stored for a long time, and sold at a time when better prices prevail in the market 5. These are largely drought tolerant, and not easily grazed by animals 6. Have low or no incidence of pest attacks and diseases 7. Require minimum resources, therefore the cost of cultivation is lower compared to the traditional crops 8. Could be raised as intercrops, along with traditional crops, and also on degraded lands Profitability of Medicinal Plants Commenting on profitability of medicinal plants, Dr. Khan says, “The economics of cultivation of medicinal plants varies with the species. There is a long list of medicinal plants and among all the economics of crops are different. Moreover, profitability of a medicinal plant depends upon the suitability of that crop on particular farm. Crop duration is also an important factor. Generally long duration crops are found more profitable as compared with short duration medicinal plants. A few short duration crops are also highly profitable but are labour intensive and may involve a bit more investments.” Dr. Santhan further shares the success story of Natural Remedies Private Limited. He says, “We had a colloborative project for Bhumiamla. We cultivated in 100 acres and developed product out of it. I spent nearly 10 years in this research. Our team sucessfully cultivated ashwaganda in 1500 acres in North Karnataka and adjacent area in AP. Mucuna pruriens around 100 ton seeds obtained from cultivation. Coleus cultivation also is carried out sucessfully in large areas with higher forskohlin content.” He adds, “In Bhumiamla we struggled to get raw material with suitable phyllanthin and hypophyllanthin content. We fixed good growing season by tiral and error. We found that nitrogenous fertilizer is providing only vegetative mass but not increasing the active chemicals. Herb grown during hot rainy months contains higher chemical ingredients. Chemical content optimization in medicinal plant is the important task in herbal drug industry.” He further maintains, “Now we are able to get sufficient quantity raw material for the production purpose from cultivation/collection.  The demand, price and quality parameters are changing continuously. Meeting the requirement is the milestone which needs to be achieved. It is a never ending task.” Our Correspondent Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Contract Farming of Medicinal Plants Related – articles, consultants, downloads Mr. Ashok Kammath – Contract Cultivation of Medicinal Plants Ashrams Bio Health – Contract farming Experience in contract farming Natural Remedies – Medicinal plants You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut