Disclaimer - ExportersIndia JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome My Account My Profile My Inbox My Products Sign Out Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Buy Post your Buy Requirement Search Products / Suppliers Sell Search Buy Offers Create Your Free Website Display your Products Free Manage Trade Alert Advertise Help Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Exporters India Products / Services Products / Services Companies Buy Offers Search Post Buy Requirement Home Products / Services Companies Buy Leads Trade Shows HOT REGIONS India China UK USA S. Korea Australia Singapore UAE Japan Malaysia View More Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Disclaimer Home Disclaimer Exportersindia.com welcomes you to India's pioneered web info galaxy. Genuine information dissemination is one of the prime objectives of Exportersindia.com that makes our business a matter of reliability and trustworthy affairs. In order to build up authentic business relation with you we would like to present before you all detail about our terms and conditions. Terms & Conditions Exportersindia.com collects information from its registered users, visitor under certain conditions and agreements. Personal as well as business information can be shared/kept secret as per the agreements. All the information, services, software, documents and materials available on or maintained by Exportersindia.com are subjected to the terms and conditions defined by user(s) agreements. Exportersindia.com holds the right to change/modify the terms and conditions at any point of time with prior information in this regard to the concerned stakeholders. Use of all the information, services and materials displayed in our site should be as per the suggested guidelines. Breaching of defined terms and condition may result into instant termination of the user membership or authorization. Exportersindia.com does not take part in the agreement arrived at by the user(s) with any third party. It's the sole duty of the user(s) to verify the genuineness of any third party business transaction. Plagiarizing or misusing of contents and information uploaded on Exportersindia.com shall be treated as offensive practice and necessary action may be initiated against the user(s) as per the terms and conditions. Exportersindia.com does not propose/recommend you to go ahead with any specific business event of any person or organization without verifying the depth in detail. We upload only general type of information. Under no circumstances Exportersindia.com is liable for any damage caused in your business transaction. It is the user's sole responsibility to check out the truthfulness and authenticity regarding further business. Exportersindia.com reserves all exclusive right/authorization to protect the information/material/services/contents under concerned copyright law and other intellectual property right laws. Copying of any information/material/services/contents would be a subject of legal action under copyright violation laws. Note : The enquiries will be removed automatically from the folder after 1 year from the receiving date. Guidelines for use of Site Information and Materials The information available on Exportersindia.com shall be deal with under the following guidelines. The information and data displayed on Exportersindia.com should only and strictly be used as reference to commercial dealings and business opportunities. Exportersindia.com reserves the permission regarding commercial use of information and spastics shown on the site. Removal of any significant information or notices or copyright endorsed documents is strictly forbidden. Plagiarism of contents and data libeling is an offensive act. Exportersindia.com may take any legal action in such cases. Exportersindia.com carries the right to cancel the print, view, download, distribute, and circulate the information uploaded on Exportersindia.com at any time even without any mentioned schedule. The above mentioned points are applicable to view, download, print, distribute of information available on Exportersindia.com. This is not permissible to imitate design and layout of our site at any context. Exportersindia.com reserves the right to protect its content and information under the law of Indian Territory and hence it is not permissible to be copied as whole or in parts. Warranty Warranty and disclaimers excluding provided in a written agreement amid you and Exportersindia.com. All material & services on this site are devoid of any kind of warranty either articulated or oblique but not bound to the obscure warranties of commercial ship or suitability for a scrupulous reason, or the warranty of non-contravention. With no restraining the prior, Exportersindia.com provides no warranty that: The services and materials would be strictly in accordance to your requirements. Fault freeness, security, un-interruption and well timely execution of services and materials. Accuracy effectiveness and reliability of services and materials and services. Immediate correction of any software error is not guaranteed by Exportersindia.com. A few circumstances or jurisdiction do not permit of obscure warranties or restrictions on the duration when warranty would last. Therefore the above mentioned limitations may not apply to you to the extent acceptable. Kindly note any implied warranty would limit to a maximum duration of 90 (ninety days). Relevancy and contemporariness of data/information is not guaranteed by Exportersindia.com. Exportersindia.com is not accountable for any error of omission and editing of information/ document/ materials. This site possibly will comprise technical errors, inexactness, typing or other errors. Not in any case Exportersindia.com and its associates would be liable for any third party for any special, disciplinary, accompanying, indirect or momentous damage of any kind. Exportersindia.com is not responsible for any damage to your computer system or data loss while downloading any information from this site. User would be solely accountable any and every kind of data loss/ technical problem. The links existing on this site are not being in command of Exportersindia.com hence we do not represent or recommend any of them. Right of entry of these links is not under control of Exportersindia.com therefore we are not responsible for any kind of precision and reliability of information/ facts available on non-Exportersindia.com websites. Exportersindia.com is contacted/ accessed and used in various countries thus it may contain such programs or services which are not publicized in your country. Trademark Logo and trademark and services marks put on view on this website are solely owned by Exportersindia.com and any personal or commercial use of the same is strictly prohibited, without written permission of Exportersindia.com. Privacy Policy The information provided by you would be used in accordance to respective laws. The information/data provided by you may be used by all divisions/sister concerns/ventures of Exportersindia.com, whereas it would not be sent to any company, for any other commercial usage without your written consent. Updating/modification/deletion of your data/ information would be done on your written request only. Payment and Refund Issue All the payments would be accepted on standard modes set by Exportersindia.com. As we at Exportersindia.com keep up high interactions with our clients and carry out entire process with their approval thus there is no provision for any kind of full or partial refund. We clearly mention here that paid amount would not be refund in circumstances. Once an order is placed it cannot be cancelled as it is sent for processing immediately. Your personal preferences changed in the course of time, cannot serve a reason for refund or charge back. All payments for services at Exportersindia.com have to be made in favour of "Weblink .IN Pvt. Ltd." only. We have not authorized any individual or organization to collect payments in any other name (i.e. any other individual or organization name) or via personal Western Union or personal Paypal Accounts for any services rendered by Exportersindia.com. You are informed that under no circumstances will Exportersindia.com be liable for any damage caused in your business transaction to such fraudulent individuals or organizations. To protect your business interests, please contact us immediately if any such fraudulent individual or organization tries to mislead you. Others For any kind of legal dispute related to Exportersindia.com would be dealt in only territory of Delhi. All the legal issues are subjected only to pertinent contemporary's laws in force at New Delhi to the jurisdiction of courts located in New Delhi only. Exportersindia.com is not responsible for any dispute within the community members/users/visitors. Information/Images/ Contents available on member's classifieds, website is completely controlled by respective member and Exportersindia.Com bears no accountability/liability for any sort of legal issues including authenticity or copyright. All such issues need to be directly addressed to respective member. We anticipate that aforementioned information would enable you to shrewdly use the facilities and services offered by Exportersindia.com and strengthen our business associations as well. With warmest greetings, Team Exportersindia.com is all set to assist you to serve with best possible solutions. Product Categories Agriculture Apparel & Fashion Automotive & Auto Parts Ayurvedic & Herbal Products Chemicals Computers & PC Hardware Construction & Real Estate Consumer Electronics Electronics & Electrical Components Furniture Manufacturers Food Product & Beverages Handicrafts & Gifts Health & Beauty Home Supplies Home Furnishings Industrial Supplies Jewelry Jute & Jute Products Leather & Leather Products Machines & Equipment Mineral & Metals Natural Stones Office Supplies & Stationery Paper & Packaging Material Plastic & Plastic Products Printing & Publishing Products Textiles & Fabrics Tools & Equipment Transportation Services Tours & Travel Finiancial Services Business Services General Links Home Contact Us Sitemap Help About Us Feedback Terms of Use Testimonials Advertise with Us Disclaimer Resources Email this Page Bookmark Page Make EI Home Page Trade Tool Kit Buy Offers Post Buy Requirement Post Products - FREE Services Directory Business Services Real Estate Tours & Travels Employment Services Matrimonials Services Business Directory Manufacturers Exporters Suppliers Service Providers Web Design By WeblinkIndia.NET - ISO 9001:2008 Certified © Copyright 2015. All Rights Reserved. ExportersIndia.com