Lakshadweep Map Home » Maps » Lakshadweep   Lakshadweep History of Lakshadweep Geography of Lakshadweep Languages Culture लक्षद्वीप का नक्शा Lakshadweep Map Location Map Outline Map Tehsil Map Districts Kavaratti Map Economy Government Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Lakshadweep Places to visit in Lakshadweep Lakshadweep Islands Beaches in Lakshadweep Reefs Adventure How to reach Airport Location Map Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code Education Lakshadweep Landkarte       Lakshadweep Map Lakshadweep Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Map showing the Lakshadweep Union Territory in Detail. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Lakshadweep is the smallest  Union Territory of India and is located in The Arabian Sea. It consists of twelve coral atolls, three coral reefs, five banks, and numerous islets, and is under the jurisidiction of Kerala High Court. The capital of this union territory is Kavaratti. It is a famous tourist destination and has many state of the art hotels. Tall green coconut palms offer spectacular beauty and turn this land into a tropical paradise. The calm waters of the lagoons are home for an exotic underwater marine life that amazes viewers with a play of colors and underwater antics. Out in the open sea, Dolphins, Turtles, Tuna, Rays and Flying fish can be sighted. The main islands are Kavaratti, Agatti,Amini and Minicoy. More on islands of lakshadweep Lakshadweep Information Capital Kavaratti Date of formation 1. Nov. 1956 Administrator H. Rajesh Prasad Tourist attractions Kavaratti Kadamat, Kalpeni, Minicoy Lighthouse, Bangaram Festivals Sufi Festivals, Eid Languages Malyalam, Mahi, Hindi, Tamil Size 32 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 64,473 State animal Butterfly Fish State bird Sooty Tern State tree Bread fruit Major crops Coconut Factoids Lakshadweep was ruled by Kerala dynasties like the Kuladelcharas and the Chirakkal Rajahs. Only on the island of Minicoy do they speak Mahi, a dialect of Dhivehi, the national language of Maldives. No. of District 13 List of Districts in Lakshadweep S No. District Headquarters Population (Census 2011) Sex Ratio (per 1000) Average Literacy 1 Lakshadweep Kavaratti 64,473 946 91.85% Last Updated on : September 24, 2014 Lakshadweep Map Location Map Outline Map Tehsil Map About Lakshadweep Geography and History Languages Population Latitude and Longitude Pincode Districts Economy Government Facts Real Estate Education Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Lakshadweep Lakshadweep Tourism Islands Reefs Beaches Sand banks Cruise Adventure Sports Useful Information Accommodation Beach Resorts             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule