Madhya Pradesh Industries Home » Madhya Pradesh » Economy » Industries   Economy of Madhya Pradesh Industries मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Industries in Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh Industrial Map Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. The industries of Madhya Pradesh provides a firm basis to the economy of Madhya Pradesh. In fact, industries of Madhya Pradesh are the means through which Madhya Pradesh is pacing up with all the other states of India. Some of the important and major industries of Madhya Pradesh that are supporting Madhya Pradesh with all its might are: Beverage and Soft Drink based Industries Food Processing based Industries Forest Based Industries Electrical Engineering based Industries Electronic Engineering based Industries Mechanical Engineering based Industries Drugs and Pharmaceuticals based Industries Chemical based Industries Petrochemical based Industries Agro based Industries Basic Metal based Industries Non Metallic Minerals based Industries Textile based Industries Leather based Industries Rubber and plastic based industries, etc. Beside these major industries, we also find a number of small scale industries in Madhya Pradesh. A list of the small-scale industries along with their location is as follows: Cement: Rewa Satna Damoh Katni Neemuch. Thermal Power: Shahdol Umaria Sidhi Satna Betul Damoh Katni Rewa Ujjain. Coal Washeries: Narshingpur Anuppur. Asbestos Cement Sheet: Katni Ceramics: Ratlam Jabalpur. Hydrated Lime: Katni Satna. Slate Pencil: Mandsour Potteries: Ujjain Refractories: Katni Ratlam Jabalpur. Roofing Tiles: Katni. Granite Cutting and Polishing: Chhatarpur Tikamgarh. Flagstone Cutting and Polishing: Shivpuri Gwalior Panna Vidisha. It is noteworthy that in spite of Madhya Pradesh being an agricultural state, the growth in the industries in Madhya Pradesh has been tremendous. In fact, in Madhya Pradesh we find a number of agro-based industries like bio-fertilizer, organic manure, food processing, etc. that essentially help the agricultural production of the state. Thus as it is evident, both the major industries and the small-scale industries are the life-line of Madhya Pradesh. These industries help Madhya Pradesh to take one stride further. Last Updated on : 26/06/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule