Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home Hon'ble CM's Message Vision of Hon'ble Chief Minister [ Extract from Vision 2023 Document ] Infrastructure developments in agriculture are targeted at the three initiatives of improving the productivity in agriculture, assurance of year round irrigation, and marketing extension. An estimated investment of Rs 40,000 crore is anticipated towards development of agricultural infrastructure across the state. The key projects are: a. Irrigation projects involving connectivity of farms with canals and dams, and cleaning of water resources such as tanks, wells and dams. b. Micro irrigation for 100% of crops under horticulture, vegetables and fruits and spices. c. Horticultural parks for fruits, vegetables and spices would be developed across the state d. Chain of storage facilities including cold storage and associated logistics facilities e. Packing houses and gamma irradiation facilities are to be developed in each district f. Grain storage facilities g. Three terminal market complexes to serve the local and export market h. Strengthening R&D capacity Summary of Investments Project Rs. Crore Cleaning of wells, tanks and canals 16,000 Horticulture Parks 6,600 100% Micro Irrigation for horticulture crops 6,400 Grain Storage Godowns 2,700 Strengthening of R&D Capacity of Agricultural Universities 2,000 Food Processing Centres 1,500 Cold Storage Projects, Terminal Market Complex 2,000 Support to Mechanisation 1,000 Packing houses, Gamma Irradiation Facility, Agro Food Parks & Export Zones, Perishable air cargo complex, ICT tools for agriculture extension etc 1,800 Total 40,000 Visitor Counter: 842944 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015