 Manipur Small Farmers' Agri-Business Consortium- Home About Us About Manipur SFAC SFAC’s Mission Objectives Our Work Scope Funding VC for Agri-Business Project Dev. Facility Criteria for funding Venture Capital Projects sanctioned in Manipur Agri Business Gallery Photo Recap Video Publication/Media Producers’ Forum Feedback Welcome to Manipur SFAC Manipur, one of the easternmost border states of India having 22,327 sq.km geographical area is within the “Indo-Burma” centre of biodiversity hotspots of global significance and is surrounded to the east by Myanmar (Burma) to the north by Nagaland, to the West by Assam and to the south by Mizoram. The state lies between the 23º 80’ N – 25º 68’ N and 93º  03’ E -94º 78’ E. The State is divided into nine districts of which five districts are in the hills comprising 90% of the total area of the State and the remaining four valley districts constitutes 10% of the area. However, out of 27,21, 756 recorded as per 2011 Census,  60% of the total population of the state have been concentrated in the four valley districts of the state. The state experiences monsoon rainfall with an average annual rainfall of 1430 mm and temperature ranging from 1º C to 39º C in a temporal cycle. The mean of the daily humidity is highestduring the month of July-Sept; which varies from 80-96% and differs from place to place. The impact of terrain diversity, altitudinal variation ranging from 20m ab ove msl the lowest altitude (Barak Valley range of Jirbam Sub-Division,Imphal East District)  to 2,995 m above msl (Mt.Dinifu, Mao in Senapati District) the highest altitude and river regime have become eloquent in the seasonal variability ranging from tropical montane, deciduous, temperate types of climate from one place to another, thereby contributing to  presence of a large number of biological diversity in the state. The region adjoining Mayanmar and Cachar district and Barak Valley experience tropical types of climate, in these regions Tropical plants grows in abundant. The cold high altitude zone such as Ukhrul and Mao are abundant with temperate plants. The central valley and its adjoining hills experience sub-tropical type of climate and have vast diversity of plants. Poor local technology, inadequate business and lack of entrepreneurial skills and awareness on quality requirements, limited access to intellectual property rights restrict production and the use and marketability of the available plant bio-resources. Tremendous room for growth and export opportunities are available if quality products are available that can compete with other suppliers. New technologies can be deployed for processing, transforming, and adding value to natural products that could catalyze in generating income farmers. Our high valued Plant bioresources. Passion Fruit:The fruit is valued for its high medicinal value coupled with flavour and aroma for fresh juice.................. . ....... Read More Primary & Processed Products Organic Turmeric with high Curcumin ranging from 5.6 to 6.5% Certified by OneCert Asia Agri Certification Pvt.Ltd..... ....... Read More Other Links Organically grown Medicinal & Aromatic Plants Wild Growths of Medicinal Plants. Constraints in Marketing Farm Produces Manipur enters into the Country’s Organic Map Organic Certification Organic Scope Certificate Operational Guidelines of MIDH. VCA Projects sanctioned in Manipur Value Added Products Scope for Venturing Agri-Business in Manipur RELATED IMPORTANT Links. News & Events Inviting Agripreneurs with Innovative Ideas Contributed Articles/Research Published Papers. VCA application Form Farmers’ News What Local Daily Editors Wrote about Farming Communities & Environment What Farmers wrote to the Editors Local Daily About Us MSFAC is an automous body of the Govt. which aims at catalyzing multidisciplinary agro-based activities. Search Tags Agriculture Manipur. Agribusiness Manipur. Manipur Medicinal Plants. Aomatic Plants. Essential oils. Organic Ginger, Turmeric, Spices. Contact Us Manipur Small Farmers' Agri Business Consortium, Directorate of Agriculture Manipur, Imphal East 795001, Manipur (INDIA) Copyright 2011 © All rights reserved. MSFAC, Imphal Website designed and hosted by: www.globizs.com Packages Seo