Department of Finance : Official Website of Government of Jharkhand Click for Archive Website Skip to Main Content Skip to Navigation Sign In A A A- A A+ Department of Finance Government of Jharkhand Home About Directory Photo Gallery e Services You are here : Home State Department and Agencies Finance About The Department The Finance Department, Government of Jharkhand is responsible for management of finances of the State Government. It is concerned with all economic and financial matters affecting the State as a whole including mobilisation of resources and allocation of resources for infrastructural development, social welfare, human development and administrative purposes. View More... Acts & Rules Advertisements Allotment Orders Announcement Assembly Matters Circulars Citizen Charter Corrigendum Downloads Media Gallery Mobile Applications MoM News Notices Notifications Office Order Others Policies Press Release Publications Recruitments Resolutions RTI Sanction Orders Sankalp Schemes Tenders Videos Who's Who News & Headlines Jharkhand Chief Secretary RS Sharma has directed the finance department to create a portal displaying the names of the employees provided with official accommodation. View more Schemes & Tenders   Mission Vision   Downloads Who's Who Featured Links Please update the featured links for your department. Useful Links Please update the featured links for your department. finance-jharkhand.gov.in Photo in News No images to display in selected folder State Department and Agencies Agriculture Animal Husbandry Art & Culture Board of Revenue Disaster Management Forest & Environment Department of Excise Finance Food & Public Distribution Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Human Resources Industries Information & Public Relations Information Technology Labour & Employment Law (Justice) Power & Energy Rural Development Science & Technology Social Development Transport Tourism Department Water Resources Know More... Know Your District Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka East Singhbhum Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan About Us About the Portal Terms of use Policies & Disclaimer Contact us Site Map Accessibility Statement Help Feedback Screen Reader Access FAQ's Weather For Jharkhand --Select-- Bokaro Chatra Deoghar Dhanbad Dumka Jamshedpur Garhwa Giridih Godda Gumla Hazaribagh Jamtara Khunti Koderma Latehar Lohardaga Pakur Palamu Ramgarh Ranchi Sahibganj Simdega West Singhbhum Seraikella Kharsawan Supported By External website that opens in a new window. External website that opens in a new window. This page was last modified on:Tue Apr 14 12:12:53 UTC 2015 All Rights Reserved by Government of Jharkhand, India. Designed & Maintained by TCSL   in cooperation with NIC and JAPIT Validation HTML5 , CSS3   Back to Top