National Expressway 2, Eastern Peripheral Expressway Map, Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal Expressway (KGP) Home » Roads » Expressway » National Expressway 2   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       National Expressway 2 Map of National Expressway 2 Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Eastern Peripheral Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The National Expressway 2, also known as the Eastern Peripheral Expressway is a proposed Expressway designed to connect Kundli in Haryana to Palwal in Haryana via Ghaziabad. The route would by- pass Delhi on the eastern side and go through Haryana and Uttar Pradesh crossing the districts of Sonipat, Faridabad, Baghpat, Gaziabad, and Gautam Budh Nagar. This will help reduce the traffic on the Delhi inner roads as this expressway will offer a direct connectivity to the NCR region. When the currently under development, Western Peripheral Expressway connecting Palwal and Kundli via Manesar is complete, both these expressways will form a expressway ring around Delhi and further increase connectivity to the surrounding areas, while reducing the travel time. The 135 kilometer long six-lane Eastern Expressway corridor will begin on the national highway 1 at Kundli and terminate at the national highway 2 at Palwal. En route it will cross the Yamuna River and three other national highways. It will cross NH 58 at Murad Nagar, NH 24 at Dasna, and NH 91 at Beelakbarpur. The expressway will be developed in two sections. The first will be the 56 kilometer long Faridabad Ghaziabad section via Greater Noida and the second will be the 49 kilometer long Ghaziabad to Sonipat section. With a signal free connectivity, the expressway will link all the national capital region areas in the east of Delhi and reduce the travelling time to reach Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Sonipat, and Palwal. There is a lot of real estate development on this side with many residential colonies existing and in the process of being built. Faridabad, Ghaziabad, and Sonipat are also industrial towns. The Expressway will further boost the commercial and industrial development of the region. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule