mKisan:About Mobile Application Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access हिंदी में Follow us on Twitter USSD About USSD USSD Application Register for USSD Pull SMS About Pull SMS Structure & Codes IVRS About IVRS IVRS Dashboard Agent Rating Call Response Push SMS About Push SMS Search SMS Database Ksewa About KSEWA Register for KSEWA Login for KSEWA List of Services KCC About KCC KCC Locations Features of KCC KCC Nodal Officers Query Escalation Process Implementation of Escalation Process Involvement of States KCC Dashboard Buyer Seller About Buyer Seller Platform Buyers Login New Buyer Registration Mobile Apps About Mobile Apps Downloads Reach Us Queries on Portal Feedback/Grievance You are here : Home > About MKisan Search About mKisan Dashboard Registration for SMS Accolades RSS Twitter About Mobile Application All applications and services listed in other sections of m-Kisan Portal are accessible on any kind of mobile phone including basic feature phone. Even today, feature phones (as against smart phones) constitute maximum share of mobile phone in India. However, with increasing penetration of smart phones in India and affordable prices (likely to go down further with the introduction of Android One by Google), it has been considered necessary to create mobile Apps. Android Operating System has the largest share among the smart phones in India. Therefore, initially Apps are being developed for Android and gradually other operating system such as Windows and iOS will also be worked upon. The Apps are not only useful for remote location data entry where desktop PCs are not available, but would also be available to farmers and all other stakeholders for extracting information from the web. The mobile Apps to be listed on mKisan Portal are some good applications which are free of cost and do not have any royalty or Intellectual Property Right (IPR) issue. These applications are being developed through C-DAC, NIC, in-house in DAC and independent Android enthusiasts / private firms. Description of each Apps and download link is available after clicking the App name. Direct links to either .apk files, Google Play Store or other relevant web-based resources have been provided. The apps have been listed on As Is basis and the end users may go through all the permissions required and compatibility issues (though most apps are compatible with Gingerbread and above). Developers are encouraged to use the publicly available data on the website of Department of Agriculture & Cooperation ( www.agricoop.nic.in ), Farmers' Portal ( www.farmer.gov.in ) and other Portals (e.g. RKVY, Hortnet, Seednet, Extension Reforms etc.). Subject to constraint of human resources required to do the job, every attempt will be made to provide data in open format. Download Mobile Apps Home About Us Help RTI Terms and Conditions Copyright Policy Hyperlinking Policy Privacy Policy Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation,Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India Page Last Updated on : 10 October, 2014