Saravana Kumar - Solar thermal and solar power solutions - Friday July 5, 2013 AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Webinars, Talks and Live Discussion Saravana Kumar - Solar thermal and solar power solutions - Friday July 5, 2013 Results 1 to 2 of 2 Thread: Saravana Kumar - Solar thermal and solar power solutions - Friday July 5, 2013 LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… June 30th, 2013 #1 educationteam Moderator Join Date Apr 2013 Posts 185 Saravana Kumar - Solar thermal and solar power solutions - Friday July 5, 2013 You are invited to attend a webinar (live discussion) on solar thermal and solar power solutions with Saravana Kumar of Greencurrent Solar Energy Systems, Coimbatore To know more about Saravana Kumar follow the link below http://www.greencurrent.in/ In this live discussion you will be able to ask questions related to solar energy solutions How to attend this online meeting: Date: Friday July 5, 2013 Time: 3pm IST Location: Online Meeting via GoToMeeting. Limited seats available. First come first serve only. Meeting Link https://www1.gotomeeting.com/join/546849480 You will be connected to audio using your computer's microphone and speakers (VoIP). A headset is recommended. Meeting ID: 546-849-480 Not at your computer? Click the link to join this meeting from your iPhone®, iPad® or Android® device via the GoToMeeting app. If this is the first time you are using GoToMeeting (online meeting software) we suggest you download and test this meeting link well in advance. If you need any help in joining this meeting please call us at 080-49101303 or email: support@agricultureinformation.com Please use this thread to ask all your questions before and after the webinar. During the webinar the speaker will respond to all the questions posted on this thread. Even if you are unable to attend the meeting live you can ask your questions now for the speaker - just hit " reply " ask list your questions. I look forward to seeing you in the meeting. Rajani Webinar Coordinator AgricultureInformation.com Last edited by educationteam; July 2nd, 2013 at 03:31 PM . Reply With Quote July 10th, 2013 #2 educationteam Moderator Join Date Apr 2013 Posts 185 Here is a recording of the presentation for those who could not attend. Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 11:09 PM .