Education in Uttarakhand Home » Uttarakhand » Uttarakhand Education   Uttarakhand Education Universities in Uttarakhand Civil Service Exams Forest Hospital Trust Medical College Law College Dehradun उत्तराखंड का नक्शा Uttarakhand Uttarakhand Map Places to visit in Uttarakhand Travel to Uttarakhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Jim Corbett National Park Mussoorie Tourist Map Tourist Map of Rishikesh Cities in Uttarakhand Districts of Uttarakhand Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Uttarakhand Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Uttarakhand Forests Industrial Map Assembly Poll Uttarakhand Lok Sabha Elections History Geography Information Newspapers Hotels in Uttaranchal Nainital Hotels Srinagar Hotels Mussoorie Hotels Haridwar Hotels Dehradun Hotels Rishikesh Hotels                    more... Society Important Numbers Government Uttarakhand Images Haridwar Location Map Uttaranchal Hills Map District Map in Hindi Pin Code       Education in Uttarakhand The department of education in Uttarakhand is basically a vast structure which incorporates within its fold primary education, secondary education and the state council of educational research and training. Uttarakhand Sabhi Ke Liye Shiksha Parishad has also been put in place to implement education for all in the state which boasts of a very high literacy rate, much higher than the national average. The government has introduced necessary steps to make the children school-bound and also to attract the drop-outs back to their schools. The Uttarakhand board of schools and examinations functions under the aegis of the Directorate of School Education and provides wide employment opportunities within the state. Uttarakhand contains some of the premier institutes of education in the country, headed by the famous Indian Institute of Technology at Roorkee. To encourage the spread of education at Uttarakhand, the government is ensuring that poor but brilliant students in its rural areas receive free and first rate education at the Rajiv Gandhi Navodaya Vidyalaya residential schools. Mid-day meals and co-curricular activities are some of the ways that have been introduced to popularize education in the state. Uttarakhand education received a fillip after the government introduced Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in secondary education. The department of education, Uttarakhand, has attained the target of computerizing all 1,700 government high schools and government inter-colleges (GICs) in the state, providing at least four computers per school. The government has also implemented training and orientation programs for the teaching and administration staff serving these schools, in collaboration with Microsoft India. According to the 2011 census, the state of Uttarakhand has a literacy rate of 79.63% with 88.33% for males and 70.70% for females. The literacy rate has increased from the last census. The state has Government and private schools, primary and high Schools, Inter collages, Degree collages and other Technical institutions. The medium of education is either in English or Hindi. The schools are affiliated with CBSE, CISCE or the State Government Syllabus defined as per the Department of Education, Uttarakhand Government. Last Updated on 5 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule