INCOIS-Library New Document Home Services Resources E-Journals E-Books Printed Publications Research Papers Conference Proceding Technical Report Open Access OPAC Other FAQ Photo Gallary News@INCOIS Contact INCOIS  Important Links Scopus ScienceDirect SpringerLink Geophysical Research letters J G R (Oceans) Nature Geoscience Oceanographic Literature Rev. Journal of physical Oceanography Int.Journal of Remote Sensing Journal of Climate Deep Sea Research Journal of Marine Research Boundary Layer Meteorology Science Magazine Intl.Jnl of GeoInfomatics      New Arrivals Current Content Journals Books Event Calendar ePrints@MoES ePrints@MoES repository collects, preserves and disseminates in digital format the research output created by the MoES research community, More. Welcome to INCOIS Library & Information Center INCOIS Library & Information Center plays a vital role in acquisition, organization, and dissemination of knowledge in frontier areas of Ocean Sciences, geophysics, and allied sciences. It has an impressive mixed collection of both print and electronic resources including books, journals, technical reports, theses and other material. It has adequate infrastructure to meet its requirements. The main thrust of the library continues to be the improvement of the quality of services and facilities, achieving higher degree of users satisfaction and modernization of its activities and operations. Print holdings include books, dictionaries, handbooks, encyclopedias, reference book series and back volumes of journals. Online databases and E-Journals are made available at Scientists desktops. Library subscribes to around 40 National and International journals. Ocean News Loading... Notice Library added the subscription of Journals.AGU add on,Ocean Dynamic,IJEE,Fishing chimes,Popular Science All the content of journal Tellus A & B (Meteorology and Oceanography) made open access. Kindly register with Scopus and Sciencedirect to get personalize alert Communicate to Library for getting contribution number for your publication before submitting it   Copy Right © 2011 Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services.           &nbsp           This site is best viewed in Mozilla Firefox