History of Tripura Home » Tripura » History of Tripura   Tripura त्रिपुरा का नक्शा Tripura Map Districts of Tripura South Tripura Dhalai West Tripura North Tripura Agartala City Map Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Tripura Location Lat Long Map Travel to Tripura Places to visit in Tripura Wildlife Sanctuaries Bhuvaneswari Temple Tripura Sundari Temple Agriculture Map Tripura Forests Parliamentary Constituencies- East Tripura Parliamentary Constituencies- West Tripura Economy Government Geography Society and Culture Hotels in Tripura Attractions History STD Code PIN Code Assemblypolls Sex Ratio Universities In Tripura       History of Tripura The history of Tripura is a long drawn story which dates back to the time of the Mahabharata. At the very helm of the Kingdom of Tripura, encompassed the whole of Eastern Bengal stretching from the Bay of Bengal in the South to the Brahmaputra river in the North and West and Burma in the East. The earliest trace of the history of Tripura can be found in the Ashokan pillar inscriptions. The history of Tripura points out that around the 7th Century the Tripuri Kings with the title of 'pha' which means father, ruled from the Kailashahar region in North Tripura. In the 14th Century the history of Tripura witnessed a change with the sifting of the capital from Kailashahar to Udaipur. It was around the same time that the Tripura kings adopted the title of Manikya and the Manikya dynasty which had a Indo- Mongolian origin ruled Tripura for around 3000 years. This was probably the most glorious episode of the history of Tripura and the dominance of the Manikyas was also acknowledged by the Mughals who were the central rulers. The 17th Century is a major watershed in the history of Tripura when the administration of the region passed on the hands of the Mughals with some restrained powers of the Manikyas. With the coming of the colonial era the Britishers extended their control over Tripura but granted some independence to the Manikya kings. The Royal history of Tripura ended in the year 1947 when monarchy in the state was completely terminated. Bir Bikram Kishore Manikya was the last ruling Manikya king of Tripura and it was after his death that Tripura was acceded to the Union of India. In the year 1949 Tripura became an Union Territory of India and remained so until 1972 when it was made a constituent state of the Indian Nation. Tripura Kings The history of Tripura points out at its regal past and the Tripura Kings are an integral part of this royal past. An in depth study of the past of Tripura reveals the long dynamic history of the Tripura Kings. Long back in the 7th Century the Tripura Kings adopted the title of 'pha' and ruled the region from the then capital city of Kailashahar in North Tripura.It was in the 14th Century that the most important dynasty of Tripura ascended the throne. The Tripura Kings of the Manikya dynasty ruled the region for more than 3000 years and shifted there capital to Udaipur and finally to Agartala. The prestige and power of Tripura reached its apex under the Tripura Kings of the Manikya dynasty. The most popular Tripura Kings include: Chandra Budh Pururoba Ayu Nahush Yayati Druhya Babhru Setu Anarta Gandhar Dharmma(Gharma) Dhrita(Ghrita) Durmad Pracheta Nojugrai (Nogjog) Torjung Tor Raj(Rajdharma) Hamraj Birraj Shriraj Shriman (Shrimanta) Lakshmitaru Ananta Manikya Udai Manikya Jai Manikya(Loktor fa) Amar Manikya Rajdhar Manikya Jashodhar Manikya Kalyan Manikya Gobinda Manikya Chhatra Manikya(Nakhshtra Rai) Ramdev Manikya Ratna Manikya-II Narendra Manikya Mahendra Manikya Dharma Manikya-II Mukunda Manikya Jai Manikya Indra Manikya-II Vijy Manikya-II Krishna Manikya Rajdhar Manikya Ramgana Manikya Durga Manikya Kashi Chandra Manikya Krishna Kishore Manikya Ishan Chandra manikya Tarlakshmi(Roopban) Mailkshmi(Lakshmiban) Nageshwar Jogeshwar Parachi(Shata Dharma) Parabasu Parishad Arijit Sujit Pururaba-II Bibarn Birendra Kishore Manikya Bir Bikram Kishore Manikya Bahadur Kirit Bikram Kishore Manikya Bahadur Kirit Pradyot Manikya Bahadur Puru Sen Megh Barna Bikarna Basuman Keerti Kaniyan Manikya Dynasty The very first historical evidences about Tripura appears in the Rajmala, the royal chronicle of the Tripura Manikya dynasty. The Tripura Manikya dynasty originated in the 1280 A.D when the King of Tripura Ratna Fa assumed the title of Manikya. Indo- Mongolian in origin, the Tripura Manikya dynasty ruled over the region for hundreds of years. It was under the regime of the Tripura Manikya dynasty that the Kingdom of Tripura reached the apex of its hey days. Under their rule a number of military victory earned Tripura the suzerainty over Myanmar, Bengal and Assam. The prosperity of the Tripura Manikya dynasty was all round ans their fame and power was even acknowledged by the Mughals who were their contemporaries in North India. Origin of name Every aspect of the history of Tripura is extremely intriguing and there are a number of controversies regarding Tripura- origin of name .There are a number of historians who debate the origin of the name of Tripura and they put forward a number of theories regarding Tripura- origin of name. A major problem in tracing Tripura- origin of name is the lack of authentic documents on the history of the region. Rajmala is probably the only written document on the region which sheds light on its history. The Rajmala, which is the court chronicle of Tripura, points out that the region had an ancient king named Tripur. It is believed that Tripur was a tyrant king and many historians argue that it was after him that the region was named. However, this theory about Tripura- origin of name has been challenged by historians who argue that Tripur is an a- historical and imaginary character. The etymological origin of the word Tripura explains its origin to a large extent. The compound word of Tripura when broken gives two separate words, 'Tui' (water) + 'Pra' (near). The geographical location of the region thoroughly justifies its name. Tripura Tiger Force The Tripura Tiger Force is one the major militant group that operates in the city of Tripura. The group drifted apart from the Tripura National Volunteers under the leadership of Ranjit Debbarma. The faction of the group was called the All Tripura Tribal Force that was formed on 11th July, 1990. The group later renamed itself as the All Tripura Tiger Force in the year 1992. The small faction of extremists worked in the remote areas of the districts of Tripura. Gathering force by inculcating the tribal youth of the region, the group grew to become an influential militant association that has been correlated with other groups like the Tripura Tribal Youth Force, Tripura Lion Force, Tripura Liberation Organization and the Tripura National Army. Although strictly administered, the All Tripura Tiger Force had faced disappointment when a group of 1,600 cadres laid down their arms in the year 1994. The remaining members of the extremist group continued to function and were declared as banned in the year 1997 according to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act of1967. The organization works to retrieve the rightful land of the tribal people by eviction of the Bengali immigrants who settled in the state of Tripura. Last Updated on 15 March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule