Chorao-Madel Farmers Club, Chorao Island in Goa - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Chorao-Madel Farmers Club, Chorao Island in Goa Home Chorao-Madel Farmers Club, Chorao Island in Goa Focused on improving production through farm mechanization and implements new marketing strategies for better returns Chorao Island Farmers Club (CIFC) aims to revive traditional agricultural practices on the island of Chorao in Goa through farm mechanization and marketing farm produce with value addition. The Club undertakes activities to help its members improve farming practices through knowledge building, marketing and better tools and infrastructure. Mr. Premanand Mahambare, President of the club says, “We have lot of wasteland in Goa as people have stopped doing farming. The farmland is just lying around. When we learnt about the farmers club scheme we decided to proceed and make farmers club.” With 22 members in February 2008 club was established under the Farmers’ Club program of NABARD in support from Central Bank of India. NABARD promotes farmers club so that farmers from same locality can come together to discuss their problems, resolve it and hold some training program on awareness and learning new farming practices. Initially for first three years it gives Rs. 10,000 annually towards club maintenance and training expenses, after which the club members have to manage on their own. CIFC decided to take Rs. 100 as the yearly membership fees. “The membership was open to farmers who were doing farming themselves on their farmland,” adds Mr. Mahambare. Presently there are 126 members in the club from Chodan and Madel villages. “We came in touch with TERI, Goa branch. They did a project for us the growth and development of land holding of the club and approached Toyota Foundation for financing the same. It was successful and this way our association started with both these organization and we decided to step beyond the mandate of farmer club that will help us to sustain as association,” he adds. Working on the plan, CIFC did two things; first club was registered under the society act from Agriculture Department of Goa. He says, “It was essential for financial transparency and to gain benefits of agriculture subsidy schemes (75% is subsidy and 25% is loan) from Goa State and Central government. Next was to move forward with projects on farm mechanization and marketing farm produce of the members. TERI helped the club to acquire 8-row paddy transplanter with financial assistance from Toyota Foundation (TF), Japan. “75% of the cost was paid as government subsidy while 25% from TF,” informs Mr. Mahambare, “We also took up formal office on rent. This too was done with the financial help from TF.” In the first year itself, club transplanted parboiled rice using rice transplanter as demonstration project in the villages of Chodan and Madel (5 ha each village) with help from the Department of Agriculture (they supplied the seedling). 20-25 members participated in the project and yield increased. “Seedlings are planted at the fixed 25 cm distance due which each seedling gets approximately 20 shoots. So yield increases,” he shares. First model project on farm mechanization was successful after which club bought tractors, grass cutters and trolley all through government subsidy schemes and rest financed by Central Bank of India. In order to provide farm machineries to members CIFC also hires the agriculture machinery from other states like harvestor combines from Andhra Pradesh. Club invites experts on different farming domains in order to increase the knowledge base of farmers so that they could work smart in agriculture. Members also participate in inter-state exchange programs to learn new farming practices. Under the marketing project, the foremost program was to sell boiled rice. “Korgut is special rice variety of Goa grown in salty farm fields Kadam. Another high yielding variety is Jyoti red kernel rice. We decided to sell these varieties directly to the customer. Korgut is organic variety so we knew it would fetch good returns. The program also had purpose to make the farmer aware that value addition gives better income,” shares Mr. Mahambare and adds, “We started buying rice from members at higher price, packed it under our club brand name ‘Chorao’ and marketed through cash and carry outlets across Goa. We targeted customers from high-income group who prefer nutritive rich rice.” In total 1500 kgs was sold in first year and the project still continues. “Presently we buy rice at Rs. 50-55/kg from farmers and sell it at retail price of Rs. 75-80/kg,” he says. Some percentage of profit was retained by the club to be used for future programs in favor of the members and meet administration expenses. Club does not have profit sharing policy as it involves tedious procedures like income tax. Another success came to CIFC with direct sales of Goa special mancurad mangoes. Usually farmers hire out their mango trees to middle man where they get Rs. 5-10/kg. These mangoes have good demand and are sold easily. “We realized it is only middleman who is earning most from mangoes and not we the farmers. So we decided to sell our mangoes directly to buyers in the box having 12 mangoes. It was categorized into three groups large (weighs275-260 gms), medium (weighs 260-220 gms) and small (weighs220-210 gms) sold at Rs. 530/dozen, Rs.440/dozen and Rs. 350/dozen respectively (prices are subject to change yearly). For first two years we gave home delivery and developed our premium clientele. It was initially funded by Toyota Foundation. Now we sell the mangoes at a common place and share the details with our regular buyers who pick it on their own. This has reduced our cost,” shares Mr. Mahambare. Members involved in mancurad mango sales have ensured to maintain the quality minutely. Mangoes are purely organic where it is grown and ripen using traditional practices unlike middleman who use chemical to ripen the mangoes quickly. “We have registered our mangoes and the box is having our trade mark to assure quality. Entire season we sell it at flat price unlike the market prices. We even replace the mangoes in case it is spoiled. As a result of these efforts our mangoes are gaining wide popularity and reaches different states and even foreign countries. We sell exclusively in Goa but our clients’ later courier our mangoes to faraway places. Approximately every year we sell 1000 boxes,” he adds. Apart from these two prime marketing projects, other farm products of individual members are marketed through participation in different agriculture fairs and exhibition. Mr. Mahambare highlights, “All our projects are at small scale where one of the members takes entire responsibility of one project.” CIFC also conducts one day farm visit of people in partnership with Pune based tourism company. “People visit at the farm in morning and leave in evening. We arrange lunch and snacks at the farm. These programs are done in order to give some additional income to our members,” he adds. All financial transactions related to government are done through ECS systems. Mr. Mahambare insists a special mention of Mr. Amrik Singh Deol. He introduces Mr. Deol as the most proactive and supportive Bank Manager, “During his tenure we got maximum financing for our machinery purchase. And most important more than 100 members got Kisan Credit Card.” Stating the challenges faced Mr. Mahambare says, “Although parboiled project is successful and is continuing but the supply of rice from members is not encouraging. They prefer to sell rice at Rs. 17/kg to other buyers as lot of work is involved in making parboiled rice like boiling, drying, milling, hand peeling and packing. This particular project can give good returns if it is scaled up but it is in small scale as farmers resist additional work. So it is tough to motivate members in this project. ” Despite challenges club fares well as far as growth is concerned, “We are able manage well because of good coordination of our team,” he concludes. Chorao Island Farmers Club is recipient of ‘Best Farmers Club’ in 2010 by NABARD. Mr. Premanand Mahambare was among the 101 small and marginal farmers felicitated at the hands of the Union Minister for Agriculture, Shri Sharad Pawar, on the 26th of February 2010. Contact details- Chorao-Madel Farmers Club C/o Central Bank, Chodan Branch, Goa – 403102 Phone: +91-98225-89046 Email Address: pmahambare@gmail.com , choraofarmers@gmail.com Website: http://www.thechoraofarmers.com/ Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Chorao-Madel Farmers Club, Chorao Island in Goa Related – articles, consultants, downloads Mchoose.com – marketing support for farmers Next Generation Farmers Green Farm Organic Nitya Farms – Software engineer grows organically traditional rice varieties You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications