Buy Citrullus Colocynthis from Marudhar Enterprises India | ID - 391496 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Marudhar Enterprises Member Since : 2011 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Herbal Products, Herbal Juice, Aloe Vera Juice, Amla Juice, Karela Juice Home » Product » Citrullus Colocynthis Citrullus Colocynthis botanical name : citrullus colocynthis parts of use : seed oil, fruits, stem,leaves uses : it is used as purgative and allows reliving the intestines from constipation. It also has a vermifugal action. It is very much used as a blood purifier and is a good remedy in cases of poisoning like snake bite and scorpion bite. It is also used to eradicate the tumors present in the stomach or in the region of the gastro intestinal tract. It also stimulates liver and regularizes bile secretion. It is also used in scrapping out the corns and warts on the skin. It more pronouncedly used in anti cancerous drugs, hence it is effective in leukemia i.e. Blood disorder. It also a good remedy against a disease known as ascites. It is also a good remedy against menstrual disorders. It uses have also been seen in joint pains and arthritis. Kidneys are also stimulated by it hence it also keeps the urinary tract fine. Its pulp contains certain chemical agents like colocynthin, certain fixed, resins that are not soluble in ether, sticky substances i.e. Gums, pectin, certain minerals like calcium and magnesium. Traces of magnesium phosphates have also been seen. Lignin is also present. Their active ingredients are phytosterol glycoside, elaterin, albuminoids. It also contains bitter substance colocynthin and colocynthetin. Seeds contain phytosterolin 2 phytosterols and hydrocarbons, polysaccharides and glycosides.it also contains anti tuberous agents like cucurbitacin b and cucurbitacin e. SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mr. M. K. Bhinchar Telephone : +91-992-8799228 Mobile Phone : +91-9571131711 » More detail Product Range » Aloe Vera Juice » Aloe Vera Pickle » Aloe Vera Plants » Aloe Vera Powder » Amla Candy » Amla Juice » Amla Murabba » Amla Pickle » Citrullus Colocynthis » Karela Juice » Lauki Amla Juice » Triphala Juice Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com