Places to Visit in Manipur and Tourist Destinations near Manipur Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Manipur Travel How to Reach Shopping Travel Agents Hotels in Manipur Tourist Places in Manipur Govindajee Temple War Cemetery Khonghampat Orchidarium Loktak Lake Zoological Gardens Langthabal Tourist Destinations in Manipur Imphal Travel Bishnupur About Manipur Geography Home » Manipur » Places to Visit in Manipur Places to Visit in Manipur Coyly nestled in the northeast corner of India, the lush green state of Manipur aptly deserves the name, which in Hindi means "the jewel of a land". The picturesque landscape is known to the world more because of its divine Manipuri dance form. Set among the smoky blue hills, tiny state of Manipur is a land of myths and mystery. Tourist attractions in Manipur lie mostly in its splendid landscape, bounteous nature and its cultural wealth. Smokey blue hills and the verdant forests, offer a stunning combination, which you can hardly ignore. Nature is intoxicatingly beautiful and the serenity is overwhelming. Places to See in Manipur Imphal The bustling capital city of the state lies in a heart shaped valley 790 m above sea level. This is a melting pot of various tribes that constitute the populace of Manipur. Tourist attractions in Manipur are mostly located in around the city. Govindajee Temple This is a Vaishnavite temple built by the former King's of Manipur. The simple but beautiful structure consists of 2 domes and a large congregation hall. The shrines of Krishna and Balaram on one side and Jagannnath flank the presiding deity. War Cemetery Commonwealth War Graves Commission maintains the graveyard. Little stone markers with bronze plaques on them commemorate the dead British and Indian soldiers of World War II. Khonghampat Orchidarium The sprawling land of 200 acres boasts of over 110 rare varieties of orchids including a dozen endemic species. Loktak Lake The biggest natural freshwater lake of the North Eastern region of India is the Loktak Lake that is situated at a distance of 48 kilometers from the city of Imphal. The lake is dotted with the vegetative growth of the Phoomdis that grow on the lake. The Sendra island is situated on the lake itself and has a tourist bungalow that provides a captivating view of the lake waters. Zoological Gardens It houses Sangai (the graceful brow antlered deer) at the base of pine-clad hillocks. Langthabal This is a small hill featuring relics of a historic palace and architecturally beautiful temples. Bishnupur The place has a Vishnu temple with peculiar Chinese influence. Beside that, the Loktak Lake, the largest fresh water lake of the northeastern India and Red hill where a fierce battle between the British and the Japanese took place during the World War II. Last Updated on : 19/09/2013 Travel to Manipur Travel to Manipur Travel to Imphal Places to visit in Manipur Places to visit in Imphal Travel Agents Imphal About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule