Ganesh Prajapat - stevia cultivation - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Ganesh Prajapat – stevia cultivation Home Ganesh Prajapat – stevia cultivation ACI Agrosolution was established in 2010 by Mr. Ganesh Prajapat and Mr. Pradeep Sharma. The company is headquartered in Jaipur, Rajasthan. It specializes in stevia cultivation Speaking about the initial challenges faced in setting up the company, Mr.Prajapat says, “We came across an article about the benefits of stevia and wanted to take up stevia cultivation. We did a lot of research to learn about stevia cultivation but not much information was available in India 5-6 years back. We approached some farmers for stevia cultivation but initially it was very difficult to convince them to take up stevia cultivation. We managed to convince a few growers.” The company initially faced problems in finding buyers for the produce. “The selling part was very tough. Farmers still face problems in finding buyers to sell their produce. The market is not open like the general agriculture commodity. The demand is there in the market, but no one knows where it is,” he maintains. He adds, “Slowly we involved more farmers. We were able to understand the package of practices for stevia cultivation in the Indian conditions. We made a small set of cultivation guidelines. The government also started to assist the stevia crop under medicinal crop plantation.” Growth Phases in Stevia Industry Mr. Prajapat talks about the phases of growth and stagnation he has experienced since he entered the industry. “We have seen all the phases in the stevia cultivation, including the introductory stage, expansion stage, shrinking stage, stagnant stage and again growth stage. Today the market for stevia is growing slowly but steadily.” “In the introductory phase people started stevia cultivation blindly without much knowledge. The buyers also purchased and stocked up the crops. Government introduced stevia as a medicinal crop. However, the stevia processing industry didn’t develop in India. Though various products were launched, no guidelines were set by the government. In fact the government banned stevia sweetener products in India but the ban did not extend to stevia cultivation. International buyers continued to show interest in Indian stevia. The European Union and USA recommended stevia as a sweetener. The European demand increased and export of the stevia got a boost. Some stevioside extraction technologies were also introduced.  Three stevia extraction plants have been established in India. We also came in contact with some technology provider for the stevioside extraction.” “The government institute has also started work on stevia. Some big brands like Pepsi, Coke, and Cargill have also associated with stevia. Today the stevia industry is growing. Both export demand and domestic consumption have increased. People have become more aware about the benefits of stevia,” he adds. Future Prospects Mr. Prajapat is positive about the future of stevia in India. “The Indian market is very big. The calorie free sweetener market is booming in India. It is the major advantage that stevia is the only natural calorie free sweetener. Stevia has a large customer base, huge demand. It is the only natural alternate for sugar, and has the export potential and Indian cultivation conditions,” he maintains. For info, write – executivedirectoraci@gmail.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Ganesh Prajapat – stevia cultivation Related – articles, consultants, downloads Stevia Cultivation Stevia Sri Ganesh Visuals – documentaries on agriculture Sandalwood Cultivation and Sales You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water