iVolunteer Chennai - Star Volunteer for August - Suthan - Sociology Student - Loyola CollegeiVolunteer Chennai - Star Volunteer for August - Suthan - Sociology Student - Loyola College | ngogateway.com Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Latest : Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Posted 1 year ago MARS FOUNDATION Posted 1 year ago St.Theresa’s Educational Society Posted 1 year ago Ray Welfare Society Posted 1 year ago Narain Sewa Sansthan Posted 1 year ago WOMEN ORGANISATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRUST Posted 1 year ago Sewa Bhav Foundation Posted 1 year ago Panrui Swajan Welfare Society Posted 4 years ago Sampark Samaj Kalyan Sansthan Posted 4 years ago The Catholic Health Association of India Posted 4 years ago Home   >   Volunteer Experiences   >   iVolunteer Chennai – Star Volunteer for August – Suthan – Sociology Student – Loyola College iVolunteer Chennai – Star Volunteer for August – Suthan – Sociology Student – Loyola College By admin on October 13, 2009 Mr Suthan with kids Mr Suthan, a socialogy student of Loyola college has been chosen to be the Star Volunteer of iVolunteer, Chennai for the month of August 2009. In sharing this information, Ms Dheepam, iVolunteer, Chennai Co-ordinator when speaking of Mr Suthan says “he actively participates in almost all the events happening around Chennai, also motivated his friends and brought them along with him to the event. He is a passion driven guy to contribute something to the society and that’s the reason behind choosing Sociology as his major. To add up to the above, he used to call me up when ever he has a holiday to check if there is some volunteering opportunity for him for that day” On hearing the news Mr Suthan had this to say: “i am really happy to work with you, miss Dheepam :), once Prarthana said ” there may be 100 reasons to cry, but there are 1000 reasons to smile”, i had a really good time working with u in sevalaya,, thank u for guiding me in the best path. “i play trumpet, i was a sportsmen, i had a girl friend.. but the greatest satisfaction i obtained in my life is when i saw hope, peace and sense of gratitude in the eyes of the needy” thank u very much for selecting me as a star volunteer, even though i dont deserve it. this will boost me, and help in the process of turning into a better human, god be with u” — About iVolunteer, Chennai iVolunteer corporate volunteering programs – iVolunteer, the flagship volunteering Programme of Mitra, believes that volunteering is a principal way to address India’s social development needs. For further details please contact: Dheepam S Relationship Manager – iVolunteer Centres, Chennai iVolunteer -“Your skills can change lives”. www.iVolunteer.in Veekay Manor Flat No 11, 2nd Floor, No.8, Gopalakrishna Road, T Nagar Chennai – 600017 Mobile – +91 9940482042 Related Posts: Volunteering in Nepal World Youth Organization Service and Research Institute on Family and… AARUDHAL CHARITABLE TRUST Service and Research Institute on Family and… 100 Reasons Caption Chennai Co Ordinator Flagship Girl Friend Good Time Gratitude India Ivolunteer Mitra Month Of August Passion Peace Relationship Manager Satisfaction Sociology Student Sportsmen Trumpet Volunteer About admin Related Posts Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Sri Vivekananda Educational Society MARS FOUNDATION MARS FOUNDATION St.Theresa’s Educational Society St.Theresa’s Educational Society Ray Welfare Society Ray Welfare Society 2 Comments parimala December 11, 2009 at 4:40 pm Parimala (Student name-cont.No.-9941982761)-In HSC exam got marks in 1150/1200 for 2008-2009 year. This girl studying in SEET college, chennai-I year physics. Her father has the Histeria person. Her mother has disability person. she need more financial support for social help supporters. Kindly arrange her education support. Rajkumar September 13, 2011 at 12:59 pm HI I am rajkumar ,i am an employee of world vision ,I need the help of volunteers in chennai and southern region for the purpose of child focus promotional event in IT Parks n Companies Interested people contact me 9884598551 .If you help for the cause of childrens education god will help you to come up in your furture You must be logged in to post a comment Login Latest News pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile: A.... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym) –... Posted 8 months ago 0 Society for Peoples Integrated Development General information: Full Name of organization Society for People’s Integrated... Posted 8 months ago 0 Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Address: At – Bhalunka Po- Ramdaspur (Godisahi) Dist – Cuttack... Posted 8 months ago 0 Shri Durga Mahila Mandal (SDMM) Village & P.O. Ghanauli, District Roopnagar (Punjab) Shri Durga Mahila... Posted 8 months ago 0 Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) 1A, D. L. Khan Road,... Posted 8 months ago 0 Feedback Funding Agencies A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W Search Latest Popular Comments pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile:... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2.... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym)... Posted 8 months ago 0 Funding Agencies in India A M M Foundation “Tiam House” No 28, Rajaji... Posted 5 years ago 213 List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs American Jewish World Service Ananda Foundation Asia Foundation Baxter... Posted 6 years ago 116 Funding Agencies – C CAAC OF PIKE COUNTY 941 Market Street Piketon OH... Posted 6 years ago 91 Blog about human anatomy says: Awesome post.... Paul Ponniah says: Dear Sir, II, for Jeevan Sagar Trust, are w... Paul Ponniah says: Fine work for the Cause.... Recently Added pragati welfare society gariasathi Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Society for Peoples Integrated Development Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Copyright © 2007 - 14 | All Rights Reserved: advertisement advertisement