Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us volunteer ‘This experience has not only given me an insight in the development sector but has made me understood more about poverty, the role of the women to come out of poverty, and the cohesion of the empowerment of these vulnerable women in South India.’ 'This wonderful experience has enriched me in the understanding and perseverance of the people of India, my colleagues and the members of the Kalanjiam. My gratitude goes to them.’ - Ludmilla Tunjanan Volunteer from Netherlands, Worked in Research and Documentation team of Kalanjiam Programme from 2006 to 2007 Learn about her assignment on profiling people leaders of Kalanjiam Federations   DHAN Foundation has set up a Volunteer programme to provide opportunity for socially concerned young professionals to work in DHAN’s programmes in areas that are mutually enriching and satisfying to the individuals, DHAN and the community. The volunteers bring in their expertise, creativity and enthusiasm to the work that they undertake with the field teams working on the various themes. Volunteers and interns from India and abroad have used this opportunity to work for the poor and their development. Some of the areas that DHAN Foundation has opened up for volunteers to work on and make a difference are in the field of Development Communication , Research , Microinsurance , Water Conservation and Management , Rural and Urban Livelihoods , Coastal conservation , Business development and so on. ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved