India Art Home >> Culture >> India Art   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views About India India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more... Delhi       India Art India art in its varied forms be it painting, sculpture, pottery, music, or dance have always fascinated mankind since time immemorial. The vision and the depth of the artists manifested in their creations speak volumes of the rich cultural legacy of India. The tradition of Indian painting lays in antiquity. The rock paintings of Bhimbetaka caves are one of the earliest expressions of human emotions in the form of lines and visuals. As the civilization emerged the paintings extended to temples, palaces, and cloth in the form of phadas, patachitras and coverlets. Later in the medieval period illustrated manuscripts and miniatures emerged. India saw the emergence of modern art at Bengal nurtured by the stalwarts such as Rabindranath Tagore, Nandalal Bose, and Raja Ravi Verma. Speaking about the sculptural art of India, the country abounds with an array of beautiful works of art in stone, stucco, wood, metal, ivory, and terracotta. The polished sandstone lion edict of Sarnath, magnificent Buddha Statues of the Gandhara and Mathura Schools of art , rock-cut caves of Ajanta and Ellora, Khajuraho Temple, Elephanta Caves and sculptures of South India including Hampi Temple are few of the world famous sculptures. The pottery has always carried natural and functional shapes. India has a large variety of pottery styles. One of the most famous is the blue pottery manufactured at Delhi and Mumbai. India has one of the oldest music traditions in the world. It includes multiple varieties in the form of folk, popular, pop, and classical music, which have universal appeal. The music is based on raga (music code) and taal (beats). Indian Dance styles are influenced by the local traditions and cross-cultural interaction. The primary styles of Indian dances are Bharatanatyam, Kathak, Odissi, Kuchipudi, Mohiniattam, Manipuri and Kathaka followed by a rich potpourri of folk dances including bhangra, bihu and others. The facial expressions, the movement of hands and feet are an integral part of Indian dances.            