href Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Health & Lifestyle » Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty, a renowned cardiac surgeon founded the Narayana Hrudayalaya , a multi-specialty hospital in the outskirts of Bangalore which has earned fame across all of India and the neighbouring countries. Even patients from developed countries have been flocking to this hospital because of the high-quality and affordable treatment. Dr. Shetty is also credited with introducing Yashasvini, a health insurance scheme provided at very nominal rates in collaboration with the Government of Karnataka. He did his graduation and post-graduation in Medicine from the Kasturba Medical College, Mangalore, before moving to the United Kingdom for his education. After attending a basic training in Cardiac Surgery at the West Midlands Cardiothoracic Rotation programme, he trained at the Guy's Hospital in London between 1983 and 1989. After returned to India in 1989, he started off at the B.M. Birla Hospital in Kolkata. He then moved on to Bangalore. In 1997 he teamed up to start the Manipal Heart Foundation. He has single-handedly brought down the cost of many complicated heart surgeries, bringing them within the reach of many people. He has a long list of achievements. Dr.Shetty is the first heart surgeon in India to perform neo-natal open-heart surgery, the first surgeon in India to use an artificial heart and many others. He operates kids under twelve for free and a major chunk of his operations are on children.   Related Links   Doctors Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty Naresh Trehan Dr. K. Anji Reddy Venugopal Dr. Pratap C Reddy Devi Shetty Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule