Services offered by the statistics division of DGCI&S JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics Ministry of Commerce and industry, Govt. of India Home FAQ Contact Us Home Organization Profile History Foreign Trade Statistics Ancillary Statistics Indian Trade Journal Commercial Intelligence Commercial Library Press Notes Data Summary Trade Data Priced Detail Data Price Information System Notice Publications Registration Trade Directory Feedback Contact Us RTI FAQ Sitemap Data Dissemination Policy Data Privacy Policy Dynamic Data Revision Policy Quick Estimate Commercial Library Services Recruitment Rules Events / Announcements Media Gallery Highlights Latest 24-months Export final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website Latest 24-months Import final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website DGCIS has introduced 168 new commodity groups for publication of principal commodity level foreign trade data Are you interested in doing business with the Government of India Organizations? Click Here Visit the Related sites RFD CITIZEN'S CHARTER Grievance Redressal This site has been visited 995553 times on Saturday, May, 30, 2015 PUBLIC GRIEVANCES Home Data Summary Trade Data Priced Information System(PIS) Data Dissemination Policy and Fee Structure The DGCI&S has a Priced Information System(PIS) for disseminating data except for purely Central and State Governments and United Nations bodies. The cost of data is Re 1 per output record. In addition, the service charge @10% of the data cost, subject to the minimum of Rs100.00, the cost of floppies/CD-ROM and the postage charges (not necessary if taken by hand) are to be paid by the party. A record may be any of the following single combination depending on the customers Specific requirement. i) Commodity*country ii) Port*commodity*country iii) Commodity iv) Country v) Port, etc The payment towards the data cost is to be paid through Demand Draft in favour of 'Director General, DGCI&S, Kolkata', payable at any National or International Bank at Kolkata. Note: The amount paid through the demand draft is nonrefundable. For further details contact : Mr. Amitabha Pradhan Dy.Director.General DGCI&S 565, ANANDAPUR , WARD NO. 108, SECTOR – 1 , PLOT NO. 22, ECADP KOLKATA-700107 India Phone Number : +91.33.24431993 Email: amitabhapradhan@rediffmail.com;a.pradhan.dgcis@nic.in Web Based PIS In the Member Zone of the website one can obtain the month-wise latest 24-months Final Export/ Import Data under user specific query at 2/4/6/8 digit commodity 2/4/6/8 digit commodity by country Country level data Principal commodity level Principal commodity by country Mazor port level Mazor port by principal commodity level Except All commodities of a country The cost of data is Re 1 per output record. No other charge is involved. One can become a member after registering through the website and making an advance payment of Rs. 1000/- ( Rs one thousand only) through Demand Draft in favour of 'Director General,DGCI&S, Kolkata' , payable at any National or International Bank at Kolkata to the following address: Director General, Directorate General Of Commercial Intelligence & Statistics, M/O Commerce and Industry, 565, Anandapur, Ward No. 108, Sector – 1 , Plot No. 22, ECADP Kolkata – 700107 Your advance payment will be adjusted online as and when you extract the data. However a minimum balance of Rs. 200 is to be maintained. Further additional advance payment shall be accepted for Rs. 500/- or more through bank draft for registered users. Transaction Level Data : From 2004-05, transactionwise import data, suppressing the identity of the importers are provided to different private users for anti-dumping investigations after proper authentication by the Directorate General of Anti-Dumping and Allied Duties (DGAD). The following particulars of transaction level data are provided to the users under the Right to Information Act, 2005: 1. Country of origin and country of destination for import or export respectively, 2. ITC(HS) code 3. Description of product 4. Unit of quantity 5. Quantity of goods 6. Value of goods in Indian Rupees. Similarly, for export data also the above mentioned particulars are only supplies. The identity particulars of exporters/importers, like name, address, IE code etc. are not provided under any circumstances For transaction level data Rs. 1.00 per record/transaction and a service charge @ 10% of data cost subject to a minimum of Rs. 100.00 separately for Export and Import will be charged excluding the cost of floppy/CD and postal charge. Related Sites :: Contact Us :: Feedback :: Sitemap Source : Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Last Updated on 19-05-2015 Home Downloads & Plug-ins Help Accessibility Statement Accessibility Options Privacy Policy Hyperlinking Policy Copyright Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Contents of this website is published and managed by DGCI&S , Government of India. For any queries regarding this website please contact Web Master. © Copyright reserved by Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 565, Anandapur, Ward No. 108,Sector - 1 , Plot No. 22, ECADP, Kolkata - 700107