State Schemes | Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home State Schemes State Schemes I. STATE PLAN SCHEMES Integrated Horticulture Development Scheme Horticulture Training Centrers Integrated Tribal Development Programme Western Ghat Development Programme City Vegetable Development Scheme Hill Area Development Programme National Agricultural Insurance Scheme Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme National Agriculture Development Programme Part II Schemes 1. INTEGRATED HORTICULTURE DEVELOPMENT SCHEME OBJECTIVE: To increase the area under Horticulture Crops  SCHEME COMPONENT Area Expansion of Vegetable (area is limited to 0.5 ha./Farmer) Area Expansion of Fruit (area is limited to 1.0 ha./Farmer) Area Expansion of Flower (area is limited to 0.5. ha./Farmer) Area Expansion of Spices (area is limited to 1.0 ha./Farmer)  SELECTION OF BENEFICIARIES  80% - General Farmers 19% - SC Farmers 1% - ST Farmers SUBSIDY PATTERN 50% Subsidy to Fruits, Vegetable, Flowers and Spices and Planting Materials  IMPLEMENTATION The Scheme is implemented in 31 districts except Chennai During 2011-12 the scheme was implemented in 26583 ha. area has been covered with a financial outlay of Rs.371.83 lakhs During 2012-13, it is proposed to cover 75000 ha. area with the financial outlay of Rs.1925 lakhs.  2. HORTICULTURE TRAINING CENTRES Horticulture Training Centre, Madhavaram, Chennai. Central Horticulture Training Centre, Kudumianmalai, Pudukkottai District. Horticulture Training Centre, Thally, Krishnagiri District. HTC, Ooty, Nilgiris District Training is imparted on latest technologies to the farmers and field level functionaries of the Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. During 2011-12, training was given to 6400 farmers at an expenditure of Rs.6.97 lakhs. During 2012 – 13, It is planned to train 6400 farmers / field level functionaries at an outlay of Rs.19.20 lakhs.  3. INTEGRATED TRIBAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME OBJECTIVE  To Improve the Socio Economic Status of the Scheduled Tribe Farmers To increase area under Horticulture Crops  SCHEME COMPONENT & SUBSIDY PATTERN Area Expansion of Vegetable (0.4 ha./Farmer) with 90% Subsidy Area Expansion of Fruit (0.4 ha./Farmer) with 75% Subsidy Distribution of Oil Engine (Subsidy limited toRs.11250) Training and Exposure visit to the Farmers. Distribution of plant protection equipments (Subsidy limited to Rs.3750)  SELECTION OF BENEFICIARIES  Scheduled Tribal Farmers Only  IMPLEMENTATION The Scheme is implementated in Salem (Shervroys, Arunuthumalai, Kalrayan, Patchamalai), Namakkal (Kollihills), Dharmapuri (Sitheri hills), Tiruvannamalai (Jawadhu hills), Vellore (Yelagiri hills), Trichy (Pachamalai) and Villupuram  During 2012-13 the scheme is being implemented with the financial outlay of Rs.40.00 lakhs  4. WESTERN GHATS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME OBJECTIVE  To Improve the Production and Productivity Horticulture Crops Introduction of Hi-tech Horticulture in the Water shed area   SCHEME COMPONENT & SUBSIDY PATTERN Organic Farming with 25% Subsidy Tours and Training of latest Technologies with 100% Subsidy from State and Central Research Station Civil Works  SELECTION OF BENEFICIARIES 80% - General Farmers 19% - SC Farmers 1% - ST Farmers  IMPLEMENTATION  The Scheme is implemented in Tirupur, Coimbatore, Dindugal, Madurai, Theni, Viruthunagar, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari. In 2012 – 13 this scheme is going to be implemented with a financial outlay of 186.00 Lakhs.  5. HILL AREA DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME OBJECTIVE  To Improve the Socio Economic Status of the Nilgiri’s Farmers by giving subsidy to the farmers. To increase the area under Horticultural Crops  SCHEME COMPONENT & SUBSIDY PATTERN Distribution of Vegetable Seeds at 50% Subsidy Distribution of Oil Engine with 25% Subsidy Distribution of Hand Sprayers with 25% Subsidy Distribution of Power Tiller with 25% Subsidy Distribution of Agricultural Implements with 25% Subsidy Distribution of Tea clones with 50% Subsidy  SELECTION OF BENEFICIARIES  Small and Marginal Farmers are eligible  IMPLEMENTATION  The Scheme is implemented only in Nilgiri District During In 2012 – 13, it has been to purposed implement with a financial outlay of  Rs. 240.00 Lakhs to cover an area of 1850 Ha.  6. CITY VEGETABLE DEVELOPMENT SCHEME OBJECTIVE  To Introduce the Kitchen Garden and to supply Vegetable Seeds Planting Materials and inputs for Chennai city people to improve the productivity. To give the Plant Protection Technologies for the Garden Plants. Providing technologies for garden maintenance. To Make Chennai city clean and green.  SCHEME COMPONENT & SUBSIDY PATTERN Distribution of Planting  material at full cost Distribution of Vegetable Seeds at full cost Distribution of Fertilizers and plant protection chemicals at full cost  SELECTION OF BENEFICIARIES  All Chennai City People  IMPLEMENTATION  The Scheme is implemented in Chennai District Only During  2012 – 13 this scheme is going to be implemented with a financial outlay of Rs. 3.5 Lakhs.  7. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE SCHEME (NAIS)   In Horticulture controllable risks like pests, diseases, weeds, and seed material can be  managed with the use of technology, effective monitoring and appropriate usage of  inputs. However, the challenge lies in providing risk management solutions for  uncontrollable risks like rainfall - it’s deficit, excess and distribution, extreme  temperature conditions, hail incidences, extreme wind speeds, humidity variations etc.  National Agricultural Insurance Scheme provides insurance coverage and financial support to the farmers in the event of failure of any of the notified crop as a result of yield loss due to such non preventable risks by which it encourages the farmers to adopt progressive farming practices, high value in-puts and higher technology thereby stabilizes the farm income in particular during the disaster years. The scheme is implemented in all the districts except Cuddalore, Sivagangai and Namakkal districts, where Modified National Agricultural Scheme is being implemented in pilot basis. Crops covered:  Banana, Potato, chillies, ginger, Tapioca, onion and turmeric are presently been covered. Other perennial crops will be covered upto 3 years period.  Eligible farmers:  All categories of farmers including tenant farmers growing the notified crops in the notified areas are eligible for coverage under this scheme. Farmers availing loan for Seasonal Agricultural Operations (SAO) are covered under compulsory basis and  farmers who opt are covered under voluntary basis provided the crop should be notified.  Subsidy pattern:  Category of farmer Classification of farmer Farmer's share of premium (%) Government of India's share of subsidy (%) Government of Tamil Nadu subsidy (%) Total (%) Loanee Farmers Small & Marginal Farmers 50   5   45   100   Other Farmers 50   - 50   100   Non-Loanee Farmers Small & Marginal Farmers 45   5   50   100   Other Farmers 50   - 50   100   MODIFIED NATIONAL AGRICULTURE INSURANCE SCHEME Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme is proposed to be implemented as  pilot scheme in Namakkal, Cuddalore and Sivagangai Districts of  Tamil Nadu during 2012-13 by the State Government through Agricultural Insurance Company of India Limited., Chennai-1 with the following main features. I.  Actuarial rate of premium will be paid for insuring crops and hence claims liability will be on insurers. II.  Unit area of insurance for major crops will be Revenue Village. III.  Indemnity amount will become payable, for prevented sowing / failed sowing, planting risks,  post harvest losses and due to Cyclones. IV.  On account payment up to 25% of likely claim under Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme will be released as advance by    Agricultural Insurance Company, for providing immediate relief to  the farmers. V.  Uniform seasonality norms will be applicable for both loanee and non- loanee farmers. VI.  More proficient basis for calculation of thresh hold yield (average yield of  last 7 years excluding up to two years declared as affected by  natural calamity year) will be applicable. VII. Minimum indemnity level  under Modified National Agricultural  Insurance Scheme will be 70% instead of 60% as in National Agricultural Insurance Scheme. VIII.  All claims will be borne by the insurance companies.  CROPS COVERED Annual Commercial / Horticultural Crops. These crops will be covered subject to availability of  (i) the past yield data, based on crop cutting experiments (CCE's) for adequate number of years and (ii) requisite number of CCE's are conducted for estimating the yield during the proposed seasons.  FARMERS  COVERED All farmers including share croppers, tenant farmers, growing the notified crops, in the notified areas are eligible for coverage. The category of farmers  include, i. Individual owners - Cultivator / Tenant Farmers / Share Croppers. ii. Farmers enrolled under contract farming directly or through Promoters /     Organizers. iii. Groups of Farmer / Societies, serviced by Fertilizers Companies, Pesticide   Firms, Crop Growers associations, Self Help Groups (SHGs), Non-Governmental organizations (NGOs) and others.    - Loanee farmers would be covered on  compulsory basis.    -  Non-Loanee farmers would be covered on voluntary basis. The scheme is expected to : a. Be a critical instrument in the field of crop production, providing financial support to the farmers in the event of crop failure. b. Encourage farmers to adopt progressive farming practices and higher technology in  Agriculture/Horticulture. c. Help in maintaining flow of Agricultural credit d. Provide significant benefits not merely to the insured farmers, but to the entire community directly and indirectly through spillover and multiplier effects in terms of maintaining production and employment, generation of market fees,  taxes etc., and net accredition to economic growth. e. Stream line loss assessment and enable expeditious settlement of claims. Compensation payment is met by the Insurance Companies as actuarial rate of premium is charged and commitment to Government will be negligible.    8. WEATHER BASED CROP INSURANCE SCHEME     Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme aims to mitigate the hardship of the insured farmers against the likelihood of financial loss on account of anticipated crop loss resulting from incidence of adverse Weather conditions. The scheme covers the risk of weather related issues like rainfall, frost, heat (temperature), humidity etc. Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme is being implemented in Tamil Nadu from Kharif 2008 onwards in selected districts viz., Salem, Dharmapuri, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Virudhunagar, Coimbatore, Villupuram and Dindugul. From 2010-11 Rabi onwards the scheme is extended to Tiruppur, Tirunelveli and Theni districts.  While crop insurance specifically indemnifies the cultivator against shortfall in crop yield, Weather Based Crop Insurance is built upon the fact that weather conditions affect crop production even when a cultivator has taken all the care to ensure good harvest. Crops Covered. Onion, Tomato, Chillies, Gherkins. Tapioca, Turmeric, Banana, Jasmine, Rose, Tuberose and Grapes are presently been covered. Eligible farmers. All categories of farmers including tenant farmers growing the notified crops in the notified areas are eligible for coverage under this scheme. Farmers availing loan for Seasonal Agricultural Operations (SAO) are covered under compulsory basis and  farmers who opt are covered under voluntary basis provided the crop should be notified.   Sl.No Implementing Agency Districts 1   Agricultural Insurance Company of India Ltd., Dharmapuri. Perambalur, Ariyalur, Salem, Virudhunagar.   2   ICICI-Lombard General Insurance Company   Villupuram, Dindugul. 3   IFFCO-TOKIO General Insurance Company Coimbatore, Thiruppur. 4   Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company   Tirunelveli 5   HDFC-ERGO General Insurance Company Theni.  In the areas where Agricultural Insurance Company of India Ltd., Chennai, ICICI-Lombard General Insurance Company, Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company and HDFC-ERGO General Insurance Company are implementing Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme, the National Agricultural Insurance Scheme will be withdrawn for Loanee farmers. However, in respect of Non-Loanee farmers, the farmers can choose either National Agricultural Insurance Scheme or Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme.  1. NATIONAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME Tamil Nadu Government has an aim of increasing the production and productivity of the Horticulture Crops to 9-10% in the II Green Revolution. The area of the horticulture crops will be increased by inducing the horticulture crops as an alternate crop instead of the poor yielding other crops. It is planned to double the production and productivity of the total horticulture crops in the 12th Five Year Plan. This year, various special schemes will be planned and implemented for the betterment of the production of fruits, vegetables and other horticulture crops. Micro Irrigation, Precision Farming, Hi-density planting through Hi-tech Enhancement Productivity Programme will be popularized and will be given much preference for improving the land and water management and to increase the area expansion of Horticulture Crops inturn to improve the income status of the farmers.   S.No. Schemes Benefits of the Scheme Target 1. Precision Farming 60-80% increased production Reduced Labour need 30-40% water saving Increased harvesting period with yield increase Improved technology know how of the farmers, and social status The area of vegetable cultivation will be 10% in 10 years, with a physical target of 6000 ha at an outlay of Rs.1260 lakhs. 2. Hi-tech Productivity Enhancement Programme The area of Mango and Cashew will be increased 5% in Hi-tech planting in Mango and Cashew with a physical target of 7745 ha at an outlay of Rs.1030.925 for this year. 3. Encouraging Pandal Vegetable Cultivation By erecting permanent pandal structure beans, gounds vegetable will be cultivated in a better manner to increase the productivity of those crops with the physical target of 500 ha at an outlay of Rs.778 Lakhs And also, the Modernisation of State Horticulture Farms, Mechanisation of Harvesting technology in Turmeric and Tapioca have been planned to improve the life status of farmers by producing good quality planting materials and hybrid seeds with a reduced cost of cultivation. Creation of Horticulture Villages is being to be created at 75 villages in 15 districts to implement all the, Government schemes as a role model for all the other villages. Visitor Counter: 842375 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015