Medical Colleges in Jammu and Kashmir, Top Medical (MBBS) Colleges in Jammu and Kashmir HOME | COLLEGES | TOP 10 COLLEGES | UNIVERSITIES | CAREER | HOW TO PREPARE | DATESHEET DU Cut Off 2015 Dates  |  Top 10 Medical Colleges  |  Top 10 MBA Colleges  |  Top 10 Engineering Colleges  |  Top 10 Science Colleges  |  Top 10 Commerce Colleges Home » Education » Medical Colleges » Medical Colleges in Jammu and Kashmir Medical Colleges in India Andhra Pradesh Chhattisgarh Gujarat Jammu & Kashmir Kerala Manipur Punjab Tamil Nadu West Bengal Assam Delhi Haryana Jharkhand Madhya Pradesh Orissa Rajasthan Uttar Pradesh Bihar Goa Himachal Pradesh Karnataka Maharashtra Pondicherry Sikkim Uttaranchal Telangana Top 10 Medical Colleges in India AIIMS Colleges in India Career in Medical Coaching Institutes for Medical (MBBS) Exams Entrance Exams for MBBS How To Prepare for AIPMT Colleges Animation Colleges Architecture Colleges Arts Colleges B Ed BBA Colleges BCA Colleges B.Pharma Colleges Commerce Colleges Dental Colleges Engineering Colleges Fashion Designing Colleges Hotel Management Colleges Law Colleges Mass Communication Colleges MBA Colleges MCA Colleges Polytechnic Colleges Science Colleges Universities in India Medical Colleges in Jammu and Kashmir Location Map of Medical Colleges in Jammu and Kashmir Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing Medical Colleges in the State Jammu and Kashmir. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The year 1970 saw the establishment of the own university and education board of Jammu & Kashmir by the government. Since then many schools, colleges, educational institutes and universities have emerged in the state. Medical colleges are also not lagging behind. The medical colleges of Jammu & Kashmir aim at providing medical education to the students of the state and the country, besides improving the health system of the state. All sorts of medical colleges from Allopathic to Ayurvedic to Homeopathic can be found in this beautiful state of Jammu & Kashmir. One of the premier medical colleges of Jammu & Kashmir is the Government Medical College established in 1973. Presently it is counted among the top most colleges of Northern India. The Government Medical College under the University of Kashmir also comes in the list of top five medical institutes of India. Admission Procedure The northern state of Jammu & Kashmir admits students from all across the country for medical education. Students who have scored at least 50% marks in the 10+2 examination, in Science, are eligible to seat for the Common Entrance Examination which takes place once in a year. Admission to undergraduate courses like MBBS etc is done on the basis of the results of the entrance test. Students who have completed their MBBS examination from a recognized medical institute along with an internship can go for various post graduate programs like MS, MD etc. The various specializations that the medical students of Jammu & Kashmir can opt for are listed below. Different Fields of Specializations Some of the specializations open for the medical students of Jammu & Kashmir are as follows. ENT Pharmacology Obstetrics & Gynaecology Physiology Anaesthesiology Psychiatry Medicine Pediatrics Surgery Opthalmology Dermatology S & PM List of Top Medical Colleges in Jammu and Kashmir Name Address Phone No. Acharya Shri Chander College of Medical Sciences 75, N.H. Bypass, P.B. No. 5, HPO Gandhinagar, Jammu, Jammu and Kashmir - 180004 0191-2662270 Government Medical College Bakshinagar, Jammu And Kashmir- 180006 0191-25842349 Government Medical College Karan Nagar, Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir -190010 0194-2453114 Sher - i - Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences Soura, Srinagar, Jammu & Kashmir - 190011 0194-2401013, 2403470 Last Updated on : 2/05/2013 About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule