Sikkim The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Sikkim Written by Administrator on 06 May 2014 . Posted in About North East Twitter INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES Sikkim is a beautiful State situated in the Eastern Himalayan stretch of the Indian sub-continent bounded by vast stretches of the Tibetan Plateau in the North, Chumbi Valley of Tibet and the Kingdom of Bhutan in the East, the Kingdom of Nepal in the West, and Darjeeling in the South. Mt. Kanchenjunga, world's third highest mountain, dominates this tiny Himalayan State with its beauty and majesty. This state is one of the 18 biodiversity hotspots in the world including nearly one third of the total species of angiosperm found in the country, around 4,000 species of flowering plants, 300 species of ferns and allies, 144 species of mammals and 500 to 600 species of birds. Such natural beauty along with an ideal climatic condition makes a promising tourism industry in the state. The green image of this state makes it an attractive investment destination. The three groups of natives of Sikkim are mainly engaged in different economic activities, prominent among which are tourism, horticulture and agriculture. The other advantageous features of the state are – Supportive and flexible administrative set up Skilled and educated labor force Efficient transportation and communication network Sound water and power supply Investor friendly environment Presence of several medicinal herbs. AGRO-BASED INDUSTRIES Agriculture is the major economic activity practiced on the terraced fields of Sikkim. Maize, rice, wheat, potato, large cardamom, ginger and turmeric are the principal crops while mandarin orange, guava, mango and banana are the principal fruits grown. As far as floriculture is concerned, the commercial cultivation of variety of orchids, gladioli, anthuriums and rhododendrons is picking up rapidly. Even the medicinal and aromatic herbs are facing an ever-expanding market both nationally and internationally. But, there are several limitations in terms of productivity, irrigation and the scope for extending cultivation due to the practice of terrace farming. Hence, there is a necessity for investment in the fields of horticulture, floriculture and in innovative practices of land management. Also, due to the availability of all the necessary raw materials, there is an enormous untapped potential for setting up various agro-based industries in this state. HANDICRAFTS AND HANDLOOM The traditional handicrafts and handloom products of the State are of high quality and enjoy huge demand, both nationally and internationally. These include carpet weaving, cane and bamboo crafts, spinning wool, handmade paper and thanka paintings. This industry has a great potential to generate income and employment in the state. Hence, in order to give a boost to this sector, the Government of Sikkim has been making several efforts like providing training to upgrade the quality and designs of the products, bringing experts and professionals for their marketing and supply. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY The State has already picked up a great pace in the knowledge-based industries. The Government of Sikkim has placed IT high on its agenda and The Department of Information Technology has also been set up for preparing extensive projects, particularly aiming at e-governance, promoting IT enabled services like medical transcription, telemedicine and computerized Braille. The real potential of the IT industry lies in its skilled manpower resource. The Government has also framed an 'IT policy' with the aim of transforming a State into an IT State. TOURISM Sikkim, due to its spectacular natural beauty, cultural uniqueness and religious mysticism, is emerging as an eye-catching tourist destination in the Eastern Himalayas. It includes wealth of natural resources, the third highest mountain of the world, rich flora and fauna, cultural festivals and festivities. The Government of Sikkim is encouraging private participation in the development and commercial activities of the tourism sector. There are tremendous opportunities for investment in meeting the tourists’ demands for resorts, hotels, restaurants, surface and air transports, entertainment outlets and souvenirs. Thus, inspite of its hilly terrain, Sikkim has several advantages and opportunities for investment. The above mentioned resource base can be utilized for setting up industrial units in the state. There are immense unharnessed potentials in the various sectors of its economy like it is the largest producer of cardamom in the country, the traditional handlooms and handicrafts of Sikkim are in demand worldwide, its proficient manpower can be used for transforming it into an IT state and its beautiful landscape and rich cultural heritage makes it an attractive tourist destination. The Government of Sikkim has made several efforts for attracting investment into these sectors of the state which encourages investors to set up various industrial units by optimally utilizing the numerous resources as well as incentives and schemes available within the state. Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Comments Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS No comments found Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Twitter Feeds Tweets by @fineroffice Home About Finer What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com