Stall Fed Goat Farming Hand Book & Project Report AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Project Reports Stall Fed Goat Farming Hand Book & Project Report Page 1 of 12 1 2 3 11 ... Last Jump to page: Results 1 to 10 of 118 Thread: Stall Fed Goat Farming Hand Book & Project Report LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… August 12th, 2012 #1 agri2win Join Date May 2012 Posts 129 Stall Fed Goat Farming Hand Book & Project Report Info Hand Book & Financial Project report on Stall Fed Goat Farming Prepared on July 2013 Data (100+5) Project value (100+5) Investment Rs 16 Lakh (Even can start with 4 Lakh) 2nd Year Profit Minimum Rs 15 Lakh Break Even Point Below 2 Year Total Profit Minimum Rs 1.00 Crores in 6 years Customization: Customized based on investment and also size of goat farm. Useful to new and existing farm owners. Language: Simple English, Step by Step Procedure Topics covered in Info Hand Book & Project Report Introduction to Goat Farming Why Goat Farming Market Survey Advantages and Disadvantages of Goat Farming Types of Breed based on your locality Land Requirement Farm shed layout and material details Other Building requirement is medicinal walk and bath Equipment details with local equipment seller Healthcare for Goat and Farm Workers Vaccination Schedule Types of disease Disease identification and prevention De-corning, De-worming and Tagging 3 types Feeds and Feeding Methods with Time Feeding Ratio based on Age and Sex Home made Concentrate feed making Green Fodder cultivation step by step details Other dry fodder details Feed sellers (Even we teach making conc feed at home) Goat and Breed selection Mating steps and process Full Breeding Cycle Month by Month Details Pregnancy Management Farm cleaning and Normal Practice in Farm Workers daily working schedule in farm Record Maintenance for extra profit Insurance premium and Company details Present farms list for free visit Goat Training centers Profit from Goats used for Breeding or Meat Profit from Manure Profit from Others Economic Report Includes the following Building cost Equipment cost Goat cost Insurance cost Veterinary cost Green Fodder cost Conc Feed cost Salary and Maintenance Total Project Cost Total Turnover (Calculated on Both Breeding and Meat included) Total Profit (Calculated on Both Breeding and Meat included) Break even point EMI and Interest repayment schedule Finance and subsidy options Stock value and depreciation Cash flow and financial projection for 6 years Hand Book & Project report cost : Rs 1000 (No Discount) Delivery mode/Time: Email and in 24 to 48 hours PM me for Contact & Bank details and also for other queries. Project Report with us: Dairy Farming | Hi-Tech Green House | Banana Cultivation | UHD Mango Farm | ETC Last edited by agri2win; July 24th, 2013 at 07:55 PM . Reply With Quote August 12th, 2012 #2 sandeep7 Join Date Apr 2012 Posts 6 Originally Posted by agri2win Info Hand Book & Financial Project report on Stall Fed Goat Farming Prepared on Aug 2012 Data (100+5) Project value (100+5) Investment Rs 16 Lakh (Even can start with 4 Lakh) 2nd Year Profit Minimum Rs 15 Lakh Break Even Point Below 2 Year Total Profit Minimum Rs 1.00 Crores in 6 years Customization: Customized based on investment and also size of goat farm. Useful to new and existing farm owners. Language: Simple English, Step by Step Procedure Topics covered in Info Hand Book & Project Report Introduction to Goat Farming Why Goat Farming Market Survey Advantages and Disadvantages of Goat Farming Types of Breed based on your locality Land Requirement Farm shed layout and material details Other Building requirement is medicinal walk and bath Equipment details with local equipment seller Healthcare for Goat and Farm Workers Vaccination Schedule Types of disease Disease identification and prevention De-corning, De-worming and Tagging 3 types Feeds and Feeding Methods with Time Feeding Ratio based on Age and Sex Home made Concentrate feed making Green Fodder cultivation step by step details Other dry fodder details Feed sellers (Even we teach making conc feed at home) Goat and Breed selection Mating steps and process Full Breeding Cycle Month by Month Details Pregnancy Management Farm cleaning and Normal Practice in Farm Workers daily working schedule in farm Record Maintenance for extra profit Insurance premium and Company details Present farms list for free visit Goat Training centers Profit from Goats used for Breeding or Meat Profit from Manure Profit from Others Economic Report Includes the following Building cost Equipment cost Goat cost Insurance cost Veterinary cost Green Fodder cost Conc Feed cost Salary and Maintenance Total Project Cost Total Turnover (Calculated on Both Breeding and Meat included) Total Profit (Calculated on Both Breeding and Meat included) Break even point EMI and Interest repayment schedule Finance and subsidy options Stock value and depreciation Cash flow and financial projection for 6 years Hand Book & Project report cost : Rs 1000 (No Discount) Delivery mode/Time: Email and in 24 to 48 hours PM me for Contact & Bank details and also for other queries. Project Report with us: Dairy Farming | Hi-Tech Green House | Banana Cultivation | UHD Mango Farm | ETC hi i am sandeep singh from patiala punjab, how can i get this book, plz. tell howmany pages this book contains. Last edited by moderator A; August 13th, 2012 at 05:52 PM . Reason: only business members are allowed to post contact info. please click My Account to upgrade Reply With Quote August 29th, 2012 #3 deepz Join Date Aug 2012 Posts 2 Originally Posted by agri2win Info Hand Book & Financial Project report on Stall Fed Goat Farming Prepared on Aug 2012 Data (100+5) Project value (100+5) Investment Rs 16 Lakh (Even can start with 4 Lakh) 2nd Year Profit Minimum Rs 15 Lakh Break Even Point Below 2 Year Total Profit Minimum Rs 1.00 Crores in 6 years Customization: Customized based on investment and also size of goat farm. Useful to new and existing farm owners. Language: Simple English, Step by Step Procedure Topics covered in Info Hand Book & Project Report Introduction to Goat Farming Why Goat Farming Market Survey Advantages and Disadvantages of Goat Farming Types of Breed based on your locality Land Requirement Farm shed layout and material details Other Building requirement is medicinal walk and bath Equipment details with local equipment seller Healthcare for Goat and Farm Workers Vaccination Schedule Types of disease Disease identification and prevention De-corning, De-worming and Tagging 3 types Feeds and Feeding Methods with Time Feeding Ratio based on Age and Sex Home made Concentrate feed making Green Fodder cultivation step by step details Other dry fodder details Feed sellers (Even we teach making conc feed at home) Goat and Breed selection Mating steps and process Full Breeding Cycle Month by Month Details Pregnancy Management Farm cleaning and Normal Practice in Farm Workers daily working schedule in farm Record Maintenance for extra profit Insurance premium and Company details Present farms list for free visit Goat Training centers Profit from Goats used for Breeding or Meat Profit from Manure Profit from Others Economic Report Includes the following Building cost Equipment cost Goat cost Insurance cost Veterinary cost Green Fodder cost Conc Feed cost Salary and Maintenance Total Project Cost Total Turnover (Calculated on Both Breeding and Meat included) Total Profit (Calculated on Both Breeding and Meat included) Break even point EMI and Interest repayment schedule Finance and subsidy options Stock value and depreciation Cash flow and financial projection for 6 years Hand Book & Project report cost : Rs 1000 (No Discount) Delivery mode/Time: Email and in 24 to 48 hours PM me for Contact & Bank details and also for other queries. Project Report with us: Dairy Farming | Hi-Tech Green House | Banana Cultivation | UHD Mango Farm | ETC sir i am interested in buying ur projects kindly cal to 9842443843 dheepan.s Reply With Quote September 5th, 2012 #4 BISWAL S.C Join Date Dec 2004 Posts 7 Stall Fed Goat Farming Hand Book & Project Report DEAR SIR, GIVE YOUR CONTACT DETAIL TO GET YOUR VALUABLE Stall Fed Goat Farming Hand Book & Project Report BEST REGARDS Last edited by moderator A; September 5th, 2012 at 07:53 AM . Reason: only business members are allowed to post contact info. please click My Account to upgrade Reply With Quote September 6th, 2012 #5 haasini Join Date Aug 2012 Posts 37 Goat farm report Kindly share your project report with me and what is the maximum loan amount can we get through bank for 500 goats project. Originally Posted by agri2win Info Hand Book & Financial Project report on Stall Fed Goat Farming Prepared on Aug 2012 Data (100+5) Project value (100+5) Investment Rs 16 Lakh (Even can start with 4 Lakh) 2nd Year Profit Minimum Rs 15 Lakh Break Even Point Below 2 Year Total Profit Minimum Rs 1.00 Crores in 6 years Customization: Customized based on investment and also size of goat farm. Useful to new and existing farm owners. Language: Simple English, Step by Step Procedure Topics covered in Info Hand Book & Project Report Introduction to Goat Farming Why Goat Farming Market Survey Advantages and Disadvantages of Goat Farming Types of Breed based on your locality Land Requirement Farm shed layout and material details Other Building requirement is medicinal walk and bath Equipment details with local equipment seller Healthcare for Goat and Farm Workers Vaccination Schedule Types of disease Disease identification and prevention De-corning, De-worming and Tagging 3 types Feeds and Feeding Methods with Time Feeding Ratio based on Age and Sex Home made Concentrate feed making Green Fodder cultivation step by step details Other dry fodder details Feed sellers (Even we teach making conc feed at home) Goat and Breed selection Mating steps and process Full Breeding Cycle Month by Month Details Pregnancy Management Farm cleaning and Normal Practice in Farm Workers daily working schedule in farm Record Maintenance for extra profit Insurance premium and Company details Present farms list for free visit Goat Training centers Profit from Goats used for Breeding or Meat Profit from Manure Profit from Others Economic Report Includes the following Building cost Equipment cost Goat cost Insurance cost Veterinary cost Green Fodder cost Conc Feed cost Salary and Maintenance Total Project Cost Total Turnover (Calculated on Both Breeding and Meat included) Total Profit (Calculated on Both Breeding and Meat included) Break even point EMI and Interest repayment schedule Finance and subsidy options Stock value and depreciation Cash flow and financial projection for 6 years Hand Book & Project report cost : Rs 1000 (No Discount) Delivery mode/Time: Email and in 24 to 48 hours PM me for Contact & Bank details and also for other queries. Project Report with us: Dairy Farming | Hi-Tech Green House | Banana Cultivation | UHD Mango Farm | ETC Last edited by moderator A; September 6th, 2012 at 01:18 PM . Reason: only premium members are allowed to post contact info. please click My Account to upgrade Reply With Quote September 6th, 2012 #6 haasini Join Date Aug 2012 Posts 37 500 goats project required, As i'm interested in your project kindly let me know how to buy ... 500 goats,man power ?, shed size and coast, low coast tech, income tax ? feed dry and green, workers health management? what is the maximum loan amount can we get from bank? subsidy? etc.... You can call me n mail me L.Vijay Last edited by moderator A; September 6th, 2012 at 03:04 PM . Reason: only premium members are allowed to post contact info. please click My Account to upgrade Reply With Quote September 13th, 2012 #7 cnsatisha Premium Member Join Date May 2008 Posts 14 Project report Hi, please share your contact information need project report, regards, Last edited by moderator A; September 13th, 2012 at 05:11 PM . Reason: only premium members are allowed to post contact info. please click My Account to upgrade Reply With Quote September 14th, 2012 #8 haasini Join Date Aug 2012 Posts 37 My Contact details L.vijay, ......................... Last edited by moderator A; September 14th, 2012 at 10:35 AM . Reason: only business members are allowed to post contact info. please click My Account to upgrade Reply With Quote September 17th, 2012 #9 thavam Join Date Sep 2012 Posts 1 pls let me know whether we can come and visit your farm.