NAIP - A Value Chain on Industrial Agroforestry in Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Agricultural University NAIP á –alue Chain on Industrial Agroforestry in Tamil Nadu Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam - 641 301 Home Project Profile Sub Project Profile Rationale Project Objectives Detailed Programme Project Location and Jurisdiction List of Innovations Role of Consortium Partners Monitoring Indicators Project Impact Work Plan Consortium Advisory Committee Consortium Implementation Committee Consortium Monitoring Unit Base Line Study Project Team FC & RI Lead Institute IFGTB TNPL SPB Vasan Match Works Technologies NAIP Technologies Crop Technology Casuarina Eucalyptus Ailanthus Melia Dubia Anthocephalus Cadamba Leucaena Leucocephala Value Addition Technology Briquetting Technology Agar Technology Value Chain Farmers and Area Demonstration Plot Horizontal Expansion Captive Plantations Other Plantations MIS Market Supply & Demand Pattern Market Price Current Prices Historical Prices Forecasted Prices Contract Farming Value Addtion Products Markets Supply & Demand Price Traders Eucalyptus Casuarina Subabul Fire Wood Pole Others Media Gallery Launch Meet Farmers Training Cluster Demonstration Plot Research Trials Value Addition Mechanization CIC & CAC Review Team Baseline Study Audio Video News and Events News Events Institute Departments and Faculties Education Research Schemes/Projects Extension Contact Us Contact Address Location Map   Vasan Match Works The Vasan Match Works was started by Mr. V.Palani Mudaliar in the Year 1954.Later his Eldest son Mr. V.P. Vasudevan continued the Match Production with 100 Labours producing 120 to 150 Bundles per day. In his experience of match Production he found huge shortage of Match wood from Kerala. replica rolex fake watches uk So, he started match wood cultivation, and Match Splints Manufacturing unit in Gudiyattam. He started Manufacturing Match Splints from Agathi and from Yellow Matti. He started his own nursery in his own land and started giving saplings to all near by villagers to cultivate the Yellow Matti trees in there Farm Lands People started cultivating in there agricultural lands.     In 1995, V.P.Vasudevan sons started, http://www.errma.com/web-post.php and expanded this match and match splints production. Extensively in 2001, Vasan Matches imported match manufacturing machineries from china. It is first of its kind in North Arcot District, Vellore. The Vasan Matches also imported   wooden splints manufacturing units and erected in there factory and started match wood splints production, But match wood is not available, so Vasan Group Imported 3000 CBM of soft wood from foreign countries every month. http://www.capitalseating.co.uk/terms.php The requirement of wood per day is now 50 to 75 metric tones or 100 CBM every day. So, they started match wood nursery in large scale and distributed the saplings and covered nearly 500 acres in North Arcot Thiruvannamali & Dharmapuri districts. They also utilized the services of forest department of Tamil Nadu, the Vasan Matches wanted to develop the Yellow Matti (Ailanthus Excelsa) plants with high quality and technically. So, replica watches china the Vasan Matches entered technical. Know, how consultancy with, Forest College and Research Institute, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Mettupalyam. Sir, thus Vasan Group want to develop (Ailanthus Excelsa) in all Districts of Tamil Nadu. The Vasan Group also entered a trie party Tie-Up agreement with STATE BANK OF INDIA, Agriculture Division  Coimbatore Branch covering all over Tamil Nadu SBI Branches for Financing of the cultivation of the Ailanthus Excelsa under “TIE-UP Arrangement giving farmers loan to cultivate in there agricultural lands, both in irrigated and rain fed”. After, breitling replica watches Vasan Match Works entered the trie party agreement farmers of all Districts started cultivating the Ailanthus Excelsa Plants. The Vasan Groups is selected as Consortium Partner under NAIP Project New Delhi. A VALUE CHAIN ON INDUSTRIAL AGRO FORESTY IN TAMIL NADU. After becoming Consortium Partner, The Vasan Group under NAIP schemes developed Nursery with technological support from Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam. 1. Formation of clusters. Grouping farmers interested in tree growing. 2. Cluster group farmers are given training program about the latest silviculture technology, productivity improvement methods, pesticides control,  pest and dieses management. Harvest technology, swiss replica watches awareness of profitable Agro foresty models, intercrop growing and also screening superior genetic resources. 3. In Vellore district 2 clusters are formed covering 100 Acres and nearly 45 farmers are benefited in Odugathur Village,Vellore Taluk, Thirupathur and also Gudiyattam Taluk.Through the NAIP project, following assistance were provided to the farmers. •    Farmers are provided with good saplings at tree of coat to them. •    Advised about the spacing of plants, intercrop cultivation and water irrigation methods. watches USA online (drip)    •    Farmers are taken to different area where similar cultivation are conducted. •    Supported with Buy back agreement •    Facilitated credit facility through financial institutions. CONTACT ADDRESS V.V.RAJAN No.21, New Street, Bosepet Gudiyatham Taluk, Pin – 632 602 Vellore Dist. Tamil Nadu Phone : +91-4171- 320416,222251 E-mail: vasanmatch@yahoo.co.in     Project Profile Project Team Technologies Value Chain Farmers and Area MIS Media News and Events Institute Contact Us Website Developed by Samantha Technologies No.of Visits