Accessinility Statement: Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance, Government of India Skip to Main Content | Skip to Navigation Text Size A A A A A A A Hindi Home Functions New Initiatives Financial Inclusion Documents & Publications RTI Who's Who Contact Us Dept. of Financial Services Ministry of Finance, Government of India Finance Minister Minister for State Allocation of Business Citizen's Charter Acts & Rules Work Allocation Banking Insurance Pension Reforms Notifications Circulars Appointments Press Releases Data & Statistics Vacancy Circulars Tenders/Auctions The National Portal of India National E-Governance Plan Public Grievances Invest India Tenders You are here : Home Accessibility Statement Accessibility Statement We are committed to ensure that the Department of Financial Services website is accessible to all users irrespective of device in use, technology or ability. It has been built, with an aim, to provide maximum accessibility and usability to its visitors. As a result this website can be viewed from a variety of devices such as Desktop / Laptop computers, web-enabled mobile devices; wap phones; PDAs, etc. We have put in our best efforts to ensure that all information on this website is accessible to people with disabilities. For example, a user with visual disability can access this website using assistive technologies, such as screen readers and screen magnifiers. We also aim to be standards compliant and follow principles of usability and universal design, which should help all visitors of this website. This website is designed using HTML 4.01 Transitional to meet Guidelines for Indian Government Websites and also adheres to Level AA of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 laid down by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Part of the information in the website is also made available through links to external Websites. External Websites are maintained by the respective departments who are responsible for making these sites accessible. Department of Financial Services is working towards making its website accessible for persons with disabilities, however currently some of the pages of the website are not accessible. Related Links Learn about Accessibility features Accessibility Options Learn about Accessibility Help Learn about Screen Reader Access Learn about speech recognition support Home Sitemap Accessibility Options Terms of Use Policies Disclaimer Accessibilty Statement EBook Feedback Site is designed and hosted by National Informatics Centre Contents on this website is published and managed by The Department of Financial Services, Govt. of India.