About Us Skip to main contents | Accessibility Options | Screen Reader Access मुख्य सामग्री पर जाएं | अभिगम्यता के विकल्प Home About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Guidelines Dairy Development Fishery Fodder Large Ruminants(Bovine) Livestock Extension Livestock Insurance Livestock Health Piggery Development Poultry Small Ruminants Threatened Breeds Trade Bovine Breeding Trade Conferences Statistics Animal Husbandry Statistics Livestock Census Fisheries Poultry Reports Forms Grievances Public Grievances Contact Us Sunabeda Suratgarh Andeshnagar Breeds Chiplima breeds Dhamrod breeds Hessarghatta breeds Sunabeda breeds CHRS-centre names Suratgarh Breeds Tenders English हिन्दी में Welcome to Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries पशुपालन, डेयरी और मत्स्य पालन विभाग में आपका स्वागत है Search : खोजें : About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Home / About Us About Us The Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying (AH&D) - now renamed asDepartment of Animal Husbandry Dairying & Fisheries (DADF) is one of theDepartments in the Ministry of Agriculture and came into existence w.e.f. 1 st February, 1991, by converting two divisions of the Department of Agriculture andCooperation namely Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development into a separateDepartment. The Fisheries Division of the Department of Agriculture and Cooperationand a part of the Ministry of Food Processing Industries were later transferred to thisDepartment w.e.f. 10 th October, 1997. The Department is responsible for matters relating to livestock production,preservation, protection from disease and improvement of stocks and dairydevelopment, and also for matters relating to the Delhi Milk Scheme and the NationalDairy Development Board. It also looks after all matters pertaining to fishing andfisheries, inland and marine. The Department advises State Governments/Union Territories in the formulation ofpolicies and programmes in the field of Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development andFisheries. The main thrust areas are: Development of requisite infrastructure in States/UTs for improvingproductivity, Preservation and protection of livestock through provision of health care, Strengthening of Central livestock farms (Cattle, Sheep and Poultry) fordevelopment of superior germ plasm for distribution to states and, Expansion of Aquaculture in fresh & brackish water, and welfare of fisher-folketc. Help | Terms of Use | Site Map | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer | Hyperlinking Policy | Privacy Policy | Archives | Contact Us This website belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ©  2014 All rights reserved. Designed,Developed & Hosted by NIC