Hotels in Rajasthan Destinations Destinations Travel To | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Rajasthan Travel Tourist Map Shopping Hotels in Rajasthan Resorts in Rajasthan Food How to Reach Places to Visit in Rajasthan Albert Hall Museum Jal Mahal Hawa Mahal Jantar Mantar Ranthambore National Park Sariska National Park Bandeshwar Temple Rani Satiji Temple Galta Temple Amber Fort The City Palace Kumbhalgarh Fort Mehrangarh Fort Bandeshwar Temple Cities to Visit in Rajasthan Ajmer Travel Barmer Travel Bharatpur Travel Bikaner Travel Bundi Travel Chittaurgarh Travel Fatehpur Travel Jaipur Travel Jaisalmer Travel Jodhpur Travel Kota Travel Kumbhalgarh Travel Mandawa Travel Mount Abu Travel Mukundgarh Travel Nawalgarh Travel Pushkar Travel Ranakpur Travel Samode Travel Sawai Madhopur Travel Shekhawati Travel Udaipur Travel Neemrana Travel Forts and Palaces Amber Fort Jaigarh Fort Kumbhalgarh Fort Mehrangarh Fort Nahargarh Fort The City Palace Rajasthan Hotels Ajmer Hotels Jaipur Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels more... About Rajasthan Weather History Culture Events in Rajasthan Desert Festival Bikaner Camel Festival Pushkar Festival Jaipur Literature Festival Summer Festival more... Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Hotels » Hotels in Rajasthan Hotels in Rajasthan HOTEL SEARCH Search by Location Search by Places Select State Select City Hotels in Rajasthan Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing the location of hotels in Rajasthan. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Taj Hotel Lake Palace, Udaipur Taj Hotel, Udaipur, spanning over a four acre land, stands with elan in the middle of the Pichola Lake. With Aravalli hills as the backdrop and reflection of white marbles in the Lake, the Hotel has a unique charm. Hotel Jai Mahal Palace The famous Jai Mahal Palace of Jaipur bears the history of 260 years of Indo-Saracenic architectural grandeur. This age old structure of 1745 AD has now become a major tourist 5 star deluxe hotel. The Oberoi Udaivilas Hotel, Udaipur The Oberoi Udaivilas in Udaipur, Rajasthan . Ornamenting the banks of the serene Lake Pichola, The Oberoi Udaivilas offers magnificent view of the 'White city' Udaipur and is the ultimate romantic getaway. With a choice of 82 luxurious rooms and suites, complete with majestic Rajput architecture. Hotel Oberoi Vanyavilas, Ranthambhore The Oberoi Vanyavilas Ranthambore is a 5 Star Deluxe hotel, located in Sawai Madhopur district in Rajasthan. It is situated at the junction of the Vindhya hills and Aravali ranges, near Ranthambore National Park. Hotel Laxmi Niwas Palace Laxmi Niwas Palace is one of the most popular hotels in Bikaner, Rajasthan. Located in the Lallgarh Palace Complex, Laxmi Niwas Palace offers quality boarding and lodging facilities to all its guests. Hotel Basant Vihar palace Hotel Basant Vihar Palace is a beautiful heritage hotel in Bikaner, Rajasthan. The hotel was constructed by Maharaja Ganga Singhji, in the year 1940. It is situated amidst lush green surroundings. Hotel Gajner Palace Hotel Gajner Palace is a famous hotel in Bikaner, Rajasthan. This grand heritage palace is a division of the HRH Group of Hotels. Karni Bhawan Palace Karni Bhawan Palace is one of the finest heritage hotels in Bikaner. Once the royal residence of Maharaja Dr. Karni Singh, today it offers luxurious accommodation to both business and leisure travelers in the city of Bikaner. Hotel Lallgarh Palace Hotel Lallgarh Palace is one of the renowned hotels in Bikaner, Rajasthan. It is situated 250 kilometers away from the railway station. However, this Hotel Lallgarh Palace is quite close to the Bikaner bus stand. Being located on the outskirts of the city, this hotel offers a delightful stay amidst the serene atmosphere. Last Updated on : 8/06/2013   Hotels in Rajasthan   Hotels in Indian States Hotels by City and Destination Hotels in Goa Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Mahabaleshwar Hotels in Ooty Hotels in Manali Hotels in Mysore Hotels in Puri Hotels in Nainital Hotels in Udaipur Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Pondicherry Hotels in Mount-abu Hotels in Aurangabad Hotels in Bhopal Hotels in Jodhpur Hotels in Kanpur Hotels in Mussoorie Hotels in Delhi Hotels in Jaipur Hotels in Bangalore Hotels in Mumbai Hotels in Hyderabad Hotels in Pune Hotels in Chennai Hotels in Agra Hotels in Chandigarh Hotels in Mangalore Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Mathura Hotels in Nashik Hotels in Noida Hotels in Raipur Hotels in Rishikesh Hotels in Bhubaneswar Hotels in Ahmedabad Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Amritsar Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Gurgaon Hotels in Dehradun Hotels in Haridwar Hotels in Lucknow Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Nagpur Hotels in Allahabad Hotels in Secunderabad Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Surat Hotels in Thane Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Shirdi About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule