Vibrandt Project Consultants - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Vibrandt Project Consultants Home Vibrandt Project Consultants Provides project management and consultancy services in the agri sector. Located in New Delhi Ashok Jain Vibrandt Project Consultants was established by Mr. Ashok Jain in 1992. The company is headquartered in New Delhi. Vibrandt is into project management and consultancy services in the agri sector. It caters to clients in agro/ food processing, oil seeds/ oil processing, post-harvest management and cold chain infrastructure, agri business ventures related to new projects as well as rehabilitation / process re-engineering / modernization and technological up-gradation and technical audits for ongoing projects. Consultancy Vibrandt offers consultancy across India. “We have done projects in most states in India. There is a huge difference between major growing states and the remote and hilly areas, in terms of volumes, post-harvest facilities, marketing infrastructure, and processing initiatives. Working in remote and hilly regions is a real test of project management skills. I take great pride in the fact that we have done considerable amount of work in NER, J&K, H.P. and Uttrakhand,” avers Mr. Jain. The company also provides assistance in marketing and selling of the end produce. “We provide initial support by strategizing the marketing initiatives and also provide initial leads from where our clients take over either on their own or with the help of marketing experts,” avers Mr. Jain. Mr. Jain predicts substantial growth and scope in areas of turnkey consultancy services, preparation of DPR’S, PPP proposals for agri infrastructure and cold chains, in the foreseeable future. Success Story Among its successful projects, Mr. Jain speaks about a passion fruit processing plant Vibrandt set up in Mao, Manipur. “I was not only a world class state of the art juice extraction, concentration and aseptic packaging line, but we also handled backward and forward linkages, marketing tie ups as well as quality improvement and area expansion for passion fruit and diversification into other fruits. This project was executed in an area infested with Ultras activities of the most serious nature and helped in bringing a sizeable no. of youths in to the mainstream.”  Adding, “Realizing the impact of this project, President of India Dr. APJ Abdu l Kalam visited the project. Vibrandt received National Award for Excellence in Consulting Services from CEAI (supported by FIDIC and DSIR – Min. of Science and Technology, GOI) in 2004 for this project.” Return on Investment Commenting on the return on investment for start-up companies, Mr. Jain says, “Horticulture crops especially fruits and nuts are long gestation activities and their processing activities also require some time before being return worthy. Typical break would be after 3 to 4 years; however this could vary from situation to situation. There are many promising horticulture crops – mango, apple, cherry, plums, passion fruit, kiwifruit, walnuts, cashew, tomato, drumsticks, and peas to name a few. But it would not be right to generalize this as the return would vary from location to location, and depends on many factors. Mr. Jain emphasizes that agriculture is profitable. He says, “Scientific and advanced agriculture in almost all areas is quite remunerative. We have been associated with practical demonstrations in this regard for many a crops – grains, oilseeds, fruits, vegetables and even spices.” Indian Processing Industry According to Mr. Jain, the biggest challenge faced by Indian processing industries is sourcing of consistent quality raw materials at parity prices. “Others are poor marketing systems and infrastructure, high rate of interest and difficulty in raising finances, poor overall quality environs and lack of regulations when it comes to food safety and packaging,” he adds. In the next 5-10 years Mr. Jain expects of lot of consolidation and up-gradation in terms of capacities and technology in Indian Processing industry. “We do not compare very well with global giants due to problems related to raw materials as already elaborated, lack of post-harvest management and cold chain infrastructure, poor and unfair marketing infrastructure, non-enforcement of quality and food safety standards,” he adds. Future Plans Speaking about Vibrandt’s future plans, Mr. Jain says, “We want to concentrate more on innovative technologies and higher value addition.” He is a B.E. in mechanical engineer, with post-graduation in project management, with 33 years of work experience. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr. Ashok Jain, Managing Director, Vibrandt Project Consultants, CD-3/301, Sagar Complex, Pitampura, Delhi – 110034, India Phone: 9811051696, 011 27312373, 27566915 Email: agribusiness@vibrandt.com Web: www.vibrandt.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Vibrandt Project Consultants Related – articles, consultants, downloads Ennar Business Consultants VSR Consultants Space Consultancy Services Insight Quality Consultancy Services You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water