GW Micro - Window-Eyes Skip to Main Content Window-Eyes  •  Reading Systems  •  Support  •  Training Home >> Window-Eyes GW Micro - Window-Eyes Window-Eyes 9.1 is Now Available! Ai Squared and GW Micro Join Forces and Merge Into One Company GW Micro Announces Global Window-Eyes Initiative for users of Microsoft Office Window-Eyes is nothing less than the most stable, secure and customizable screen reader available on the market today. Featuring comprehensive support for computers running Windows 8.1, Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows Server 2008, and Windows Server 2012, Window-Eyes enables individuals who are blind or visually impaired to be completely independent on a PC and be more successful and productive at school and in the workplace.   Window-Eyes Introduction (with Captions) Window-Eyes gives total control over what you hear and how you hear it. Plus, with its enhanced Braille support that control is extended to what you feel as well. On top of all that, the power and stability of Window-Eyes means that most applications work right out of the box with no need for endless tinkering in order to get them to function properly. Please contact your local dealer for pricing information. Window-Eyes is your key to opening the doors of a world with unlimited information. A world where work takes precedence over technical hassles. Window-Eyes is a leading screen reading software application for the blind and visually impaired, that converts components of the Windows operating system into synthesized speech allowing for complete and total access to Windows based computer systems. Window-Eyes integration into Windows is seamless, providing you with instant access to the operating system without having to learn a complicated set of keystrokes. Applications that utilize standard Microsoft controls will be spoken automatically with little to no configuration necessary. Other applications may require simple modifications to Window-Eyes whose options are easily accessible via a well organized, and state-of-the art user interface called the Window-Eyes control panel. The Window-Eyes User's Guide (available in a multitude of formats -- see below) provides detailed instructions and examples for beginning configuration options such as voice parameters and verbosity, as well as advanced instruction for tasks such as using Window-Eyes apps, navigating the web and creating customized settings for individual applications. Ai Squared is committed to our customers and helping our customers accomplish their academic and vocational goals. Our partnerships with mainstream companies such as Microsoft, Adobe, and Apple allows us to make Window-Eyes one of the primary tools for testing product accessibility. We work hard to make sure that Window-Eyes provides you with the best access possible for the most popular applications. You expect a lot from Window-Eyes. And you should. We're raising those expectations further with Window-Eyes, designed to harness the power of the widely used Microsoft Windows operating system. Windows has the flexibility to be customized and meet your individual work habits and preferences. Window-Eyes does the same, allowing you to maximize your productivity when working on your PC.   Window-Eyes User Testimonial Window-Eyes Feature List Comprehensive Support for Windows Vista (all 32-bit and 64-bit versions, including Vista Ultimate, Vista Home Premium, Vista Home Basic, Vista Business, and Vista Enterprise), all 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Windows Server 2008, all 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Windows 7, Windows Server 2012, and all 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Windows 8 and Windows 8.1 Support for Microsoft Word 2007/2010/2013 Support for Microsoft Excel 2007/2010/2013 Revolutionary PowerPoint 2007/2010/2013 Support Robust support for Microsoft Outlook 2007/2010/2013 Email, Calendar and Contacts Easily read and access email in Windows Live Mail and Thunderbird Advanced web browsing support with Internet Explorer and Mozilla Firefox Support for the Accessible Rich Internet Applications Suite (ARIA) including landmarks, live regions and more. Remote Access with Citrix XenWorks Remote Access with Microsoft Terminal Services Remote Access with Microsoft Remote Desktop Custom apps (and support for app development) provide users with the tools to enhance the accessibility and usability of third party applications, the operating system, and even Window-Eyes itself. Ai Squared is also proud to offer App Central , a centralized app repository where both users and developers can gather to obtain, distribute and discuss Window-Eyes apps. Multiple keyboard layouts: Default, Laptop, Insert Key Integrated help utilities including: Tip of the Day, Keyboard Describer, Application Specific Help, User Interface Context Senstitive Help State-of-the-art user interface with advanced options for power users Includes Nuance Vocalizer voices (US English version: Jill, Samantha, Tom) Includes ten Eloquence voices Supports any SAPI 5 speech synthesizer MSAA (Microsoft Active Accessibility) and UIA (User Interface Automation) Support Support for Windows Safe Mode Ability to read text under the mouse pointer as it moves Switch Braille displays on the fly Switch synthesizers on the fly More supported braille displays than the competition Powerful Set File Manager Mobile and Network Installation Options Text, Windows Help, and HTML Documentation Works with many applications "out of the box." Little or no extra configuration required. No authorization keys required for activation (applies to U.S, Canada, U.K., Australia, New Zealand) First to support Adobe PDF and Flash Support for the JAVA Access Bridge Built-in Remote Assistance to facilitate interactive training and support Unprecedented stability and performance Feature available at no extra cost. Ordering For additional pricing information or to order Window-Eyes, please call Ai Squared at (802) 362-3612 or visit our Window-Eyes product catalog page . To check for a local distributor in your area, please use the Find a Dealer locator. Window-Eyes Links Window-Eyes Demo Latest Features License Information Testimonials Window-Eyes Certification Manual Comparison Chart TrainingWare App Central Voices Supported Equipment Tutorial Test Page Version History Audio Video Archive Find a Dealer Non-English Languages VPAT Social Networking Online Ordering © 2015 GW Micro, Inc. - All Rights Reserved. Contact Information 725 Airport North Office Park • Fort Wayne, IN 46825 Ph: 802-362-3612 • Fax: 260-489-2608 Hours: M-F, 9:00a-5p, EDST • • Privacy Policy