Himalayan Forest Research Institute Himalayan Forest Research Institute Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education (An Autonomous Body of Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Govt. of India) Home | RTI | ICFRE Website | ICFRE Webmail | ICFRE Web Portal Institute Research Events Office Orders/Circulars Recruitments Tenders Photogallery Contacts   Institute Background Institute Mandate Institute Jurisdiction Organiizational Setup Facilities & Services Research Divisions Research Acheivements Thrust Areas Projects Seminars/Workshops Activity Glimpses About HFRI The Institute has been set up to further the goals of ICFRE as embodied in its Mission Statement "to generate, preserve, disseminate and advance knowledge, technologies and solutions for addressing issues arising out of interaction between people and forests and environment on a sustained basis through research, education and extension" and the specific goal of contributing research inputs for long term conservation of Western Himalayan forests and forest ecosystems. Latest Updates A report on the Celebration of International Day for Biological Diversity by Himalayan Forest Research Institute, Shimla on 22nd May, 2015.    More » A report on the Training & Demonstration Programme on "Cultivation of Medicinal Plants" for other stakeholders held at Bushehar Sadan, Rampur (Distt. Shimla, H.P.)  on 20 to 22, March, 2015.   More » A report on the visit of high level delegation from Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development, Government of Nepal to Himalayan Forest Research Institute, Shimla on 28th February, 2015.   More » A  report on the one day Training organized by HFRI, Shimla on Cultivation of Atish, Ban Kakri, Chora and other high valued temperate Medicinal plants  on 11th February, 2015 at Shaneri, Rampur, Shimla.   More » A report on the celebration of Republic Day at HFRI, Shimla on 26th January, 2015. More » Visit of Director General, ICFRE  to HFRI, Shimla on 12th January, 2015. More » A report on One day Workshop cum Demonstration of E-Procurement Process organized on 22nd December, 2014.  More » A report on the XVIth Research Advisory Group Meeting held on 14th November, 2014.  More » A report on the celebration of World Science Day for Peace and Development on 10th November, 2014.  More » A report on the celebration of Vigilance Week from 27th October to 01st November, 2014.  More » Director's Message Dr. VP Tewari, Director It gives me immense pleasure to welcome you to the official webpage of Himalayan Forest Research Institute (HFRI), Shimla. The Institute caters to the forestry research needs of the States of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.  More » Copyright ©2014 -Himalyan Forest Research Institute (HFRI), Conifer campus, Panthaghati, Shimla (HP) Designed, Developed & Hosted by IT-Division,ICFRE