Wodeyar Dynasty Map Home » History » Wodeyar Dynasty Map   Indian Dynasties Chola Dynasty Chalukya Dynasty Pallava Dynasty Chera Dynasty Pandyan Dynasty                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Wodeyar Dynasty Map Map of Wodeyar Dynasty Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing major cities and current country boundaries during the Wodeyar period. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. The very last royal dynasty that rule Karnataka was the Wodeyar Dynasty. Even after the Independence of India, their rule existed. The descendants of the Yadavas of Dwarika are believed to be the founders of this dynasty. Also it is said that they were indigenous chieftains from Karnataka itself who became the founders of the. Two brothers namely Vijaya and Krishna are given the credit for the establishment of this Vijayanagara Empire. In 1399 AD, Vijaya started ruling under the name of. Its capital was Mysore. The kingdom was taken over by Hyder Ali, after whom a number of kings came to rule over the city of Mysore towards the end of the seventeenth. Hyder Ali never claimed kingship neither did his son Tipu Sultan. There came a short period when the kingdom was under the control of a British regent. Some of the important kings among them were: Mummadi Krisnaraja Odeyar (1799-1831 AD) Nalmadi Krisnaraja Odeyar (1895-1940 AD) and Jayacama Rajendra Odeyar (1940-1950 AD). During 1761 till 1782 AD, Hyder Ali enjoyed undisputed power. From 1782 to 1799 AD, Tipu Sultan was crowned as the king. These kings could do little in order to expand of their kingdom and did not enjoy much power over the Vijayanagara kingdom until Raja Odeyar declared independence from the British regent after defeating the functionary of that empire. The most important the kings in this dynasty are Raja Odeyar, Ranadhira Kantirava Narasaraja Odeyar and Cikkadevaraja Odeyar. When Raja Odeyar came to power the Wodeyar kingdom mainly was constituted by merely 33 villages. The Mysore fort also built by him and in 1610 AD he shifted the capital from Mysore to Shrirangapattana. In order to expand the kingdom he included the whole of the Mysore district and Shrirangapattana. He was succeeded by Camaraja Odeyar V who took the expansion further. Places such as Hassan, Talakadu, Holenarasipura, Mandya and Cennapattana were taken under control by Camaraja Odeyar V. Also Camaraja wrote the meritorious Kannada version of the Mahabharatha known as the 'Camarajoktivilasa'. Another king was Cikkadevaraja is also one of the most important kings of this dynasty. His military ingenuity, political acumen and administrative innovations are for which he is most remembered for. Mysore became an important kingdom of South India during his regime. He expanded the kingdom by conquering and defeating the Shahi rulers of Bijapur and Golkonda. He even fought the great Shivaaji when he attacked on the fort of Srirangapattana. He entered into an agreement with Aurangazeb (the Mughal Emperor) which very well showed his political shrewdness. The last Wodeyar king was Jayachamaraja Wodeyar who started ruling from 1940 and continued ruling for few months even after the independence of the country in 1947. When in 1950 India was declared a republic nation, he was given the position of the governor of Mysore. For two years he was even appointed as the governor of Madras in 1956. The title of 'Maharaja' was separated from his name in 1971. He died in 1974 and so did the Wodeyar Dynasty. Last Updated on : 4/12/2012               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule