Role of major Industries in India GDP Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI India GDP    India GDP 2010-2011 India GDP History Calculating India GDP GDP India 2007 GDP India 2006 India Real GDP Growth India GDP Statistics India GDP Growth Rate India Per Capita GDP India GDP Composition Sector Wise Role of Major Industries-GDP You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home   » India-gdp » Industries » Role of Major Industries in India GDP Role of Major Industries in India GDP Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  8  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 The Gross Domestic Product popularly known as GDP of an economy requires contribution from major industries to be healthy. India is largely an agrarian economy; so agriculture makes the major contribution to the GDP. Role of major industries in India GDP is important as based on this only the total GDP is calculated. In terms of US Dollar exchange rate India's economy is the twelfth largest. Despite witnessing a slowdown, due to the global recession, India's economy has huge potential of expansion. Major industries that contribute to India's GDP There are various sectors that contribute to India's GDP. Some of the major sectors are Automobile Industry, Steel Industry, Real Estate Industry, Tourism Industry, Energy Sector, Textile Industry, Airlines Industry, Medical Industry, Biotechnology Industry, Electronics and Hardware and the power industry. Besides these industries, there are several other sectors that are important contributors to the GDP of India. GDP: $1.209 trillion (2008 Estimate) GDP growth: 6.7% (2009) GDP per capita: $1016 Inflation (CPI): 7.8% (CPI) (2008) Unemployment: 6.8% (2008 Estimate) Main Industries: Textiles, Chemicals, Food Processing, Steel, Transportation Equipment, Cement, Mining, Petroleum, Machinery, Software The fertilizer industry of India makes more than a 20% contribution to the GDP. Another sector that seems very promising for the future is biotechnology. This sector is very young, but it is growing at a very fast pace and will undoubtedly become one of the leading sectors contributing to the GDP in the near future. Currently this sector generates $ 2 billion revenue for the Indian economy. The real estate sector has witnessed a huge boom of late and has made significant contributions to the GDP of India. The real estate sector is one industry that has made significant contribution to the country's GDP. Due to the enormous demand in the retail and other sectors of the economy, more demands are being created for real estate. The automobile industry is another sector that makes good contribution to the Indian economy. Due to the changed lifestyle of the consumer the demand for vehicles is increasing at a huge pace. Trend of Growth Rate of India's GDP 1960-1980: 3.5% 1980-1990: 5.4% 1990-2000: 4.4% 2000-2009: 6.4% The trend of growth rate of India's economy demonstrates an upward trend. During the period of 1960 – 1980 the economy saw a growth rate of 3.5% due to the roles of major industries in India GDP. In the years from 1980 to 1990 the growth rate showed a marked improvement of 5.4%, while it was slightly lower in the period from 1990 to 2000 which was at 4.4%. The phase 2000 to 2009 saw a huge improvement and the growth rate of GDP were marked at 6.4%. To search for further information on Role of Major Industries in India GDP, please go through these links, Role of IT Industry in India GDP Role of Telecommunications Industry in India GDP Major Industries in India GDP Automobile Industry- GDP Pharmaceutical Industry- GDP Bio-Technological Industry- GDP Cement Industry- GDP Iron and Steel Industry- GDP Aviation Industry- GDP Oil and Natural Gas Industry- GDP Tourism Industry- GDP Textile Industry- GDP Realty Industry- GDP Electronics & Hardware Ind.- GDP About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED