India | Data English Español Français عربي Русский 中文 Home About Data Research Learning News Projects & Operations Publications Countries Topics Data By Country By Topic Indicators Data Catalog Microdata Initiatives What's New Support Products Databank Download data EXCEL XML CSV Share This page in English Español Français العربية 中文 हिन्दी BROWSE World Development Indicators Global Economic Prospects - Forecasts Projects & Operations Finances Surveys Climate India South Asia Income level Lower middle income GDP (current US$) $1.875 trillion 2013 Population, total 1.252 billion 2013 Track the World Bank Group’s work in India with this interactive data app Open India >> World Development Indicators Graph, map and compare more than 1,000 time series indicators from the World Development Indicators and more than 5,000 indicators from other collections such as Gender Statistics, African Development Indicators, and Education Statistics. Databank Download data EXCEL XML CSV Share School enrollment, primary (% gross) 113% 2011 India South Asia Lower middle income Source School enrollment, primary (% gross) About Gross enrolment ratio. Primary. Total is the total enrollment in primary education, regardless of age, expressed as a percentage of the population of official primary education age. GER can exceed 100% due to the inclusion of over-aged and under-aged students because of early or late school entrance and grade repetition. Catalog Sources World Development Indicators More View more data of this indicator Embed this indicator in your site Hide this CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita) 1.7 2010 India South Asia Lower middle income Source CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita) About Carbon dioxide emissions are those stemming from the burning of fossil fuels and the manufacture of cement. They include carbon dioxide produced during consumption of solid, liquid, and gas fuels and gas flaring. Catalog Sources World Development Indicators More View more data of this indicator Embed this indicator in your site Hide this Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty lines (% of population) 21.9% 2011 29.8% 2009 37.2% 2004 45.3% 1993 Source Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty lines (% of population) About World Bank, Global Poverty Working Group. Data are compiled from official government sources or are computed by World Bank staff using national (i.e. country–specific) poverty lines. Catalog Sources World Development Indicators More View more data of this indicator Embed this indicator in your site Hide this Life expectancy at birth, total (years) 66 2013 India South Asia Lower middle income Source Life expectancy at birth, total (years) About Life expectancy at birth indicates the number of years a newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality at the time of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life. Catalog Sources World Development Indicators More View more data of this indicator Embed this indicator in your site Hide this GNI per capita, Atlas method (current US$) $1,570 2013 India South Asia Lower middle income Source GNI per capita, Atlas method (current US$) About GNI per capita (formerly GNP per capita) is the gross national income, converted to U.S. dollars using the World Bank Atlas method, divided by the midyear population. GNI is the sum of value added by all resident producers plus any product taxes (less subsidies) not included in the valuation of output plus net receipts of primary income (compensation of employees and property income) from abroad. GNI, calculated in national currency, is usually converted to U.S. dollars at official exchange rates for comparisons across economies, although an alternative rate is used when the official exchange rate is judged to diverge by an exceptionally large margin from the rate actually applied in international transactions. To smooth fluctuations in prices and exchange rates, a special Atlas method of conversion is used by the World Bank. This applies a conversion factor that averages the exchange rate for a given year and the two preceding years, adjusted for differences in rates of inflation between the country, and through 2000, the G-5 countries (France, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States). From 2001, these countries include the Euro area, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Catalog Sources World Development Indicators More View more data of this indicator Embed this indicator in your site Hide this Overall level of statistical capacity (scale 0 - 100) 81.1 2014 India South Asia Lower middle income Source Overall level of statistical capacity (scale 0 - 100) About The Statistical Capacity Indicator is a composite score assessing the capacity of a country’s statistical system. It is based on a diagnostic framework assessing the following areas: methodology; data sources; and periodicity and timeliness. Countries are scored against 25 criteria in these areas, using publicly available information and/or country input. The overall Statistical Capacity score is then calculated as a simple average of all three area scores on a scale of 0-100. Catalog Sources World Development Indicators More View more data of this indicator Embed this indicator in your site Hide this Global Economic Prospects - Forecasts Global Economic Prospects examines trends for the world economy and how they affect developing countries. The report includes country-specific three-year forecasts for major macroeconomic indicators, including commodity and financial markets. FORECASTS & ANALYSIS DATA Annual GDP Growth (%) Source Source gep gdp source About GDP is the sum of gross value added by all resident producers in the economy plus any product taxes and minus any subsidies not included in the value of the products. It is calculated without making deductions for depreciation of fabricated assets or for depletion and degradation of natural resources. Catalog Sources Annual percentage growth rate of GDP at market prices based on constant 2010 US Dollars. Hide this India South Asia Forecast (2014, 2015, 2016, 2017) Current Account Balance, %GDP Source Source Current account balance as a percentage of GDP for the year. About Current Account Balance is the sum of net exports of goods and services, net primary income, and net secondary income. Catalog Sources World Bank Hide this India South Asia Forecast (2014, 2015, 2016, 2017) Projects & Operations Search, browse and map more than 10,000 projects from 1947 to the present. Projects & Operations Project Map - India Source Source Mapping for Results About Mapping for Results visualizes the locations of World Bank Bank-financed projects to better monitor development impact, improve aid effectiveness and coordination, and enhance transparency and social accountability. In combination with the subnational socio-economic indicators such as poverty, health, malnutrition, and population density it helps to better target development assistance. Catalog Sources Mapping for Results Hide this IBRD/IDA Operations Approved by Fiscal Year Source Source IBRD/IDA Operations Approved by Fiscal Year About Note: Data include guarantees. Supplemental and additional financing operations (except for projects scaled up through additional financing) are not counted as separate lending operations, although they are included in the amount. Joint IBRD-IDA operations are counted only once, as IBRD operations. Catalog Sources Projects & Operations Hide this $5.109 billion FY2014 India New and Supplemental Projects by Fiscal Year Source Source New and Supplemental Projects by Fiscal Year About Note: Data include guarantees. Supplemental and additional financing operations (except for projects scaled up through additional financing) are not counted as separate lending operations, although they are included in the amount. Joint IBRD-IDA operations are counted only once, as IBRD operations. Catalog Sources Projects & Operations Hide this 17 FY2014 India Finances Explore raw data about the World Bank's finances - slice and dice datasets; visualize data; share it with other site users or through social networks; or take it home with a mobile app. Finances Summary of IBRD Loans $16.94 billion Disbursed as of 4/30/2015 Source Source Summary of IBRD Loans About Explore data about the World Bank's finances - slice and dice datasets; visualize data; share it with other site users or through social networks; or take it home with a mobile app. Catalog Sources World Bank Finances Hide this Original Principal Amount Disbursed Amount Undisbursed Amount Borrower's Obligation Cancelled Amount Summary of IDA Credits $37.10 billion Disbursed as of 4/30/2015 Source Source Summary of IDA Credits About Explore data about the World Bank's finances - slice and dice datasets; visualize data; share it with other site users or through social networks; or take it home with a mobile app. Catalog Sources World Bank Finances Hide this Original Principal Amount Disbursed Amount Undisbursed Amount Borrower's Obligation Cancelled Amount Summary of Contributions to Financial Intermediary Funds $65.89 million Paid in as of 12/31/2013 Source Source Summary of contributions to Financial Intermediary Funds About Explore data about the World Bank's finances - slice and dice datasets; visualize data; share it with other site users or through social networks; or take it home with a mobile app. Catalog Sources World Bank Finances Hide this Surveys Microdata Library, providing data on people living in developing countries, their institutions, their environment, their communities and the operation of their economies. Microdata Most Recent Surveys (24 total) Enterprise Survey 2014 By: World Bank Submitted on: Feb 12, 2015 World Bank Country Survey 2012 By: Public Opinion Research Group - The World Bank Group Submitted on: Mar 14, 2014 Assessing Innovations in Malaria Control Service Delivery: Impact Evaluation under India's National Vector Borne Disease Control Program - Endline Survey 2010-2011 By: Jed Friedman - World Bank, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare - Government of India Submitted on: Mar 27, 2013 Global Financial Inclusion (Global Findex) Database 2011 By: Development Research Group, Finance and Private Sector Development Unit - World Bank Submitted on: Dec 12, 2012 Source Source Most Recent Surveys About The Microdata Library includes datasets that have been produced by the World Bank, such as impact evaluation of the Bank’s operations or research on development issues. It also includes d