NERFMTTI Home Page »  Programmes »  Calender »  Facilities »  List of machineries for training »  Application Procedure »  List of selected Candidates »  Application for Utilisation Course (U-Series) »  Application for Other than U-Series Course »  Objectives »  Types of Test »  Application for Testing Machinery »  Testing Charges »  Facilities »  Regulations »  Testing Logistic »  Detail of machine tested »  Trainees Trained Since Inception - Coursewise »   Trainees Trained Year wise - Categorywise »  Machines Tested Year wise - Catgorywise »  About RTI Act »  A.O. Order »  C.P.I.O. Order »  Contact Address »  Obtain Institute's Information from »  P.I.O. Particulars »  Organisational Chart »  Directory of Officers & Staff »  Functions of NERFMT&TI »  Power & duties »  Procedure followed in decision making »  Rules & Regulations »  Remuneration »  Service details »  History »  Location & Climate »  Organisation Chart »  Guest House & Housing for Staff Disclaimer: The content of these websites are owned by the respective organizations and they may be contacted for any further information or suggestion. Maintained & Updated by North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, B.Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam Site Designed & Hosted by: National Informatics Centre   North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute Home हिंदी   Message In the prevailing era where, there is a shortage of human labour,stress of human drudgery, unavailability of skill/ semi-skilled labour during peak season and so on and so forth, the responsibilities on our shoulder increases. With the wide and comprehensive aim, the Govt. of India under the Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture And Cooperation have found it necessary to establish the Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute in the year 1990 to cater the need of the North Eastern people.Thus, we are dedicated and devoted to boost up Appropriate Mechanisation and Technology in the North Eastern part of the country. Lots of work in this regard is being done, but, great amount of precise planning is still required to make the area self-sufficient in all respect. The Institute have been devoted to promote Farm Mechanization through new and appropriate technology based Skill Oriented Training Programmes for the each and every beneficiary involved in agriculture production. The Training courses have been designed to provide skill oriented competence based training to utilize Farm Machinery inputs which are operated manually or self-propelled or power tiller/ tractor driven. Our aim is to provide hand on practices to each and every trainee, so that, they may be able to utilize farm machines, learn the operating technique, servicing schedule, repairing aspects.We are also sharing the responsibilities to provide good quality Farm Machinery and Equipment to the unlimited users, to provide feedback to the Research Institute/ Agriculture Department to make them familiar about their functional suitability, field performance, ease of operation and appropriate adoptability on the farmer’s field. With this view, we are responsible for conducting test as per BIS norms. Keeping the availability of numerous local implements manufactures, the Government of India has also designated 25 SAU’s/ Agriculture Engineering Departments responsible for testing of farm Machines & equipment for speedy availability of quality machine to the ultimate users. The Institute is also involved in mechanised farming activities and supporting the Training and Testing services in terms of field operations, demonstrations and crop production.Gradually and steadily we are increasing our sphere of activities to provide total Farm Mechanisation solution to all.Through, the Training, Testing and Demonstration with improved Agricultural Machinery and Equipment, the Institute is providing tremendous support to the farming community and a brief information about our activities is being depicted in this Annual Report and I will be highly obliged if, the reader can have a look and spread the flame of Mechanisation to enlighten this area and people in totality. The achievement made by us in the last year is the result of untiring efforts made by our sincere staff members from their duty/ dedication/ devotion. I also take this privilege to extend my sincere thanks to Dean & Professors of Biswanath College of Agriculture, State Govt. Departments, District Administration and local authority, NGO’s, Farmers,Manufacturers and the Neighbours of this institute. I hope the Farm Machinery Training and Testing Institute, Biswanath Chariali would flourish with decency, dedication and devotion towards total farm mechanization and technology. By doing so, we are trying to convince the farming community that the farm mechanization could be the prestigious,profitable and convenient occupation for everyone. They may feel pleasure to work in the farm to achieve maximum production without disturbing the Socio Ecological balance of the nature, rather, make pace with the nature to conserve natural resources/vegetation/forestry/fertility of soil, etc.  Director