Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> About Us >> Structure DHAN COLLECTIVE DHAN Foundation and its institutions form the DHAN Collective. It is to nurture and preserve the culture of collegiality, mutuality and solidarity. Shared purpose, core values and resources (human, financial and physical resources) bind the institutions of DHAN Collective. DHAN Foundation as the mothering institution would guide, support and regulate its family institutions on their mission, policies, strategies and values. Each institution would define its ‘own unique’ space. Kalanjiam Community Banking Programme (KCBP), one of DHAN Foundation’s pioneering initiatives and its first institution, has evolved into an institution, the ‘Kalanjiam Foundation’, to take up the promotional role. It would promote the theme of Kalanjiam Development Finance and guide the people institutions. Similarly, Vayalagam Tankfed Agriculture Development Programme (VTADP) of DHAN Foundation has evolved into the DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation (DVTF) to work on the theme of conservation and development of small - scale waterbodies and stabilise the livelihoods of the farmers dependent on them. Tata-Dhan Academy (TDA), the development management school promoted by DHAN, is expected to evolve as a seperate thematic institution within the next three to five years. Many such institutions would emerge in course of time with efficient, excellent and with unquestioned integrity – in the DHAN Collective of institutions. Structure Top ﻿ news & events Inviting Applications from qualified Post Graduates and Professionals to pursue 2 years Post graduated in Development Management (MBA) Development Management programme in Community Radio, June 5-7, 2015 SBI Youth for India fellowship applications now open : DHAN Foundation is a partner of the SBI Youth for India fellowship program 2015-16. The program aims at providing opportunity for the young professionals to enjoy a life with grassroots. It would help them to unleash their skills and knowledge on various development activities for the betterment of the rural communities. To find out more about the programme please click.. DHAN Foundation has been chosen as one of the top 20 for the RISK AWARD announced by United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Reduction (UNISDR), Global Risk Forum (GRF Davos), and Munich Re Foundation. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 Walkathon 2015 Photos of DHAN Collectives More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved Back to Top