Rajasthan Education, Education in Rajasthan Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Rajasthan Education System   Rajasthan History and Geography Weather राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar                         more.. Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Rajasthan Education System The education scene of the state is changing frequently owing to the initiatives taken by the Government and the involvement of other institutions. For providing educational services, enrollment of students in schools, abbreviating gender disparities and promoting education, a number of policies have been implemented. There has been a leap in the literary rate in the last ten years. The literary rate grew from 38 % in 1991 to over 61 per% in 2001. In the near future the state aims to attain a remarkable percentage of literacy rate, so the primary is free and mandatory and for all children in the state. At present the Education System of Rajasthan consists of nine universities and more than two hundred and fifty colleges, fifty five thousand primary and seven thousand four hundred secondary schools. The Rajasthan University Results normally come out in the months of November and December. The state has forty-one engineering colleges with an annual enrollment of about 11,500 students. There are twenty-three polytechnics and one-hundred and fifty-two Industrial Training Institute (ITIs) that impart vocational training to the students. Rajasthan Technical Education Board in Jodhpur is engaged in imparting technical education and arranges for the Rajasthan Pre Entrance Test for Engineering, Architecture and Pharmacy known RPETEAP. Schools in Rajasthan The LNM Indian Institute of Information Technology at Jaipur was recently set up by the LN Mittal Foundation that belonged to the Ispat International group. This institution provides technical education in the fields of IT, Electronics, Communication and other emerging technologies. The entire network of such educational institutes have resulted in the creation of a pool of educated, qualified and expert professionals to the Business industrial sectors in Rajasthan. Female education is highly stressed upon. Aap Ki Beti is a scheme which provides subsidized education, uniforms and other help to the female child of impoverished families. The Zila Prathamik Shiksha and Sarva Shiksha Schemes emphasize on the importance of primary education in the state. The number of government funded or aided schools in Rajasthan are as follows: School/Office School Type Rural/Urban No. of Schools School Senior Secondary Rural 1413 School Senior Secondary Urban 577 School Secondary Rural 2988 School Secondary Urban 528 Office Others Rural 1 Office Others Urban 53 School Others Urban 1 Total other offices 54 Total Other School 1 Total Secondary Schools 3516 Total Senior Secondary Schools 1990 Sanskrit university In fact Sanskrit is the language from which major Indian languages have evolved. Sanskrit also provided the theoretic foundation of ancient sciences. So it is very important to propagate and preserve the Sanskrit language for the Hence, it becomes essential to preserve and propagate Sanskrit for over all development of the country. With this view the Rajasthan Sanskrit University or the Sanskrit Vishwavidalaya was set up in Jaipur for the development and preservation of the Sanskrit language and also to propagate and promote Sanskrit learning in the state. The Rajasthan Sanskrit University in Jaipur offers research- oriented studies and program offering the degree of Vidyavaridhi (Ph.D). Vidya Peeth in Rajasthan Rajasthan Vidyapeeth (Deemed University) was founded by Pandit Janardan Rai Nagar in 1937 with the objective of uplifting the browbeaten common man in the feudalistic state of Mewar in Rajasthan. Originally it was established as a night education centre for the primary, secondary and advanced Courses in Hindi, the national language of the country and was named as Hindi Vidhyapeeth. After the amalgamation of the state of Rajasthan, new dimensions were added and Hindi Vidhyapeeth was transformed into a prominent Non-Government Organization and hence was renamed as Rajasthan Vidyapeeth. The Evening College (Shramjeevi College) imparted education to those students, especially the underprivileged children who were engaged in work during the daytime and were keen in educating themselves in the evenings for better job prospects. The Vidyapeeth also initiated a large number of other institutes like the Secondary School, Higher Secondary School, Post-basic School and the Centre for Fine Arts to impart education to all sections of the society. The College of Teachers' Training was another significant addition under the education system of Rajasthan Vidyapeeth in the seventies. Rajasthan Patrika Formerly a journalist with the Rashtradoot, Mr.Chandra's vision aspired to cater to the needs of the common man. Since its early days, this newspaper giant has endeavored to mirror the socio- political reality of the times. Statistics serve as the yardstick of success and failure in this world of cut-throat competition and Rajasthan Patrika boasts of an enviable track record. The fifty year old institution of intrepid journalism, with a lion's share of the readership pie, has won several accolades over the years. The newspaper has championed many a public cause. Fearless reporting coupled with fiery articles penned by the editor, has contributed to its stature. Reputation and readership bolstered the infrastructure of the organization. A part of the Audit Bureau of Circulation, the newspaper amassed huge popularity during the period of Emergency that lasted between 1975 and 1979. Dauntless journalism pegged its circulation at a whopping seventy five thousand. Last Updated on : 01 December 2011 Education in Rajasthan Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Rajasthan Geography History Weather Area Languages Population Desert Quick Facts Soil and Vegetation Art Dress Fairs and Festivals Food Culture Rajasthan Factsheet             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule