UHDP- Hi tech organic guava farming with 1000 plants per acre - 40 MT yield per acre AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Consultancy Services UHDP- Hi tech organic guava farming with 1000 plants per acre - 40 MT yield per acre Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: UHDP- Hi tech organic guava farming with 1000 plants per acre - 40 MT yield per acre LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 1 Week Ago #1 ramu1970 Join Date Oct 2012 Posts 77 UHDP- Hi tech organic guava farming with 1000 plants per acre - 40 MT yield per acre ULTRA HI DENSITY GUAVA L 49 PLANTATION - CALENDER OF OPERATION FOR COMPLETE ORGANIC CULTIVATION WITH AN AIM OF HARVESTING 40 MT YIELD PER ACRE PER YEAR MONTH OPERATIONS MATERIALS REQUIRED SIGNIFICANCE January and August Manure Application in soil 10 Kgs Cowdung manure or 5 kgs vermicompost +1 kg Rock phosphate + 0.5 kg Gypsum per tree per year applied in split doses once in Jan and next in August The manure application precedes flower initiation . Rock phosphate slow release the phosphorus and calcium and magnesium to the plants and keep the plant growth strong and steady Every month Panchakavya spray Panchakavya 3% solution during second fortnight of every month but during rainy season panchakavya can be supplemented through drip irrigation Fungi : 38800/ml Bacteria : 1880000/ml Lactobacillus :2260000/ml Total anaerobes :10000/ml Acid formers :360/ml Methanogen :250/ml Chemical composition pH : 5.45 EC dSm2 : 10.22 Total N (ppm) : 229 Total P (ppm) : 209 Total K (ppm) : 232 Sodium : 90 Calcium : 25 IAA (ppm) : 8.5 GA (ppm) : 3.5 Every month Humiplex application through drip irrigation Application : Dilution 5ml/LT . Control soil PH and release soil bound NPK nutrients to the plants January & August Organic source of micronutrients Sanjivini Concentrated Bio Organic Manure enriched with Micro-nutrients and OC . It is Pseudomonas NPK combination . Direct application in soil or can be mixed with compost for soil application. Empaneled at NCIPM , IARI Delhi. For producing more flowers and fruit settings , and shiny fruit skin Every month second fortnight NPK Nutrients ( per plant recommendation of 40:20:20 grams ) 4. Growfos : Water soluble Liquid NPK in Organic Form for drip or foliar application Since guava plant is a fast growing plant and producing more yield of 40 kgs per plant per year it needs heavy requirement of NPK through out the year . January & October Ploughing Ploughing two times once in January and next in October to remove weeds Hygienic and clean cultivation January & October Mulching Ploughing is followed by mulching with coir pith spread around base of tree in circular form , sprayed with plurotus fungus which decompose coir pith Reduce evaporation loss and conserve soil moisture and keep the root growth and root mass increasing with new absorbing roots .The decomposed coir pith add manure to the plants May & September Pruning 60 % of Light pruning of current season growth in May gives good winter crop in September and subsequent pruning is done after harvest of fruits Only limited number of quality fruits are left in the tree , removing unnecessary branches and unwanted and bad shaped fruits which are rejected in the market. April – May and September - October Spray of Giberrelic Acid GA Reduce fruit drops by 45 to 65 % Summer months ( April to September) Pest and disease control Agrovita: Input for IPM and Growth. Effectively control range of Sucking Pest and flowering improvement , foilar application. Empanelled at NCIPM , IARI Delhi. This prevents sucking pest like scales, mealybugs ( white insects )and fruit fly from attacking fruits and plants March - September Increasing pollination Bee keeping The taste of fruit is very good and preferred by consumer Miscellaneous Pseudomonas, T.Viride, Azospirillum, phosphobacteria, VAM 200 grams each per tree Increase the root growth and soil nitrogen availability T.Ramu., B.Sc., ( Agri ) MBA Agricultural officer Dept of Agriculture chennai ramuth24@gmail.com 9629897302,9087286480 Attached Thumbnails           Last edited by ramu1970; 1 Week Ago at 07:50 PM . Reason: additional pictures inserted Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 12:14 AM .