Alappuzha Education Home » Alappuzha » Alappuzha Education   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views About India India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels Current Events India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more... Affiliate Sites Map Store Map of Mumbai Map of Hyderabad Map of delhi Map of Bangalore Map of Chennai Focus on Delhi Information Delhi       Alappuzha Education Alappuzha Education refers to the educational system of this city of Kerala. Education in Alappuzha got a boost with the development of many schools, computer institutes and colleges all over the district. Alappuzha holds a distinct position in Kerala in terms of literacy rate. This district holds a distinct position in terms of the total literacy rate of the state. Presently, this district has 9 training schools, 405 LP schools, 105 high schools and 87 higher secondary schools. Computer institutes in Alappuzha are Matrix Computers, Maestros, Orbit Computers, TACS Computer Center, Page Styles the Digi Tech Corner, Ushas Center for Computer Education, S.S.I. Computer Education, Bharat Sevak Samaj, NIIT and Computronics Cad center. CBSE schools in Alappuzha are Maria Montessori School, Mount Tabor Public School, Madhava Education Central School, Holy Trinity Vidyabhavan, Cherupushp Bethani School, Chinmaya Vidyalaya and Indira Janardhan Vidya Mandir. Colleges in Alappuzha offer both graduate and post graduate courses for their students. Some of the colleges of Alappuzha are N.S.S. College, TD Medical College, Christian college, Milad-e Sheriff Memorial college, St. Michael college, Sree Narayana College , T.K Madhava Memorial college, D.B. Pampa College and St. Aloysius college. Alappuzha Education has made significant development in the recent years. To know more about Alappuzha Education, log onto the below link: Alappuzha Colleges Last Updated on 05 May 2011 Alappuzha Education Alappuzha Colleges More About Alappuzha Alappuzha Accommodation Alappuzha Education Alappuzha Health Alappuzha Information Alappuzha Vacation About Alappuzha Alappuzha Events Alappuzha History Tour to Alappuzha Alappuzha Economy Alappuzha Geography Alappuzha Hotels Tours from Alappuzha             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule