Agriculture in Rajasthan Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Rajasthan Agriculture   Rajasthan History and Geography Weather राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar                         more.. Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Rajasthan Agriculture A significant portion of the economy of Rajasthan is agrarian. The agricultural sector of the state accounts for 22.5 per cent. The arid state which receives not more than an annual income of 25 cm thrives on agriculture that is done with irrigation systems and painstaking efforts of the poor farmers of Rajasthan. As a major portion of the state is parched and infertile, agriculture becomes very difficult. Rajasthan Agriculture Map Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Agriculture Map of Rajasthan showing different crops growing areas. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The total cultivated area of the state encompasses about 20 million hectares and out of this only 20% of the land is irrigated. Ground water level is available only at a depth of 30 to 61m. Rajasthan farmers have to depend on different sources of irrigation that include tube wells, wells and tanks. The Punjab Rivers in the north, the Narmada River in the south and the Agra Canals from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh provide water to the dry land of Rajasthan. Northwestern Rajasthan is irrigated by the Indira Gandhi Canal. Rajasthan has two principal crop seasons- Rabi Kharif The Rabi crops are winter crops and are sown in the months of October and November and are harvested in the months of March and April. The principal Rabi crops are Barley, Wheat, Gram, Pulses and Oil Seeds. The major oil seeds are Rape and Mustard. The Kharif crops are the crops that are grown in the summer season and are seeded in the months of June and July. These crops are harvested in the months of September and October and include Bajra, Pulses, Jowar, Maize and Ground Nuts. The regions that are highly irrigated or receive abundant water supply are utilized for the cultivation of improved high-yielding varieties of rice. Some places of Rajasthan that has black soil nurture the growth of major cash crops like Cotton. In some regions Tobacco is also grown. Apart from this crops an assortment of fruits and vegetables are also grown in Rajasthan in the local gardens and some fertile regions. These fruits include Oranges, Guavas, Lemon, Pomegranates and Mangoes. Rajasthan soil is also suited for the growth of some spice plants, especially red, hot chilies. These chilies give Rajasthan its distinct flavor. Other spices are cumin seeds and methi. Last Updated on : 27 December 2010 Agriculture in India Andhra Pradesh Assam Bihar Chhatisgarh Goa Gujarat Himachal Pradesh Jammu And Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Orissa Punjab Rajasthan Tamilnadu Tripura Uttaranchal Uttar Pradesh West Bengal Rajasthan Geography History Weather Area Languages Population Desert Quick Facts Soil and Vegetation Art Dress Fairs and Festivals Food Culture Rajasthan Factsheet Rajasthan Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map District Map in Hindi Jaipur Metro Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Location Map Mineral Map Physical Map Raiway Map Road Map Tehsil Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule