Manipur The best bookmaker bet365 Дървен материал от www.emsien3.com Home About Finer Profile Aims Objectives Governing Board Working Committees The Secretariat What We Do Advocacy Events Networking Trade Facilitation Capacity Building Economic Agenda Representation Initiatives Global Trade Development Thrust Area Identification Reach Us Manipur Written by Administrator on 04 May 2014 . Posted in About North East Twitter INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES Manipur', which literally means 'a jewelled land', has a rich reserve of natural resources combined with refreshing scenic beauty. Physically, the state comprises of two parts, the hills and the valley. The valley is at the centre surrounded by hills on all sides. Thus, it is nature's pristine glory in the true sense. The natives of Manipur are artistic and creative by nature, which is prominent in their handloom and handicraft products world-famous for their designs, originality and usefulness. The geographical location of Manipur beckons industrialization of the most modern kind. Agriculture and allied activities is the backbone of the economy. Manipur is a suitable place for knowledge-intensive industrialization with high learning components. Although the state is located in a far flung north-eastern corner of the country, it has many advantages and opportunities for investment. There are several sectors like agro and food processing, handloom and handicrafts, tourism and information technology with ample potential for attracting investors and, the State Government has also taken several policy measures and incentives for attracting investors in these sectors. AGRO AND FOOD PROCESSING The agro-climatic condition of this State makes it suitable for growing almost all kinds of agricultural and horticultural crops and setting up of food processing industries. Manipur produces sizeable quantity of paddy, wheat, maize, pulses, oilseeds (like mustard, groundnut, soya beans and sunflower), fruits (like pineapple, lime, lemon, banana and orange), and vegetables (like cauliflower, cabbage, tomato and peas). As a result, the food processing sector plays a significant role in diversification and commercialization of agriculture, horticulture, fisheries, poultry, animal husbandry and forestry. In view of the importance of the industry, the State Government has established a 'Food Processing Training Centre' and 'Food Processing Training Hall’ at Imphal. A food Park is also being set up in the same place. HANDLOOM Handloom industry is flourishing since time immemorial as the largest cottage industry of this State. It is providing maximum employment opportunities in the state, particularly to women. The main handloom products of Manipur are sarees, bed sheets, curtains, fashion garments, scarves and pillow covers. Fabrics and Shawls of Manipur are also in great demand in the national as well as international market. Major handloom production activities in Manipur are undertaken by three Government organizations – Manipur Development Society (MDS) Manipur Handloom and Handicrafts Development Corporation (MHHDC) Manipur State Handloom Weavers Co-operative Society (MSHWCS) HANDICRAFT The handicraft industry of Manipur occupies a unique place amongst various crafts of the country and consists of cane and bamboo products as well as the pottery culture. The pottery culture of thestate is very old and due to the abundant availability of cane and bamboo, basketry has been a popular occupation of the people of Manipur. Besides, fishing equipments are also made of cane and bamboo. All such products are in great demand from both domestic as well as the international buyers. TOURISM Manipur, due to its wealth of flora and fauna is also known as a ‘flower on lofty heights’. Its breathtaking scenic beauty makes it a tourist’s paradise. The enchanting landscape includes rare species of flora and fauna, virgin forests, cascading rivers, hilly green landscape, and meandering streams. As an addition to these, there are various other tourist attractions which offer excellent opportunities for developing different types of tourism in the state. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY The Government of Manipur has recognized the vast potential of the IT industry in the State and has accorded high priority to the Electronics and Information Technology sectors as a major thrust area of development. Also, the state has a vibrant manpower potential and qualitative work force which is ideally suited for such industries. The Manipur Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. has been established to fill up the gaps for development of electronics and information technology based industries in the State. The areas in IT where investment opportunities exist are – Setting up of IT Parks, IT Enabled Service Centers and Information Kiosks Development of a backbone network "Manipur State Wide Area Network" (MANNET) for voice, data and video transmission and dissemination Issue of multi-function Electronic SMART cards to citizens IT literacy program in schools and colleges To create infrastructure throughout the state for promotion of distance learning through IT. Leave your comments Name (Required): Email: Website: 0 Detect Location Submit Comment Subscribe Agree to terms and condition . Comments Comments Sort by Oldest First Sort by Latest First Subscribe with RSS No comments found Stickies Lovies Sidebar Menu About North East Arunachal Pradesh Assam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Membership Benefits How to Join Forms Resources Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers News and Events Upcoming Events Past Events News in Media Photo Gallery Interactive meet with Dr. Ravi Kota, IAS AITIF 2015 Press Meet Interactive Session with Mr. Vinay Chhabra, IRS Interactive Session with Cesare Bieller Interactive meet with Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal Thai delegation meet on 26 Nov, 2014 Assam International Trade and Industrial Fair 2015 Meeting with Shri A.k. Mehra Meeting with Shri M.G.V.K. Bhanu FINER Delegation Meets Smt Nirmala Sitharaman FINER Delegation meets the Parliamentary Standing committee on Home Affair at Guwahati Meeting with NEMP's Forum Press Meet on NEIIPP Interactive session with Shri Jitesh Khosla, IAS FINER Press Meet - 2014 Business Delegation to Laos, Myanmar and Thailand Guest of the Month (P. Padmanabhan) 21st Annual General Meeting on April, 2015 Publications E-Newsletter FINER News and Views Annual Report Quick Links Department of Industries and Commerce, Govt. Of Assam National Portal of India Business Portal of India Directory of official web sites of Government of India Foreign missions India Directory of official web sites of Government of Assam Ministry Of Finance, Government Of India Department Of Commerce, Government Of India Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Reserve Bank of India Department of Company Affairs (Registrar of Companies) Central Board of Direct Taxes Central Board of Excise & Custom Ministry Of Food Processing , Government Of India Ministry of Labour Directorate General of Foreign Trade Ministry of Environment and Forests Ministry of Overseas Affairs Download E-Newsletter Government Policies Notifications and Circulars Case Studies and Whitepapers Registration Form AITIF-2015 Facebook Likebox Twitter Feeds Tweets by @fineroffice Home About Finer What We Do Initiatives Reach Us Copyright © 2013 FINER Designed & Maintained by iinnovation technologies Online bookmaker Romenia betwin365.webs.com