Places to Visit in Darjeeling and Tourist Destinations near Darjeeling Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Darjeeling Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Darjeeling Places to Visit in Darjeeling Happy Valley Tea Garden Darjeeling Himalayan Railway Tiger Hill Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park Dhirdham Temple Observatory Hill St. Andrew's Church War Memorial Peace Pagoda Chowrasta and the Mall Cities to Visit near Darjeeling Siliguri Travel Kolkata Travel Nabadwip Travel Barrackpore Travel Hooghly Travel Howrah Travel Murshidabad Travel West Bengal Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach West Bengal Hotels Getting Around Places to Visit in West Bengal Home » Darjeeling » Places to Visit in Darjeeling Places to Visit in Darjeeling Darjeeling, also fondly known as the "Queen of hill stations", is nestled in the Himalayas and is famous for its tea production and the Darjeeling Himalayan Railways, which is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site. This hill town was developed in the mid 19 th century, when the British set up a sanatorium and a military depot in Darjeeling. Before this, Darjeeling was the ancient Gorkha capital. Later, the Maharaja of Sikkim gifted Darjeeling to the British. Darjeeling continues to be a popular holiday destination in India, owing to its scenic beauty and pleasant climate. Apart from tourism, Darjeeling is also popular for its many British style public schools, which attract students from across India and even neighbouring countries. Places to See in Darjeeling Darjeeling is a travellers delight and is frequented by tourists year after year. Apart from the pleasant weather and scenic beauty, there is a lot to see and do in Darjeeling. Happy Valley Tea Garden Category : Garden Situated 1 km away from the town of Darjeeling, the Happy Valley Tea Garden is located on the Lebong Carter Road and provides a peaceful and relaxing getaway from the hustle and bustle of tourist-y Darjeeling. The Darjeeling Himalayan Railway Category : Fun & Entertainment Also known as the "Toy Train", the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway plies between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling and is a narrow gauge railway. This railway is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site and offers beautiful views of the scenic mountains on its way to Darjeeling. Tiger Hill Category : Nature Situated at an altitude of 2590 meters, Tiger Hill is located 11 km from Darjeeling and presents a spectacular view of Mount Everest and Kanchenjunga. It is advised to go to Tiger Hill early in the morning and watch the sun rise over the mountain peaks. Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park Category : Wild Life Established in 1958, this zoo is dedicated to the memory of Padmaja Naidu, the former governor of West Bengal. Among one of the best zoos in the country, this is one of the only zoo which raises wild wolf in captivity. The zoo is also home to endangered species like the Red Panda, Siberian Tiger and the Snow Leopard. Dhirdham Temple Category : Religious Travel to any part of the Indian Sub-continent, one thing is for sure, you are going to find at least one ancient Shiv Temple every where. Located just above the Toy Train Railway Station, Dhirdham Temple is one of the most beautiful temples I have ever come across. This colorful temple complex is the home of the most popular Hindu deity, Lord Shiva. It is one of the oldest temples in the town of Darjeeling. Observatory Hill Category : Nature This place has a religious significance to both Hindus and Buddhists. The Mahakal Temple which stands on this hill, is supposed to be a personification of Lord Shiva. The Bhutia Busty Gompa was earlier located here, before it was relocated. Hence the Observatory Hill is frequented by both Hindus and Buddhists. St. Andrew's Church Category : History & Culture St Andrew's is an old Anglican church, built in 1843 and is named after the patron saint of Scotland, St. Andrew. Early worshippers at this church were Scottish soldiers and tea planters. The church was seriously damaged in an earthquake and had to be re constructed in 1873. War Memorial Category : History & Culture This war memorial was constructed in memory of brave soldiers who laid down their lives for the country in various wars before independence in 1947. Peace Pagoda Category : History & Culture The Japanese Peace Pagoda was constructed by a Japanese Buddhist order by the name of Nipponzan Myohoji. The Pagoda is located on the slopes of the Jalapahar Hill and can be reached on foot or by taxi. Chowrasta and the Mall Category : Fun & Entertainment The Mall road originates and culminates at Chowrasta, which is essentially the heart of the city and people usually come here to take strolls, relax, shop and eat at the numerous shops and restaurants that line the road. The views from Chowrasta are splendid and this is one of Darjeeling's most popular places. Last Updated on : May 19, 2014 Travel to West Bengal Travel to Darjeeling Travel to Siliguri Travel to Kalimpong Travel to Kolkata Travel to Nakhoda Masjid Places to Visit in West Bengal Places to visit in Kalimpong Places to visit in Kolkata Places to visit in Sliguri About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule