Uttar Pradesh Thermal Power Plants Map Home » India Energy Maps » Uttar Pradesh Thermal Power Plants Map   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views About India India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories State Profiles Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Utilities Flight Schedule Railways TimeTable Distance Chart Latitude and Longitudes India Pin codes STD Search more... Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels Current Events India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       Uttar Pradesh Thermal Power Plants Map The state of Uttar Pradesh is home to some of the leading thermal power plants like the Obra Thermal Power Station, Anpara Thermal Power Station, Panki Thermal Power Station, Parichha Thermal Power Station, Harduaganj Thermal Power Station, Tanda Thermal Power Plant, Singrauli Super Thermal Power Plant and many more. Apart from the operating thermal power plants in Uttar Pradesh, several other thermal plants are also coming up in the state. Uttar Pradesh Thermal Power Plants Map Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map of Uttar Pradesh thermal power plants and their locations. Vidytnagar, Unchahar, Pakni, Dibiyapur, Rosa, Dadri, Harduaganj are located here. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. Obra Thermal Power Station Obra Thermal Power Station is situated at Obra in Sonebhadra district in Uttar Pradesh. The plant is 125 km away from Varanasi. This Uttar Pradesh thermal power plant is equipped with thirteen units, each of which is coal. The units are divided into four stages: The 1st stage comprises 5 Units The 2nd stage comprises 3 Units The 3rd stage comprises 3 Units The 4th stage comprises 2 Units This thermal power plant in Uttar Pradesh had power generating capacity of 1,500 MW that has decreased to 660mw. w now. Obra Thermal Power Station U.P. Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. P.O. Obra Distt. Sonebhadra Uttar Pradesh Anpara Thermal Power Station Anpara Thermal Power Station is situated at Anpara in Sonebhadra district of Uttar Pradesh. It is almost 200 km away from Varanasi. This Uttar Pradesh thermal power station has 5 units each of which are coal-fired stations. The coal requirements of the plant are fed by Kakri, Kharia and Beena coal mines, NCL. The plant has a installed capacity of 1630 MW, which happens to be the highest among all the thermal power stations in UP. The 1st 3 units have got a power capacity of 210 MW while the remaining 2 have 500 MW each. Anapara Thermal Power Station (A&B) U.P. Rajya Vidyut Utapadan Nigam Ltd. P.O. Anapara, Distt. Mirzapur- Uttar Pradesh- 231225 Panki Thermal Power Station Situated at Panki, in the Kanpur district of Uttar Pradesh, the Panki Thermal Power Station is only 16 km away from Kanpur. The plant was formed in 10 stages, both with 10 8 units. The coal to the plant is supplied by the coal mines of ECL and BCCL. Panki Thermal Power Station P.O. Panki Kanpur Uttar Pradesh- 208020 Parichha Thermal Power Station Parichha Thermal Power Station is situated at Parichha in the Jhansi district of Uttar Pradesh. It is 25 km away from Jhansi. This Uttar Pradesh thermal power plant has 1 stage with 2 units. The coal is provided to the plant by BCCL and ECL. The plant has an installed total capacity of 890 MW, divided into two units of 210 mw and two units of 110mw. Parichha Thermal Power Station UPRVVNL P.O. Parichha Jhansi Uttar Pradesh- 284304 Harduaganj Thermal Power Station Harduaganj Thermal Power Station is situated at Harduaganj in the Aligarh district of Uttar Pradesh. It is about 18 km away from Aligarh. The plant consists of 3 stages with seven units. 460 MW is the total capacity of Harduaganj Thermal Power. The capacity of each of the units is as follows: two Units of 50 MW four Units of 60 MW one Unit of 110 MW Harduaganj Thermal Power Station Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. P.O. Kasimpur Distt. Aligarh Uttar Pradesh- 202127 Tanda Thermal Power Plant Situated at Vidyutnagar in the Ambedkarnagar District of the state of Uttar Pradesh, Tanda Thermal Power Plant is a coal based plant generating electricity of 440 MW. North Karnpura Coal Fields supplies the plant with coal while the water is served by the Sarayu River. Tanda Thermal Power Station P.O. Vidyutnagar Distt. AMBEDKAR NAGAR, Uttar Pradesh- 231222 Singrauli Super Thermal Power Plant Singrauli Super Thermal Power Plant is at Singrauli in the state of Uttar Pradesh. This coal based plant has been formed by NTPC. Singrauli Super Thermal Power Station P.O. Shaktinagar Distt. Sonephadra Uttar Pradesh- 231222, Apart from these plants, some of the other Uttar Pradesh thermal power plants are as follows Auriya Gas Power Project (NCR) P.O: Dibiyapur, Dist: Auraiya Uttar Pradesh Pin- 206 244 National Capital Power Station P.O. Vidyut Nagar Dadri (NCR) Distt Gautambudh Nagar Uttar Pradesh- 201008 Feroze Gandhi Unchahar Thermal Power Project P.O. Unchahar Distt. Raebareli Uttar Pradesh- 229406 Rihand Super Thermal Power Project P.O. Rihand Nagar-Distt. Sonebhadra Uttar Pradesh- 231223 Upcoming Uttar Pradesh Thermal Power Plants Hindalco Industries Ltd (999.7 MW) Renusagar, District Sonebhadra, Uttar Pradesh NTPC (2 x 500 MW) District Sonebhadra, Uttar Pradesh Sangam Power Generation Ltd (2 x 660 MW) Karchhana, Allahabad, U.P NTPC (2 x 500 MW) Rihand stage III, Sonebhadra District Uttar Pradesh U P Rajya Vidyut Nigam Ltd (2 x 500 MW) Obra, Sonebhadra District Uttar Pradesh U P Power Corp (3 x 660 ,MW) Allahabad District Uttar Pradesh Reliance Energy Generation Ltd (1320 MW) Dehra in Ghaziabad District, Uttar Pradesh Rama Paper Mills (6 MW) Kiratpur in Bijnor District, Uttar Pradesh Last Updated on : 22 September 2010   Uttar Pradesh Thermal Power Plants   Power Station Location District State Installed Capacity(MW) Obra Thermal Power Station Obra Sonebhadra Uttar Pradesh 1322 Anpara Thermal Power Station Anpara Sonebhadra Uttar Pradesh 1630 Panki Thermal Power Station Panki Kanpur Uttar Pradesh 210 Parichha Thermal Power Station Parichha Jhansi Uttar Pradesh 640 Harduaganj Thermal Power Station Harduaganj Aligarh Uttar Pradesh 220 Singrauli Super Thermal Power Station Shaktinagar Sonebhadra Uttar Pradesh 2000 Rihand TPP Rihand Nagar Sonebhadra Uttar Pradesh 2000 National Capital TPP Vidyutnagar Gautam Budh Nagar Uttar Pradesh 1820 Feroz Gandhi Unchahar TPP Unchahar Raebareli Uttar Pradesh 1050 Tanda TPP Vidyutnagar Ambedkar Nagar Uttar Pradesh 440 Rosa Thermal Power Plant Rosa Shahjahanpur Uttar Pradesh 600   India Energy Maps   Andhra Pradesh Thermal Power Plants Chhattisgarh Thermal Power Plants Kerala Thermal Power Plants Orissa Thermal Power Plants Tamilnadu Thermal Power Plants Asom Thermal Power Plants Gujarat Thermal Power Plants Madhya Pradesh Thermal Power Punjab Thermal Power Plants Uttar Pradesh Thermal Power Plants Bihar Thermal Power Plants Haryana Thermal Power Plants Maharashtra Thermal Power Plants Rajasthan Thermal Power Plants West Bengal Thermal power Plants               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule