Hotels in Assam Destinations Destinations Travel To | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Assam Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Asaam Places to Visit in Assam National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Kamakhya Temple Temples in Assam Kamakhya Temple Nabagraha Temple Rudreswar Temple Monuments and Museums Rang Ghar The planetarium Gargaon Palace Namdang Stone Bridge Charaideo Majuli Island Tourist Destinations in Assam Travel to Manas Travel to Haflong Travel to Dispur Travel to Guwahati Assam Hotels Hotels in Guwahati Hotels in Dibrugarh Hotels in Tezpur Hotels in Jorhat Hotels in Kaziranga About Assam Geography History Home » Hotels » Hotels in Assam Hotels in Assam HOTEL SEARCH Search by Location Search by Places Select State Select City Location of Hotels in Assam Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing the location of hotels in Assam. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The state of Assam lies in North East of India. The state is one of the largest producers of finest tea. Besides the commercial significance, Assam is also known for its enriched bio-diversity. Creatures of endangered and rare species like 1 horned rhinocerous, golden langur, gangetic dolphin, clouded leopard etc can be found in Assam. This draws many tourists to the state. Assam is beautifully replete with virgin mountains, exotic wildlife, mesmerizing tea gardens, oil fields, rich heritage and culture, dense forests, fairs and festivals, temples and many more. All these make the state a favorite destination among the tourists. So if you want to have a whole new experience, then surely plan a trip to Assam . You can also work or get engaged in serious business while holidaying in Assam. The Assam Hotels are at your service to make your trip worth remembering. As Assam is one of the important states in North East India, therefore many hotels have emerged in the state. Hotels are the backbone of the tourism industry of any state. Same goes for Assam Tourism as well. The state government spends a huge sum of money in the hospitality sector. So both private and government hotels can be found in Assam. Be it luxury hotel, budget hotels, boutique hotels, or resorts, you will find it all in Assam. Luxury Hotels in Assam Hotel Rajmahal, Guwahati Hotel Rajmahal is one of the most sought after luxurious hotels located in Guwahati, one of the popular cities of Assam. It is 21kms from the International Airport and almost 5kmsfrom the railway station. The Hotel on one hand is in close proximity to the important centres in Guwahati and on the other gives the guests a chance to enjoy the scintillating scenic beauty of the place. It has 74 well-equipped rooms, which comprise of deluxe rooms, suites, single room and double rooms. There are two restaurants and a bar, which takes care of the dining needs of the guests. Some of the other faculties are swimming pool, doctor on call, 24 hrs room service, etc. This hotel is well known in Assam for its warm hospitality. Hotel Dynasty Hotel Dynasty is a Government approved hotel and among the best 4 star hotels in Assam. It is located in Guwahati and is 1 km from the Guwahati Rail Station and 21 kms from the Guwahati Airport. It has 70 elegantly designed rooms divided into executive rooms, executive clubrooms, suites and corporate suites. Hotel Dynasty has 2 multi-cuisine restaurants, 'Tandoor' and 'Chopstix' and a bar called 'The lounge'. Other services and facilities of this luxurious Assam Hotel are banquet hall, business centre, conference rooms, doctor on call, travel assistance, currency exchange, laundry, safety deposit etc. Budget Hotels in Assam Hotel Ambassador Assam Hotels are known for their warmth and hospitality. Hotel Ambassador is no exception. It is among the popular Budget Hotels in Assam. It is conveniently located in the city of Guwahati. The hotel rooms come in beautiful shades and are very clean and comfortable. Some of the facilities that are outfitted in the rooms are telephone, 24-hr room service, hot and cold water, TV etc. The hotel also has a restaurant for you to enjoy the lip-smacking eateries. The hotel is also equipped with modern amenities like recreational centre, business centre, doctor on call, safe deposit, etc. Hotel Hillview Guwahati Among the Assam Hotels, Hotel Hillview is one of the Government approved hotels in Assam. The hotel offers good accommodation facilities at affordable prices. The hotel has an in-house restaurant, which serves the guests with all types of dishes. The hotel is also outfitted with both recreational and business facilities. Last Updated on : 05/06/2013   Hotels in Assam   Hotels in Indian States Hotels by City and Destination Hotels in Goa Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Mahabaleshwar Hotels in Ooty Hotels in Manali Hotels in Mysore Hotels in Puri Hotels in Nainital Hotels in Udaipur Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Pondicherry Hotels in Mount-abu Hotels in Aurangabad Hotels in Bhopal Hotels in Jodhpur Hotels in Kanpur Hotels in Mussoorie Hotels in Delhi Hotels in Jaipur Hotels in Bangalore Hotels in Mumbai Hotels in Hyderabad Hotels in Pune Hotels in Chennai Hotels in Agra Hotels in Chandigarh Hotels in Mangalore Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Mathura Hotels in Nashik Hotels in Noida Hotels in Raipur Hotels in Rishikesh Hotels in Bhubaneswar Hotels in Ahmedabad Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Amritsar Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Gurgaon Hotels in Dehradun Hotels in Haridwar Hotels in Lucknow Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Nagpur Hotels in Allahabad Hotels in Secunderabad Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Surat Hotels in Thane Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Shirdi About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule