2014 Florida Small Farms and Alternative Enterprises Conference   HOME ABOUT Purpose Hosts Conference Committees History SFAE Website Related Sites of Interest Contact Us PROGRAM Agenda Session Descriptions Optional Pre-Conference Tours Exhibitor Listing Extension Learning Zone Educational Posters Innovative Farmer Awardees Farm to Table Foods Poster Presentation Opportunity SPONSORS Conference Sponsors Sponsorship Opportunities Outstanding Scholarship Contributors Food, Beverage and Chef Contributors Donate to the Scholarship Fund Past Sponsors EXHIBITORS Exhibitor Listing Become an Exhibitor Past Exhibitors REGISTRATION Registration Information Registration Scholarship Registration FAQs LOCATION Osceola Heritage Park & Parking Pass Accommodations Travel Information PUBLICITY TOOLBOX TESTIMONIALS Welcome Announcing Two Regional Conferences The annual state-wide Small Farms and Alternative Enterprises Conference has been a signature event in the Florida farming community since 2009. During these six years (2009-2014), more than 4,000 attendees have benefited from the multiple educational and networking opportunities presented in this annual event   Building on this foundation, we are happy to announce Five Regional Conferences across the State in 2015 and 2016. These regional events will be designed with your region and your needs in mind. Wherever you are in Florida the conference is coming closer to you. This year make sure not to miss these two regional conferences: Northeast Florida, August 14 & 15, 2015 at the University of North Florida Student Union, Jacksonville. Online Registration Opens on June 1st. Central Florida , November 6, 2015 at the Mid-Florida Research and Education Center, Apopka. For more information please contact Jose Perez at 352-294-1692 or   joseperezoro@ufl.edu . For updates on these conferences please sign in to receive email updates, or follow us on Facebook. Thank you for joining us August 1 & 2, 2014 Speaker Bios, Presentations & Handouts 2014 Conference Photos Small Farms Conference Program Book (PDF) A big thank you to our overall conference sponsors! Visit! Participating Exhibitors Extension Learning Zone Educational Posters - Congratulations to the Poster Winners! Innovative Farmers Recognition Food and Beverage Donors Learn more about this event : Explore our past websites loaded with speaker materials, supporters and sponsors, and a wide variety of small farm suppliers and contacts. See the educational information and resources available to you through the UF/IFAS & FAMU/CAFS Florida Small Farms Website. Join our mail list to receive announcements about this year’s the program and other Florida Small Farm educational events. Like the Florida Small Farms and Alternative Enterprises Facebook page. Read what past conference attendees have to say about the conference.   Hosted by UF/IFAS Office of Conferences and Institutes This site is designed and maintained by the UF/IFAS/OCI Webmaster . Florida Small Farms Website Join Our Mail List    Check out Our Blog Conference News Agenda Session Descriptions Preconference Tours Invitation to Exhibit Sponsorship Opportunities Deadlines Early Registration Deadline     Extended to July 21, 2014