Join the Editors AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Join the Editors Join the Editors Results 1 to 5 of 5 Thread: Join the Editors LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… July 10th, 2013 #1 editorialteam Join Date Feb 2012 Posts 1,063 Join the Editors Dear Readers, Do you want to have other members share their opinion and thoughts on any subjects which interests the people from agri community? Use this forum to create threads on such subjects. Or you can email thought provoking subjects to editorial@vmginfo.com We will ask your questions to people we talk to and publish their responses. Regards, Shweta - Editorial Team Reply With Quote October 13th, 2013 #2 ash2fm Join Date Oct 2013 Posts 3 Query w.r.t. - Rose Gardening in cold areas i.e. shimla or dehradun Respected Personnel/Members, Thanks, for communication. I want to purchase Some 24inch Long Stemmed Premium Roses Plant. Will You help me in providing such valuable information w.r.t. - 1. From Where I can buy aforesaid roses plant, within and outside India. 2. Is such plant can grow in Indian weather, if we buy it from outside india. Is such can be planted at cool places i.e. shimla or dehradun b'caz i have seen large rose flowers in shimla. 3. if Plants are available, for purchase from anywhere, what kind of care and precautions we have to seek ? Waiting for ur prompt reply. Reply With Quote October 13th, 2013 #3 ash2fm Join Date Oct 2013 Posts 3 Query w.r.t. - Rose Gardening in cold areas i.e. shimla or dehradun Respected Personnel/Members, Thanks, for communication. I want to purchase Some 24inch Long Stemmed Premium Roses Plant. Will You help me in providing such valuable information w.r.t. - 1. From Where I can buy aforesaid roses plant, within and outside India. 2. Is such plant can grow in Indian weather, if we buy it from outside india. Is such can be planted at cool places i.e. shimla or dehradun b'caz i have seen large rose flowers in shimla. 3. if Plants are available, for purchase from anywhere, what kind of care and precautions we have to seek ? Waiting for ur prompt reply. Reply With Quote January 18th, 2014 #4 rashmi16 Join Date Jan 2014 Posts 1 i am interested to be a member, my topic on horticulture specially on poly house cultivation. Reply With Quote 3 Weeks Ago #5 soiltest Join Date Mar 2015 Posts 13 Thanks for sharing How to become to editor to this form or what's the responsibilities have to be taken by the editor. Soil Water Plant Testing Lab Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 10:42 AM .