Geography and History of Karnataka Home »» Karnataka » Geography and History   Karnataka Geography and History Geography History कर्नाटक का नक्शा Karnataka Karnataka Map Cities in Karnataka Districts of Karnataka Karnataka Railways Karnataka Roads Rivers of Karnataka Tehsils of Karnataka Cities in Karnataka Bangalore Manipal Hubli Mangalore Gulbarga Davangere Mysore Places to visit in Karnataka Travel to Karnataka Wildlife Sanctuaries in Karnataka Fort & Palaces in Karnataka Hill Stations in Karnataka Temples in Karnataka Beaches in Karnataka Museums in Karnataka Bannerghatta National Park Bandipur National Park Hotels in Karnataka Bangalore Hotels Mysore Hotels Coorg Hotels Mangalore Hotels Udupi Hotels Belgaum Hotels              more... Physical Map Where is Karnataka Forests in Karnataka Karnataka Agriculture Sex Ratio Minerals in Karnataka Latitude and Longitude Industrial Map Karnataka Air Network Karnataka Pin Code Karnataka STD Code How to Reach Karnataka Karnataka Facts Education in Karnataka Universities in Karnataka Geography and History People Culture and Festivals Karnataka Government and    Politics Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Constituencies Population of Karnataka Karnataka Handicrafts Karnataka Economy       Geography and History of Karnataka Geography and history of Karnataka provides a wide array of information about the land and its cultural heritage. Karnataka has seen foreign invasion since a long time and thus, the geography and history of Karnataka presents the admixture of these foreign cultures in its own cultural flavor. Talking about the the first ingredient of geography and history of Karnataka, we can come to the following information about Karnataka: Area - 191,791 square kilometers. Latitude - 74° and 78° East. Longitude - 11° and 18° North. Capital - Bangalore. Districts - 30. Principal language - Kannad. Population - 44,977,201. Natural regions - the Coastal stri the Sahyadris, and the Deccan Plateau. Passes - the Subhrahmanya Ghat the Charmadi Ghat the Shiradi Ghat, and the Agumbe Ghat. Rivers - Krishna and Kaveri. Talking about the second component of the geography and history of Karnataka , we can say that Karnataka finds a reference in the Ramayana, a great epic poem of ancient India. The history of Karnataka at a glance is as follows: the history of Karnataka starts with Chandragupta Maurya. After the Mauryas, emerged the Satavahanas who ruled Karnataka for nearly 300 years, followed by Kadambas, Pallavas, Gangadikaras and so on. Karnataka saw the rise of Muslim rulers with Malik Kafur. A Hindu Kingdom emerged in 1336 at Vijayanagar under the rule of Harihara (Hakka) and Bukka. The Bahamanis established themselves in 1337, but soon they were replaced by the empire of Vijaynagar. Then followed a series of Sultans and ultimately the Britishers established a firm basis in Karnataka. And in 1973, Karnataka became a part of the Indian Union. Thus, as it is evident, the geography and history of Karnataka is a rich store of information which can be used for greater effect, if perused minutely. Last Updated on 26 th March 2013   Geography of Karnataka   Geography History             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule