Sheet1 Corrigendum : Selection of Implementation Agency for Supply, Installation, Training and O&M of Hardware, Networking Components, System Software etc. under National e-Governance Plan-Agriculture (NeGP-A) Sr No. Reference (RFP Version 1.9) Existing Revised/Additional Text 1 Page 16, Warranty xlv. “Warranty” A guarantee to be given to DAC by the IAs that all products and services are reliable and free from any defects and that the IAs will, without charge, repair or replace defective parts or, if needed, the full product, within a given time limit and under conditions as specified in the draft service levels contained in this RFP. The warranty period for all components would commence after “Go-live” and will be valid for five years except in case of Hand Held Devices (Tablets) and Pico Projectors, for which warranty duration will be three years. “Warranty” A legal commitment to be given to DAC by the IA that all products and services are reliable and free from any defects and that the IAs will, without charge, repair or replace defective parts or, if needed, the full product, within a given time limit and under conditions as specified in the draft service levels contained in this RFP. The warranty period for all components would commence after “Go-live” and will be valid for five years except in case of Hand Held Devices (Tablets) and Pico Projectors, for which warranty duration will be three years. 2 Eligibility Criteria Page 41. Table 3 Pre-Qualification Criteria : The Prime Bidder should have annual turnover of at least Rs. 700 Crores during each of the preceding last three financial years (from similar activities) from India Operations i.e. for year 2011-12, 2012-13 and 2013-14. This criteria now stands amended as"The Prime Bidder should have an average annual turnover of at least Rs. 700 Crores during last three financial years (from similar activities) from India Operations i.e. for year 2011-12, 2012-13 and 2013-14. However, turnover value should be in excess of Rs. 600 crores in at least two out of these 3 years." Please refer RFP Ver 1.3. 3 Page 40, 44 Table 3 Pre-Qualification Criteria (Ser No. 1) Now Added *If, as a legal entity, the bidder has multiple Companies under its umbrella with the bidder having majority of share holdings and other administrative linkages with these companies, in that situation, the turnover, number of projects etc., while deciding eligibility of the company will be confined to such group of companies only, which are actually doing the activities similar to what are envisaged in this project. 3 Pg 41 : Prequalification Criteria, Sl. No 10; Documents to be submitted Completion/ Go-Live certificates from client along with purchase orders Completion/ Go-Live certificates from client along with purchase orders. In case of non-disclosure agreement, confirmation regarding size and value of the project may be submitted from the client. 4 Pg43 Table 3 Pre-Qualification Criteria (Ser No. 12) Now added OEM Help desk facilities should be available for desktops, printers, Tablets, Pico Projectors during working hours and for Data center Hardware on 24x7 basis. 5 Pg 48, Table 4 Technical Bid Evaluation Criteria, Pt. 1.6 Experience in Hosting/Installation/Migrating Multiple Applications and Data at Data Centers (SDC or NIC DC or DR or Other DCs of reasonable size Experience in Hosting/ Installation/ Migrating Multiple Applications and Data at Data Centers (SDC or NIC DC or DR or Other DCs/IDC of reasonable size as per DAC’s satisfaction). 6 6.3.2 Systems Deployment Warranty, Pg no 112 In case of servers, storage and networking components, warranty support of 5 years shall be applicable with effect from the date which is 16 weeks after the date of installation and acceptance. In case of servers, storage and networking components, warranty support of 5 years shall be applicable with effect from the date which is 12 weeks after the date of installation and acceptance. 7 Definations, Pt. XVII, Pg no. 13 However, ‘Go Live’ Date shall not exceed 16 weeks from the date of installation of hardware and related system software by the IA and acceptance of the same by the DAC if the delay takes place due to non-completion of application software by the Software Development Agency. i.      However, ‘Go Live’ Date shall not exceed 12 weeks from the date of installation of hardware and related system software by the IA and acceptance of the same by the DAC if the delay takes place due to non-completion of application software by the Software Development Agency. 3 Pg no. 22,under Selection methodology,Pt c EMD of bidders refusing to accept the offer will be forfeited. EMD of bidders refusing to honour the prices and related terms & conditions as agreed to in writing will be forfeited. 9 Pg no. 32, Section 4.8 under Prices,Pt. iii No adjustment of the contract price shall be made on account of any variations in costs of labor, travel and materials, taxes, duties and levies or any other cost component affecting the total cost in fulfilling the obligations under the contract. No adjustment of the contract price shall be made [barring Dollar variation under clause " Validity of Rates (i) &(ii) and changes in taxes / duties] on account of any variations in costs of labour, travel and materials or any other cost component affecting the total cost in fulfilling the obligations under the contract. 10 Page 19 The Project is now being rolled out in remaining 21states and 07 UTs. Number of States changed to 22 + 07 Uts 11 Page 53, Para 4.19.3(Financial Bid Evaluation) Fb = CAPEX + NPV (OPEX) + NPV (ATS for 2nd year to 5th year) + NPV (AMC for 6th to 8th year) + NPV for Printer cartridges Fb = Capex (Excluding Microsoft System Software) + One Time Installation Charges for Microsoft System Software and maintenance support of 5 years by the SI (excluding ATS etc. which will be quoted as per Part B on page 22) + NPV (OPEX) + NPV ATS (non-Microsoft Components) + Roll Out & Implementation Charges + NPV (AMC for 4th & 5th year for Tablets and Pico Projectors and for 6th to 8th year for all other Hardware) + NPV for Printer cartridges. ................ Please Refer RFP 12 Page 59 - (iv) Contracts would be signed for 5 years. Based on the performance of the IAs, DAC may decide to extend the period of contract by three years. DAC is, however, not bound to extend the contract period by three years Contract would be signed for 5 years. Based on the performance of the IA, DAC may decide to extend the period of contract by three years. DAC is, however, not bound to extend the contract period by three years. 13 Page 104 Table 12 Project Schedule The Project Schedule has been ammended as under:- a) Delivery of All the Equipment at all the offices = T + 8 Weeks. b) Installation (including required software), Testing &Acceptance of Data Center Components = T + 14 Weeks c) Installation (including required software) of End User Components & Acceptance by End Users = T + 14 Weeks d) Training = T + 18 Weeks e) Pilot Run, User Acceptance Testing & Stabilization = T + 22 Weeks f) Operations and Maintenance = Go-Live + 5 Years *Additional two weeks period will be allowed for J&K and North east States in case of Delivery and installation/ATP 14 Table 17 Service level Agreement point No. 4 Page 130 & 131 Availability of Audit Log for DC-DR Replication, Baseline Score has been changed from "4" to "2" 15 Page 59, Point iii All payments agreed to be made by DAC to the Bidder in accordance with the Bid shall be inclusive of all statutory levies, duties, taxes and other charges whenever levied/applicable, if any, and DAC shall not be liable to pay any such levies/ other charges under or in relation to this Contract and/or the Services. iii. All payments agreed to be made by DAC to the Bidder in accordance with the Bid shall be inclusive of all statutory levies, duties, taxes and other charges whenever levied/applicable (both by Center & state). 16 Page 35, para 4.13.2 In exceptional circumstances, the Client may solicit the Bidder’s consent to an extension of the period of validity. The request and the response thereto shall be made in writing. Extension of validity period by the bidder should be unconditional. The Bid Security provided shall also be suitably extended. In exceptional circumstances, the Client may solicit the Bidder’s consent to an extension of the period of validity. The request and the response thereto shall be made in writing. Extension of validity period by the bidder would be with mutual consent. The Bid Security provided shall also be suitably extended. 17 4.19.9. Penalty & Liquidation Damages, Pg. No 57,Pt. No i If the IA fails to deliver any or all of the goods or complete the installation within the period specified in this RFP, DAC shall without prejudice to its other remedies, deduct as liquidated damage @ 1% of the price of the delayed DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE & COOPERATION, GOI Amended as " i. Liquidated Damages: If the IA fails to deliver any or all the goods or fails to complete the installation within the period specified in the agreement ( i.e. T + 8 weeks for delivery and T + 14 weeks for installation) for reasons only attributable to IA, the DAC shall without prejudice to other remedies will impose liquidated damages as follows:- (a) For components which have been delivered within T + 8 but not installed within T + 14 = 0.5% per week of the value of the components which have not been installed within T + 14 weeks. (b) Components not delivered within T + 8 but installed within T + 14 weeks = No penalty. (c) Components not delivered in T + 8 and also not installed in T + 14 weeks = liquidated damages of 1% per week beyond T + 14 weeks of the value of the components which have not been installed within T + 14 weeks, subject to a maximum of 15% of the total contract value. The amount towards Liquidated Damages would be recovered from the invoices raised by the IA. In case there is no invoice raised or the invoice amount is lesser, then the IA shall be asked to deposit such amount to DAC. In case the IA doesn’t deposit the same within 15 days, the BG shall be invoked to recover the amount towards Liquidated Damages. 18 4.19.7 Unconditional Performance Bank Guarantee, Pg no. 55 The successful bidder shall at his own expense deposit with DAC, within five (5) working days of the date of signing of the contract The successful bidder shall at his own expense deposit with DAC, within eight (08) working days of the date of signing of the contract, an unconditional and irrevocable Performance Bank Guarantee(s) (PBGs) as per the format specified in Form G of the Appendix V of the RFP 19 4.19.7 Unconditional Performance Bank Guarantee,Pg. No 56, Pt. No ii a.First Bank Guarantee valid for first 18 months- 20% of Total Contract Value b. 18 % Total Contract Value Second Bank Guarantee valid for beginning of 18th to end of 24th months c. 16 % Total Contract Value Third Bank Guarantee valid for beginning of 24th to end of 30th months d. 14% Total Contract Value Fourth Bank Guarantee valid for beginning of 30th to end of 36th months e. 12% Total Contract Value Fifth Bank Guarantee valid for beginning of 36th to end of 42nd months f. 10% Total Contract Value Sixth Bank Guarantee valid for beginning of 42nd to end of 48th months g. 8 % Total Contract Value Seventh Bank Guarantee valid for beginning of 48th to end of 69th months Performance Bank Guarantee of 20% shall be given in 7 parts as follows: ii. First Bank Guarantee of 2 % valid for 15 months iii. Second Bank Guarantee of 2 % valid for 21 months iv. Third Bank Guarantee of 2 % valid for 27 months v. Fourth Bank Guarantee of 2 % valid for 33 months vi. Fifth Bank Guarantee of 2 % valid for 39 months vii. Sixth Bank Guarantee of 2 % valid for 45 months viii. Seventh Bank Guarantee of 7% valid for 71months ix. PBG for Microsoft System Software Components. A separate Performance Bank Guarantee of 20% of cost of this component for duration of the agreement for these components will be submitted by the agency on which order for these is placed as per the prescribed format 20 Pt ix at Page 59 & 60 of the RFP Ver 1.3 After price discovery, mutually with the Client, the parties can agree on improved technocommercial terms (including alternate products and better specifications or lower price from same or a different manufacturer) for any or all of the items mentioned in RFP at the time of placing the order. After finalisation of prices with the shortlisted bidder but before signing the agreement, if any product get discontinued, DAC can insist on better or the equivalent product at the same or such lower price as mutually agreed. Superiority or equivalence of product shall be inter alia determined within the same product family or, if for any unavoidable reason that is not possible, a product with better benchmark rating and component wise technical specifications may be offered. 21 Pt xiv under Warranty defination,Page 16 of the RFP A guarantee to be given to DAC by the IAs that all products and services are reliable and free from any defects and that the IAs will, without charge, repair or replace defective parts or, if needed, the full product, within a given time limit and under conditions as specified in the draft service levels contained in this RFP. A legal commitment to be given to DAC by the IA that all products and services are reliable and free from any defects and that the IAs will, without charge, repair or replace defective parts or, if needed, the full product, within a given time limit and under conditions as specified in the draft service levels contained in this RFP. 22 4.12.7,Forfeiture of Bid Security, Pt No. V In case of the successful Bidders, if the Bidder fails a. To sign the Contract in accordance with Section b. To furnish Performance Guarantee in accordance as per Performa G in Appendix V "a. To sign contract by raising issues contrary to the provisions of RFP and undertakings given during the evaluation of bids." 23 Page 56, Para (iii) Warranty & Annual Maintenance Contract clause During the warranty period, the bidder warrants that the goods supplied under the contract are new, unused, of the most recent version/ models and incorporate all recent improvements in design and materials unless provided otherwise in the contract. The bidder further warrants that the goods supplied under this contract shall have no defects arising from design, materials or workmanship and are not in end-of-life stage. During the warranty period, the bidder shall replace defective parts/products with new and unused ones. Most recent version/models not inferior to the specifications of the defective part/product shall be supplied. The bidder shall not supply end of life stage product/part as an excuse. In case of withdrawal of any such product, equivalent or upgraded version will be provided as replacement." 24 5.6.1.1 Reporting (Page 72) Agriculture MMP solution’s reporting component will be used to generate reports for following requirements but not limited to • Generate web analysis report to business users • Provide audit trail, i.e. author, date created, modifier, date modified, for each program. • Generate report for general application statistics, e.g. availability and average response time etc. "Agriculture MMP solution’s reporting component will be used to generate reports for following requirements but not limited to • Generate web analysis report to business users • Provide audit trail, i.e. author, date created, modifier, date modified, for each program. • Generate report for general application statistics, e.g. availability and average response time etc. • Should provide for Reports for Service Support and Service Delivery processes through a unified portal for both CAP & SAP. • Should have ability to have a consolidated view of data collected from different types of operations (Eg - SLA compliance for a selected service, it's dependent SLAs, OLA and UPCs, it's changes by priority, open incidents by priority and status, it's assets and individual asset compliance, patches installed and compliance to patches etc) and displayed in a universal portal • Provide users (based on role) to drill down to specific report/data on a need basis • Provide detailed reports on a specific area as per the need of the user • Provide ability to set thresholds on reports values and take automated actions (Eg - at any point of time not more than 10 critical incidents should not be in open status for billing service, if it does send an email report to billing service owner and SLA manager. If consolidated availability of billing service is < 98% for more than 30mts, send an email to SLA manager." • Ability to create custom KPI metrics and scorecard/compliance reports that are updated automatically" 25 4.20,Payment Terms,Pg 59, Pt. no viii However, impact of change in Service Tax + Surcharge from the existing level shall be passed on to the Client. However, impact of change in taxes + surcharge from the existing level shall be passed on to the Client. 26 Pg No 62 under Opex The payment for the operational expenditure (OPEX) shall be released to the IA at the end of each half year spread across 10 half years. The payment for the operational expenditure (OPEX) shall be released to the IA at the end of each quarter spread across 20 quarters spread across five years. 27 UPS 30 KVA,Pg 217 Specification was missing in Previous version of RFP Specifications added in the RFP in Table 7.1 Z 28 Line Interactive UPS 650 VA Specifications, Pg No. 215 Specification was missing in Previous version of RFP CE or equivalent certificate with quoted Model No specified on it in Table 7.1 Z Now Added UPS prices will be quoted in 2 parts viz. UPS machine and batteries. For Bid Evaluation purpose aggregate value of both these components will be taken. In order to minimize speculation regarding prevalent lead prices at the time of supply of 2nd set of batteries, it will be assumed that 70% of battery comprises lead. Thereafter, variation of up to 4% as per London Metal Exchange Metal Index will need to be absorbed by the IA and any increase or decrease beyond this range of 4% will be to the account of DAC in keeping with the formulation given above. BoQ for printers changed as - Mono Printer and Scanner (MFP), at Block HQs - 4231, Color Printer and Scanner (MFP), at District HQs and above - 1454 Printers specifications revised. Please refer revised RFP Ver 1.7 for further details. Now added Different manufacturers give varying capacities of starter cartridge. In order to set off impact of this factor, minimum printing capacity of 2000 pages is expected as per ISO standards in black / colour as the case may be. Printing capacity in excess of or below this cut off figure will be adjusted by adding/subtracting cost of printing differential number of pages for Bid Evaluation purpose as per the cost per page for the quoted printer. However, payment will be made as per the quotation or negotiated price. Line Interactive UPS 650 VA Specifications, Pg No. 216 Now amended Make of battery - Reputed Brand like CSB, Panasonic, AMCO, Amaron, Quanta / Exide 29 EMS, Pg No. 214 Should have ability to have a consolidated view of data collected from different types of operations (Eg - SLA compliance for a selected service, it's dependent SLAs, OLA and UPCs, it's changes by priority, open incidents by priority and status, it's assets and individual asset compliance, patches installed and compliance to patches etc) and displayed in a universal portal Should have ability to have a consolidated view of data collected from different types of operations (Eg - SLA compliance for a selected service, it's dependent SLAs, OLA and UPCs, it's changes by priority, open incidents by priority and status, it's assets and individual asset compliance, patches installed) and displayed in a universal portal 30 4.8 Prices, Pg. 32 The price would be inclusive of all taxes, duties, and charges and levies as applicable.However, any future change, upwards or downwards, in Service Tax shall be to the account of DAC. Changed as " The price would be inclusive of all taxes, duties, charges and levies as applicable (both Central & State). However, any future change, upwards or downwards in these shall be to the account of DAC." However, in case of any additional levies like Entry Tax, Octroi etc., requisite documents for exemptions shall be provided by DAC to IA and in the absence of the same, IA shall charge the DAC on actuals. 31 Additional Procurements,Pg 101 In the event of a bidder being unable to supply such hardware/software for Additional Procurement at the same price agreed under this RFP, an equivalent product equal to or exceeding original specifications will be supplied subject to the condition that such alternative OEM is from among equivalent OEMs as approved by the DAC. This Essence Clause shall be applicable notwithstanding anything else contained to the contrary in any other clause. "Prices of hardware or software items mentioned in RFP are F.O.R. destination i.e. any location to be specified by Client. The prices include all taxes, levies and duties, installation & commissioning and 5 years comprehensive onsite warranty (with updates, upgrades facility in case of software) from the Commissioning Date (“Go-Live”). After finalization of prices with the shortlisted bidder but before signing the agreement, if any product gets discontinued, the DAC can insist on a better or an equivalent product at the same price or such lower price as may be mutually agreed. Superiority or equivalence of product shall be inter alia determined within the same product family or, if for any unavoidable reason that is not possible a product with better benchmark ratings and component wise technical specifications may be offered......" 32 Credit Calculation, Penalty and Other Conditions Related To SlA, Pg 135 However, penalty in any half year shall not exceed half yearly cash outflow to the IA subject to the overall capping of 15% of the Total Contract Value. However, penalty in any quarter shall not exceed quarterly cash outflow to the IA subject to the overall capping of 5% of the Total Contract Value 33 OPEX, Pg 62 Pt. b In case of delay of more than 10 weeks in achieving the milestones by the IA due to delay by other stakeholders not attributable to the IA, the payments to the selected IA w.r.t the S. No. 3 in the above table shall be released against the Bank Guarantees of equivalent amount. These Bank Guarantees shall be submitted apart from the ones mentioned in section 4.20.3 above. In case of delay of more than 08 weeks in achieving the milestone by the IA (i.e. installation of field hardware) due to delay by other stakeholders not attributable to the IA, 50% of the payment to the IA w.r.t S. No. 2 in the above table shall be released. This will be done after verification report prepared jointly with the concerned site office regarding correctness of the BoM received and in that case BG will not be insisted upon. The other option for the IA is to give the BG and take full 60% payment due at the time of installation. Balance 10% will be released as and when these items get installed. 10% amount will be released when training gets completed unless trainings can't be held due to reasons attributable to the DAC or the State Governments. 34 Technical Evaluation:Touch screen Kiosk(2), Pg 285 While the total weightage for this parameter is 2, the sum of its metrices is 1. Changed and Corrected. Appendix VI – Technical Evaluation of Hardware/ Software and Tools to be deployed : Total marks and weightage , Pg 286 Total marks 25 Changed to 40. For details please refer revised RFP Ver 1.7. 35 Technical Evaluation:Office automation suite, Pg 285 While the total weightage for this parameter is 1.5, the sum of its metrices is 2. Changed and Corrected. 36 Procurement,Supply, Installation and Configuration, Pg 89 IA shall also coordinate with State or its designated agency and NIC for integration of DAC offices with SWAN. IA shall be responsible to ensure that all users in the field offices which have internet connectivity (through SWAN or otherwise) are able to access all their departmental & GoI websites/applications hosted in different SDCs and their respective DR sites. IA shall also coordinate with State or its designated agency and NIC for integration of hardware being installed at DAC offices with SWAN (where ever these offices already have SWAN connectivity). IA shall be responsible to ensure that all users in these field offices which have internet connectivity (through SWAN or otherwise) are able to access all their departmental & GoI websites/applications hosted in different SDCs and their respective DR sites. 37 Table 3 Pre-Qualification Criteria,Pg 40, Pt 7 The Prime Bidder should have minimum Net worth of Rs. 125 crores as per latest Balance Sheet. The Prime Bidder should have minimum Net worth of Rs. 70 crores as per latest Balance Sheet. 38 Table 3 Pre-Qualification Criteria,Pg 41, Pt 8 The Prime Bidder should have at least 450 technical employees on its own roll with at least 100 Engineers / MCAs /MBAs as on 31st Mar 2014 The Prime Bidder and Consortium Partner should together have at least 600 technical employees on its own roll (Engineers / MCAs / MBAs) as on 31st Mar 2014. Such aggregation of numbers will be considered only for such consortium members which have at least 30% stake in the bid. 39 Table 3 Pre-Qualification Criteria,Pg 41, Pt 10 The Prime Bidder should have experience in either or more of but not limited to system integration, hardware supply installation, Rollout, Testing, Networking,Data center setup and maintenance, Data migration, Training and Operations, and Maintenance and should have completed during the last 8 Financial years till 31Mar2014,Completion/ Go-Live certificates from client along with purchase orders Selection of Implementation Agency for NeGP-A Nation-wide Rollout - One project worth Rs. 100 crores or, - Two projects worth Rs. 50 crores or, - Three projects worth Rs. 30 crore The Prime Bidder should have experience in either or more of but not limited to system integration, hardware supply installation, Rollout, Testing, Networking, Data center setup and maintenance, Data migration, Training and Operations, and Maintenance and should have completed during the last 8 Financial years till 31Mar 2014, - One project worth Rs. 100 crores or, - Two projects worth Rs. 50 crores or, - Three projects worth Rs. 30 crores However, number of projects implemented by all such consortium members can be considered which have a financial stake of at least 30% 40 4.19.7 Unconditional Performance Bank Guarantee, Pg no. 55 Now added Ammended as " ix. PBG for Microsoft System Software Components. A separate Performance Bank Guarantee of 20% of cost of this component for duration of the agreement for these components will be submitted by the agency on which order for these is placed as per the prescribed format." 41 4.19.8 Warranty & Annual Maintenance Contract, Pg 57 Now added Ammended as ii. However, if field hardware at more than 80% of the has been installed (and rest of the field hardware cannot be installed due to reasons attributable to the DAC or the State Governments) and the Go-Live date gets delayed for various reasons, warranty of field hardware can be deemed to be commenced from 3 months of the installation of field hardware at these 80% locations. 42 4.20.1 Schedule for Payment Table Now added Ammended as "However, if field hardware at more than 80% of the has been installed (and rest of the field hardware cannot be installed due to reasons attributable to the DAC or the State Governments) and the Go-Live date gets delayed for various reasons, warranty of field hardware can be deemed to be commenced from 3 months of the installation of field hardware at these 80% locations." 43 4.20.1 Schedule for Payment Table Now added New Training milestone added. Please refer to RFP version 1.3 44 6 Scope of Work for Implementation Agency, Pt no.2 IA shall also coordinate with State or its designated agency and NIC for integration of DAC offices with SWAN. IA shall be responsible to ensure that all users in the field offices which have internet connectivity (through SWAN or otherwise) are able to access all their departmental & GoI websites/applications hosted in different SDCs and their respective DR sites. Changed as "IA shall also coordinate with State or its designated agency and NIC for integration of hardware being installed at DAC offices with SWAN (where ever these offices already have SWAN connectivity). IA shall be responsible to ensure that all users in these field offices which have internet connectivity (through SWAN or otherwise) are able to access all their departmental & GoI websites/applications hosted in different SDCs and their respective DR sites. 45 Preference to Domestically Manufactured Electronic Products, Section 3.1.5 Now Added Preference to Domestically Manufactured Electronic Products" Bidders may quote domestically manufactured electronic items as per Preferential Market Access (PMA) as per DeitY notification No 33(3)/2013 dated 22nd May 2014 and DOT notification dated 18-07/2010-IP dated 5th Oct 2012. Copy of the aforesaid Notifications/Guidelines can be downloaded from DeitY website i.e. URL www.deity.gov.in/esdm. Purchase preference for domestic manufacturer, methodology of its implementation, value addition to be achieved by domestic manufacturers, self - certification, and compliance and monitoring shall be as per the aforesaid Guidelines/ Notifications. The Guidelines may be treated as an integral part of this RFP. The preference to DMEP shall be subject to meeting technical specifications and eligibility criteria of this RFP. For further details please refer modified RFP para 3.1.5. 46 Page 21, Selection Methodology. The methodology to be followed for selection of Implementation Agencies (IAs) is as under:- a) All bidders are required to bid for the entire country. b) Following procedure will be followed after initial ranking of the Bidders: 3.1.2. Selection Methodology. The methodology to be followed for selection of Implementation Agencies (IAs) is as under:- a) All bidders are required to bid for all 22 States and 07 UTs. b) Financial Bid has two parts i.e. Part A and Part B. All bidders will quote for both parts in separate envelopes. c) Part A. Will comprise of Capex (Excluding Microsoft System Software) + ATS of non-Microsoft Components + One Time Installation Charges for Microsoft System software’s and maintenance support of 5 years + AMC for 4th & 5th years for Tablets and Pico Projectors and 6th to 8th year for all other components + OPEX + Cartridges value for 5 years d) Part B: Microsoft System Software Stack (Basic license cost with at least one product upgrade during five years period from the Go-Live date) + Annual Technical Support (ATS) charges of Microsoft System Software Components. For further details please refer RFP Ver 1.3. 47 Table 3 Pre-Qualification Criteria, Ser 1. The Prime Bidder may bid either singly or in consortium. The number of consortium partners including the Prime Bidder cannot exceed three. The consortium partners shall be Information Technology Companies. The Prime Bidder would be responsible for the successful completion of entire project including AMC (if awarded)......... *If, as a legal entity, the bidder has multiple Companies under its umbrella with the bidder having majority of share holdings and other administrative linkages with these companies, in that situation, the turnover, number of projects etc., while deciding eligibility of the company will be confined to such group of companies only, which are actually doing the activities similar to what are envisaged in this project. 48 Now Added Page 33 of RFP Ver 1.3 (Loading of bids) Now added If a Bidder omits to quote unit price of any item in the Financial Bid and the same is not clearly shown as having been included in any other item (as expressed clearly in writing in the Unpriced BOM or in the Financial Bid itself), such missing item shall be priced at the highest of unit prices of such an item in all other bids for bid comparison purposes but no payment shall be made for such an item (if such a Bidder turns out to be R-1 Bidder). 49 4.20.1 Schedule for Payment Table 3 for Servers, System software and Networking Payment milestones changed from earlier 45% & 25% to 50% & 20%. 50 Consortium Criteria Form V Consortium Criteria (Amended) The consortium will draw upon human, technical and other resources of members during implementation and maintenance of the NeGP-A Phase-II Project. The Technical Bid shall include details of internal arrangements between Consortium partners for installation, operation and after sales service, so that a consortium is not artificially created only to improve the score in Technical Bid. The Consortium Partners can choose to do billing separately under the banner of Consortium by making a reference to the Consortium in the covering letter. However, on the whole, the Prime Bidder shall be responsible for adherence to the Agreement, provision of Performance Bank Guarantee and completion of all tasks as per the Scope of Work 51 Eligibility Criteria Eligibility Criteria Ser No 7. The Prime Bidder should have minimum Net worth of Rs. 125 crores as per latest Balance Sheet. The Networth eligibility criteria for Prime Bidder revised from present Rs. 125 crores to Rs. 70 crores. Please refer Ser. No 7 of Eligibility Criteria of RFP Ver. 1.3. 52 PMA Para3.1.5 , Page 21 of RFP Ver 1.3. Preference to Domestically Manufactured Electronic Products (now added) a) Bidders may quote domestically manufactured electronic items as per Preferential Market Access (PMA) policy decisions which inter alia notification dated 12.06.2013, 23.12.2013 & 22.05.2014 and notification dated 05.10.2012. Purchase preference for domestic manufacturer (with minimum cut off order percentage for each eligible item as per the Policy), methodology of its implementation, value addition to be achieved by domestic manufacturers and compliance and monitoring shall be as per the aforesaid Guidelines/ Notifications. In keeping with relevant provisions of the Government Policy regarding PMA as referred to above, preference to DMEP shall be subject to fulfilment of product quality (as defined by the technical specifications), production capability, after sales service support network as defined this RFP and intricacies of procurement process through a System Integrator. Other eligibility criteria as per the RFP will also be considered. ...... 53 Eligibility Criteria Ser No 8. The Prime Bidder should have at least 450 technical employees on its own roll with at least 100 Engineers / MCAs / MBAs as on 31st Mar 2014. Changed as The Prime Bidder and Consortium Partner should together have at least 600 technical employees on its own roll (Engineers / MCAs / MBAs) as on 31st Mar 2014. Such aggregation of numbers will be considered only for such consortium members which have at least 30% stake in the bid. Technical Specs 54 Table 17 Service level Agreement point No. 8 Page 130 & 131 Availability of System Administrator/ DBA/Tech Support at designated location on the basis of 9 x 6 hrs. per week and tech support for after office hours Baseline Score has been changed from "4" to "2" 55 Page 282 Antivirus, Hand held device,Touch Screen kiosk and Office Automation Suit Appendix VI – Technical Evaluation of Hardware/ Software and Tools to be deployed. Marks in the table have been revised for different items. 56 I.Blade Chassis Description Specification, Pg No. 164 Blade Chassis should not be populated more than 75% from day one Support for Quad CPU and Dual CPU blades in the same enclosure Blade Chassis should not be populated more than 50% from day one Support for Quad CPU and Dual CPU blades in the same enclosure. 57 Line Interactive UPS 650 VA Specifications, Pg No. 215 DISPLAY - LCD / LED Display - UPS Status/Load Status/Battery Status/ Low Battery DISPLAY - LCD / LED Display - UPS Status/Load Status/Battery Status/ Low Battery/Battery Bar Graph to Display parameters 58 Pg. No 175-177, SAN Storage Now added 6 TB shall be configured using 300 GB or higher FC/ SAS HDD 15 K RPM Drives in RAID 5/6, additional disk per enclosure as a global hot spare. 4 TB shall be configured using 1TB or higher SATA/FATA Drives in RAID 5/6. The Storage array for States should have at least Dual active-active storage Controllers with battery backed cache supporting to at least 36 hours or cache de-staging mechanism of complete cache protection. The array proposed should be on 8 Gbps backend architecture and 8 Gbps Front end connectivity The Storage array for States should have at least Dual active-active storage Controllers with battery backed cache supporting to at least 36 hours or cache de-staging mechanism of complete cache protection. The array proposed should be on 6/8 Gbps backend architecture and 8 Gbps Front end connectivity Must be able to support intermix disk capacity of 300GB or higher FC, SAS & SATA/ FATA and SSD disks Must be able to support intermix disk capacity of 300GB or higher FC/SAS, SATA/ FATA and SSD disks" Storage should support RAID level 0, 1, 5 / 6. All RAID shall be hardware based RAID Storage should support RAID level 0,1/10, 5/ 6. All RAID shall be hardware based RAID" The storage array shall be configured from day one with at least 64 GB or higher data cache mirrored/ protected across multiple storage controllers for disk I/O operations (data read and write) without OS overhead. The Storage subsystem should have at least 24 nos of 8 Gbps or Higher front-end host ports across controller upgradeable to 48 nos of 8 Gbps or Higher front end host ports across the controllers and at least an aggregate port bandwidth of 192 Gbps or more back-end drive ports. Any vendor who does not have 8 Gbps Ports should provide sufficient nos. of ports to match the required aggregate front-end and back-end port bandwidth Removed 59 D. Server Farm Access Switch, Pg No. 157-158 "IEEE 802.1AE Link Layer Encryption" Amended as "IEEE 802.1AE Link Layer Encryption/ GRE tunnel/Port Based ACL" "RS-232 Console port" Amended as "RS-232/RJ-45 Console port" 60 E. Access Switch for Users – 24 Ports , Pg. No 160 "IEEE 802.1AE Link Layer Encryption" Amended as "IEEE 802.1AE Link Layer Encryption/ GRE tunnel/Port Based ACL" "RS-232 Console port" Amended as "RS-232/RJ-45 Console port" 61 I.Web Server, Application Server, DNS / LDAP, Anti-Virus Server, Development & Portal Server specification ,Pg. 174 2 Octa core @ 2.7 Ghz or above with 15 MB shared 2 Octa core @ 2.6 Ghz or above with 15 MB or higher shared cache 2 X 8 Gbps redundant Fiber Channel Port The available bandwidth on the blade server shall be 2 X 10Gbps for Ethernet on separate cards and 2 X 8Gbps for FC on separate cards to achieve redundancy. However, bidder also can provide the same solution on converged fabric. Additionally, every Blade Server Chassis shall have sufficient number of ports modules both for Ethernet and FC connectivity for current use as well as future use when chassis is fully populated Now Added Amended as "Cache 2 MB (minimum) per core or higher, in a multi core processor socket." 62 O.Servers (Pilot Mandis, Development, Deployment, & Testing Environment) ,Pg. 182 16x or higher (SATA based) DVD-+/-RW 16x or higher (SATA based) DVD-+/-RW or via virtual media P. LAN Switch (At various offices in District/Blocks) 1 x 8/24 ports 10x100 FE 8/24 ports 10x100/1000 Mbps 63 Blade Chases Page 166 The available bandwidth on the blade server shall be 2 X 10Gbps for Ethernet on separate cards and 2 X 8Gbps for FC on separate cards to achieve redundancy. However, bidder also can provide the same solution on converged fabric. Additionally, every Blade Server Chassis shall have sufficient number of ports modules both for Ethernet and FC connectivity for current use as well as future use when chassis is fully populated Deleted 64 Desktop Specifications Motherboard branded for OEM or the Computer Manufacturer 4 PCI Slots (Including 2*PCIx16 slot, 1*PCI*1, 1*PCIx1 ) 3072KB L3 Cache and 512KB L2/ 4 MB AMD L2 Cache Intel H8x or Q6x Series Express Chipset or better/ AMD A 75 or better Total Memory should be DDR3 1600 MHz/ DDR3 1866 MHz 4 GB Expandable up to 32 GB 1 TB SATA HDD (7200 rpm with SMART IV) (quote differential for 500 GB but comparison will be done for 1 16X or higher (SATA based) DVD+/-RW Integrated on M/B High Definition audio Intel extreme graphics on mother board/ Integrated onboard graphics Integrated Serial ATA (6 Gbps) controller with 4 ports Integrated on M/B 10/100/1000Mbps Ethernet controller with full duplex & WOL support Ports -1xSerial, Rear: 6xUSB, Front:2 USB (with minimum 02 x USB 3.0), 1xVGA & 1xRJ45 Specifications Motherboard branded for OEM or the Computer Manufacturer 3 PCI/Xpress slots with at least 1*PCIX1, 1*PCIX16 *Intel H8x or B8x or Q8x Series Express Chipset or better/ AMD A80 or better with 2x2 Dual Channel operation Total Memory should be 4 GB, DDR3 1600 MHz/ DDR3 1866 MHz. Expandable up to 16 GB operating in dual channel. * 500 GB SATA HDD (7200 rpm with SATA III) 16X or higher (SATA based) DVD+/-RW (with writing speeds up to 8X DVD+R and +RW) Integrated on M/B High Definition audio Intel extreme graphics on mother board/ Integrated onboard graphics Integrated Serial ATA (6 Gbps) controller with 3 ports for SFF Integrated on M/B 10/100/1000Mbps Ethernet controller with full duplex & WOL support Ports -1xSerial, Rear: 6xUSB, Front:2 USB (with minimum 02 x USB 3.0), 1xVGA & 1xRJ45 For further details please refer revised RFP. 65 Pico Projectors Brightness: 45 ANSI Lumens, Input Modes Minimum 100 ANSI lumens (standard mode), It should be capable of playing pictures and videos through SD card and USB without any external device. However, if USB / SD Card playback is not available, a suitable smartphone or any other playback device will be provided free of cost to enable playing of videos & pictures through HDMI ./ MHL Port / Wireless. Basically, the Pico Projector should work as an independent unit and be able to play videos and pictures even without Tablet PC. Internet Display by connecting to the Tablet PC through HDMI/MHL Port or over wireless using Miracast / Ezeecast technology is necessary (while internet is coming via 3G). Please refer detailed specs in revised RFP. 66 Tablets OS, Benchmarks Android 4.4.2 (or higher) out of the box and auto upgradable to higher versions of Android. Dual boot machines may be offered with Windows, iOS or any other operating system, but compulsorily with Android 4.4.2 (or higher) operating system. Bench Marks (i) Quadrant score of 7000 or higher OR Geekbench 3.0 Score of 325 or higher on single core & 1100 or higher on multi-core; and, An Tu Tu score of 17000 or higher. Please refer revised RFP for details. 67 Pico Projectors Specifications Brightness - Changed as "Minimum 100 ANSI lumens (standard mode)," Input Support - Changed as "It should be capable of playing pictures and videos through SD card and USB without any external device. However, if USB / SD Card playback is not available, a suitable smartphone or any other playback device will be provided free of cost to enable playing of videos & pictures through HDMI ./ MHL Port / Wireless. Basically, the Pico Projector should work as an independent unit and be able to play videos and pictures even without Tablet PC. Internet Display by connecting to the Tablet PC through HDMI/MHL Port or over wireless using Miracast / Ezeecast technology is necessary (while internet is coming via 3G)." Please refer detailed Specs for further details. 68 Pico Projectors Specifications Remote Control - Optional Warranty - 3 years for Projector and one year on Battery/Battery Bank 69 Web Server, Application Server, DNS / LDAP, Anti-Virus Server, Development & Portal Server Specifications Server should be dual processor server. Processor should have at least 6 cores. 70 UPS Specs Now added Battery backup in case of UPSs to be supplied to locations other than Blocks / Sub-Divisions will be half compared to the figure given above. Thus, the VAH needed in such cases will be 475 VAH or higher depending on design of UPS and combination of batteries supplied. In case of State HQ, Training Centres and Universities, online UPS will be provided with following specs. Overall price comparison will be done after considering prices and numbers given in the RFP. Thus, following four types of UPSs shall be considered for price comparison purposes. 71 UPS Specs Suggested Make of battery Reputed Brands like CSB, Panasonic, Quanta and Exide complying with JIS C 8702-1:2009 or IEC 60896-21 72 Appendix VI – Technical Evaluation of Hardware/ Software and Tools to be deployed Tech Evaluations Now added- EMS with 1.5 marks and marks of Pico projector, Tablets (Hand Held devices) revised. EMS Extra Servers, if required for EMS should be supplied by the IA as part of their solution and included in price of EMS while showing the numbers, configuration and unit prices of such extra Servers separately. Data base Servers and Blade Servers Refer revised specification, benchmarks and numbers in the revised RFP 73 Switch Configuration Specification of 8 Port and 24 Port Lan Swictches on Page 188-190, Specification of 8 Port and 24 Port Lan Switches updated, Refer M. LAN Switch (At offices in Block and District HQ) & N N. LAN Switch (At offices in State HQ / Universities) on Page 188-190, 74 Quantity of Switches Quantity of Swictches to be supplied at block level, District Level & State Level at Quantities for the purpose of Bid Evaluation have been given in Appendix-III on page 102 Quantity of Switches has been modified, Refer the page 102, Table 11 for 8 Port and 24 Port Switches on page 102 75 Project Schedule Delivery and installation schedule for J&K and NE States Delivery & installation is changed, Refer to Footnote on Page 108 76 Project Schedule Delivery and installation schedule for 10 States with order value of about 35% Delivery & installation is changed, Refer to Footnote on Page 108 77 Touch Screen Kiosks Specification modified on Page 192 Configuration modified, refer page no 192 Warranty Clause Changes in Warranty clause Page No. 16 78 4.20.1, Page: 65 Capex payment For PCs, Printers, Switches, Kiosks, Hand Held Devices, Pico Projectors and UPS etc. Balance 10% payment is linked only to completion of training. 79 4.20.1, note (b) Page: 66 In case of delay of more than 08 weeks in achieving the milestone by the IA (i.e. installation of field hardware) on account of other stakeholders not attributable to the IA, 55% of the payment to the IA w.r.t S. No. 2 in the above table shall be released. This will be done after verification report prepared jointly with the concerned site office regarding correctness of the BoM received and in that case BG will not be insisted upon. The other option for the IA is to give the BG and take full 60% payment. If delivery of full items is shown and balance 5% also is to be taken in situations of non readiness of site,a BG of 6% will need to be given. Balance 10% will be released as and when these items get installed. 10% amount will be released when training gets completed unless trainings can't be held due to reasons attributable to the DAC or the State Governments. 80 Page 65 Para 4.20.1 T. Pre-Contract Integrity Pact 3.12 If the BIDDER or any employee of the BIDDER or any person acting on behalf of the BIDDER, either directly or indirectly, is a relative of any of the officers of the BUYER, or alternatively, if any relative of an officer of the BUYER has financial interest/stake in the BIDDER’s firm, the same shall be disclosed by the BIDDER at the time of filing of tender. This stands changed as "If the BIDDER or any employee of the BIDDER or any person acting on behalf of the BIDDER, either directly or indirectly for this bid, is a relative of any of the officers of the BUYER engaged in bid preparation/evaluation, or alternatively, if any relative of an officer of the BUYER (engaged in bid preparation/evaluation) has financial interest/stake in the BIDDER’s firm, the same shall be disclosed by the BIDDER at the time of filing of tender." 81 Page 209 T. Hand Held Device (Tablet) Specifications. Added Footnote :- Any other product with a different combination of processor, RAM etc. can also be accepted so long as it meets the performance requirements as above. However, in that case, component-wise marks will also be then accordingly adjusted above requisite threshold. 82 Page 237 A.    Performance Bank Guarantee Template Added para5 : 5. This guarantee will remain in force up to <date of validity> and any demand in respect thereof should reach the Bank not later than the specified date/dates. However, if the implementing agency does not submit the fresh performance bank guarantee (as per required schedule and amount) till 15 days before expiry of this performance bank guarantee, the Purchaser may either forfeit the EMD or ask the Bank to extend validity of the Bank Guarantee. In the latter situation, the Bank shall comply with such a request of extension 83 Page 301 Touch Screen Kiosk scores assigned for specification of Touch Screen Kiosk 84 Page 189, 190 Lan Switch Updated Packet Buffer Memory and removed port security for Block level Switches