NERFMTTI Home Page »  Programmes »  Calender »  Facilities »  List of machineries for training »  Application Procedure »  List of selected Candidates »  Application for Utilisation Course (U-Series) »  Application for Other than U-Series Course »  Objectives »  Types of Test »  Application for Testing Machinery »  Testing Charges »  Facilities »  Regulations »  Testing Logistic »  Detail of machine tested »  Trainees Trained Since Inception - Coursewise »   Trainees Trained Year wise - Categorywise »  Machines Tested Year wise - Catgorywise »  About RTI Act »  A.O. Order »  C.P.I.O. Order »  Contact Address »  Obtain Institute's Information from »  P.I.O. Particulars »  Organisational Chart »  Directory of Officers & Staff »  Functions of NERFMT&TI »  Power & duties »  Procedure followed in decision making »  Rules & Regulations »  Remuneration »  Service details »  History »  Location & Climate »  Organisation Chart »  Guest House & Housing for Staff Disclaimer: The content of these websites are owned by the respective organizations and they may be contacted for any further information or suggestion. Maintained & Updated by North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, B.Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam Site Designed & Hosted by: National Informatics Centre   North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute Home हिंदी   FUNCTION AND DUTIES OF N.E.R.F.M.T. & T.I. The North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute was established at Biswanath Chariali, District Sonitpur, Assam by the Government of India, Ministry of Agriculture in the year 1990. The institute has two fold activities namely Training & Testing. This institute is making a significant contribution to meet the requirement of the trained personnel of NE region in selection, use and management aspects of farm machinery. The formal testing of various Agricultural Machinery/ Implements/ Hand Tools started in the year 2001 as per guidelines of BIS code. Now, it begins to make serious & valuable contribution to the manufacturers, farmers & users of the farm machinery. The Institute has developed Training & Testing infrastructure in terms of buildings, farm machinery, well equipped laboratories to accomplish the Training and Testing activities. The demand of the trained personnel is increasing incessantly and this institute making their endeavor to meet the requirement of this region. Restructured training programmes have been introduced according to the need of the beneficiaries of this region. A Dynamometer with fuel flow meter in the testing lab has been installed to strengthen the testing conveniences at this institute & to safe guard the interest of the farmers & manufacturers of farm machinery in this region by ensuring the quality & performance of the Farm machinery under the local Agro-climatic conditions.