Travel to Kullu - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Travel to Himachal Pradesh Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Road map City Map District Map Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Subhash Baoli Shivkul Dal Lake Solang Valley Christ Church The Ridge Sankat Mochan Baba Balak Nath Temple Cities to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Dalhousie Travel Dharamshala Travel Kullu Travel Manali Travel Shimla Travel Mandi Travel Hamirpur Travel Lahaul Travel Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Kangra Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una About Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate Places to Visit in Kullu Manali Home » Himachal Pradesh » Travel Kullu Travel To Kullu Kullu Tourism Located in Himachal Pradesh, Kullu is the capital town of the Kullu district and is located on the banks of the Beas River in the Kullu Valley. Kullu is a broad, open valley formed by the Beas River between Manali and Largi. The Kullu valley is famous for its scenic beauty and its pine and deodar covered slopes. Apart from being a popular tourist destination, Kullu is also famous for its large and colourful Dusshera festival that draws people from nearing towns and villages. The beautiful little town of Kullu sits besides the River Beas, between the towns of Manali and Largi and is famous all over the country for its scenic beauty. Kullu is a valley covered with pine and deodar forests, hills and beautiful apple orchards and falls between the Pir-Panjal, the Lower Himalayan and the Great Himalayan range. Also known as the "Valley of the Gods", Kullu attracts tourists from all over the country who come here during the summer months to escape the sweltering heat of the plains and enjoy Kullu's natural beauty and cool weather. Best time to visit The best time to Kullu would be from May to October as the weather is cool and pleasant. Considering the numerous tourist destinations Kullu has, travellers should set aside at least four to five days to enjoy Kullu. Demographics State: Himachal Pradesh District: Kullu Population: 110,320 (2010 census) Time Zone: GMT+5:30 Elevation: 1220 meters Main Languages: Hindi, Punjabi and Kulluvi Telephone Code: +01902 Things to take care when travelling to Kullu Please drive slow and be safe as the roads in some parts of the mountains are not in a good condition and also might have some risky, blind turns. It is advised that you stay in hotels and guest houses that are registered with the government. Also, if you are planning a trip or any excursion, go for a government approved travel agent. Avoid visiting deserted places after dark; this applies to female travellers in particular. Keep limited cash in hand and leave large amounts of cash and valuables back in your hotel. Always check the identity card of tourist guides you hire. Always respect the local culture and traditions and do not do anything disrespectful that may hurt local sentiments. How to Reach Kullu Being a popular tourist destination Kullu is very well connected by air, rail and road. Kullu witnesses a huge influx of tourists in the summer when they come to escape the heat of the plains and enjoy the cool, pleasant weather and in the winter's tourist come to Kullu to enjoy snowfall. By Air The nearest airport to Kullu is at Bhuntar, 10 km south of Kullu. One can take a taxi from the airport to reach Kullu. Bhuntar airport is connected by carriers like Air India and Kingfisher Airlines. However, flights are uncertain due to the bad weather during monsoons. By Train Jogindernagar is the nearest railway station, located at a distance of 95 km from the town. One can take a taxi from the railway station to get to Kullu. Other railway stations near Kullu are: Chandigarh, Pathakot and Shimla. You will get regular bus service from Chandigarh to Kullu. By Road Kullu is very well connected to the rest of the country by a strong network of roadways. Kullu Valley is approximately at a distance of 522 km from Delhi. Ordinary and deluxe buses run from Delhi and Chandigarh for Kullu, daily. Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC), Himachal Pradesh Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) and private agencies provides bus services to Kullu. National Highway number 21 is the main highway that connects Kullu Taxi There are many private taxi companies that can be hired for sightseeing around Kullu. Shopping in Kullu There is a lot in Kullu to keep shoppers busy. Popular among these markets is the Tibetan Bazaar where you can pick up Kullu shawls, caps and other woolen items. Silver and turquoise jewellery is also very popular in Kullu and so are "Thangkas", which are cloth paintings with Buddhist themes. Also famous in Kullu are rugs, carpets and handicrafts and Tibetan articles like armlets, masks and musical instruments, apart from locally made jams and pickles that are delicious. Another must try in Kullu are their naturally made shampoo, natural oils, such as lavender and primrose oil etc. What to buy? From handloom to antiques to handicrafts, you will find a huge option of items which you may buy for yourself or gift them to your family and friends. Some popular items to buy in Kullu are: Kullu Shawl: This is one of the most popular handloom products of Kullu, worn by both men and women, measuring 1 by 2 meters in size, it is known as a "Chaddar" when worn by men and as a "shawl" when worn by women. The shawl is made out of merino, angora, pashmina or local sheep wool. Pullas: These are slippers made out of grass. Pattu: This is a blanket worn by the women of the valley over their clothes and is fastened with a local silver broach called "Boomini". A Pattu looks like a shawl but is thicker and heavier. Kullu Muffler: This is worn by both men and women and is available in different sizes for both. Loi: This is a men's shawl and is woven into a light woolen fabric. Patti: This is a short width local tweed and is used to make pants and coats. Where to Shop? Some popular shops and markets in and around Kullu are: Tibetan Market: Its is popular for its woolen items likes Kullu shawls and caps. You will also find various Tibetan souvenirs, jewellery, thangkas (Buddhist cloth paintings) and other imported items. Bookworm: It is a book store located in the Notified Area Committee Market behind bus stand, near post office in Manali. It has a good collection of Indian and world literature. Sultanpur Market: This is a place where you will easily find a large variety of traditional jewellery. Markets between Kullu and Manali: These markets are famous for driftwood products which are basically carved out of wood pieces that get drifted away due to flow of nearby rivers and streams. Ramshilla and Babeli which are at a distance of 2 km and 7 km from Kullu bus stand, respectively, on the national Highway to Manali are famous for such items. Places to Visit in Kullu Raghunath Temple Bijli Mahadev Temple Sultanpur Palace Basheshwar Mahadev Temple Akhara Bazaar Last Updated on : 29/08/2013 Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Dalhousie Hotels Dharamshala Hotels Hamirpur Hotels Kangra Hotels Kasauli Hotels Kullu Manali Hotels Parwanoo Hotels Pragpur Hotels Sirmour Hotels Solan Hotels Taragarh Hotels Una Hotels Places to Visit in Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Dalhausi Rohtang Pass Chamba Places to visit in Dharamsala Travel to Dalhousie Places to visit in Kullu Manali Travel to Hamirpur Naggar Travel to Dharamshala Travel to Shimla Places to visit in Shimla Travel to Chail Travel to Kangra Travel to Kullu Travel to Manali About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule