Jammu and Kashmir Cities Home » Jammu and Kashmir » Cities in Jammu and Kashmir   Jammu and Kashmir Cities Srinagar Jammu Leh Pahalgam Gulmarg Udhampur                    more.. जम्मू और कश्मीर का नक्शा About Jammu and Kashmir Jammu and Kashmir Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Rivers Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map India Pakistan Border Dispute Travel to Jammu and Kashmir Places to visit in Jammu Amarnath Yatra Map Vaishno Devi Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hotels in Jammu and Kashmir Jammu Hotels Katra Hotels Leh Ladakh Hotels Pahalgam Hotels Patnitop Hotels Srinagar Hotels Gulmarg Hotels Assembly Polls J&K Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities In Jammu And Kashmir Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Jammu and Kashmir Cities Cities of Jammu and Kashmir Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing all major cities of Jammu and Kashmir. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Gulmarg City Map Jammu City Map Leh City Map Pahalgam City Map         Sopore City Map Srinagar City Map Udhampur City Map The Jammu and Kashmir Economy depends mostly on traditional form of occupation. Unaffected and unaltered by modern day industrial developments and changing times, the indigenous traditional occupations of farming, animal husbandry and horticulture forms the backbone of the economy of the state of Jammu and Kashmir. A state affected by continued violence and insurgency, the economy of Jammu and Kashmir is an undeveloped one. However in the recent years, the government of Jammu and Kashmir has taken several significant steps to strengthen the financial condition of the state and improve the standard of living of the indigenous local inhabitants. Farming is one of the predominant economic activities of the state. The majority of the native population depends on primitive forms of shifting agriculture. The valleys of the region form suitable grounds to grow various kinds of crops that earn a large chunk of revenue for the state. Another important economic activity of the state of Jammu and Kashmir is animal husbandry. Apart from farming the undulating lands of the state, most of the local inhabitants also keep many animals like sheep. Sheep rearing is an important industry of the region. The fine quality of wools produced by the sheep are used for weaving colorful and attractive woolen carpets, shawls and other woolen garments that form an integral part of the handloom products of the state. The other important economic activity of Jammu and Kashmir is horticulture. Horticulture is one of the budding industries of the state that earns large revenue. The favorable weather helps in the production of many kinds of fruits. The state government of Jammu and Kashmir has turned its attention to the various infrastructural amenities of the region. Roads, power, health, primary education and water supply are some of the important areas that need the urgent attention of the state government. Last Updated on : 18/04/2013 About Jammu and Kashmir Hotels in Jammu and Kashmir Rivers and Lakes Jammu Kashmir Elections Election Results Chief Minister Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Jammu and Kashmir Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Elevation Map District Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Jammu and Kashmir Travel Map Handicrafts Map Gulmarg Location Map Leh Ladakh Map Leh Location Map Vaishno Devi Location Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Jammu to Amritsar Route Map Jammu to Chandigarh Route Map Jammu to Delhi Route Map Jammu to Srinagar Route Map Amarnath Yatra Map Places to Visit in Jammu Leh Tourist Map Trekking Route Map Pocket Maps Chandigarh to Jammu Delhi to Jammu Jammu to Leh Jammu to Pahalgam Jammu to Shimla Chandigarh to Srinagar Delhi to Srinagar Leh to Srinagar Chandigarh to Vaishnodevi             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule