Chhattisgarh Tribal Tourism Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Travel Chhattisgarh Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Tribal Villages Haat Bazaars Ghotuls Indravati National Park Waterfalls Chitrakoot Teerathgarh Mandra Chitradhara Tamda Temples in Chhattisgarh Laxman Temple Gandheswar Temple Shivani Temple Mahamaya Temple Vishnu Mandir Turridham Shiva Temple Museums Anthropological Museum Raipur Open-Air Museum Human Science Museum Mahant Ghasi Memorial Museum Tourist Destinations in Chhattisgarh Bilaspur Travel Bhilai Travel Raipur Travel Bastar Travel Jagdalpur Travel Dongargarh Travel Hotels in Chhattisgarh Hotels in Korba Hotels in Bhilai Hotels in Jagdalpur Hotels in Raipur Hotels in Raigarh About Chhattisgarh History Geography Home » Chhattisgarh » Tourism » Chhattisgarh Tribal Tourism Chhattisgarh Tribal Tourism Chhattisgarh is a newly formed state of India. It was recognized as a separate state in November 2000. The state is known for its rich heritage and culture. The majority of the population in Chhattisgarh are tribal communities. They occupy about one third of the total population of Chhattisgarh. The state has numerous tourist destinations which draw travelers not only from different parts of India, but from outside India. Chhattisgarh Tribal Tourism is an intrinsic part of Chhattisgarh tourism. The tourists should not miss out the spots that are associated with the tribal way of life. To know more about the life and tradition of the tribal people in India, Chhattisgarh can be an ideal destination. In Chhattisgarh the district of Bastar has the maximum number of tribal people. About 70% of the total population of Bastar is comprised of the tribals. Among the tribal communities in Chhattisgarh, the tribals of Gond community are very popular. Some of the other communities are Korba, Muria, Maria, Dhurvaa and Halbaa. The state has undertaken several programs for the development of the tribal people in Chhattisgarh. The tribal communities are mostly found in Kusmi, Lundra, Shankargarh, Mainpat and Udaipur of Sarjuga district. In Jashpur, they reside in the tribal villages of Patthalgaon, Manora and Bagicha. In Raigarh, the tribal settlement is found in Dharmjaigarh. The tribal dances and music are reflective of their rich culture. The different dance forms are Karma, Phag, Bhagoriya and Lota. The Gond tribe has a special system of marriage, known as Ghotuls. For entertainment, the tribal people arrange different cultural programs. Of which cock fight is a very popular recreation. The tribal people set up weekly markets known as Haat Bazaars in Chhattisgarh. The village people come to this market to buy and sell their products, mainly through the system of barter. Tribal Villages The Chhattisgarh tribal villages retain the tradition and culture of the state of Chhattisgarh. The ancient tradition and the orthodox practices are still found in these tribal villages. The dances, costumes and religion of the tribes of Chhattisgarh reflect the custom of the people of the state. Over 70 percent of the total population of the state comprises of the different tribes in the state of Chhattisgarh. The tribal villages are predominant in the district of Bastar. The most prominent tribe of the state is the Gond tribe. The Hill Korwa tribe has settled atop the hill covered with dense forests in the Jashpur region of the district of Raigarh. Some of the other tribes of the region are: Dhurvaa Abhuj Maria Baiga Korba Bisonhorn Maria Halbaa Muria Bhatra The government of Chhattisgarh has recognized the districts of Bastar, Sargaju, Raigarh and Jashpur as the predominant tribal regions with tribal village settlements. Haat Bazaars The primitive lifestyle of the tribes of the state of Chhattisgarh can be best observed in the Chhattisgarh haat bazaars. The system of a weekly market is predominant in the tribal districts of the state of Chhattisgarh. The unique market is also a platform from where the tourists can gather collectible items sold by the tribal people themselves. There are as many as 200 haat bazaars in Chhattisgarh. The haat bazaar is the business center, which is open only once a week. The tribal people gather in the market to trade their products and to buy their food supplies for the week. The primitive system of exchange of goods or the barter system is prevalent in the markets and most of the dealings are conducted in the traditional fashion. All types of goods are sold in the haat bazaar of Chhattisgarh. The goods comprise of food products, cattle, clothes and accessories. The ornament made by the tribal village women folk can also be bought from the haat bazaar. The government has done well to even place a mobile clinic in the haat bazaar for the tribal people. Ghotuls An important feature of the tribe of the Muria Gonds, the Ghotul is a tribal hut occupied by the tribal children. The autonomous and sovereign body of the Ghotul is an integral part of the tribal village and is operated by the children. The Ghotuls are popular in the district of Bastar in Chhattisgarh state. Both unmarried girls and boys are members of the Ghotul. The reigning deity of the Ghotul is the Lingo who is believed to be the ancestral head of the tribe and the founder of the first Ghotul. The girls of the Ghotul are led by the Belosa. The girl members are known as the Motiaris. The boys are known as the Cheliks and has the Siredar as the head of their society. The function of the Ghotul is to impart valuable knowledge to the young members on conduct and discipline. The Ghotul encourages its members to engage in social work and providing service to the general public. Last Updated on: 29 th March 2013 Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule