Mergers and Acquisitions Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Finance in India Corporate finance india India finance company Financial times india Yahoo India Finance Finance Lender in India Top 10 Financial Services Top Auto Finance companies Housing Finance Companies Top Microfinance Companies Top Personal Loan Finance Asset Management Companies Tata Investment Corporation Gruh Finance JM Financial Geojit Financial Services Srei Infrastructure Finance Dewan Housing Finance Corp. IL FS Investmart Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Deals Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Card Frauds Mergers Acquisitions Difference Between Failure Mergers and Acquisitions Strategies Corporate Costs Impact Process Laws History Terminology Refinance Refinance Calculator Refinance Home Loan Refinance Mortgage Refinance By RBI Home » Finance » Mergers-acquisitions » Mergers and Acquisitions Mergers and Acquisitions Overall Rating:  [ 4 / 5 ]Total Votes [  2  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 The expression mergers and acquisitions or M & A indicates the corporate policy of handling the purchasing and selling and merging of different entities that can financially support the developing entity to expand rapidly without forming another industrial entity. Definition of Merger Merger is a fiscal instrument that is used by a business entity for improving the long-standing productivity by escalating their operations. Mergers generally take place when the merging entities mutually agree. This mutual consent is unlike acquisition and can result in a hostile subjugation. Generally, the business rules and regulations differ across the states providing restrained alternatives to the companies to safeguard themselves from hostile subjugation. A business entity can safeguard itself from such takeovers by allotting privileges for the shareholders. It is commonly seen that very few mergers have been successful in appending to the share worth of the acquiring firm. Instead, they endorse monopolistic attitude by trimming down the prices, taxes, etc. which can work against the public interests. This is the reason why mergers are controlled and managed by the government. Definition of Acquisition Acquisition refers to purchasing of one business entity by another. It is also known as a “merger” or a takeover and can be either mutual or hostile subjugation. In a merger the business entities collectively bargain to arrive at a final cost, but in an acquisition either the buyout target is unaware of the offer or is against being purchased. Generally, acquisition refers to the buyout of a smaller business identity by a bigger one, but sometimes even a smaller business identity can takeover the administration control of a bigger and well established firm, usually referred to as a reverse takeover. Reverse merger is another kind of acquisition. It is an agreement which allows a private firm to get listed in a short duration and generally takes place when the firm is willing to elevate its monetary strength by purchasing a firm which has restrained assets. The acquisition process is very complicated and attaining success in acquisition is a rather tough. According to different studies more than 50% of acquisitions were considered as ineffective. Foremost Mergers and Acquisitions in India Hindalco obtained Canadian company Novelis through a deal amounting to $5,982 million. Corus Group plc was obtained by Tata Steel acquire through an agreement worth $12,000 million. Dr. Reddy's Labs acquired Betapharm through an agreement amounting $597 million. Ranbaxy Labs obtained Terapia SA and the transaction involved $324 million. Suzlon Energy merged with Hansen Group through an agreement worth $565 million. Videocon acquired Daewoo Electronics Corp. through a transaction involving $729 million. HPCL obtained Kenya Petroleum Refinery Ltd. through a deal worth $500 million. VSNL obtained Teleglobe through an agreement of $239 million. Mergers and Acquisitions Difference Between Failure Mergers and Acquisitions Strategies Corporate Costs Impact Process Mergers and Acquisitions Laws History Terminology Related Links Indian Financial Sector Major Financial Companies Bond Market in India Centrum Finance Limited CIL Securities Limited Growth of Financial Sector Karvy Group L & T Finance Limited PNB Gilts Limited Stock Market in India Tata Investment Corp. Gruh Finance JM Financial Geojit Financial Services Srei Infrastructure Finance Dewan Housing Finance IL FS Investmart About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG SBI Life Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED