Setting up a Dairy Farm - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Setting up a Dairy Farm Home Setting up a Dairy Farm Are you exploring the feasibility of setting up a profitable dairy farm? Dairy consultants and experts advise entrepreneurs on dairy farming India is fast emerging as the world’s premier dairy nation. To meet the exponential growth in demand for milk and milk products,dairy farming has become a profitable business solution for many. There is ample scope for the development of dairy farms as a successful and commercially viable business enterprise. Mr.Parameshwar Hegde, an active dairy farming consultant lists the advantages of having a dairy farm: * It is eco-friendly and does not cause environmental pollution as compared to many industries. * Requirement of skilled labour is relatively less. * Dairy product market is active round the year. * There is minimum investment on inventory. * Majority of the establishment can be shifted to a new location, if required * One can insure animals. * There isa lower energy requirement. Biogas plant fed with cow dung can supply most of the energy to meet the farm’s day to day requirements. * Decomposed slurry of such plants can also be effectively used as organic matter. Basic Requirements A study of the techno-economic viability of the dairy farm model first needs to be made. The primary requirement is land which will be used for the construction of cattle-sheds. If additional land is available, fodder can also be home-grown; else, it can be sourced from the market. Availability of capital for purchasing dairy animals is the next pre-requisite. Capital will also be required for construction of dairy sheds, purchase of related machinery etc. Capital can be raised through loans from nationalised banks at low interest rates which will be repayable in easy instalments. The Return on Investment According to Mr. Hedge, the actual production of milk per cow (the crossbread/exotic variety) on a daily basis is approximately 15 litres on an average.  The cost of fodder per cow on a daily basis is approximately Rs.40.  1000 kgs of cow dung produces about 35-40 m3 biogas, which in turn will able to effectively meet most of the farm’s energy requirements. Mr. Murali, a member of agricultureinformation.com says, “On a daily basis in India a cow can produce (if the breed is Jersey/Holstein Fresian/Swiss brown/any reputed breeds) 15-35 litres per day. Fodder minimum 25 kg needs to be given to the cow per day. Cost varies according to the procurement distance, availability, own production or not, labour charges etc.” The main beneficiaries of dairy programmes are small/marginal farmers and landless labourers. A farmer can earn a gross surplus of about Rs. 12,000 per year from a unit consisting of 2 milking buffaloes. The capital investment required for purchase of 2 buffaloes is Rs. 18,223/-. Choice of Dairy Animals The most popular choice of dairy animals is crossbred cows or high yielding breeds of buffaloes. Another option is to have a good mix of both buffaloes and crossbreed cows. Some even opt for a herd of indigenous cows alongside. Mr. Hegde advises, “The best breeds of buffalo’s available in India are Murrah, Surthi, Jaffrabadi. “ Crossbred cows are easily available in the market and at reasonable prices. The fat content of milk is a low 3 – 4 % in case of crossbred cows. They grow and mature faster than buffaloes and other breeds of cows. They are able to produce milk when they are 28 – 30 months old and their calving interval is 13-15 months. It is comparatively easier to take care of them as they are not aggressive in nature. The crossbred cows are also more compliant to modern milking machines and other husbandry methods. Buffalo breeds like Murrah, Nili-Ravi and Mehsana are good milch breeds and are economically priced. Easy maintenance and high yields of milk render them suitable for industrial dairy farming. Buffalo milk has a comparatively higher fat content of 6 – 9% and hence has a higher demand in spite of its price being higher than cow’s milk. Mr. Murali says, “Buffalo milk is preferred for making butter and Ghee, as fat percentage in milk is higher than cow. Buffalo milk is also preferred for making tea, milk based sweets.” The feed cost for buffaloes is low as they can be fed with fibrous feed residues. Indian buffaloes are already acclimatized to the environment and hence have lower chances of contracting diseases like milk fever, mastitis and ectoparasites as compared to crossbred cows. Male buffaloes can serve as able work animals. Old and infertile buffaloes can be sold at good rates as meat animals. The primary disadvantage of buffalo dairying is that they have a comparatively slower rate of growth and a higher calf mortality rate. Buffaloes also mature later than cows. They can produce a calf every 15-18 months, which is again slower than cows. Dairy Farming with Indigenous Cows When setting up a dairy farm, an integral question comes up: What are the advantages of indigenous cows? The primary reason for having indigenous cows in a dairy farm is that the milk of these cows is 100% organic and rich in probiotic bacteria, enzymes etc. Mr.Sajit Gopalan lists the benefits: 1. Very healthy milk constituents. Although the fat content is more, the fat and protein (categorized as A2 milk abroad) are easily digested as compared to exotic breeds. 2. Food requirement and related cost is lower as compared to exotic breeds. 3. The desi cows have a good immunity system and are easily acclimatized to Indian conditions, hence the hassle & cost of disease is less. 4. The dung and urine are excellent for farming. However, there are several drawbacks of indigenous cows. Mr.Sajit Gopalan lists them as: 1. Milk production is lower across all Indian breeds in comparison to Exotic breeds. 2. Some of the southern Indian breeds are small or medium in size. These, while requiring less feed, also have smaller teat sizes & cannot be machine milked. 3. Indigenous cows are extremely sensitive and are not as docile as exotic breeds. 4. They have extremely developed maternal instincts and hence milking ideally has to follow feeding the young one, otherwise, it results in low milk yields and aggressive behaviour. Talking about his personal experience at his dairy farm, he says, “the land cost required for fodder or fodder cost, labour, feed management, low resistance to disease and consequent health management etc for Bostaurus (HF, Jersey, Swiss brown) cows are a huge problem. All these do not exist with BosIndicus (Desi cows). The real problem is that the yield would be around 3 litres per day as opposed to an average of 20ltrs for Bostaurus. This can be taken care of by scaling up numbers. For e.g. instead of buying 10HF, buy 50 Desi cows. As we plan to do Zero budget farming (SubhashPalekarji’s model), the dung and urine are also useful. One of the problems in scaling though is using automation.” Mr.Santosh Singh, an active member of the agricultureinformation.com forum says, “It is great to set up a dairy farm with desi cows looking at its highly nutritious milk and the medicinal value of urine. It is also very economical in terms of requirement of food and nutrition & other medicinal cost to these desi breeds. However I have had some challenges with a few desi breed cows at my farm in the past due to which I have migrated towards having cross bred HF & Jersey cows.” Talking about the challenges faced by him, Mr. Singh elaborates, “Most of these desi cows wouldn’t allow the machine clusters to be attached to its teats as it keeps kicking the clusters, we tried tying rope to its legs while milking and also tried new methods like back locking clamps which would keep the cows in a still position while milking, but it requires at least a couple of months for these cows to get used to the milking machines. Most of these cows are aggressive in nature unlike crossbred HF/Jersey cows. You need to look at the wear and tear of your farm workers too…. every day they come in contact with these cows during cleaning and feeding – the probability of workers getting injured is high with these desi cows! These are just a couple of problems I have observed. Imagine if you have even 5 cows out of your entire herd of desi cows which turn out to be problematic, every day you would have to give extra attention and time to carry out your normal routine work such as milking, feeding and cleaning. It is very difficult to have workers who are comfortable with these desi breeds and we are not talking about one or two cows here… a herd size of 25-50 cows means you need to have a good 4-5 experienced guys to handle these cows and then the dependability on labour will be very very high!” Mr. A.J. Kumar, another member of agricultureinformation.com agrees, “Milking desi cows with machines may be an issue as kicking will be a problem.Moreover, automation is also for the disciplined lot. I strongly believe automation may not be successful as it costs too much and project viability won’t be there at all. You can milk it with machines provided you feed them to divert attention of the desi cows while milking. Feed them with hay/fodder during milking time.” He adds a word of caution, “Think well before you take the plunge!!!” Mr. Singh further advises, “Try having a couple of desi breeds and get a hands on experience before you even think of planning a big herd size farm.” Mr. Sajit Gopalan goes on to point out another important consideration: “Due to low yield (3 liters/day) the herd size has to be considerably large to make money”, he says. Keeping in mind, the above points, the viability of a dairy farm with purely desi cows may not be an economically viable option. He also reiterates, “You cannot run profitably a dairy farm with ND cows. Nobody will pay any extra for desi cow milk.” Since the prices per litre at the consumer level is fixed and whether the milk is from a desi cow or not does not really matter, a dairy farm with desi cows is not advised. Milking Machines Machine milking has proven to be a more economical and convenient method of milking. Mr. Sajit Gopalan, an agricultureinformation.com member shared his experience with using milking machines. He said, “You can use milking machines – the same machine for desi cow / Holstein cow / Jersey cow/ Buffaloes. Teat size won’t be an issue as the rubber liner will expand and contract according to the teat size. Unlike CB cows, these desi cows are more resistant to diseases but from the economic point of view viability won’t be there.” Dairy Farming Norms To obtain maximum return on investment from a dairy farm, modern and well established scientific principles, methods and expertise should be used. Some of the important norms and recommended practices are: 1. Proper housing facilities should be provided for the animals. 2. Construction of the shed should be done on dry and properly raised ground. 3. Proper arrangement to avoid water-logging should be made. Marshy and heavy rainfall areas should be avoided. 4. The walls of the sheds should be 1.5 to 2 meters high. 5. The roof of the shed should be 3-4 metres high. 6. The walls should be plastered to make them damp proof. 7. The cattle shed should be well ventilated. 8. The floor should be pucca/hard, even non-slippery impervious, well sloped (3 cm per metre) and properly drained to remain dry and clean. 9. A 0.25 metre broad, pucca drain should be provided at the rear of the standing space. 10. A standing space of 2 x 1.05 metre for each animal should be provided. 11. The manger space should be 1.05 metre with front height of 0.5 metre and depth of 0.25 metre. 12. The corners in mangers, troughs, drains and walls should be rounded for easy cleaning. 13. A  5-10 sq. metre loaf space for each animal should be provided. 14. A proper shade and cool drinking water should be arranged in summer. 15. In winter, the animals need to be kept indoors during the night and when it rains. 16. Individual bedding should be provided on a daily basis. 17. Proper sanitary conditions should be maintained around the shed. 18. External parasites (ticks, flies etc.) should be controlled by spraying the pens, sheds with Malathion or a Copper sulphate solution. 19. Urine should be drained into collection pits and then to the field through irrigation channels. 20. Dung and urine should be disposed off properly. A gobar gas plant is ideal. Where gobar gas plant is not constructed, the dung should be converted into compost along with bedding material and other farm wastes. Buying Guide When purchasing dairy farm animals, the following should be kept in mind: 1. The livestock should be bought from a reliable breeder or from the closest livestock market. 2. With the help of the with the help of bank’s technical officer or a veterinary/animal husbandry officer of the governing body, healthy, high yielding animals should be selected. 3. Freshly calved animals in their second/third lactation are the ideal choice. 4. Before buying, actual milk yield should be determined by milking the animal atleast three consecutive times. 5. Once an animal has been selected, an identification mark (by tagging the ear or tattooing) should be made. 6. Proper vaccination of the animal should be done to protect it from diseases. 7. A newly purchased animal should be kept under observation for atleast two weeks and then merged with the general herd. 8. Atleast an economical unit of two milch animals should be bought at a time. 9. The second batch of animals should be bought after 5-6 months from the purchase of first animal. 10. Buffaloes should be bought during the months of July to February are they are seasonal calvers. 11. It is advisable to buy the next lot of animals when the first set is in its last stages of lactation. This will ensure continuity in milk production and thus income. Maintenance of the dry animals will then not pose an economical problem. 12. A judicious system of culling and replacement of herd animals should be followed. 13. The old animals should ideally be culled after 6-7 lactations. Feeding guide for Milch Animals 1. Use the best feeds and fodders available for the animals. 2. Provide sufficient green fodder in the ration. 3. If feasible, grow green fodder on your own land. 4. Cut the fodder at the correct stage of their growth. 5. Pay attention to the chaffing of roughage before feeding. 6. Crush the grains and concentrates properly. 7. Make sure that the oil cakes are flaky and crumbly. 8. Correctly moisten the concentrate mixture prior to feeding. 9. Give adequate vitamins and minerals. Add mineral mixture to the concentrate ration. Also give salt licks. 10. Give enough water and make sure it is clean. 11. Provide adequate exercise to the animals. Daily wallowing of buffaloes is a must. In case this is difficult, sprinkle adequate water especially during the summer months. 12. To ascertain the daily feed requirement,  keep in mind that the animals usually consume about 2.5 – 3% of their body weight calculated on dry matter basis. Mr. Murali advises, “Provide water in front of the cow always using water bowls connected to overhead tanks. Calcium and mineral supplementation must be done every day. It’s better to deworm your cows to reduce worm load which will help them in milk production. Feeding according to the yield is the right way to do. Plus ration for body maintenance.” Financial Assistance Mr.Parameshwar Hegde shares, “NABARD is an apex institution for all matters relating to policy, planning and operation in the field of agricultural credit. It serves as an apex financing institutions providing investment and production credit. It promotes development through formulation and appraisal of projects through a well organized Technical services department at the Head office and technical cells at each of the Regional offices. Loan from banks with refinance facility from NABARD is available for starting dairy farming. For obtaining bank loan, the farmers should apply to the nearest branch of a commercial or co-operative Bank in their area in the prescribed application form which is available in the branches of financing banks. The technical officer attached to or the Manager of the bank can help / give guidance to the farmers in preparing the project report to obtain bank loan. The items of finance would include capital asset items such as purchase of milch animals, construction of sheds, purchase of equipments etc. The feeding cost during the initial period of one / two months is capitalised and given as term loan. Facilities such as cost of land development, fencing, digging of well, commissioning of diesel engine / pump set, electricity connections, essential servants’ quarters, godown, transport vehicle, milk processing facilities etc, can be considered for loan. Cost of land is not considered for loan. Recently, NABARD has launched a scheme “Dairy Entrepreneur Development Scheme” which can help the farmers for setting up dairy farms, rearing of heifers / calves, establishing modern milking machines, vermicompost units, milk processing plants, dairy product transportation, cold storage, private veterinary clinic set up and opening a dairy marketing outlet. NABARD will give 25% back ended subsidy subject to limited capital investment. The loan application will be submitted to commercial banks, after project appraisal the bank will sanction and release first instalment of loan. Further the bank will submit this proposal to NABARD for subsidy. NABARD will release the subsidy to the bank subject to availability of funds. The subsidy amount will be adjusted against the loan amount.” Our Correspondent Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Setting up a Dairy Farm Related – articles, consultants, downloads Khurana Dairy Farm Satya Sai Dairy Farm Eva Dairy Farm Punjab Dairy Farm You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015