Peak Chemicals - bio fertilizer and bio control agents - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Peak Chemicals – bio fertilizer and bio control agents Home Peak Chemicals – bio fertilizer and bio control agents Manufacturers of bio fertilizer and bio control agent takes initiative to enhance ecosystem and life of farmer Peak Chemical Industries Ltd. (PCIL) was established as caffeine IP manufacturing house in the year 1976 by Mr. D.R. Sen & Mrs. Sunanda Sen at Siliguri, foothills of Darjeeling, West Bengal. Initially the company had a small presence in agriculture market through a by-product of caffeine extraction from tea waste, named as ORGATHEA (organic Manure). However later on, in the year 1990’s, the company added two more product, i.e. n-triacontanol – a growth promoter and micronutrients mixture in their product portfolio. Mr. D. R. Sen being an R&D person having worked in pharmaceutical industry previously kept on developing several products but the agriculture input segment remained as a by-product industry till 2006. Mr. Ranjan Daipaayan Sen, CEO of the company joined his father in the year 2004 and gradually shifted the focus of the company to produce quality and certified organic inputs. Today PCIL has turned into an exclusive organic & conventional crop science manufacturing company. As detailed by Mr. Sen, “In the early phase of the company, say from 1970’s Indian agriculture was going after mad rush for chemical farming considering the huge advantage of high yield, and more productivity. People literally dumped natural farm inputs such as cow dung considering it as obsolete.” Mr. Sen summarizes the disaster caused by overuse of chemicals as 3 R’s, namely, Resistance, Resurgence and Residue which has resulted in huge socio-economic problems and environmental damage through imbalance in our ecosystem. PCIL with its range of products is trying to address several of these issues in an organised manner. He adds, “We diversified with bio fertilizers in the year 2007 for which we bought plant and machinery, furniture and fixture of a closed unit of Hindusthan Fertilizer Corp. Ltd. (A Govt. of India Undertaking) from Durgapur and Cuttack. These units were producing bio fertilizers and also had KVK’s (Krishi vigyan Kendra) with them. From the year 2008 onwards, we are manufacturing a host of bio fertilizers like (rhizobium sp., azotobacter sp., azospiriliium sp., PSB, potash mobilizing bacteria etc) and also started producing different bio control agents as well.” PCIL manufactures liquid formulation of bio fertilizers and bio control agents such as Trichoderma viride and T. harzianum., Metarhzium anisopliae, Pseudomonas fluorescens, vertilizium lecanii, paecilomyces fumosoroseus, beauveria bassiana etc. Talking about key ingredients in products Mr. Sen says, “We basically work towards isolation of beneficial organisms from different ecosystems; these are bacteria, fungi, a virus or protozoa. After isolation, we standardize them for laboratory multiplication on artificial or specialized media. We just produce them in billions and give them back to the farmers to replenish their soil and environment with better and beneficial microbes.” Prices are respective to products, mostly are below Rs. 1000/liter. The application cost is below Rs. 500/- per hectare for most of the bio control agents and bio fertilizers as well. “Also at certain point when the infestations or infections are higher, the cost may go up to Rs. 900/- per hectare on a single round of spray,” says Mr. Sen. Most of the products developed at PCI are identified as per their colony forming unit (CFU) count per gm or ml. They are not concentrated but formulated as per the requirement and standards set up by Govt. guidelines either through the Insecticides Act 1961 or the Fertilzer (Control) Order 1985. “These are available in wettable powder (w/p) formulation and liquid formulations. Liquid formulations have a higher CFU count and are better than powder formulations. Also their cost is comparatively cheaper to powder,” informs Mr. Sen. Apart from being a crop science or inputs manufacturing organisation, PCIL has taken up an initiative to help farmers switch towards organic farming with its project GreenPeak – “Bring Life back to Nature”. Sharing the details Mr. Sen, “GreenPeak is an initiative within the framework. We have tied up with 25 farmer’s producers company or farmer cooperatives, for providing as a resource partner for knowledge services and inputs. We are working with these farmer groups having almost 1000 farmers each in a group, towards motivating them to implement integrated crop management practices and later for chemical free farming.” Agricultural commodities produced by these farmer groups shall be sold to corporate companies who are into retail food market at pre-determined rates. “We hope to take this initiative to major level by 2016,” he adds. When asked how GreenPeak shall be instrumental for change in farmer’s life Mr. Sen explains, “GreenPeak shall enhance better solutions to small and marginal farmers who are left with the vagaries of nature, old and poor technology and on the hands of middle men. This will help the farmers in price-discovery, hedging of unwanted risk, proper guidance, planning etc.. PCIL is also in tie up with NGO, Jalpaiguri Vivekananda Education Society (JVES) to form bio-villages. “Bio Village was a program initiated under Govt. of India, Dept. of Agriculture. Under this program we adopt villages or a group of farmers residing in the same village to convert them to organic agriculture or chemical free farming practices,” shares Mr. Sen. JVES is presently working under IRRI project for testing of sub-mergent variety of paddy and also with CIP (International Potato Centre) for extension project on potato and paddy farming through double transplanting technology. Challenges faced are, “Convincing farmers is never an easy task. When we go to the farmers, they agree on our philosophy but ask us, where is the market? When we go to the consumer, they say where is the produce? Getting a few farmers is easy but few will not suffice the market demand. We need to come up with round the year produce of vegetables, cereals or any crop to sustain the demand. This is a major problem, but collectively we are hopeful to making this idea functioning and showing all the stakeholders better returns,” concludes Mr. Sen. Contact details- Peak Chemical Industries Ltd 2nd Mile Sevoke Road, Bankim Nagar, Siliguri, West Bengal 734401 Phone – 09831587280 Email address- greenservice.peak@gmail.com Website: www.peakgroupindia.com Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Peak Chemicals – bio fertilizer and bio control agents Related – articles, consultants, downloads Klink Bio Organic Fertilizers Jai Prabha Agro Chemicals Saanvi Organics – natural organic fertilizer Devahi Tools – organic fertilizer processing machine You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water