Government of India Schemes for NGOs — Vikaspedia Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Personal tools Log in Register Vikaspedia A- A A+ Search Site Advanced Search… Agriculture Health Education Social Welfare Energy e-Governance twitter facebook YouTube RSS Google Plus NewsLetter Participate in Discussions Home / Social Welfare / NGO-Voluntary Sector / Government of India Schemes for NGOs Share Views View State: Open for Edit Info Government of India Schemes for NGOs This section covers all the information and Schemes associated with Ministry /Departments of Governament of India Ministry of Culture This section covers the information related to Ministry of Culture schemes which involves NGOs. Ministry of Tribal Affairs This section covers the information related to Ministry of Tribal Affairs Schemes to NGOs Ministry of Women & Child Development This topic covers the information related to Ministry of Women & Child Development Schemes which involve NGOs. Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment This topic covers the information related to Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment Schemes for NGOs Ministry of Health and Family Welfare This topic covers the information related to Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Schemes which involves NGOs. Ministry of Human Resource Development This section covers the information related to Ministry of Human Resource Development Schemes for NGOs National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) This topic covers the information related to schemes of National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) implemented through NGOs. Navigation Women and Child Development Scheduled Caste Welfare Scheduled Tribes Welfare Backward Classes Welfare Unorganised Sector Welfare Differently- abled Welfare Community power Financial Inclusion Unorganised Sector Minority Welfare Senior citizens Welfare Rural Poverty Alleviation Urban Poverty Alleviation NGO-Voluntary Sector Government of India Schemes for NGOs Ministry of Culture Ministry of Tribal Affairs Ministry of Women & Child Development Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Ministry of Human Resource Development National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) Policies and Acts Disaster Management Fight against social evils Skill development Social Security Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme Discussion Forum - Social Welfare Related Items Women and Child Welfare Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Schedules Caste Sub-Plan (SCSP) Senior Citizens - status in India more ... Agriculture Agri Inputs Crop Production Post Harvest Technologies Livestock Poultry Fisheries Agro enterprises See More... Health Women Health Child Health NRHM AYUSH Nutrition Diseases Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health See More...... Education Child rights Policies/Schemes Childrens Corner Teachers Corner Online Assessment Education Best Practices Career Guidance See More.... Social Welfare Women and Child Development Scheduled Tribes Welfare Scheduled Caste Welfare Backward Classes Unorganised Sector See More.... Energy Energy Basics Energy conservation Energy efficiency