GW Micro - Government Skip to Main Content Window-Eyes  •  Reading Systems  •  Support  •  Training Home >> Government GW Micro - Government The GW Micro Government pages provide information regarding GW Micro programs and services related to government employees and client assistance. GSA Overview (from the U.S. General Services Administration webpage) GSA's mission is to "help federal agencies better serve the public by offering, at best value, superior workplaces, expert solutions, acquisition services and management policies." GW Micro's enrollment in the GSA Federal Supply Schedule (Contract No. GS-35F-0512L ) makes purchasing approved products like Window-Eyes an expedited process. Government purchasing officers can log on and place orders online using the GSA Advantage website. Window-Eyes and other GW Micro products can also be purchased through TCS Associates ( www.tcsassociates.com ), a GW Micro dealer who specializes in GSA purchases. Window-Eyes and Remote Access Window-Eyes was the first screen reader to provide support for remote access applications, such as Citrix MetaFrame XP , Microsoft Terminal Services , and Windows XP Professional Remote Desktop . Support for remote access comes free with the purchase of Window-Eyes, is not copy protected (applies to U.S, Canada, U.K., Austrailia, New Zealand), and means Window-Eyes users have access to server hosted applications, without the need to have them installed locally on an employee's workstation. For example, publishing Window-Eyes on a Citrix MetaFrame XP server enables end users to hear other server-based applications, just as if both applications were running locally on the desktop. Server-based deployment of applications has three key benefits: Providing users with secure access to enterprise resources from anywhere at any time Maximizing IT efficiency with centralized administration Ensuring a consistent set of applications and versions for all users, regardless of location, device or connection A company's IT department can install all the mission-critical applications (such as word processors, email, and order entry systems) on a centralized group of servers. Employees then access the applications on those servers from their own client devices (desktops, laptops, etc.). When the IT department updates a critical application, all users automatically connect to the updated version, without the need to install the new application on each individual workstation. Another benefit to Window-Eyes Remote Access support is that multiple versions can co-exist peacefully. In other words, a new version of Window-Eyes can run server side (or client side), while older versions can be run client side (or server side), meaning that Window-Eyes users will not be without remote access when rolling out upgrades. Other screen readers require versions to match, making the upgrade process difficult, if not impossible. Security GW Micro strives to keep security in the forefront of the Window-Eyes development process: When Window-Eyes communicates with low level areas of the operating system, great care is taken to ensure that system processes are greatly restricted. Window-Eyes Error Reporting (a first in the adaptive technology industry) communicates anonymous information regarding internal errors directly to our developers so that problems can be resolved accurately and quickly. Window-Eyes development undergoes constant code reviews to ensure that exploits and vulnerabilities are non-existant. GW Micro employs security conscious developers who understand security matters in both their development processes and in their personal computing endeavors. Window-Eyes Mobile Install With the Window-Eyes Mobile Install, users can run Window-Eyes directly from a removable drive (such as a USB thumb drive), meaning portability without barriers. IT support technicians can use Window-Eyes Mobile as they move from machine to machine, installing upgrades, or providing technical assistance. Students can use Window-Eyes Mobile when traveling between computer labs, or libraries. An existing copy of Window-Eyes can even be copied to a removable drive for preserving existing settings when transfering from home to the office. The Window-Eyes Mobile install comes free with the purchase of Window-Eyes, and is not copy protected (applies to U.S, Canada, U.K., Austrailia, New Zealand). Government Links Voc. Rehab. VPAT Site License (5 User) Site License (10 User) Agency License WAN License Social Networking Online Ordering © 2015 GW Micro, Inc. - All Rights Reserved. Contact Information 725 Airport North Office Park • Fort Wayne, IN 46825 Ph: 802-362-3612 • Fax: 260-489-2608 Hours: M-F, 9:00a-5p, EDST • • Privacy Policy