Manipur Map Home » Maps » Manipur Map   Manipur मणिपुर का नक्शा Manipur Map District of Manipur East Imphal West Imphal Churachandpur Ukhrul Tamenglong              more.. Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Capital Imphal City Map Bishnupur City Map Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Agricultural Map Geography Economy Media Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies- Inner Parliamentary Constituencies- Outer Government Education Universities In Manipur History Mineral Map Society and Culture Travel to Manipur Places to visit in Manipur Wildlife Sanctuaries Govindajee Temple War Cemetery Sex Ratio Pincode STD code       Manipur Map मणिपुर का नक्शा Map of Manipur Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing major roads, railways, rivers, national highways, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Manipur Location Map Manipur District Map Railway map of Manipur Manipur River Map Manipur Road Network Map Manipur , surrounded by Nagaland , Mizoram , Assam and Mynamar, has Imphal as its capital. As it is a sensitive border area, Tourists who want to travel to Manipur require a Restricted Area Permit, which is valid for 10 days. Literally meaning "the jeweled land", Manipur is richly endowed with natural splendor and grandeur. It has 9 districts: Bishnupur, Chandel, Churachandpur, Imphal East, Imphal West, Senapati, Tamenglong, Thoubal and Ukhrul. Agriculture is the single largest source of livelihood, for a majority of the rural masses, and the state economy also depends on it. Industry in Manipur is not very well developed. However, the state is striving towards industrialization, with the setting up of many large and small-scale industrial units. The main industries of Manipur are pharmaceuticals, steel re-rolling, plywood, bamboo chipping, cement, vanaspati and electronics and the service sector comprises of Real estate, Consultancies, Travel and Tourism, Hotel Industry and Insurance. Manipur State Information Capital Imphal Date of formation 21. Jan. 1972 Governor K. K. Paul (Acting Governor) Chief Minister Okram Ibobi Singh Tourist attractions Loktak Lake. Sendra Island Festivals Heikru Hitongba Boat Races, Baruni Major dance and music forms Ras Lila, Lai Haroba, Nongdai Jagoi Arts and crafts Bamboo baskets, fish traps, mats, umbrellas, musical instruments etc. Languages Manipuri, Thado, Tankhul Size 22,327 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 2,570,390 Rivers Manipur, Barak Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Keibul Lamjao NP, Khonghampat Orchidarium State animal Sangai deer State bird Nongyeen State flower Siroi lily State tree Uningthou Major crops Paddy, wheat, maize, pulses Factoids The Pung is the Manipuri version of the Mridanga, an ancient drum and is played during the Ras Lila. Imphal has an all-women's market or Ima Keithel. No. of District 9 Last Updated on : September 24, 2014   General Maps of Manipur   District Map Of Manipur Districts Of Manipur Physical Map Of Manipur Manipur Tourist Map Travel To Manipur Tourist Map Of Manipur Agriculture Map Of Manipur Parliamentary Constituencies Of Manipur (Elections 2004) Location Of Manipur Within India City Map Of Imphal Manipur Assembly Constituency Map Mineral Map Of Manipur Clickable Road Map Of Manipur Road Network Of Manipur Manipur Forest Map River Maps of Manipur Tehsil Maps of Manipur Bishnupur Tehsil Map Churachandpur Tehsil Map Chandel Tehsil Map Imphal East Tehsil Map Senapati Tehsil Map Tamenglong Tehsil Map Thoubal Tehsil Map Ukhrul Tehsil Map Imphal West Tehsil Map Famous Personalities of Manipur Okram Ibobi Singh Dingko Singh Mary Kom N. Kunjarani Devi Travel to Manipur Travel to Imphal Places to visit in Manipur Places to visit in Imphal   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule