Indian Style Summer Drink Recipes About.com Food Southern Food Barbecues & Grilling Home Cooking Cocktails Culinary Arts Busy Cooks Vegetarian Food More about food » Health Arthritis & Joint Conditions Cold & Flu Type 2 Diabetes Weight Loss Cholesterol Pregnancy & Childbirth Pediatrics More about health » Home Interior Decorating Home Renovations Apartment Living/Rental Contests & Sweepstakes Home Repair Freebies Moving More about home » Money Inventors Frugal Living Human Resources Tax Planning: U.S. Investing for Beginners Small Business: Canada Banking/Loans More about money » Style Beauty Women's Hairstyles Budget Style Celebrity Style Jewelry Shoes Weddings More about style » Tech iPad iPhone/iPod PC Support Macs Windows Internet Basics Cameras More about tech » Travel California Travel New York City Travel Las Vegas Travel Caribbean Travel Hawaii Travel Cruises Theme Parks More about travel » More Autos Dating & Relationships Education Entertainment en Español Careers News & Issues Parenting Religion & Spirituality Sports Videos Share Pin Tweet Submit Stumble Post Share About.com About Food Indian Food Drink Recipes Summer Drink Recipes By Petrina Verma Sarkar Indian Food Expert Share Pin Tweet Submit Stumble Post Share Indian Food Categories Getting started - everything you need to know Regional cuisine Snacks and Appetizers Rice and Bread Recipes Meat dishes Chicken, Egg, Pork Dishes Fish and Seafood Recipes Vegetarian Recipes Masala and Sauce Recipes (spice mixes) Sides and Salads Pickles and Chutneys Drink Recipes Sweets and Desserts Tips and Techniques Blog Everything you need to know to get started confidently! From snacks in a flash to curry in a hurry, here's where you'll find it all! Well known and popular Indian foods... Updated Articles and Resources Free Email Newsletter Let About.com send you the latest from our Indian Food Expert. Thanks for signing up! There was a problem registering. Please select a newsletter. Please enter a valid email address. Did you mean ? Sign up You can opt-out at any time. Please refer to our privacy policy for contact information. As the temperature around you soars, cool off with these summer chillers! • Thandai This North-Indian drink is made especially when the hot, dry summer winds blow through the region leaving everything and everybody parched. This thirst-quencher is tasty and cooling. More » • Mango Lassi (yoghurt drink) Mango Lassi is the perfect cooler on a hot day. You can add extra sweetness to it (if you like) with sugar or honey. More » • Pina Colada Lassi An Indian twist on a hugely popular western drink! This recipe was invented by a close friend of mine. More » • Angoori Lassi This lush, creamy drink is sure to impress whoever you make it for! It is a terrific summer thirst quencher! More » • Chatpata Nimboo Pani (spiced lemonade) Lemonade with an Indian twist! More » • Delhi-style Cold Coffee If you think this a strange name for a drink, you may not be alone! The reason I named it this (I was considering Connaught Place Cold Coffee!) is that this is where I am told it originated. For all it's fancy name you'd think it was tough to make. You couldn't be farther from the fact. Delhi-style Cold Coffee takes all of 2 minutes to prepare! More » • Badam Milk Delicately flavored with cardamom, the nuts in this chilled, cooling drink don't just make it tasty, they pack a mighty nutritious punch too! More » • Kayree Panha (raw mango drink) Made with fresh raw mangoes, abundant in the summer months, Kayree ( raw mango ) Panha is from the state of Maharashtra in Western India. It is a sweet-sour-spicy drink! More » • Lemon Ginger Squash This concentrate makes a really tasty, thirst-quenching drink that is perfect for summer! Make up a bottle of it and keep in your fridge for those hot days. More » • Gulab Ka Sharbat On a hot summer's day, a tall, frosty glass of Rose Sharbat can really cool you off. Another nice way to have it is in a glass of cold milk. More » • Masala Chaas This drink goes well with a meal. The asafetida and ginger in it aid digestion. More » share on facebook pin to pinterest