Jaipur Metro Map Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Jaipur Metro Map   Rajasthan History and Geography Weather राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar                         more.. Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Jaipur Metro Map Metro Map of Jaipur Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Jaipur Metro Map showing all operational metro stations and routes. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Jaipur Metro is a rapid transit system which is currently under construction in Jaipur, Rajasthan. The Jaipur Metro is said to be the country's fourth metro rail system after the much successful metro rail projects in Delhi, Bangalore and Kolkata. The construction of the first segment of the first line is from Mansarovar to Chand Pole Bazaar and comprises a total length of 9.25 km. The construction on this segment started on 13th November 2010 and is expected to be open to the public around August 2013. The Jaipur Metro will be put up in two phases. Phase one includes the Green Line and Phase two includes the Orange Line. At present, Phase 1 i.e. the Green Line is under construction. The implementation of the project is being managed by DMRC. Green Line The Green line will be the first route of the Jaipur Metro Rail. It will connect Mansarovar to Badi Chaupar. The total length of the route is 11.5 km and it will have 11 metro stations (8 elevated and 3 underground). In Phase IA, the metro will be constructed from Mansarovar to Chand Pole. The total length of this segment is 9.1 km and it will have 9 metro stations. Phase IB, the metro will be constructed from Chand Pole to Badi Chaupar. The total length of this segment is 2.3 km and it will have 2 metro stations Route of Jaipur Metro Green Line Mansarovar - New Aatish Market - Vivek Vihar - Shyam Nagar - Ram Nagar - Civil Lines - Railway Station - Sindhi Camp - Chand Pole - Choti Chaupar - Badi Chaupar Orange Line The Orange Line is the second proposed route of the Jaipur Metro Rail. It will connect Sitapura Industrial Area to Ambabari. The total length of the route is 23 km and it will have 20 metro stations (15 elevated and 5 underground). Route of Jaipur Metro Orange Line Sitapura Industrial Area - Pratap Nagar - Haldi Ghati Gate - Sanganer - Laxmi Nagar - Durgapura - Mahavir Nagar - Gopalpura - Dev Nagar - Tonk Phatak - Gandhi Nagar Mode - Sawai Mansingh Stadium - Narayan Singh Circle - SMS Hospital - Ajmeri Gate - Government Hostel - Sindhi Camp - Subhash Nagar - Pani Pench - Ambabari Jaipur Metro Coaches Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML), an Indian company, has been given an Rs.3.18 billion contract to provide ten four-car trains for Phase 1A of the Jaipur Metro. Jaipur Metro later on plans to increase the trains' length to four coaches as the traffic increases. BEML also expects a follow-on order which is worth Rs.600 million. It is for the first time in India that the Metro coaches for the Jaipur Metro will be designed and manufactured completely by BEML. Last Updated on : 17/06/2013 Metro Maps Delhi Metro Map Mumbai Metro Map Kolkata Metro Map Ahmedabad Metro Map Chandigarh Metro Map Gurgaon Metro Map Bangalore Metro Map Jaipur Metro Map Kochi Metro Map Patna Metro Map Chennai Metro Map Hyderabad Metro Map Delhi Monorail Route Map Pune Metro Map Metro Rail Projects Rajasthan Geography History Weather Area Languages Population Desert Quick Facts Soil and Vegetation Art Dress Fairs and Festivals Food Culture Rajasthan Factsheet Rajasthan Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map District Map in Hindi Jaipur Metro Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Location Map Mineral Map Physical Map Raiway Map Road Map Tehsil Map Jaipur Localities Adarsh Nagar Agra Road Ajmer Road Ajmeri Gate Ambabari Amer Road Bais Godam Bajaj Nagar Bani Park Bapu Bazaar Bapu Nagar Barkat Nagar Bhawani Singh Road Biseswarji Brahmapuri Chandpol Civil Lines Durgapura Gangori Bazar Ghat Darwaza Gopalpura Indira Bazar Jagatpura Jalupura Janata Colony Jawaharlal Nehru Marg Jawahar Nagar Jhotwara Jhotwara Industrial Area Jhotwara Road Johari Bazaar Jyothi Nagar Kalwar Road Kartarpur Khatipura Mahesh Nagar Malviya Nagar Mansarovar Mirza Ismail Road Motidungri Marg Muralipura New Colony Pink City Raja Park Ramganj Sanganer Sansar Chandra Road Sethi Colony Shastri Nagar Shyam Nagar Sikar Road Sindhi Camp Sirsi Road Sitapura Industrial Area Sodala Subhash Nagar Sudharshanpura Industrial Area Surajpol Bazar Tilak Nagar Tonk Phatak Tonk Road Transport Nagar Vaishali Nagar Vidhyadhar Nagar Vishwakarma Industrial Area             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule