Tamarind Products - Tamarind Juice Concentrate, Tamarind, Tamarind Concentrates and Tamarind Paste Exporter & Supplier from Bengaluru, India Send Email Send SMS Search Home Profile Product Range Contact Us JavaScript is not enabled in your browser. In order to proceed please enable JavaScript in your browser. Please click here to understand how to enable JavaScript in your browser. Send SMS Enquiry Thank you Your Enquiry has been sent successfully. Mr. Ms. Mrs. Dr.   Your Contact Information: (not me)   Request CALLBACK Your Contact Information: (not me)   We will call you soon for better understanding of your product requirement & specification ✓ Thank you Thanks for sharing your number We will get back shortly. Home » Product Range » Tamarind Products ABC International (ABCI) is synonymous with various types of Tamarind Products since its inception in 1985. The products are customized in accordance with the market requirements. As such, several tamarind products have been developed over the years. ABCI offers the following never-before wide range of tamarind products. We offer the 100% natural Tamarind products. Tamarind Juice Concentrate REQUEST CALLBACK Ask for Price ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. We supply Tamarind Concentrate in consumer packs of  200 grams, 224 grams and 400 grams. Yes! I am Interested ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. Tamarind REQUEST CALLBACK Ask for Price ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. Tamarind is the brown, tart flesh from the pods. The flesh surrounds the brown shiny seeds within the sausage-shaped pod. Pods are harvested at different stages of maturity according to their intended use. Therapeutic Values of Tamarind The Tamarind Fruit, flower, leaves, bark and seed are known to have therapeutic values and are known in treating various ailments worldwide. Tamarind is rich in vitamins, minerals and electrolytes. Therefore, this fruit has a wide spectrum of health benefits, Since Tamarind acts as a "coolant" it is largely consumed in Middle-East desert countries. This is particularly so during the fasting period of Ramzan. Tamarind used as a mind cathartic substance (medication). Other known remedial uses of Tamarind fruit are : Tamarind drink can lower body temperature .  Helps fight heat stroke / sunstroke. Tamarind helps in reducing the cholesterol levels in the body, thereby promoting a healthy heart. Tamarind juice acts as a mild laxative. The juice extracted from Tamarind is effective in curing and treating bile disorder. The pulp of the ripe Tamarind is very useful in treating the digestive problems and constipation problems. Tamarind pulp is softened in water and consumed to improve the loss of appetite. Tamarind is rich in vitamin C and therefore its pulp proves out to be valuable in preventing and curing scurvy conditions . Tamarind pulp, leaves and flowers when applied on swollen and painful joints , in many combinations, promises instant relief. The juice of the Tamarind pulp helps in curing conjunctivitis . Eye drops, made out of tamarind seeds, are recommended to treat dry eye syndrome. Tamarind leaves are extremely useful in treating burns. The soft Tamarind leaves are kept in a pot, covered and then warmed over fire. The burnt leaves are then finely powdered and sieved to remove any gritty particles. This paste is then mixed to gingili oil and applied all over the burnt area. The mixture is very effective over the burnt areas and provides relief from the wound within a few days Tamarind has been used to cure sore throats since ages. Gargle of tamarind water is highly beneficial in treating a sore throat. Tamarind is used as a water pill to cure jaundice and catarrh. The juice extracted out of the Tamarind flowers is consumed for reducing bleeding piles . Tamarind fights against cancer . It is an excellent source of antioxidants thereby preventing cancer. Tamarind is one of the most effective and easy ways of curing common cold . You can prepare a soup or rasam by boiling diluted tamarind water in a tsp of ghee. Sprinkle a little pepper to it and allow the concoction to boil for few minutes. Tamarind soup, thus prepared, would flush out all the toxins from the body, clearing any nasal and throat blockage. Tamarind pulp is also a great healer of fever . You can consume 15g tamarind to reduce the temperature. You can even prepare a sherbet by boiling the tamarind pulp in ½ litre milk with some dates, cloves, sugar, cardamoms and little camphor. This infusion is very effective in fighting the virus that causes fever. Tamarind milk that is prepared by boiling the pulp in milk is also quite effective in curing dysentery problem . You can also consume finely-grained tamarind seeds with equal proportions of cumin and sugar 2-3 times a day for positive results. Yes! I am Interested ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. Tamarind Concentrates REQUEST CALLBACK Ask for Price ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. ABC International is a pioneer in the manufacturing of various Tamarind Concentrates in India and have been in the business since 1970s. Product development efforts have been a continuous process for ABCI. Tamarind Concentrates - is offered in Bulk , as well as Retail packs. We supply the regular Tamarind Extract of 65 degree brix and also, a customised variant called Depectinised Tamarind Concentrate of 78 to B0 degrees brix. Product Characteristics Tamarind Concentrate in our brand "KiKi", as well as private labels that we pack is produced from fresh, ripe seedless Tamarind through a water extract process. Tamarind is a forest produce and grown in Southern ald Eastein parts of India. New crop is used t6 ensure freshness, flavour, natural colour and long shelf life of the product. No filler, artificial preservative or additive are used, there by making the product 100% pure, safe and natural, relying entirely on tamarind's own preservative characteristics (natural Tartaric Acid). ABCI's stringent quality control system ensures the total production process according to international standards at every stage of production and each batch is checked for its quality. The Process   The entire process of manufacturing Tamarind Concentrate is automated, hygienic and conforming to FPO (Food Processing Order of the Government of India) Standards. The special process retains the natural tangy flavour, purity, sweetness, taste and the precious vitamin C. The juice is concentrated to reach the desired brix level of 65 degrees. Depectinised Tamarind concentrate (80 degree brix) is made by removing the inherent pectin content through biopectinaze enzyme process. Storage Recommendations Tamarind Concentrate can be stored at ambient temperature. Shelf Life More than two years at normal room temperature. The only change that happens is in colour; when the Tamarind Concentrate turns into a darker colour after prolonged storage, due to breakdown of natural sucrose inherent in the Tamarind Fruit. Applications : Tamarind Concentrates and other Tamarind Products are used as a souring agent. "KiKi" Tamarind products are an effective substitute for vinegar, tomatoes and lemon juice. Extensively used in Indian, Thai, Chinese, Malaysian and Mexican cuisine, they are also used in the manufacturing of western sauces and ketchups. It is a base for softdrinks. Its applications are found in: As a souring ingredient for manufacturing Soups, Instant Noodles, Stews, Gravies, Sauces and Ethnic food preparations Used in Seasoning, in Dry Instant Pre-mixes As a base for manufacturing Beverages -Soft Drink ( RTS), Tamarind Syrup, Tamarind Cola, Tamarind Cordial, etc... In Ethnic dishes such as vindaloo, sambar, rasam, curry, puliogare, panipuri, many snacks, chutneys and sauces As a flavouring ingredient in alcoholic and non alcoholic (hot and cold) beverages -Iced Tea Confectioneries - Soft and Hard-boiled Tamarind candies and Fruit Bars In new age natural lce Creams Pharmaceutical - oral hygiene products and cough syrup As a marinade in food processing Fish, meat and seafood preservation As a substitute for vinegar, tomatoes and tartaric acid In curing chewing, pipe and cigarette tobaccos Pharmaceutical - As a Carminative and mild Laxative Treatment of several Digestive problems and Bile disorders Drink in desert countries as a Cooling Agent. Remedy for Ulcers because of its antiseptic properties As a Gargle for Sore Throats Mixed with salt and used as a Liniment for Rheumatism Used for alleviating Sunstroke As a prevention for Fluorosis As a cure for several bone diseases Packaging Details: This tamarind concentrate is packed in hermetically sealed food grade HDPE -plastic containers to retain the quality and characteristics of tamarind fruit. The final product becomes quite viscous and sets to a jam-like consistency on cooling. It is readily soluble in water. Yes! I am Interested ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. Tamarind Paste REQUEST CALLBACK Ask for Price ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. The Tamarind Paste is a Tamarind Puree preserved with salt with a lower brix of 30-55 degrees brix.  Tamarind Paste is made by segregating the impurities, shell, fibre and seeds found in ripe Tamarind. Fruit which is  boiled  and pulverised  along with  salt and packed.   It is packed in HDPE barrels. Shelf life is limited to six months to one year under ambient temperature.    1.Tamarind Paste 45 degree brix   with 14-15% Salt  Specification Of Tamarind Paste (ABCI/UEL)–45°  BRIX 1) Chemical : a)    % of Total soluble solids (T.S.S) (Min.)  : 45 b)    % of Salt   :  14.9 to 15.4 c)    % of Acidity (as C.A.)  :  4.8 to 5.8 d)    pH (Max)  : 2.7 2) Microbiological : e)    Total Plate Count (efu/g) Max. : 10 f)    Yeast & Mold (efu / g) : Nil g)    Coliforms (efu) : Nil Tamarind paste – flow sheet Tamarind ( from Supplier ) -> Cleaning for removal of Fibre particles, Seeds and Extraneous matter -> Washing for removal of Soil, Sand, Stones and other foreign matter, if present -> Soaking in Boiled and Cooled water ( 1 : 1 ) ->  Pass it through Pulverizer with (8mm mesh) -> Pass it through Pulper with 1.5 mm Sieve - Mixing with Salt -> Packing Packing in  25 kgs Tins or  HDPE barrel Dimensions of barrel 28.5 cms Dia x  41 cms  height Loadability  510 Nos. per  20’ FCL i.e., 12.50 MTs Net per FCL 2.Tamarind Paste 45 degree brix with 10% Salt  Average specifications of tamarind paste ( ABCI/HFP) SL NO. Parameter Test result 1 Appearance & Colour Light Brown to Dark Brown Viscous Liquid 2 Brix 45 degree Brix 3 Acidity (As Tartaric Acid): %w/w 7.1 (Approx.) 4 Water Insoluble Matter % w/w 3% (Approx.) 5 PH (of 1% w/w solution) 5.0 (Approx.) 6 Solubility in Water Almost soluble 7 Salt % 10% ( approx. ) Process flow chart for  tamarind paste Collect  Ripe and  De-seeded  Tamarind Fruit -> Clean  the Tamarind  Frui -> Soak  the  Tamarind Fruit with clean water in  steel-jacketed kettles -> Extract the Tamarind paste from pulper -> Add salt-Mix it in Blender -Weigh and pack in 100 kg HDPE  drums. Yes! I am Interested ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. Tamarind Paste REQUEST CALLBACK Ask for Price ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. 3.Tamarind Paste 55 degree brix with 10% Salt  Specification Of Tamarind Paste (ABCI/ PS )–55° BRIX Chemical 1.Acidity → 9.0% ± 0.5% 2.Salt → 8.0% ± 0.5% 3.Brix → 55º ± 2º 4.PH → 1.8 ± 0.1 5.Moisture → 42% ± 2% Microbiological 1.Total Viable Count (CFU/gm) :- 100 2.Yeast & Mould (CFU/gm) :- ≤ 10 3.E. coli :- Absent 4.Coliform :- Nil Bulk Packing in  40 kgs or  125  kgs HDPE  barrels Food Service pack :  1 kg (2.2 LBS ), 2 kgs (4.4 LBS), 4.25Kg (9.35 LBS)  in PET JAR 5.00Kg (11 LBS) in TUB Shelf  life:  1 year Yes! I am Interested ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. Tamarind Slabs REQUEST CALLBACK Ask for Price ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. Fresh and best quality Tamarind is  pressed & shaped into thin brick-like Slabs. These are offered with or without seeds. It is extremely economical  to buy our special Seedless Tamarind of 99% quality and less than 1% seed content. This Tamarind Slab keeps extremely well in storage with very little chance of getting weevil attacks. There is less wastage and the unopened seeded fruits (Butak or bots) is ideal for storage and usage. For making the tamarind slabs the tamarind fruit is first weighed on electrical scales according to the desired weight of the slab and the same put in specially prepared dies and are pressed to form a compressed tamarind slab. These slabs are wrapped in plastic wrappers with printed labels as per buyer’s requirement placed on one side of the slab. These slabs are further packed in Export worthy Cartons of 10 KG or 20 KG as per client requirement. We supply Seedless Tamarind in rectangular compressed slabs of various sizes on basis of its weight of the slab.The standard consumer slabs are of 125 Gms,200 Gms,500 Gms & 1000 Gms. These Tamarind Slabs are packed in polyethylene covers with label inserted and into export-worthy master cartons of 20 Kgs net weight. Normal shelf life of this Tamarind is three years from the date of crop harvested. Commercially the qualities are differentiated on the basis of % of seed content in it. Accordingly the different qualities of Tamarind which can be supplied are Tamarind with max 5 % Seeds (i.e. 95% Seedless), Tamarind with max 10% Seeds (90% Seedless) and Tamarind with max 35-40% Seeds (60-65% Seedless). Standard Packing The various packings which can be offered in consumer slabs are as follows:- 1 Kg Slab x 20 Packets = 20 Kg in A Master Carton. 500 Gms. Slab x 40 Packets = 20 Kg in A Master Carton. 500 Gms. Slab x 20 Packets = 10 Kg in A Master Carton. 200 Gms. Slab x 50 Packets = 10 Kg in A Master Carton. 200 Gms. Slab x 40 Packets = 8 Kg in A Master Carton. Loadability in  a 20’ FCL 20 FCL 22.500 M.Tons for Tamarind Slabs packed in 1 Kg & 500 Gm 20 FCL 21.500 M.Tons for Tamarind Slabs packed in 200 GM. Yes! I am Interested ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. Tamarind Seeds REQUEST CALLBACK Ask for Price ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. Whole Tamarind seeds are shiny, black in colour mostly available during dry season. Tamarind Seeds have numerous nutritional and health benefits – to cure Diarrhea, Arthritis, Indigestion, Diabetes, Fractures, Cough, Tonsils and Throat Infections. Tamarind seeds contain phosphorus, magnesium, vitamin c, potassium, calcium and amino acids. Tamarind Seeds offered by us are selected and packed in 50 kgs new Gunny Bags to maintain their quality. Yes! I am Interested ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. Tamarind Husk REQUEST CALLBACK Ask for Price ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. The Tamarind Seed Husk or the brown outer shell seed is produced from roasted seeds after decortications also very useful product. After the decortications Roasted seeds, about 35% of Tamarind Seed Husk is obtained which is a bye product. At present it is used as fuel and as cattle feed. The tamarind seed husk is a very high calorific value material, and it is effective as a biomass fuel to replace wood and other alternative biomass fuels used. Given its availability and cost, it is a far advantageous product to another commercial burning material. Yes! I am Interested ✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. Tamarind Seed Kernel Powder REQUEST CALLBACK