Waterfalls in Chhattisgarh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Travel Chhattisgarh Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Tribal Villages Haat Bazaars Ghotuls Indravati National Park Waterfalls Chitrakoot Teerathgarh Mandra Chitradhara Tamda Temples in Chhattisgarh Laxman Temple Gandheswar Temple Shivani Temple Mahamaya Temple Vishnu Mandir Turridham Shiva Temple Museums Anthropological Museum Raipur Open-Air Museum Human Science Museum Mahant Ghasi Memorial Museum Tourist Destinations in Chhattisgarh Bilaspur Travel Bhilai Travel Raipur Travel Bastar Travel Jagdalpur Travel Dongargarh Travel Hotels in Chhattisgarh Hotels in Korba Hotels in Bhilai Hotels in Jagdalpur Hotels in Raipur Hotels in Raigarh About Chhattisgarh History Geography Home » Chhattisgarh » Tourism » Waterfalls in Chhattisgarh Waterfalls in Chhattisgarh Chhattisgarh Waterfalls are synonymous to splendid natural beauty. Located in various districts of the state, the waterfalls of Chhattisgarh attracts a large number of tourists round the year from all corners of India and abroad. Chitrakoot, Dhoomar, Mandra, Teerathgarh, Tamda and Chitradhara are the popular waterfalls of Chhattisgarh. Chitrakoot waterfall can be seen in the Bastar district of Chhattisgarh. The perennial river of Indravati is known to be origin of chitrakoot. The streams of water in Chitrakoot takes a horse shoe type dimension while falling down. Having a height of around of 100 feet, Chitrakoot waterfall of Chhattisgarh is no less enticing than the world-famous Niagara falls. Mandra waterfall is another magnificent treasure of Chhattisgarh which is found in the region of Jagadalpur. The waterfall of Teerathgarh is near the Jagadalpur area of chhattisgarh and is at its best during the month of October to February. The 300 feet high waterfall is situated in the Kanger Valley national park. The Potanar village which is within the premises of Lohandiguda is famous for having the watefall of Chitradhara. The nearest city to this waterfall is Jagadalpur which is only 19 km away from the place. Tamda and Dhoomar are the two other equally splashing waterfalls of Chhattisgarh that are blessed with the bliss of nature. Both are capable of pulling large number of travelers throughout the year. The captivating Chhattisgarh waterfalls not only enhances the scenic traits of the state but also contribute significantly towards the tourism industry of the place. Chitrakoot Waterfalls Chitrakoot waterfall is an incredible manifestation of natural beauty which is surrounded by the majestic grandeur of Vindhya ranges. In the Indravati river of Chhattisgarh, the waterfall of chitrakoot is found. From the Jagadalpur area of the state, Chitrakoot waterfalls is quite close. Visitors from different parts of the world regularly come to explore the aesthetics of this Chhattisgarh waterfalls. Chitrakoot waterfalls of the state of Chhattisgarh has height of 100 feet and is in the shape of horse shoe. Those who are viewing the waterfalls for the first time in their life are sure to get mesmerized by its magnanimous magnificence. From the month of July to the month of October, the waterfalls of Chitrakoot attain its best phase. Indravati river which starts its perennial journey from the Vindhya ranges, converts into a scenic pleasure at the point where the Chitrakoot waterfalls is located. The serene and soothing view of the waterfalls is further enhanced by the surrounding environment which takes the tourists to a different world of ecstasy. Jagdalpur is a popular city of Chhattisgarh which has developed network of road and railways. Also, the place of Jagdalpur has proper infrastructure of hotels and lodges for the tourists. While visiting the Chitarkoot waterfalls people do not have to experience any kind of difficulty as they are provided with every possible type of comfort and services by Jagdalpur. Also, the Chitrakoot can be reached from Jagdalpur within a very short time via the number of buses that ply from the city to the place of the waterfalls. Chitrakoot waterfall which has sufficient similarities with the famous Niagara falls, truly expands the scenic horizon of Chhattisgarh. Teerathgarh Waterfalls The famous eco tourism site of Kanger Valley National Park is the place where the exotic Teerathgarh waterfalls is situated. The splashing streams of Teerathgarh waterfalls with an incredible speed to the river Mugabahar. Located near Jagdalpur of Chhattisgarh, Teerathgarh waterfalls is visited by tourists mostly during the period of October to February. It is believed that Teerathgarh waterfalls of Chhattisgarh has height of 300 feet and the criss-cross path makes the falling of the stream more enticing. Apart from the natural appeal, Teerathgarh waterfalls is also the place where a temple of Shiva Parvati is located. Tourists coming from other states of India and various districts of Chhattisgarh can reach the spot of Teerathgarh waterfalls through bus services from Jagdalpur. On the south-eastern front of Jagdalpur lies the waterfalls of Teerathgarh. Those travelers who enjoy the solitary yet furious speed of water streams will definitely find the Teerathgarh waterfalls as a perfect haven. In fact such is the popularity of the Teerathgarh waterfall today that hundreds and thousands of foreign tourists flock to this out-of-the-world destination every year. Since Jagdalpur is equipped with all moder0day conveyance and lodging facilities hence people who come to visit the Teerathgarh waterfalls can avail of all kinds of facilities in the place. More often than not people from the local areas come to Teerathgarh waterfalls for having a picnic. Since the waterfalls encompasses a huge geographical space hence picnickers can easily be accommodated here. Teerathgarh waterfalls in Chhattisgarh is a real tourism retreat. Mandra Waterfalls Mandra waterfalls is visited by thousands of tourists tourists every year. The waterfall of mandra is set amidst the verdant beauty of a quaint place which is just a few km away from the bustling Jagdalpur area of Chhattisgarh. The aesthetic extravaganza of Mandra waterfalls lies in its spectacular dynamism. When the streams of this waterfalls slopes down the hilly terrains it makes for an incredible view. Enchanted by the captivating appeal of Mandra waterfalls, people like to visit the place again and again. Apart from its natural traits, the Mandra waterfalls is a prominent tourism landmark of Chhattisgarh too. The government of the state is taking major initiatives to further develop the places in and around Mandra waterfalls to increase the footfalls. Tokapal is the place where Mandra waterfalls is located. Since this place is quite close to Jagdalpur in Chhattisgarh so the visitors can conveniently reach the Madra waterfalls through regular bus services. In the Jagdalpur area there is also accommodation facilities for those who wish to stay back in the place for some time. Food served in the place reflects the local taste of Chhattisgarh. However Chinese cuisine can also be available in the restaurants or eatery joints of the place. From Jagdalpur tourists can arrive at Mandra waterfalls without a very short span of time. While going to the waterfall from Jagdalpur one can also enjoy the scenic beauty on the way. The serene and lush green environment soothes the mind of tourists in no time. It can be said that Mandra waterfalls is an awe-inspiring natural magnificence of Chhattisgarh. Chitradhara Waterfalls Chitradhara waterfalls is one of the biggest attractions of the district of Bastar in Chhattisgarh. Having situated in a serene village called Potanar, Chitradhara waterfalls attracts large number of tourists from all corners of the globe round the eyar. The Lohandiguda region of Chhattisgarh which falls under the purview of Jagdalpur is the location where chitradhara waterfalls exists with its incredible aesthetic features. Since the village of Potanar is a quaint and remote place, the splashing sound of the waterfall brings a fabulous surrounding contrast. The pace with which the water of chitradhara goes down makes the tourists feel a thrilling experience. Jagdalpur is a prominent tourism landmark of Chhattisgarh. The land and hills of Jagdalpur are known to house some of the exquisite waterfalls of India. Chitradhara is one such waterfall which truly captures the imagination of the viewers within no time. Since Jagdalpur is a popular tourist destination it is but natural that the place has convenient transportation facilities. Being a part of one of the busiest districts of Chhattisgarh - Bastar - Jaqgdalpur is linked with other adjoining places of the state through proper network of railways and roads. There are several affordable lodging options too that are available in Jagdalpur. In order to reach the chitradhara waterfalls one has to take the bus services from the place of Jagdalpur which is only at a distance of 19 km. Hence even the new comers can arrive at the spot of Chitradhara waterfalls without any conveyance difficulty. Chitradhara waterfalls in Chhattisgarh is truly worth visiting. Tamda Waterfalls The Tamda waterfalls of Chhattisgarh is known for its exotic beauty and grandeur. People from all over the country come to explore the outstanding splendor of Tamda waterfalls throughout the year. Transportation facilities available for a sojourn to Tamda waterfalls is quite comfortable. Tamda waterfalls has a great tourism value for the state of Chhattisgarh. Nestled in the rustic ambiance, the Tamda waterfalls boasts of an excellent surrounding beauty. Tourists from every part of India gather in the spot of Tamda waterfalls to spend a nice and solitary vacation. The criss-cross streams of Tamda waterfalls are something to cherish for a lifetime. When these streams make a splashing sound while flowing down the sloppy terrains, the viewers become awe-struck by its enigmatic aesthetics. The Tamda waterfalls is one of the many exotic locations of Chhattisgarh which has its own charm and enigma. Accompanied by several other equally picturesque waterfalls of the state, Tamda continue its perennial journey. On the one hand Tamda waterfalls enthralls the visitors with its blessed splendor, on the other it indirectly helps in generating revenue for the state through attracting more and more people. The state government of Chhattisgarh always encourages tourism prospects within its premises. In fact, from time to time, several promotional campaigns are also launched by the Chhattisgarh government to bring the tourism possibilities in the forefront. Many initiatives are carried on in different phases of time to add some extra shine to the place where Tamda waterfalls is situated. As an integral part of Chhattisgarh tours, Tamda waterfalls ranks high on the chart. Last Updated on: 29 th March 2013 Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule