Publicity under RTI No.35-22/2009/O&M/RTI Government of India Ministry of Agriculture Department of Agriculture & Cooperation …………. Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi Dated: 8th December, 2009 OFFICE MEMORANDUM Subject: Right to Information Act, 2005 Right to Information Act (RTI) mandates proactive disclosure by the Public Authorities of the manner of execution of subsidy programmes, including the amounts allocated and the details of beneficiaries of such programmes under Section 4 (1) (b) (xii). Such disclosures, to be effective, must be made at the time, place and manner to be accessible to beneficiaries and other stakeholders. 2. Department of Agriculture, provides funds for several programmes where subsidies are provided to the farmers, people and institutions serving the cause of increasing production and productivity of the agriculture and horticulture crops for food security of nation and livelihood security of millions of farmers and agriculture labour engaged in agriculture and allied sector. 3. Subsidies are admissible under various programmes of the Department of Agriculture (vide Appendix). 4. All these schemes are implemented by the State Governments through their departments, specialised agencies and panchayat raj institutions. The amounts allocated finally and the details of the beneficiaries are available with the different implementing agencies of the State level. Thus, this requirement of the RTI Act can be effectively and fruitfully fulfilled through the implementing agencies of the State Government. Moreover, implementation of these schemes would also become much more credible and transparent if the State Government directs all the implementation agencies, including the grass root implementing agencies, to display information relating to cost norms, subsidy available and beneficiaries actually benefitting under each of the components of the programmes listed above. 5. This requirement under the RTI Act can be actualised if a copy of the detailed information for each programme component implemented by the implementing agencies at the grass root level is made available in the office of such implementing agency, for inspection and taking copies by the beneficiaries and other stakeholders. It will also be necessary to put in place a system in the state government to report that the system is actually being implemented. -: 2 :- 6. The state governments may issue directions forthwith in this regard and also provide a certificate every year in the month of April that this requirement under RTI Act have been complied with and such information was indeed displayed as specified above and kept available in the offices of implementing agencies. (T. Nanda Kumar) Secretary (A&C) To 1. Chief Secretaries of all the State Governments/UTs. 2. All Divisional Heads in the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. APPENDIX (i) Development and Strengthening of infrastructure facilities for production and distribution of quality seeds (ii) Development of Market Infrastructure, Grading and Standardisation (iii) Gramin Bhandran Yojana (iv) Integrated Oilseeds, Oil Palm, Pulses and Maize Development (ISOPOM) (v) Jute Technology Mission - (MM- II) (vi) Macro Management of Agriculture (MMA) Scheme (vii) Micro Irrigation (viii) National Bamboo Mission (ix) National Food Security Mission (NFSM) (x) National Horticulture Board (including Cold Chain) (xi) National Horticulture Mission (xii) National oilseeds and vegetable oil Development Board (NOVOD) (xiii) National Project on Management of Soil Health & Fertility (xiv) National Project on Promotion of Organic Farming (xv) Post Harvest Technology and Management (xvi) Promotion and Strengthening of Agricultural Mechanisation through Training, Testing and Demonstration (xvii) Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) (xviii) Schemes for the CDB (xix) Small Farmers Agri Business Consortium (SFAC) (xx) Support to State Extension Programmes for Extension Reforms (xxi) Technology Mission on Cotton (TMC) (xxii) Technology Mission on Horticulture for North East Region including Sikkim,Uttarakhand, H.P and J&K (xxiii) Watershed Development in shifting cultivation areas of North Eastern States.