AIC OF INDIA LTD. Sign In Agriculture Insurance Company of India Limited Search Home Evolution Notices Tenders Site Map Contact Us Our Company Offices Annual Reports Corporate Brochure Our People Chairman-cum-MD Board of Directors Management Stakeholders Channel Partners Our Products Present (with Forms) Future Our Business Business Profile - All India Business Profile - States/UTs Our Mandates Laws And Regulations Citizens' Charter Right To Information Grievance Redressal Whistle Blower Policy Public Disclosure & Compliance CSR Policy Terms & Conditions    General Information:      The customer should register on the portal first to start availing the online services offered by AIC Portal.      AIC invites customers to visit their account on the Portal frequently for transacting business. If they believe that any information relating to their account has a discrepancy, please bring it to the notice of AIC by e-mail or letter. Security :     The AIC Portal assigns the customers their login credentials after registration                            User-Id                            Password     The Password given by AIC must be replaced by Password of customer's choice at the time of first log-on.     AIC will make reasonable use of available technology to ensure security and to prevent unauthorized access to any of Portal services.     These together with access control methods designed on the AIC Portal would afford a high level of security to the   transactions conducted. All are welcome to access online AIC Portal from anywhere anytime. However, as a matter of precaution, customers/others may avoid using PCs with public access . AIC's terms:     All requests received from customer/others are logged for backend fulfillment and are effective from the time they are recorded at AIC.     Rules and regulations applicable to normal Insurance transactions in India will be applicable mutatis mutandis for the transactions executed through AIC Portal. Detailed terms and conditions for such AIC's products may be obtained from the AIC Portal/ offices.     The Online Portal service cannot be claimed as a right. The Company may also convert this into a discretionary service anytime.     Dispute between the customer and AIC in this service is subject to the jurisdiction of the courts in the Republic of India and Governed by the laws prevailing in India.     The Company reserves the right to modify the services offered or the Terms of service of Online Portal. The changes will be notified to the customer through a notification on the Portal. Customer obligations:    Customers have an obligation to maintain secrecy in regard to Username & Password registered with the AIC Portal. AIC presupposes that login using valid Username and Password is a valid session initiated by none other than the customer.     Transaction executed through a valid session will be construed by AIC to have emanated from the registered customer and will be binding on him/her.     The customer will not attempt or permit others to attempt accessing the online AIC Portal through any unlawful means.   Do's & Don'ts:  The customer should keep his/her ID and password strictly confidential and should not divulge the same to any other person. Any loss sustained by the customer due to non-compliance of this condition will be at his/her own risk and responsibility and AIC will not be liable for the same in any manner.  The customer is free to choose a password of his own for Portal services. As a precaution a password that in is generic nature, guessable or inferable personal data such as name, address, telephone number, driving license, date of birth, etc. is best avoided. Similarly it is a good practice to commit the password to memory rather than writing it down somewhere.  It may not be safe to leave the computer unattended during a valid session. This might give access to your account information to others. Privacy Policy  In the process of using AIC Portal, the Privacy Policy as set forth in the External Portal www.aicofindia.com shall be applicable.     IRDA Registration No. 126 | Insurance is subject matter of solicitation. Disclaimer Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Cancellation & Refund Policy Best viewed with Internet Explorer Ver 6.0. or above with a resolution of 1024x768.