Panipat Elevated Expressway, Map of Panipat Elevated Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway » Panipat Elevated Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Panipat Elevated Expressway Map of Panipat Elevated Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Panipat Elevated Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Panipat Elevated Expressway was inaugurated in 2008. It runs on the National Highway 1, through the heart of Panipat city in Haryana. The National Highways Authority of India built this expressway, to decongest the national highway 1 at this stretch. The NH 1 which connects Delhi, Panipat, Ludhiana, Ambala, and Amritsar all the way up to Indo-Pak border at Wagah, is a vital road link to the northern states. The highway was very congested at this Delhi Panipat stretch. Panipat is a populous industrial city and the national highway was choked with heavy industrial vehicles as well as local traffic such as bicycles and cars in Panipat city. The expressway has cut down the diving time from Delhi to Jalandhar and Amritsar by 40 minutes. This subsequently has led to a faster movement of goods and traffic on the highway. L&T has designed and built the expressway at a cost of Rs 325 crores, and it is the concessionaire for collecting the toll and maintaining it. More than 60,000 passenger car units bound for Delhi and Amritsar use the 10 kilometer stretch on the Highway. The expressway lies between 86 km and 96 km on NH 1. The 10 kilometer long expressway has six lanes and a separate two -lane peripheral road for local traffic. It also has underpasses and an over bridge. The underpasses are at 87 km, 92 km and 93.6 km. The over- Bridge goes over Gande Nalla. The expressway bypasses three main road crossings at Panipat- Gohana, Sanauli and Asand road in the city. This stretch is a three kilometer long elevated corridor on the expressway; the longest six-lane flyover on the national highways in the country. The flyover also goes over the bus stand in the city. There is a 20-lane toll plaza for ease of entry and exit from the expressway. The toll rates are Rs 20 per one way for private vehicles. For local cars the toll is Rs 5 and for local commercial vehicles Rs 10. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule