Andhra Pradesh Railway Map Home » Maps » Andhra Pradesh Map » Andhra Pradesh Railways   Andhra Pradesh Railways Guntur Hyderabad Kurnool Anantpur Krishna Rangareddi Karimnagar Cuddapah                    more.. आंध्र प्रदेश का नक्शा About Andhra Pradesh History Geography Climate Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map River Map Road Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Cities Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Andhra Pradesh Places to visit in Andhra Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels         more... How to reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Andhra Pradesh       Andhra Pradesh Railway Map Railway Network Map of Andhra Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing entire Railway network of Andhra Pradesh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Andhra Pradesh Railway Andhra Pradesh is situated to the south of India and is a major state that holds a strong position in the country due to various reasons like tourism, mineral wealth, Biotechnology, Pharmaceuticals, Information Technology and real estate. The capital city is Hyderabad. Information about Andhra Pradesh Railway Andhra Pradesh comprises of 23 districts that are well connected by rails that run all across the state. Maps of Andhra Pradesh will show the various stations, routes and various places of importance accurately and will be helpful in guiding the visitors to their destination. Due to its significance in the IT sector and its industrialization, the government has taken major steps in improving the infrastructure of the state that includes the railways. People here come for various reasons and it is a major pilgrimage destination, people from all over the country and abroad flock to the state to pay their homage to Lord Tirupati. There are various trains that reach the city from all over the country. Railways and its Importance Andhra Pradesh has an extensive line of railways to cover the whole state that is large. The state is surrounded by various other states like Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala. Trains also leave for other states so that people from outside Andhra Pradesh can visit the state. The state today boasts of progress in all aspects and railways have played a significant part in developing the industrial and the tourism in the state. The government has taken care and is also planning to have more efficient and quick railway systems to cater to the needs of the people. Facts of Andhra Pradesh Railways Andhra Pradesh has a railway network that runs on 5,046 kms and has an extensive line of network all over the state. It has the world's highest broad gauge rail track comprising of the eastern ghats route that run from Visakhapatnam to Anantagiri and is supposed to be one of the highest broad gauge tracks found in the world. The state boasts of 182 railway stations in the state and also many railway junctions as well. Some of the major railway stations are Adilbad, Adoni, Anakapalle, Anantpur, Bapatta, Basar, Bhadrachalam raod, Bhimavaram junction, Bhimavarm town, Chirala, Chittor, Cuddapah, Dhramavaram junction, Eluru, Gooty, Gudivada junction, Gudur Junction, Guntakal Junction, Hyderabad Deccan, Kazipet junction, Nalgonda and Nandyal. There are many other railway stations that help people travel from one place another in a convenient manner. The state has south central railways and its head quarters are situated at Secunderabad. There are in all three railway zones like the southern railways, S.C.R and the southeastern railways. Vijayawada railway junction is the biggest junction found in Andhra Pradesh and connects the north and the south Indian rail routes. Railways are one of the important factors of any state to help boost the economy of the state. government take care to improve the existing railways and connect them to various places and also construct new rail routes to connect new destinations and even in the remotest places as well. Last Updated on : 25 March 2013 Andhra Pradesh Map Location Map Elevation Map Outline Map Physical Map District Map Railway Map Road Map Latitude Longitude Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel Map Proposed Andhra Pradesh Map Sriharikota Location map Andhra Pradesh About Climate History Geography Languages Population Districts Factsheet Distance Chart Pin code STD code             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule