India — AgriCultures Network Home About us What we do Magazines Resources News Get involved Search Site only in current section Personal tools Log in Personal tools Log in Recently visited Subscribe to LEISA India Published by You are here: Home › Magazines › India Info India LEISA India Low External Input and Sustainable Agriculture (LEISA) is about the technical and social options open to farmers who seek to improve productivity and income in an ecologically sound way. ILEIA, The Netherlands and its Indian partner organisation, AME Foundation, Bangalore, document and publish experiences on Low External Input Sustainable Agriculture through LEISA India. Starting as a supplement to the global AgriCultural Network magazine, LEISA India emerged as an independent Indian edition from 1999 onwards. Language of the magazine: English, as well as seven local language editions (in the following languages: Kannada, Tamil, Hindi, Telugu, Oriya, Marathi and Punjabi). Latest issues Filter by topic Please wait... Crops Farming systems Global challenges Knowledge and learning Livestock Market and finances Partnerships Rights and resources Soil and water Soils for life Published: Mar 16, 2015 More than 90% of the planet’s genetic biodiversity is found in soils. A gram of soil can contain as many as 10,000 different species. The various micro organisms in the soil are capable of fixing nitrogen from the atmosphere, make other nutrients accessible to the plants and also improve the physical structure of the soil. However, with agriculture becoming commercialized, farmers have shifted to high chemical agriculture, depriving soils of organic matter on which the soil life thrives. View online Download PDF Family farming and nutrition Published: Dec 20, 2014 Good nutritional status is an important indicator of development. Despite an apparent surplus of food grains at the national level, and several efforts being made through favourable public policies, malnutrition persists. View online Download PDF Family farmers and sustainable landscapes Published: Sep 21, 2014 In this issue of LEISA India we have included initiatives of family farmers, pastoralists and forest communities in shaping resilient and living landscapes. View online Download PDF Family farmers breaking out of poverty Published: Jun 20, 2014 Poverty is not just about a lack of money. Poverty is also about people’s capability to deal with situations of shock or stress – whether social, economic, political or physical. View online Download PDF Cultivating farm biodiversity Published: Mar 22, 2014 This issue of LEISA India is about biodiversity: a nation’s heritage, an opportunity and a solution to deal with threatened livelihoods and ecologies. Biodiversity is a reliable adaptive strategy as well as a mitigating strategy. Family farmers are custodians of biodiversity and articles in this issue highlight how farming and biodiversity go hand in hand. View online Download PDF Family Farming: A way of life Published: Dec 25, 2013 Out of the 2.5 billion people in poor countries living directly from the food and agriculture sector, 1.5 billion people live in smallholder households, of which many are extremely poor, according to FAO. Smallholders, practicing agro-ecological approaches promote sustainable farming systems, using mainly family labour for production and using part of the produce for family consumption. View online Download PDF Education For Change Published: Sep 22, 2013 Small-scale farmers who are already grappling with a number of challenges like low yields, natural resources degradation, uneconomic holdings, lack of access to resources etc., are unable to cope with the changes in the external environment, which are happening at an alarming rate. There is an urgent need to educate, motivate and encourage small farmers in adapting quickly to these changing circumstances. View online Download PDF Farmers and Markets Published: Jun 14, 2013 Small scale farmers have traditionally been growing local foods on a subsistence level. The advent of new technologies led to increased production and the surpluses were being marketed primarily in the local markets. But the opening-up of the economy to global players and changing consumer food demands has had disastrous effects - agriculture became more market oriented, farmers lost control over their food systems to big agri-businesses and local foods got replaced by globally tradable commodities. View online Download PDF SRI: A scaling up success Published: Mar 18, 2013 System of Rice Intensification, popularly known as SRI, is described in various ways – as a knowledge intensive alternative, an innovation, an approach etc. SRI is being accepted by large number of farmers...who are not only realising the benefits but also sharing their learning’s with others. View online Download PDF Combating Desertification Published: Dec 20, 2012 Land degradation is not just the result of natural disasters. It is also the outcome of long-term over exploitation of natural resources and ecosystems, generated by the dominating approach to agricultural development. To address these problems, we cannot pursue the same ways of thinking that have led to this situation. We need to take a different perspective – which is already presenting itself. View online Download PDF Farmer Organisations Published: Sep 15, 2012 This issue of LEISA India, brought together experiences of small farmers, individuals and institutions who are empowering farmers by organising them and fostering unity. View online Download PDF Greening the economy Published: Jun 10, 2012 Through this issue, we have brought together experiences of small farmers, individuals and institutions who are working towards making this planet green and safe. We appreciate and recognize the efforts of all those small farmers who are making the shift to ecologically sound agriculture. View online Download PDF Insects as Allies Published: Mar 20, 2012 This issue of LEISA India primarily looks at the role of insects in sustainable agriculture. View online Download PDF Securing Land Rights Published: Dec 15, 2011 The demand for food is rising. The land resource for food production is increasingly diminishing. Landlessness and land fragmentation are growing worldwide. Land is increasingly being perceived as a commodity. It is rigorously being exploited to generate immediate, short-term gains, at the expense of a long-term impacts on the land resource and the environment. View online Download PDF Regional food systems Published: Sep 25, 2011 It’s time to rethink, reeducate, and regrow our food system, which is healthy and sustainable. There are a number of practical solutions already available. In this issue, we have made an attempt to present some of them through field experiences where local communities have built a sustainable local systems of food production and consumption. View online Download PDF Trees and farming Published: Jun 15, 2011 This issue of LEISA India present experiences where farmers have integrated and practiced tree based farming, reaping rich benefits, individually and for the community as well. View online Download PDF Youth in farming Published: Mar 10, 2011 In this issue we share some experiences which highlight how youth remaining in rural areas build on what they have and know, be recognized and respected. Also, how the youth are getting interested in not only farming but also interested in serving rural communities. The experiences also illustrate that they need not radically learn new skills, creating a ‘disconnect’, but if guided and motivated, could also tone up their leadership and entrepreneurial skills. View online Download PDF 3-Managing water for sustainable farming Published: Sep 01, 2010 The role of water in serving diverse needs, such as drinking water, agriculture, cleaning and washing is well known. Traditionally too, in some cultures, water has been associated with divinity. View online Download PDF Finance for farming Published: Jun 02, 2010 India’s rural poor are overwhelmingly dependent on agriculture as their primary source of income; the majority are marginal or small farmers, and the poorest households are landless. Credit is not the only financial service needed by small holders. View online Livestock for sustainable livelihoods Published: Mar 14, 2010 Millions of poor people in the drylands of western India, the Deccan Plateau, and in the mountainous reaches of the Himalayas, depend only on livestock for their livelihoods. Keeping livestock is traditional and closely linked to rural culture, indicative of the fact that rural families have always realised the importance of livestock. These pastoralists depend heavily on the natural resources like forests and common lands for rearing their livestock. View online Sustaining gains and scaling up Published: Dec 14, 2009 Scaling up is perceived as a natural and almost organic process. If things are done well, people – whether beneficiaries or interested outsiders will take it up on a wider scale. Change leaders too, typically opt for wider rather than narrower impact. Donors too, while making investment decisions, fund initiatives in which they feel there is potential for success or long term utility. View online 3-Women and food sovereignty Published: Sep 12, 2009 Women continue to play a major role in providing the food security to households. Their role in agriculture has become all the more important as farming is increasingly becoming a responsibility of women to feed their households. Farming is once again in the hands of women, though not with recognition and respect to them, but as the only means of survival for the households. View online 2-Farmers as entrepreneurs Published: Jun 12, 2009 Farmers have used a variety of ways to develop alternative income earning opportunities. Such incomes may have some link to agriculture, such as the marketing or processing of agricultural products or could be outside the realm of agriculture, e.g. products of hand