Madhya Pradesh Languages Home » Madhya Pradesh » Quick Facts » Languages   Quick Facts of Madhya Pradesh Population Languages Chief Minister मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Languages spoken in Madhya Pradesh Since Madhya Pradesh is frequently designated as the 'Heart of India', it is quite obvious that the prevailing regional dialect among all the languages in Madhya Pradesh happens to be Hindi. It is predominantly spoken by the inhabitants who reside in the northern and central realm of India. As a matter of fact, Hindi also cherishes the status of being one of the official languages that is employed by the Union Government of India. The Devanagiri script in concert with the Perso-Arabic script primarily serves a the writing medium for Hindi. Apart from India Hindi is also spoken in Pakistan, Nepal and Fiji. Some useful quotes in Hindi are:- 'Namaste'- Hello 'Shukriya' or 'Dhanyabad'- Thank you 'Khana'- Food 'Ghar'- House 'Raasta'- Road Among other languages in Madhya Pradesh, Urdu is predominantly spoken in the capital city of Bhopal , Kurwai and Buhranpur. Urdu is chiefly spoken in those sections of Madhya Pradesh that are mainly dominated by communities belonging to the Muslim religion. It uses the assistance of the Nasta'liq scripts in writing. Among other languages in Madhya Pradesh an unique blend of the Hindi and the Urdu is also used by the inhabitants as a verbal means of communication. It is an extremely polite dialect that quite often uses words like 'Aap' and 'Janab' to greet people. Although Hindi is the mother tongue of the residents of Madhya Pradesh but some variations and modifications of the language is made by certain communities to make it even more amiable to the ears. Some of these deviations are :- Malvi spoken in Malwa Nimadi spoken in Nimar Bundeli in Bundelkhand Bagheli along with Avadhi that is predominant in Bagelkhand Among other languages in Madhya Pradesh, Gondi, Katlo, Bhili are all primarily spoken by tribal masses. Marathi is also regarded as a prominent dialect remotely spoken in Madhya Pradesh. Last Updated on : 14 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule