Renewable Energy Trade Show,Nuclear Power Industry Exhibition,Energy & Power Trade Events JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Energy & Power Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Energy & PowerTrade Shows Date : 16 Sep - 19 Sep 2015 Electronic Indonesia Series -  Indonesia Electric Indonesia Series of Power Generation, Electronics and Electrical Equipment Exhibitions. The events is visited by key decision-makers keen to discover the latest in electrical accessories, switchgear, lighting and smart building.... Venue : Jakarta International Expo (JIExpo) ,Jakarta Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Sep - 16 Sep 2016 Elenex Vietnam -  Viet Nam Electric & Power Vietnam, Vietnam’s Leading Power & Energy Solutions Event will return to Saigon Exhibition & Convention Center (SECC) on 14-16 September 2016 in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. Venue : Saigon Exhibition & Convention Center ,Ho chi Minh City Viet Nam Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Mar - 10 Mar 2016 Geo-Bahrain -  Bahrain Geo-Bahrain 2016 is the largest and most prestigious jewellery exhibition in the middle east, showcasing world famous names and artisan designs from across the globe. it has provided international jewellery houses with unrivalled direct access to.... Venue : Bahrain International Exhibition Centre ,Block 410 Bahrain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Jun - 04 Jun 2015 Oil & Gas Asia -  Malaysia The 15th Asian Oil, Gas & Petrochemical Engineering Exhibition will be held from 2 - 4 June, 2015 at the Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre. The OGA series, The Region's No 1 Oil and Gas Event is the biggest and most comprehensive event in.... Venue : Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre (KLCC) ,Kuala Lumpur Malaysia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Sep - 19 Sep 2015 Electric Power & Renewable Energy Indonesia -  Indonesia Renewable Energy Indonesia is an international event for renewable energies and their applications. The exhibition encourages this promising new market offering operational and reliable alternatives for the housing, service sector and individual.... Venue : Jakarta International Expo (JIExpo) ,Jakarta Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Oct - 30 Oct 2015 Gastech 2015 -  Singapore Gastech 2015 is the leading conference and exhibition for the Natural Gas, LNG and LPG Industries; where business leaders from across the gas supply chain gather to discuss the latest trends and developments affecting the commercial and technical.... Venue : Singapore Expo Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 Mar - 15 Mar 2016 Shk Essen -  Germany Shk Essen Trade Fair for Sanitary Installation, Heating, Air Conditioning and Regenerative Energies. The focus will be on current bathroom trends and highlights of the major sanitary installation brands, technologies for modern living space.... Venue : Messe Essen Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Jun - 12 Jun 2015 Intersolar Europe -  Germany Intersolar is the world´s largest solar technology trade fair and the annual meeting place for everyone in the international solar Industry. Intersolar focuses on the Photovoltaic, Solar Thermal and Solar Architecture branches. Venue : New Munich Trade Fair Centre ,München Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Oct - 15 Oct 2015 Deep Offshore Technology -  United States Deep Offshore Technology (DOT 2015) is recognized as the leading forum addressing technical issues related to exploration, development, and production of oil and gas in deep and ultra deep water basins around.... Venue : The Woodlands Waterway Marriott Hotel & Convention Center ,TX United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Nov - 05 Nov 2015 DEEPWATER OPERATIONS -  United States The Deepwater Operations Conference and Exhibition is celebrating its 13th anniversary. This growing event continues the tradition of excellence in addressing operational challenges in developing deepwater resources. Coming off of record-breaking.... Venue : Moody Gardens Convention Center ,Galveston United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Oct - 06 Oct 2015 Power-Gen Middle East -  United Arab Emirates POWER-GEN Middle East is the region’s leading event dedicated to the power and water industries. Venue : Abu Dhabi National Exhibitions Company ,Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Dec - 11 Dec 2015 Mda India -  India World of Industry INDIA 2015, will be demonstrating complete range of products and services, from Hydraulics and Pneumatics to Electro-Mechanical Transmission, automation components to process and factory automation systems, materials handling.... Venue : PRAGATI MAIDAN ,Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Nov - 29 Nov 2015 Light India International -  India Light India International  is covering a double digit growth in the last three years.Lighting industry is focused for rapid development,with the increased investments in the Infrastructural sectors. The lighting industry in.... Venue : Milan Mela Complex ,Kolkata ,West Bengal India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Sep - 03 Sep 2015 Power- Gen Asia -  Thailand POWER-GEN Asia, as part of ASEAN Power Week, is the leading force in delivering a platform for the power industry to meet, share information on the challenges facing the power industry and discuss solutions for advancing Asia’s energy.... Venue : Impact Exhibition & Convention Center ,Nonthaburi Thailand Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Oct - 16 Oct 2015 EP Shanghai -  China EP Shanghai 20015 - International Exhibition on Electric Power Equipment & Technology - is the only electric power event. It is the only Power exhibition in China endorsed as an UFI approved event. Venue : Shanghai International Convention Center (SICEC) China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Mar - 24 Mar 2016 Offshore West Africa -  Nigeria Offshore West Africa, presented by Offshore Magazine and supported by Oil & Gas Journal, is the only conference and exhibition dedicated to the offshore oil & gas industry in the region, and will host its 20th anniversary edition will.... Venue : The Eko Hotel & Suites ,Lagos Nigeria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 11 Jun 2015 Global Petrochemicals -  Germany The Global Map Of The Petrochemical Industry Is As Never Seen Before. European Petrochemical Producers Have Been Enjoying A Peak Of Profitability, Driven By Strong Demand, Tight Supply And Pricing Power, Backed By The Surge In The Oil Price. Venue : Coming soon ,Coming soon Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Oct - 09 Oct 2015 ROS-GAZ-EXPO -  Russian Federation "Ros-Gaz-Expo" exhibition together with leading equipment manufacturers and distribution companies has been demonstrating the newest scientific and technical developments in the field of equipment and technologies, supporting innovative approaches,.... Venue : CEC EXPOFORUM ,Saint Petersburg Russian Federation Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Jan - 31 Jan 2016 Bauen & Energie Wien-Austria -  Austria International Fair for Healthy and Ecological Building, Modernization, Financing and Energy Saving. Venue : Messezentrum Wien (Vienna Exhibition Centre) ,Vienna Austria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Jul - 28 Jul 2016 QME-Queensland Mining & Engineering Exhibition-Australia -  Australia QME-Queensland Mining & Engineering Exhibition-Australia is the largest regional event in the heart of the coal mining area, exhibiting products and services for the mining mineral processing, power generation, sugar processing and metal.... Venue : Mackay Showgrounds ,Mackay Australia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Mar - 05 Mar 2016 International Power Transmission Expo -  India International Power Transmission Expo (IPTEX 2016) will be marketed through broad and sound marketing and communication techniques. Our communication and publicity strategy will ensure relevant and serious business visitors from across the globe..... Venue : Bombay Exhibition Centre ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Sep - 11 Sep 2015 World LNG Series: Asia Pacific Summit-Singapore -  Singapore World LNG Series: Asia Pacific Summit-Singapore 2010 show is following the success of Next generation lng which is providing the Unique networking opportunities for the related professionals. Venue : Shangri-La Hotel ,Singapore Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 01 Dec - 04 Dec 2015 World Lng Summit-Spain -  Spain The CWC World LNG Summit and Awards Gala Dinner is fully recognised as the premier gathering of senior, commercially-minded LNG executives in the world. Venue : Hotel Arts Barcelona ,Barcelona Spain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Nov - 19 Nov 2015 Energy Harvesting & Storage USA -  United States Energy Harvesting & Storage usa 2015 show is International conference and exhibition for the assessing the applications, technologies and opportunities and this event, focusing on the uses, potential users and market forecasts as well as.... Venue : Santa Clara Convention Center ,Santa Clara United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Sep - 25 Sep 2015 FEBRAVA 2015 -  Brazil 19th International Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, Ventilation, Heating and Air Treatment Fair.  Febrava-Brazil 2015 will be the largest generator of business and information, the fair will offer tools to expand.... Venue : Imigrantes Convention Center ,SP Brazil