mKisan:About KCC Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access हिंदी में Follow us on Twitter USSD About USSD USSD Application Register for USSD Pull SMS About Pull SMS Structure & Codes IVRS About IVRS IVRS Dashboard Agent Rating Call Response Push SMS About Push SMS Search SMS Database Ksewa About KSEWA Register for KSEWA Login for KSEWA List of Services KCC About KCC KCC Locations Features of KCC KCC Nodal Officers Query Escalation Process Implementation of Escalation Process Involvement of States KCC Dashboard Buyer Seller About Buyer Seller Platform Buyers Login New Buyer Registration Mobile Apps About Mobile Apps Downloads Reach Us Queries on Portal Feedback/Grievance You are here : Home > About KCC Search About mKisan Dashboard Registration for SMS Accolades RSS Twitter About KCC In order to harness the potential of ICT in Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture launched the scheme "Kisan Call Centres (KCCs)" on January 21, 2004. Main aim of the project is to answer farmers' queries on a telephone call in their own dialect. These call Centres are working in 14 different locations covering all the States and UTs. A countrywide common eleven digit Toll Free number 1800-180-1551 has been allotted for Kisan Call Centre. This number is accessible through mobile phones and landlines of all telecom networks including private service providers. Replies to the farmers' queries are given in 22 local languages. Call center services are available from 6.00 am to 10.00 pm on all seven days of the week at each KCC location. Kisan Call Centre agents known as Farm Tele Advisor(FTAs), are graduates or above (i.e. PG or Doctorate) in Agriculture or allied (Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries, Poultry, Bee-keeping, Sericulture, Aquaculture, Agricultural Engineering, Agricultural Marketing, Bio-technology, Home Science etc. and possess excellent communication skills in respective local language. Queries which cannot be answered by Farm Tele Advisor(FTAs) are transferred to higher level experts in a call conferencing mode. These experts are subject matter specialists of State Agriculture Departments, ICAR and State Agricultural Universities. A Kisan Knowledge Management System (KKMS) to facilitate correct, consistent and quick replies to the queries of farmers and capture all the details of their calls, has been developed . Kisan Knowledge Management System (KKMS) has its independent web site http://dackkms.gov.in . The Kisan Call Centre (KCC) Agents working at various KCC locations throughout the country have access to this web site through their specific ID's & Pass-Word provided to them. Home About Us Help RTI Terms and Conditions Copyright Policy Hyperlinking Policy Privacy Policy Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation,Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India Page Last Updated on : 10 October, 2014