Best and the Top 10 Laptop Brands in India Business Plans Format BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Advertising Agency Travel Agency Restaurant India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Multinational Company Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Medical Agriculture Business Leaders Dhirubhai Ambani Azim Premji Mukesh Ambani Anil Ambani Anand Mahindra Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Mergers Acquisitions Refinance Top 10 Financial Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India SBI Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank HDFC Bank Vijaya Bank Allahabad Bank UCO Bank Top Brands in India Red Wine Shoe Vodka Beer Headphones Handbags Chocolate Rum Laptop Cosmetic Bag Watch B-Schools Top B Schools in India Online Business School IIM website IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi IIPM Pune S.P. Jain institute Top-Brands-India         Educational Food Products Kitchen Appliances Life Insurance Mutual Fund Consumer Durables DTH Laptop Retail Matress Brands AC Brands Beer Brands Bi Cycle Brands Biscuit Brands Desktop Computer Brands Basmati Rice Brands Namkeen Brands Shampoo Brands Tea Brands Baby Food Brands Jewelry Brands Perfume Brands Apparel Brands Chocolate Brands Digital Camera Brands Lipstick Brands hotel Brands Shirt Brands Men Clothing Brands Milk Brands Newspaper Brands Restaurant Chain Brands Car Brands Coffee Brands ice Cream Brands Mobile Brands Detergent Brands Face Wash Brands Baby Toy Brands Skin Care Cream Brands Soap Brands Tooth Paste Brands Bathroom Fittings Brands Washing Machine Brands Watch Brands Microwave Oven Brands Shoe Brands TV Brands Ketchup Brands Motor Bike Brands Soft Drink Brands Noodle Brands Scooty Brands Shaving Cream Brands Top Online Retailers You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Top-brands-India » Top Laptop Brands in India Top Laptop Brands in India Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  27  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 There was a time when personal computers, or rather laptops, were considered far from a common man's reach in India; however, over the past five to six years, PCs and laptops have become as common as TVs in India. Unlike TV sets or desktops, laptops give its owner and operator a much needed company. Laptops are loaded with a number of helpful features and look beautiful too. In the recent years, the laptop segment of computers has surpassed the desktop sales. However, the sales of personal computer, including laptops, have dropped unexpectedly in the calendar year of 2014. According to the market research done by International Data Corporation (IDC), a dip in sales up to 16.5 percent was registered as far as the sales of personal computers in India are concerned. Around 9.6 million personal computers were sold in India during 2014. The revenue generated through personal computers’ sales saw a negative growth of -0.4 percent as compared to that of 2013. Big corporate houses and business entities bought only 4.7 million units at a staggering -29.6 percent growth rate and government and state education establishment showed little interest in buying computers. This is being seen as a result of revolutionary growth in demand of smartphones and tablets in the recent times. Current Scenario of Laptop Industry in India Although there has been a considerable drop in the sales of personal computers to non-consumer establishments, positive growth of 1.7 percent was recorded in personal computer sales with 4.9 million units being sold to consumers in 2014. There is still a healthy competition in the laptop market in India, with a number of brands floating everywhere to win over the consumers. HP, Dell, Lenovo, Apple and Samsung are some of the best, most popular and most widely sold brands in India. List of Top (Leading) Brands in India Hewlett-Packard (HP) HP has the highest numbers of buyers when it comes to the laptop segment in India. Hewlett-Packard (HP) is a multinational IT company based in California, U.S.A. that was founded in 1939. HP brings laptops with the latest technology and offers great features right from the outset. This has actually helped the company spread its wings across the world. HP is operational in over 150 countries with India being one of its biggest markets. HP Pavilion Notebook is the best-selling variant of HP laptops. HP accounted for around 25.6 percent of the total laptop sales in India during 2014. Here are some of the HP variants widely sold: HP Pavilion dv2z HP Pavilion dv7 HP Pavilion dv9700t HP Pavilion TX1000 HP Pavilion x360 HP 520 Notebook HP Envy Dell Dell is famous for its style, performance and features and hence has achieved celebratory status among PC users. Founded in 1984, Dell is also a U.S. multinational IT major. Dell’s headquarters is situated in Round Rock in Texas. Currently, the 31-year-old company Dell operates in 70 countries worldwide. Dell Inspiron is the most widely sold variant of Dell, constituting the biggest share of Dell computers’ sales in India. In 2014, Dell had around 22.10 percent of the market share in India. Some of the Dell variants are as follows: Dell Inspiron Dell Vostro Dell Ultrabook Dell XPS Apple Apple is certainly one of the best and most popular brands in the world. In India, it is best recognised for its hardware consumer products. Personal computers, sold as MacBook, are Apple's flagship segment. Performance, features, elegance and technology aptly define an Apple computer. Apple or Apple Inc. was established by Steve Jobs in 1976 and has its headquarters in Cupertino, California, U.S.A. Apple has an enviable presence in world's 90 countries. Some of the Apple laptop/computers variants are as follows: Apple MacBook Apple MacBook Air Apple MacBook Pro Apple Mac Mini Apple iMac Apple Mac Pro Vaio Vaio was, till February 2014, a subsidiary of the Japanese multinational major Sony. The original owner of Vaio, Sony, sold its 95 percent stakes to a Japanese investment company Japan Industrial Partners in 2014. Vaio came into existence in 1996. Here are some of its models: Vaio Flip Series Vaio Ultra Book P13/11 Vaio Sonic F15 Vaio F15A/14A Vaio F14 Lenovo Founded in 1984, Lenovo is a Chinese tech stalwart. Lenovo is developing, manufacturing and selling a wide range of laptops in more than 60 countries across the globe. The Y series of Lenovo laptops is specifically made for gamers and provides a lifelike gaming experience. The Lenovo Y series laptops share a big pie in the Indian gaming laptop market. Some of the most preferred Lenovo laptops are as follows: Lenovo Y Series Lenovo Yoga Series Lenovo Z Series Lenovo Flex Series Lenovo S Series Lenovo G Series Lenovo ThinkPad W Series Lenovo ThinkPad Edge Series Samsung Samsung is one of the world's biggest companies dealing in consumer electronics. Although smartphones are its flagship segment, Samsung has been able to make quite a mark in the laptop segment as well. The South Korean tech giant Samsung was founded in 1969 but started manufacturing consumer electronics in 1988. Samsung's headquarters is situated in Suwon, South Korea. Some of the famous Samsung laptops are as follows: Samsung Galaxy Note Series Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 Samsung Galaxy Note 8.0 Samsung Galaxy Note Pro Samsung N130 Samsung NC10 Asus Asus offers high-class laptops with great features, technology and performance at affordable prices. Asus is a Taiwanese multinational company that was founded in 1989 and is headquartered at Taipei, Taiwan. In a span of two and a half decades, Asus has achieved quite a reckoning space in the world electronic market. Some of the Asus models are mentioned below: Asus VivoBook S200E Asus X551CA Asus N55L Asus ROG G750JX Acer Acer is another Taiwanese consumer electronics player that has achieved a substantial ground in the world market today. It was founded in 1976 but entered the Indian market only in the late 1990s. Acer Inc. is headquartered in New Taipei, Taiwan. Acer enjoys healthy and competitive space in the Indian laptop market. Strong and long battery backup, quality sound and nice thin screen display make Acer laptops one of the most sought-after gadgets. Some of the best known Acer laptops are mentioned below: Acer Aspire E Acre Aspire S Acer Aspire R Acer Aspire Chromebook Toshiba Toshiba is another Japanese tech major that is involved in manufacturing user-friendly consumer electronics including high performance laptops. Toshiba was founded in 1939 and has its headquarters in Minato, Tokyo, Japan. Laptops made by Toshiba thrive on good battery life, advanced technology, good features and high performance. Some of the better-known Toshiba laptops are as follows: Toshiba Satellite Toshiba Satellite UHD 4K Toshiba Satellite Pro Toshiba Portege Toshiba Tecra Alienware Alienware, a product of Dell, is the most preferred laptop brand when it comes to gaming. Best hardware, latest technology and high-class features are offered by Alienware but at high prices. Alienware specifically caters to the gamers segment of the laptop users, thus it delivers in accordance to the expectations of the customers' demanding superb gaming experience. Other Laptop Brands Available in India HCL Compaq Fujitsu Wipro Microsoft MSI Intel LG Last Updated on May 25, 2015 More Products New Product Launches New Insurance Product Petrochemical Products Leading dairy Product About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED