Skip to Main Content | Screen Reader Access | | हिंदी में USSD About USSD USSD Application Register for USSD Pull SMS About Pull SMS Structure & Codes IVRS About IVRS Push SMS About Push SMS Search SMS Database Ksewa About KSEWA Register for KSEWA List of Services Mobile Apps About Mobile Apps Downloads Reach Us Queries on Portal Feedback/Grievance You are here : Home > About mKisan Dashboard Registration for SMS Testimonials Contact Us RSS Downloads Mobile Application Agriculture MKisan Application This app has been designed and developed by inhouse IT team of DAC with the help of C-DAC Pune. It enables farmers and all other stakeholders to obtain advisories and information being sent by experts and government officials at different levels through mkisan portal without registering on the portal. Download App Seed Availability This Android based App is for entering seed availability data by seed dealers and producers at all levels.Selection of crop varities and linkege of dealers with their producers are some of the main features of this app. Download App Agriportal With this app agriculture traders and farmers in India can get latest pricing information on palm of their hands free of cost. Also, farmers are able to get precise agriculture related weather information in India. The agriculture news will keep all stakeholders updated on current market dynamics. Presently the application is available in Hindi, Gujarati and English languages. It will also be available in Telegu, Tamil and Bengali in coming months. You need to update the app for latest version and functionality. Download App Shetkari Masik Android App “Shetkari Masik” is one of the most popular monthly magazines in the Agriculture sector, under publication since 1965. It is published by Department of Agriculture, Maharashtra. The Android app for Shetkari magazine has a very simple interface and requires mobile internet or Wi-Fi connectivity to register and download the issues. Once downloaded, the magazine can be read without internet connectivity. Download the User Manual Download App Farm-o-pedia Developed by CDAC, Mumbai. The application is a multilingual Android application targeted for rural Gujarat. The app is useful for farmers or anyone related to agriculture. It is available in English and Gujarati languages. The main functionalities of the app are: Get suitable crops as per soil and season Get crop wise information Check weather in your area Manage your cattle Download App Horticulture Sikkim Horticulture And CashCrop Assistance This app is used for submitting online application for obtaining Departmental assistance by farmers of Sikkim. Download App Animal Husbandry Sikkim Allotment Of Breeding Bull This app is used for making request for allotment of breeding bull under Animal Husbandry department of government of Sikkim. Download App Application for Poultry Developed by CDAC, Mumbai. The Animal Husbandry Department of Himachal Pradesh has introduced Backyard Poultry Scheme under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme, where low input technology birds of colored strain but disease resistant type are supplied to the farmers of the state. With the help of this app, an applicant who wants to obtain assistance under Poultry Chick and Backyard Poultry Schemes of Govt. of Himachal Pradesh can apply online. Download App Other Usefull Apps for Farmers Digital Mandi India This App helps in checking the latest Indian agricultural commodities Mandi prices from different states and districts. Easy to use and intuitive, the app enables farmers, traders and all others to know the updated Mandi price from anywhere. Its main features are: Browse through various commodity categories Browse prices in different states Simplified flow to reach the selected commodity's mandi price Copy the mandi price of a commodity Sync data from the Indian government portal Agmarknet.nic.in Download App MNCFC This Android based application, developed by National Remote Sensing Centre, ISRO, is useful for field data collection for crop assessment using satellite data under FASAL project of Ministry of Agriculture. The application can be used for collecting Field Photographs (640x480 resolution), GPS coordinates and Field information, such as crop type, condition, sowing date, soil type, etc.The farmers can also upload pictures taken through their mobile devices depicting status of the crops, varieties and soil as crowd sourcing. This information will be extermely useful in creating a national geospatial database of crops. The information can be sent in real-time, or later on using the Send Later option. All data received though this application reaches at ISRO’s Bhuvan Server. Download App Karnataka Bhoomi Bhoomi (meaning land) is the project of on-line delivery and management of land records in Karnataka.Framers of Karnataka know the status of their application through this app. Download App HP Soil Testing This app has been developed by C-DAC Mumbai for agriculture department of Himachal Pradesh. With the help of this app farmers can submit soil health samples of their land to the concerned soil health testing lab of their district / Block. Download App Intelligent Advisory System for Farmers Developed by CDAC, Mumbai. Farmers can get different farming season details, month based atmospheric and ideal conditions for variety of crops. Download App Crop Info Developed by Nirantara Livelihood Resources Private Limited, Bangalore, Karnataka. The Crop Info App provides Production Technology of commercially important Horticultural & Agricultural crops on your smartphone. It provides production aspects, post-harvest technology, processing possibilities and market information. Crop Info is an App specifically developed for students & faculty of Agricultural & Horticultural Universities, Subject Matter Specialists & Extension Officials of Agriculture & Horticultural Departments, Private Sector Professionals, Farmers and anyone interested in cultivation of crops. Download App Home About Us Help RTI Terms and Conditions Copyright Policy Hyperlinking Policy Privacy Policy Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation,Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India