 IMF Data ﻿ عربي 中文 Français 日本語 Русский Español ﻿ Home About the IMF Research Global Analysis Researchers at the IMF Data Visualization Staff Discussion Notes Latest Working Papers Research Bulletin Economic Review iMFdirect Blog Commodity Prices Countries IMF reports and publications by country. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V Y Z News All News IMF Survey Magazine Communiqués Mission Concluding Statements Press Releases Speeches Statements at Donor Meetings Transcripts Views & Commentaries See Also: iMFdirect Blog Article IV Consultations Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) Seminars, Conferences, & Other Events For Journalists Press Center The IMF Press Center is a password-protected site for working journalists. Login or Register Information of interest Videos Data IMF Finances Additional Data Sources World Economic Outlook Databases IMF eLibrary-Data International Financial Statistics Principal Global Indicators Public Sector Debt Statistics Online Centralized Database Currency Composition of Official Foreign Exchange Reserves Financial Access Survey Publications IMF eLibrary IMF Bookstore Documents & Publications Policy Papers Staff Discussion Notes World Economic Outlook Global Financial Stability Report Fiscal Monitor Regional Economic Reports IMF Annual Report Finance & Development   Advanced search Social Media Hub What's New BIS, ECB and IMF jointly released the Handbook on Securities Statistics on May 12, 2015. The Handbook is the first publication of its kind dealing exclusively with the conceptual framework for the compilation and presentation of securities statistics. Go to Free Data Portal Popular Data World Economic Outlook    April 2015 New Global Financial Stability Report  April 2015 New Fiscal Monitor   April 2015 New IMF Data Mapper ® IMF Finances SDRs per Currency Unit CONNECT VIA SDR Rates for May 28 SDR Interest Rate = 0.050% | 1 USD = SDR 0.719628 MORE IMF Data Mapper® 3.0 NEW Data and Features: World Economic Outlook Fiscal Monitor Africa Outlook Plot, compare, and import data from countries and regions. Start mapping Additional Data Sources European Central Bank Eurostat Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD United Nations The World Bank Bank for International Settlements Email notification sign-up Sign up to receive free e-mail notices when new series and/or country items are posted on the IMF website. Modify your profile Note On this site, the term "country" does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice. As used here, the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states. Dependent territories of member countries are listed alphabetically followed by a description of the constitutional relationships with their member countries. Data Last Updated: May 27, 2015 The IMF publishes a range of time series data on IMF lending, exchange rates and other economic and financial indicators. Manuals, guides, and other material on statistical practices at the IMF, in member countries, and of the statistical community at large are also available. Data Standards & Codes Manuals & Guides Meetings & related statistical material global data IMF financial data exchange rate data Global Data Expand All Collapse All World Economic Outlook Databases (WEO) updated Download time series data for GDP growth, inflation, unemployment, payments balances, exports, imports, external debt, capital flows, commodity prices. More International Financial Statistics (IFS) Download time series data for GDP growth, inflation, unemployment, payments balances, exports, imports, external debt, capital flows, commodity prices. More IMF eLibrary Data Provides comprehensive access to IFS, BOPS, DOTS, GFS and free access to a range of additional IMF datasets. eLibrary Data New Data Portal Principal Global Indicators (PGI) A website that brings together data for the major economies available from international agencies covering the financial, governmental, external, and real sectors, and provides links to data in web sites of international and national agencies. More Global Housing Watch New A website that tracks developments in housing markets around the world. It provides current data on house prices as well as metrics used to assess valuation in housing markets, such as house price-to-rent and house price-to-income ratios. More Balance of Payments Statistics (BOPS) The BOPS yearbook includes annual aggregate and detailed time series for balance of payments and international investment position for countries; provides world and regional tables of balance of payments components and aggregates; and descriptions of methodologies, compilation practices and data sources used by individual countries. More Coordinated Direct Investment Survey (CDIS) updated The CDIS collects data and metadata on inward and outward direct investment positions cross-classified by counterpart economy. Separate data on equity and debt positions, and other breakdowns, are provided. More Coordinated Portfolio Investment Survey (CPIS) updated The CPIS collects information on the stock of cross-border holdings of equities and long- and short-term debt securities broken down by the economy of residence of the issuer. More Currency Composition of Official Foreign Exchange Reserves (COFER) New Aggregated end-of-period quarterly data on the currency composition of official foreign exchange reserves. More Data Template on International Reserves and Foreign Currency Liquidity Re-disseminates IMF member countries' data on international reserves and foreign currency liquidity in a common template and in a common currency (the U.S. dollar). Historical data by country and selected topics are also available. More Direction of Trade Statistics (DOTS) Provides data on the country and area distribution of countries' exports and imports by their partners. More Government Finance Statistics (GFS) Contains detailed annual statistical data on revenue, expense, transactions in assets and liabilities, and stocks of assets and liabilities of general government and its subsectors as reported by member countries. More Financial Access Survey (FAS) Provides annual geographic and demographic data on access to basic consumer financial services worldwide. This is achieved through the identification and development of appropriate high quality data that are comparable across countries and over time collected by means of periodic surveys. More Financial Soundness Indicators (FSIs) Provides data and detailed metadata reported on a regular basis by a first batch of member countries for 12 core and 28 encouraged FSIs. Countries may report monthly, quarterly, semiannual, or annual FSIs for dissemination. The IMF will aim over time to expand the list of reporting member countries. More G-20 Surveillance Notes Notes provided by IMF staff ahead of a series of meetings held by the G-20 deputies and ministers. They provide a summary of global economic prospects at the time of the respective meeting. More Joint External Debt Hub Database that brings together data on external debt and selected foreign assets available from international agencies (creditor/market sources) and external debt data available from the QEDS database (national/debtor sources). More Monitoring of Fund Arrangements Database (MONA) Download comparable data on the economic objectives and outcomes of Fund-supported arrangements since 2002. More Primary Commodity Prices Indices in terms of dollars or sdrs, indices of market prices for non-fuel commodities and petroleum, actual market prices for non-fuel commodities and petroleum, and average weekly prices for non-fuel commodities and petroleum. More Public Sector Debt Statistics Online Centralized Database A joint World Bank-IMF database that presents public sector debt statistics (general government plus public corporations) with quarterly frequency. Breakdowns by level of government, type of instrument, currency, and maturity are provided, using standard definitions to support cross-country comparisons. More Quarterly External Debt Statistics (QEDS) External debt data reported by SDDS subscribers (extended to a number of GDDS economies in early 2008), with additional details on currency composition, debt service profile, and other presentations that facilitate cross-country data analysis. More Back to top IMF Financial Data Expand All Collapse All IMF Financial Data by Country Summary of IMF members' relations with the Fund More IMF Financial Data By Topic Disbursements & Repayments Historical data since 1984. Projected Payments to the IMF Members' currently scheduled payments to the IMF. IMF Credit Outstanding Levels (in SDRs) of IMF credit outstanding since 1984. Lending Arrangements Similar to a line of credit to support a country's adjustment program. SDR Allocations & Holdings Member data on SDRs, the international reserve asset created by the IMF. Arrears Amounts due from member countries that are six or more months overdue. IMF Financial Activities Weekly Summary report of financial assistance to member countries. More IMF Financial Resources & Liquidity (Monthly) Total IMF resources, usable resources, and the one-year forward commitment capacity (FCC). More IMF Financial Transactions (Quarterly) Use of the Fund's quota-based resources to finance operations. More IMF Financial Statements (Quarterly) Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. More Annual Report Financial year ending April 30. More SDR Interest Rate, Rate of Remuneration, Rate of Charge and Burden Sharing Adjustments updated updated every Monday More SDR Interest Rate Calculation The interest rate on the SDR is defined as the sum of the multiplicative products in SDR terms of the currency amounts in the SDR valuation basket, the level of the interest rate on the financial instrument of each component currency in the basket, and the exchange rate of each currency against the SDR. More SDR Valuation The SDR currency value is calculated daily and the valuation basket is reviewed and adjusted every five years. More New SDR Basket The initial weights assigned to each currency in the SDR basket have been adjusted to take account of changes in the share of each currency in world exports of goods and services and international reserves. More Back to top Exchange Rate Data Expand All Collapse All SDRs per Currency unit (e.g. $ 1.00 = 0.67353 SDR) last five days Current Month Archives Representative Rates for Selected Currencies Normally quoted as currency units per U.S. dollar, are reported daily to the Fund by the issuing central bank. Latest Current Month Archives Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions order The exchange and trade systems of IMF member countries are presented. (not available in full text online) More Currency units per SDR (e.g. $ 1.48472 = 1 SDR) last five days Current Month Archives Exchange Rate Archives 1995 to the present More Back to top Expand All Collapse All Dissemination Standards Bulletin Board (DSBB) Established to guide countries in the provision of their economic and financial data to the public. More General Data Dissemination System (GDDS) The General Data Dissemination System Guide for Participants and Users—The General Data Dissemination System provides member countries with a basic framework for a broader national statistical development strategy. It covers a set of statistics recognized to be essential for all countries for policy making and analysis in an environment that increasingly requires relevant, comprehensive, accurate, and timely statistics available to the general public. The guide explains the nature and objectives of the system, describes its operation, and provides practical guidance on participation in the system. More Special Data Dissemination Standard (SDDS) The Special Data Dissemination Standard Guide for Subscribers and Users—The Special Data Dissemination Standard was established by the Fund in 1996 to provide guidance to countries that have or seek access to capital markets, to disseminate key data so that users in general, and financial market participants in particular, have adequate information to assess the economic situations of individual countries. This guide reflects developments in the SDDS since 2007 (when the guide was last published) and also aims to prepare GDDS participants for subscription to the SDDS. More Special Data Dissemination Standard Plus (SDDS + ) The Special Data Dissemination Standard Plus Guide for Adherents and Users— The SDDS Plus was established in October 2012 as a third tier of the IMF's Data Standards Initiatives to address data gaps revealed during the global crisis. It includes an additional nine data categories. The guide elaborates in detail the requirements for these nine data categories. More Reports on Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSCs) Summarize the extent to which countries observe certain internationally recognized standards and codes. More Back to top External Sector Stats Real Sector Stats Government Finance Monetary and Financial Stats Securities Statistics External Sector Statistics Expand All Collapse All Balance of Payments and International Investment Position Manual, sixth edition (BPM6) A guide to collect and compile balance of payments and international investment position data. It updates the fifth edition (BPM5) that was released in 1993. More BPM6 Compilation Guide Companion document to the BPM6. It updates the Balance of Payments Compilation Guide that was released in 1995 to accompany the BPM5. More Balance of Payments Manual, fifth edition (BPM5) Updated by the sixth edition (BPM6). More International Reserves and Foreign Currency Liquidity: Guidelines for a Data Template Provides operational advice to IMF member countries that are subscribers to the Special Data Dissemination Standard regarding how to complete the prescribed (mandatory) monthly Data Template on International Reserves and Foreign Currency Liquidity. More 2013 External Debt Statistics: Guide for Compilers and Users (2013 EDS Guide) 2013 EDS Guide provides comprehensive guidance for the measurement, compilation, analytical use, and presentation of external debt statistics. The 2013 EDS Guide was produced by the IMF in conjunction with other members from the Inter-Agency Task Force on Finance Statistics ( TFFS ). 2003 External Debt Statistics: Guide for Compilers and Users ( 2003 EDS Guide ) updated by the 2013 EDS Guide . More Update of the External Debt Guide on Issues Emerging from BPM6 中文 | Spanish Paper discussed and approved at the March 2009 meeting of the Task Force on Finance Statistics (TFFS). It identifies main changes in BPM6 on which methodological advice and recording treatment will be provided in the Updated External Debt Statistics Guide (2013). More International Transactions in Remittances: Guide for Compilers and Users Released in 2009, provides practical guidance on the compilation of remittances based on the concepts set out in BPM6. More 2015 CDIS Guide New This Guide clarifies and updates the 2010 CDIS Guide. It is fully consistent with the IMF BPM6 and OECD BD4. More Back to top Real Sector Statistics Expand All Collapse All Quarterly National Accounts Manual—Concepts, Data Sources, and Compilation Drafted to help countries establish or strengthen quarterly national accounts that meet users needs. More Update of the Quarterly National Accounts Manual The manua updates to the Quarterly National Accounts Manual: Concepts, Data Sources, and Compilation More Export and Import Price Index (XMPI) Manual The manual contains detailed, comprehensive information and explanations for compiling XMPIs. More Consumer Price Index (CPI) Manual The manual measures the rate at which the prices of consumer goods and services are changing over time. Also available in Arabic | Chinese | French | Spanish | Russian More Producer Price Index (PPI) Manual The manual measures the rate at which the prices of producer goods and services are changing overtime. More Practical Guide to Producing Consumer Price Indices The Guide is targeted at developing countries focusing on practical solutions to the problems facing compilers of the consumer price index (CPI) in the developing world. Also available in French | Spanish More System of National Accounts 2008 (2008 SNA) SNA is an updated version of the System of National Accounts, 1993 (1993 SNA). It is the fifth version of the SNA, the first of which was published over fifty years ago. More Handbook on Residential Prope