Ancillary Trade Statistics | Welcome to Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics Ministry of Commerce and industry, Govt. of India Home FAQ Contact Us Home Organization Profile History Foreign Trade Statistics Ancillary Statistics Indian Trade Journal Commercial Intelligence Commercial Library Press Notes Data Summary Trade Data Priced Detail Data Price Information System Notice Publications Registration Trade Directory Feedback Contact Us RTI FAQ Sitemap Data Dissemination Policy Data Privacy Policy Dynamic Data Revision Policy Quick Estimate Commercial Library Services Recruitment Rules Events / Announcements Media Gallery Highlights Latest 24-months Export final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website Latest 24-months Import final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website DGCIS has introduced 168 new commodity groups for publication of principal commodity level foreign trade data Are you interested in doing business with the Government of India Organizations? Click Here Visit the Related sites RFD CITIZEN'S CHARTER Grievance Redressal This site has been visited 995477 times on Friday, May, 29, 2015 PUBLIC GRIEVANCES Home Profile Ancillary Trade Statistics Ancillary Trade Statistics The DGCI&S is entrusted with the responsibility which involves the ancillary trade statistics such as the statistics on ‘Inter-State Movement of Goods by Rail, River and Air’, statistics on ‘India’s Customs and Excise Revenue Collections’ according to the tariff/Budgetory heads; shipping statistics in ‘Statistics of the Foreign and Coastal Cargo Movement of India’, Coastal trade statistics in ‘Statistics of the Inland Trade Consignments of India’ and selected Statistics in ‘Selected Statistics of Foreign Trade of India’ . The Statistics on Inter-State Movement/Flows of Goods by Rail, River and Air is based on the data compiled from the returns received from Zonal Railway Authorities, Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Ltd., Calcutta, and Indian Airlines on rail , river and air borne inland trade respectively within the country. The Statistics of Customs and Excise Revenue Collection of the Indian Union is based on the monthly/quarterly returns of CBR 121, CBR 122 and CBR 123 received from about 44 Custom & 60 Central Excise Commissionerates . Besides this, Cesses on Coal, rubber and salt administered by Office of the Coal controller, Kolkata, Rubber Board, Kottayam, Kerala and Office of the Salt Commissioner, Jaipur respectively are also compiled. The Statistics of the Foreign and Coastal Cargo movements of India is based on the returns received from various Custom Authorities on the aspects relating to the entry and clearance of ships with Cargo or in Ballast at different Ports and Custom Zones and the number and tonnage of vessel built and registered at different ports of India.. The Statistics of Inland Coasting Trade Consignments of India is based on the daily trade returns received from different ports / Custom Authorities of India. This depicts Seaborne Coastal Trade between different maritime states of India as different from the foreign trade of India. ‘Selected Statistics of Foreign Trade of India’ reveals certain important aspects of the foreign trade of India as well as the daily transit trade of neighbouring land locked countries like Nepal and Bhutan passing through India. Top Related Sites :: Contact Us :: Feedback :: Sitemap Source : Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Last Updated on 19-05-2015 Home Downloads & Plug-ins Help Accessibility Statement Accessibility Options Privacy Policy Hyperlinking Policy Copyright Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Contents of this website is published and managed by DGCI&S , Government of India. For any queries regarding this website please contact Web Master. © Copyright reserved by Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 565, Anandapur, Ward No. 108,Sector - 1 , Plot No. 22, ECADP, Kolkata - 700107