INDUSTRIAL CORRIDOR | MAKE IN INDIA Home Sectors Live projects Policies Query/Faq Contact us Search INDUSTRIAL CORRIDOR SUMMARY The project is featured in KPMG’s ‘100 Most Innovative Global Projects’ as one of the world’s most innovative and inspiring infrastructure projects. Background The Government of India is developing the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) as a global manufacturing and investment destination utilizing the 1,483 km-long, high-capacity western Dedicated Railway Freight Corridor (DFC) as the backbone. The objective is to increase the share of manufacturing in the GDP of the country and to create smart sustainable cities where manufacturing will be the key economic driver. The plan is to develop new manufacturing cities, logistic hubs and residential townships along the DFC incorporating the philosophy of sustainability, connectivity and development; each manufacturing city will have world-class infrastructure, convenient public transport, power management and an efficient water and waste management system. Twenty four manufacturing cities are envisaged in the perspective plan of the DMIC project. In the first phase, seven cities are being developed, one each in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat and two in Maharashtra. The manufacturing cities will provide international and domestic investors with a diverse set of vast investment opportunities. The initial phase of the new cities is expected to be completed by 2019. Sectors of focus include general manufacturing; IT/ITES; electronics including high-tech industries; automobiles and auto ancillary; agro and food processing; heavy engineering; metals and metallurgical products; pharmaceuticals and biotech; and services sector. DMIC states (Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat & Maharashtra) contribute 43% to the country’s GDP; more than half of India’s industrial production & exports; account for over 40% of workers & number of factories across India. The project has been conceptualized in partnership and collaboration with the Government of Japan and is being implemented by the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor Development Corporation (DMICDC), an autonomous body with shareholding of Government of India through Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP) (49%), Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) (26%) and Public Financial Institutions (HUDCO -19.9%, IIFCL -4.1% and LIC – 1%). The project is featured in KPMG’s “100 Most Innovative Global Projects” and is one of the world’s most innovative and inspiring infrastructure projects. Government of India is building a pentagon of corridors across the country to boost manufacturing and to project India as a Global Manufacturing destination of the world. Other four corridors which have been conceptualized are Bengaluru-Mumbai Economic Corridor (BMEC); Amritsar – Kolkata Industrial Development Corridor (AKIC); Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (CBIC), East Coast Economic Corridor (ECEC) with Chennai Vizag Industrial Corridor as the first phase of the project (CVIC). A total of 25 priority projects across various sectors have been identified for debottlenecking infrastructure bottlenecks in the CBIC region in the preliminary study conducted by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). The following  three nodes  will be taken up for Master Planning by JICA in the CBIC region: Tumkur in Karnataka, Ponneri in Tamil Nadu and Krishnapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and the Master Planning will be completed by March, 2015. DMIC - IMPACT ON INDIA The DMIC project seeks to create a strong economic base with a globally competitive environment and state-of-the-art infrastructure to activate local commerce, enhance investments and attain sustainable development. New DMIC Cities will help to meet pressures of urbanisation and also lead India’s economic growth for the next 20 -30 years. The project aspires to double employment potential, triple industrial output and quadruple exports from the region in the next seven to nine years. DMIC CITIES Global Regional Cities: Benchmarked against the best new-generation Industrial Cities in the world. Transit oriented, walkable and livable cities. Interconnected roads, rail and communication systems providing speed, access and world wide connectivity. Key sustainable development concepts: Reduction of commuting needs for the workforce – multiple Central Business Districts (CBDs) and Industrial zones; Integration of land uses encouraging mixed-use; affordable Workers Housing  located near the industrial zones. High access mass transit corridors; Encouraging cycling & pedestrian modes. Recycling and reuse of water and solid wastes. Energy sufficiency through use of renewables. Conservation of better agricultural land & protection of sensitive natural environment (Coastal zones, forests, sanctuaries). Integration of existing villages into the new cities. SMART City – IT based real time Control and Governance. DMIC PHASE I NODE: Ahmedabad-Dholera Investment Region, Gujarat Early bird projects: Mega Industrial Park at Dholera SIR Greenfield international aviation hub near Ahmedabad Waste Water Recycling Project Six-laning of Ahmedabad-Vataman-Pipli-Bhavnagar road link with specific economic activities (207 km) Regional MRTS link between Gandhinagar – Ahmedabad & Ahmadabad-Dholera Dahej Desalination Project Consultants: consortium led by M/s Halcrow, UK Area: 920 square kilometres NODE: Manesar-Bawal Investment Region, Haryana Early bird projects: Integrated multi-modal logistic hub near Rewari Exhibition-cum-convention center at Panchgaon Chowk Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) Consultants: consortium led by M/s Jurong, Singapore Area: 402 square kilometres Node: Khushkhera-Bhiwadi-Neemrana Investment Region, Rajasthan Early bird projects: Development of Aerotropolis in Rajasthan Road link connecting Bhiwadi and Neemrana Development of Knowledge City, Neemrana Artificial Aquifer Recharge & Recovery System Solar Project, Neemrana Consultants: consortium led by M/s Kuiper Compagnons, Holland Area: 165 square kilometres Node: Pithampur-Dhar-Mhow Investment Region, Madhya Pradesh Early bird projects: Economic corridor between Indore Airport and the Pithampur Industrial Area Knowledge City, Ujjain Multi-Modal Logistics Hub, Pithampur Water supply project, Pithampur Greenfield Township Consultants: consortium led by M/s Lea Associates, South Asia Area: 372 square kilometres Node: Dadri-Noida-Ghaziabad Investment Region, Uttar Pradesh Early bird projects: The development of the Greater Noida (Boraki) Railway Station Hi-tech Integrated Industrial Township The development of Integrated Multi–Modal Logistic Hub at Greater Noida Waste Water Recycling Project Consultants: Consortium led by M/s Halcrow, UK Area: 200 square kilometres Node: Dighi Port Industrial Area, Maharashtra Nashik-Sinnar-Igatpuri Investment Region, Maharashtra Early bird projects: Multi-Modal Logistics Park at Karmad Exhibition and Convention Centre at Aurangabad Dhule Mega Industrial Park Shendra –Bidkin Mega Industrial Park Waste Water Recycling Project Transport and telecommunication Corridor in region with reference to Pune – Nashik and Pune – Aurangabad Highways Consultants: M/s AECOM, Hong Kong Area: 253 and 84 square kilometres respectively. Opportunities across the value chain Public Private Partnership: The policy and regulatory frameworks (concession agreements) are well established; substantial scale-up in the last 5 years; opportunities for companies to venture as “Project Developers”. Contractors/Consultants: Opportunities from implementing agencies who will sub contract construction. O&M Operators: Substantial requirements of equipment, systems and software. Equipment suppliers: Consistent demand of equipment due to mega infrastructure development across sectors; huge business potential for overseas players to enter the market. Rolling stock suppliers: Increasing demand for various types of passenger & freight rolling stock; attractive opportunity exists for private players. Financing: Attractive opportunities exist for Financial Institutions, Private Equity firms and private investors. AGENCIES DMIC Development Corporation Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Invest India INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES