Central Sector Scheme » Central Silk Board Loading... Screen Reader Access Who's who | Contact Us | Intranet Login Central Silk Board Ministry of Textiles - Govt of India Home About Us Vision & Mission Mandate Organization chart Composition of the Board Act & Rules Citizen's charter FAQ Silk-Sericulture Silk Sericulture Silks of India Services R & D Training Seed Production Consultancy Schemes Central Sector Centrally Sponsored MKSP Projects for Tasar MGNREGA with CDP NER Textile Promotion Statistics Silk Flash Silk Bulletin Silk Exports & Imports Publications Indian Silk Books Videos Annual Report Downloads RFD Note on sericulture Training Calendar Evaluation Reports Regd. Stake holders Silk Exporters Minutes of Meetings Gallery Schemes Central Sector Centrally Sponsored MKSP Projects for Tasar MGNREGA with CDP NER Textile Promotion   Central Sector Scheme The Central Silk Board is a Statutory Body constituted during 1948 for the development of sericulture and silk industry in the country. The mandated activities of CSB are: (i)      Research & Development, and Research Extension, (ii)     Maintenance of four tier silkworm seed production network, (iii)    Providing leadership role in commercial silkworm seed production, (iv)   Standardizing and instilling quality parameters in the various production processes, (v)   Promotion of Indian Silk in domestic and international markets and advising the Union Government on all matters concerning sericulture and silk industry.   These mandated activities of Central Silk Board are being carried out by the 300 units of CSB located in different States under the 3 Central Sector Schemes. Till IX Plan, these activities were carried out as regular ‘programmes’ of CSB. During X Plan, these regular programmes of CSB were grouped as three “Central Sector Schemes” based on the nature and objectives of the mandated tasks which was approved by the Expenditure Finance Committee.   From IX Plan onwards, CSB has taken up the Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CDP), with the aim of synergizing and disseminating technologies, innovations developed by its R&D units and incentivising investments among the stakeholders to enhance production, productivity and quality of silk. CDP has been an effective vehicle for transfer of technology to the field. Although, the scheme is implemented through the States, CSB’s manpower is largely deployed for the formulation, appraisal, and operation and monitoring of the programme as a whole besides providing technical inputs for its implementation. please click for Scheme-wise details of the central sector schemes :  Sitemap Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2015 Central Silk Board. All Rights Reserved.   This is the official Website of Central Silk Board, a statutory body of Government of India under the Ministry of Textiles Last updated: 12/06/2014