State Profile | Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home Profile State Profile State Profile Tamil Nadu, nestled in the South-East part of peninsular India is blessed with varying Agro-climatic zones from dry sub-humid to semi-arid because of the presence of 1000 K.M. long Coastal Line and ghat areas to its West and hilly areas along the North. Agro-climatic Zones : There are seven Agro-climatic zones in Tamil Nadu based on the climatic conditions and monsoon patterns prevailing in those areas. The zones are as follows:- Sl.No. Agro-climatic zone Districts 1 Western Zone Coimbatore, Erode, Thiruppur, Dindigul and Theni 2 Southern Zone Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Thirunelveli, Sivagangai, Virudhunagar, Thuthukudi, Pudukottai and Karur 3 North Eastern Zone Kancheepuram, Thiruvallur,Vellore, Thiruvannamalai , Cuddalore, and Villupuram. 4 North Western Zone Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Salem, Namakkal, Perambalur,and Ariyalur 5 Delta Zone Thanjavur, Thiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Trichirapalli 6 High Rainfall Zone Kanyakumari 7 Hilly and Tribal Zone The Nilgiris The four seasons in Tamil Nadu are not distinct and over-lap with the following season : There are two monsoon seasons viz., South-West Monsoon and North-East Monsoon . We also get some summer showers during the month of April-May. Hence, the average annual Rainfall of Tamil Nadu is 968 m.m. Horticulture in Tamil Nadu : Though, Tamil Nadu is the largest contributor to India’s GDP, 70% of the people are Agrarian and Agriculture and allied activities contribute significantly to the State’s economy. Due to the determined and persistent efforts of the State Government and continued support from the Central Government, the State has made head-way progress in Horticulture in the last five years. Traditional Horticulture Crops have been introduced in non-traditional areas and non-traditional horticultural crops have been introduced in suitable areas. The Horticulture crops grown in Tamil Nadu have been classified into six categories viz., fruits, vegetables, spices and condiments , plantation crops, flowers and medicinal and aromatic plants. Major fruit crops are Banana, Mango, Citrus, Grapes, Guava, Sapota, Papaya, and Pine -apple. These are grown in 2,93,146 Ha mainly in districts like Krishnagiri, Dindigul, Thirunelveli, Vellore , Theni, Erode, Trichy, Thiruvallur, Dharmapuri and Madurai. Major Vegetable crops grown are Tapioca, Onion, Tomato, Potato, Brinjal, Bhendi, Drumstick, beans and Carrot in an area of 2,26,502 Ha mainly in districts like Namakkal, Salem, Dharmapuri ,Trichy, Thiruppur ,Dindigul, Erode , Villupuram, Krishnagiri , Perambalur , Nilgiris and Theni Districts. Important Spices and Condiments grown are Chillies, Turmeric, Tamarind , Coriander , Pepper ,Cardamom and Cloves in an area of 1,45,559 Ha. in districts like Ramnad, Thoothukudi, Erode , Salem , Virudhunagar, Dindigul, Dharmapuri and Sivagangai Districts. Tea, Coffee, Rubber and Cashew are the important Plantation Crops grown in an area of 2,32,988 Ha in Districts like Nilgiris , Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Kanyakumari , Dindigul , Coimbatore , Pudukottai and Salem. In addition to the traditional flowers like Jasmine, Crossandra , Tuberose, and Chrysanthemum, cut flowers like Rose, Carnations , and Gerbera are also being produced in the State. The cut-flower industry is growing day by day due to high export prospects. Flowers are grown in an area of 25309 ha in districts like Dindigul, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Salem, Madurai, Tirunelveli, Thiruvallur, Vellore and Thiruvannamalai. Medicinal and Aromatic crops like Gloriosa, Senna, Coleus, Lemon-grass and Periwinkle are grown in an area of 11,230 Ha. in districts like Virudhunagar, Dindigul, Thiruvallur , Ariyalur ,Madurai, Thiruvarur,Dharmapuri ,Salem, Nagapattinam, Trichy . Innovative and advanced technologies are given to horticultural farmers through various schemes to improve the productivity of almost all horticultural crops. Visitor Counter: 843275 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015