National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development Board NA TIONAL OILSEEDS AND VEGETABLE OILS DEVELOPMENT BOARD   Privacy Policy   Privacy Statement Thanks for visiting website of National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board, and reviewing our privacy policy. When you browse, read pages, or download information on this website, we do not gather any personal information unless you consciously volunteer to do so by filling in your personal details. However this information is only used to help us make the site more useful for you. With this data, we learn about the number of visitors to our site and the types of technology our visitors use. We never track or record information about individuals and their visits.   Cookies A cookie is a piece of software code that an internet web site sends to your browser when you access information at that site. This site does not use cookies.   If you send us personal information We do not collect personal information for any purpose other than to respond to you (for example, to respond to your questions or provide subscriptions you have chosen). If you choose to provide us with personal information- like filling out a Contact Us form, with an e-mail address or postal address, and submitting it to us through the website- we use that information to respond to your message, and to help you get the information you've requested. We only share the information you give us with another Government agency if your question relates to that agency, or as otherwise required by law. Our website never collects information or creates individual profiles for commercial marketing. While you must provide an e-mail address for a localised response to any incoming questions or comments to us, we recommend that you do NOT include any other personal information.   Site Visit data This website neither records your visit nor maintains logs.   Email Management Your email address will only be recorded if you choose to send a message. It will only be used for the purpose for which you have provided it and will not be added to a mailing list. Your email address will not be used for any other purpose, and will not be disclosed, without your consent.   This website is designed, developed and maintained by National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development (NOVOD) Board. Copyright Policy Hyper Linking Policy Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Contact us Help Home