Industries in Goa, Goa Industrial Estates Home » Maps » Goa » Industry in Goa   Goa Weather History Culture गोवा का नक्शा Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Cities Panaji Calangute Vasco da Gama Margao Mapusa Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Industries in Goa Goa Industrial Estates Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Map shows Goa Industrial Estates locations. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The industry in Goa is ranked fourth in the country by a study conducted by the Rajiv Gandhi Institute for Contemporary Studies and Confederation of India Industry. So the industry in Goa has emerged as one of favorable destination for investment. Being both investor-friendly as well as environment -friendly, Goa has one of the highest per capita income ratios in the country, one of the highest literacy rates, the highest road, rail, air and sea network density, the lowest crime rates, and a harmonious trade union-management relationship. All these factors, combined, contribute towards a healthy environment for the industry in Goa. Several Central and state organizations have been set up over the years with the aims and objectives of securing and assisting in the rapid and orderly establishment of Industrial Areas, Industrial Estates and industries in Goa. The following Central and State government institutions are active developers of industry in Goa: The Economic Development Corporation (EDC) of Goa, Daman and Diu. The Goa, Daman & Diu Industrial Development Corporation (GDDIDC). The Goa Handicrafts, Rural & Small Scale Industries Development Corporation (GHRSSIDC). The Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC). The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI). The Maharashtra Industrial & Technical Consultancy Organisation (MITCON). The Maharashtra State Financial Corporation (MSFC). The National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC). The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI). The Small Industries Service Institute (SISI). The government of Goa has also formulated certain policies to operate the industry in Goa. Some of the features of the Industrial Policy of Goa - 2003 announced by the Goa Government are given below: Fast clearance of investment. Creation of Industrial Parks, Industrial Estates, Roads, Power, Water, Communications, IT enabled services etc. Strengthening of human resource base. Introduction of new subsidy schemes. Promotion of cottage industries. Given its extremely efficient and useful sea network, export too forms a major industry in Goa; thus rendering the operations conducted by the Mormugao Port Trust a profitable one. Mormugao Port was declared a Major Port on 2.12.1963. It is one of the oldest ports on the west coast of India. It is a major iron ore exporting Port of India with an annual throughput of around 18 million tones of iron ore. The Port accounts for about 50% of India's iron ore export. Apart from ore, there has also been a steady increase in liquid bulk and general cargo traffic since 1963. Fishing also constitutes a major industry in Goa. Out of 11 talukas of the state, people from 8 talukas are involved in fishing activities and fishermen from 42 villages are involved in marine fishing. There are over 30,000 fishermen in the state, with the population of active fishermen standing at 12,000. The state has a registered fleet of 1,134 mechanized boats, 755 country crafts, 1963 non-motorized country crafts and 6463 nets. Apart from these, there are five fish landing centers and 14 fish landing ramps. Marine Inland Total 69386 3749 73135 Along with fishing, forest produce, rich in teak, casuarina, acrocarpus, rubber, cashew, bamboo, eucalyptus, roadside plantation, canal bank plantation, and others also forms a major industry in Goa. Last Updated on: 8/06/2013 Goa Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map District Map Tehsil Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map About Goa Weather History Area Pincode STD code Facts Liberation of Goa Languages Culture Dance Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival Goa Travel Map Wildlife Map Beaches Map Forest Map Shopping Centres   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule