Business in India- news and live market updates Business Plans Format BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Advertising Agency Travel Agency Restaurant India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Multinational Company Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Medical Agriculture Business Leaders Dhirubhai Ambani Azim Premji Mukesh Ambani Anil Ambani Anand Mahindra Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Mergers Acquisitions Refinance Top 10 Financial Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India SBI Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank HDFC Bank Vijaya Bank Allahabad Bank UCO Bank Top Brands in India Red Wine Shoe Vodka Beer Headphones Handbags Chocolate Rum Laptop Cosmetic Bag Watch B-Schools Top B Schools in India Online Business School IIM website IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi IIPM Pune S.P. Jain institute Top Architects in India Business in India Business in India,one the fastest growing economies, has been growing faster ever since 'economic liberalisation' opened the floodgates of worlwide trade in 1991. Tremendous scope for business exists in India, which boasts of being the 10th largest economy of the world in terms of market exchange rate and third largest on count of Purchasing Power Parity. India is rapidly surging ahead on the global economic front and thus brandishes great business opportunities in all sectors. Its mighty, second largest labour class in the world with 48.66 crore workmen, is poised to attract massive foreign investments.Business houses and multinational corporations across the globe have great expectations' from India’s burgeoning economic prowess. India Business News Sensex sheds over 200 points in afternoon session A benchmark index of Indian equities markets, the 30-scrip BSE Sensitive Index (Sensex), plunged 204.52 points or 0.74 percent in the afternoon sess.. Read More France to cooperate in future Bengaluru, Kochi metro projects France is looking to collaborate in a major way in India's sustainable urban development and smart cities projects, and has evinced interest in .. Read More Engineers India net down 35 percent in 2014-15 State-run Engineers India Ltd reported a consolidated net profit of Rs.313 crore for fiscal 2014-15, a decline of 35 percent year-on-year (YoY) from.. Read More Bata India's profit surges by 48.3 percent during Q4 Shoemaker Bata India Ltd on Wednesday said that its net profit during January-March 2015 increased by a whopping 48.3 percent at Rs.58.43 crore even.. Read More Tata Chemicals posts consolidated loss of Rs.74.17 crore during Q4 Tata Chemicals Ltd on Wednesday said that its consolidated loss for the quarter ended on March 31 narrowed down to Rs.74.17 crore against the loss o.. Read More Reliance Infra's 2014-15 net profit down 6 percent Reliance Infrastructure on Wednesday reported a decline of 6 percent in its consolidated net profit for 2014-15 which stood at Rs.1,800.18 crore fro.. Read More Markets close flat ahead of May derivatives expiry A benchmark index of the Indian equities markets closed flat on Wednesday on the back of disappointing quarterly results, May derivatives expiry and.. Read More Vodafone spends Rs.1,050 crore on Maharashtra, Goa operations Vodafone India has invested over Rs.1,050 crore on ramping up network, distribution and retail presence in Maharashtra and Goa circles between April.. Read More Forbes names SBI chief as 30th most powerful woman in the world Forbes has named State Bank of India Chairperson Arundhati Bhattacharya in its annual 100 Most Powerful Women list, with a ranking of 30 in the worl.. Read More Amitabh Bachchan to promote DD Kisan, 'excited' Hindi cinestar Amitabh Bachchan will be adding his weight to the newly launched DD Kisan channel, a 24-hour farmer-centric channel, a senior governm.. Read More Growth not picked up as expected: Arvind Subramanian India's economic growth did not pick up as much as people expected as a result of government action, the government's Chief Economic Adviser.. Read More Still studying uranium project in Meghalaya: Minister Union Minister of State for Atomic Energy Jitendra Singh said on Tuesday that his department was still studying the proposed mining of uranium ore i.. Read More Sensex sheds 145 points in morning session A benchmark index of Indian equities markets, the 30-scrip Sensitive Index (Sensex), on Wednesday was trading 144.66 points or 0.53 percent down dur.. Read More Gadkari announces Rs.50,000 crore for Bihar roads Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and Shipping Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday announced the provision of Rs.50,000 crore for development of road.. Read More Jaitley happy with Swiss naming black money account-holders Expressing satisfaction with Swiss authorities sharing the names of two Indian nationals in connection with black money stashed abroad, Finance Mini.. Read More Modi launches DD Kisan channel, calls for big change in agriculture Calling for a "big change" in agriculture, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched the DD Kisan channel and pitched for increasin.. Read More Panel set up to recommend PPP model revision The government on Tuesday set up a committee to recommend measures to "revisit and revitalise" the public-private partnership (PPP) mode o.. Read More TVS Logistics acquires TATA group's logistics company Third party logistics player TVS Logistics Services Ltd on Tuesday said that it has acquired Tata group's Drive India Enterprise Solutions Ltd (.. Read More Tata Motors' net profit down by 56 percent in Q4 Tata Motors on Tuesday said that its net consolidated profit during the fourth quarter of 2014-15 declined by over 56 percent at Rs.1,717 crore, aga.. Read More Centre to increase area under irrigation: Shah The central government has decided to launch the Pradhan Mantri Irrigation Scheme to increase area under irrigation up to 14 percent across the coun.. Read More Sensex closes 112 points down; oil, gas stocks fall A day after it lost over 300 points, a benchmark index of the Indian equities markets, the 30-scrip BSE Sensitive Index (Sensex), closed 112 points .. Read More Nissan to launch a new model next year Japanese automobile maker Nissan Motor Company, which is targeting a five percent market share by 2020 in India, will be launching a small car, said.. Read More Sensex down 132 points; healthcare stocks fall A day after it lost over 300 points, a benchmark index of the Indian equities markets, the 30-scrip Sensitive Index (Sensex), was trading deep in th.. Read More GDP growth in double digits in 3-4 years: Rajnath GDP growth figure of India would reach double digits in the next three to four years, Home Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday. "In three to.. Read More Sensex trades down 83 points; healthcare stocks fall A day after it lost over 300 points, a benchmark index of the Indian equities markets, the 30-scrip Sensitive Index (Sensex), was trading in the red.. Read More Indian Market Live Updates Catch the latest business stats here, all at one place. As it happens! Income Tax Slab 2015-16 Individual resident aged below 60 years (i.e. born on or after 1st April 1955) or any NRI/ HUF/ AOP/ BOI/ AJP* Income Slabs Tax Rates Taxable income = Rs. 2,50,000/-. NIL Where the taxable income Rs. 2,50,000/- to Rs. 5,00,000/-. 10% of amount by which the taxable income exceeds Rs. 2,50,000/-. Taxable income Rs. 5,00,000/- to Rs. 10,00,000/-. Rs. 25,000/- + 20% of the amount by which the taxable income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000/-. Taxable income > Rs. 10,00,000/-. Rs. 125,000/- + 30% of the amount by which the taxable income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000/-. Surcharge: 10% of the Income Tax, where taxable income is more than Rs. 1 crore. (Marginal Relief in Surcharge, if applicable) Education Cess:  3% of the total of Income Tax and Surcharge. * Abbreviations used: NRI - Non Resident Individual; HUF - Hindu Undivided Family; AOP - Association of Persons; BOI - Body of Individuals; AJP - Artificial Judicial Person Sensex/Nifty What's New in Business Union Budget Highlights 2015-16 Railway Budget 2015-16 Highlights Business Ideas for Women About Mukesh Ambani Top Shoe Brands Andhra Bank Online How to Start a Business How to Start a Company How to Start a Restaurant How to Start a Hotel How to Start an NGO How to Start a Club How to Start an Art Gallery Business Tools Efficient tools ensuring useful financial understanding for daily business needs. Income Tax Calculator Currency Converter Bank Branches and ATM EMI Calculator FDI policy 2015 Top Indian Companies All the top Indian companies (listed alphabetically) just a click away! A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Y Aviation Companies Automobile Companies Housing Finance Companies Software Companies Personal Loan Companies About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED