Places to Visit in Mizoram and Tourist Destinations near Mizoram Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Mizoram Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to reach Places to Visit in Mizoram Museums of Mizoram Caves Wildlife Sanctuaries Tomb of Vanhimailian Mangkahia Lung Vantawng Falls Phawngui Activities Tourist Destinations Near Mizoram Aizawl Travel About Mizoram History & Geography Climate Home » Mizoram » Places to Visit in Mizoram Places to Visit in Mizoram Mizoram, also known as the land of blue mountains, is known for its picturesque beauty. Standing aloof from the adjacent plains of Assam and the other neighbouring states, Mizoram remains an exotic location sharing more than one-third of its boundry with Bangladesh and Mynmar. It is a state sandwiched between the mighty Himalayan foothills and the plateau of Meghalaya. Aizawl is the capital of Mizoram, dotted with quaint timber houses and a profusion of flowers. Each house has its own window box of profusely blooming orchids. The air is invigorating and pure. The streets echo with melodies emanating from the guitars of Aizawl youth playing at nearly every street corner. Mizoram has an endless variety of landscape with rich flora and fauna, clusters of whispering pines and quaint villageswith houses on stilts. The scintillating grandeur of its dense tropical forests, verdant green paddy fields and admirable vineyards showcases the gifts that Mother Nature has bestowed Mizoram with. Mizoram has a moderate and pleasant climate throughout the year and is an idyllic land of great natural beauty having rich variety of flora and fauna. Mizoram is blessed with the most variegated hilly terrain in the eastern part of India. The hills are steep and separated by rivers which flow either to the north or south creating deep gorges between the hill ranges. Nature has bestowed Mizoram with numerous rivers like Tlawang, Sonai, Tuivai, Kolodyne and Karnafulli. Mizoram is a treat for any tourist while traveling on the straight roads coursing through the thick forests and vibrant villages. Mizoram tourism has plenty to offer for nature lovers and adventure enthusiasts. The state is emerging as a major eco tourism and adventure tourism destination in Northeast India. During the last five years, Mizoram tourism received a good number of domestic as well as international tourists from all parts of the world. Mizoram as a destination has much to offer. The Mizos are very friendly and hospitable. English is commonly spoken. The joyful enthusiasm and the gregarious spirit of the local populace has been are the main reasons for establishing some of the most attractive tourism features in this beautiful state. Just chill in the lovely, nature fresh , naturally air conditioned weather, understand the local culture and way of living, soak in the peace and tranquility and unwind for a while. Mizoram tourism has identified several destinations and tourism circuits for infrastructure, accommodation and other developments . Places to See in Mizoram Tualchang Tualchang is the biggest monolith in Mizoram. Tualchang is situated near Tualchang village in the Aizwal district. Tualchang is a line of stone blocks. Sibuta Lung Sibuta Lung is one of the most popular sites in Mizoram. Sibuta Lung is a memorial stone that was erected about 300 years by the Palian chief. The memorial Sibuta Lung offers a story of jilted love and lust for revenge. Tomb of Vanhimailian Tomb of Vanhimailan was bulit in the memory of Vanhimailan Sailo. Vanhimailian Sailo was a great chief who ruled over Champhai. It overlooks the vast Champhai plain. Champhai is situated in the Aizawl District and is about 194 km from Aizawl in Mizoram India. Phawngui Phawngui, also known as the Blue Mountain, is the highest peak of Mizoram and is considered to be the abode of Gods. Phawngpui located in the Chhimtuipui district, is famous for rhododendron and orchids. With spectacular trees and flowers of all colours, Phawngpui presents a fairytale view of the blue hazed hills, and vales unfolding below. Mangkahia Lung Mangkahia Lung is a memorial stone which was erected in the memory of Mangkhaia in 1700 AD. It is a very large memorial stone also called Mangkhaia's stone. Mangkahia Lung is 5 m high with heads of mithun (the animal found in the northeast India) engraved on it. Lungvandawt Lungvandawt means a stone reaching heaven. Lungvandawt is a very tall beautiful chiselled pillar made of stone, which is about 75 cm in diameter and 3 m in height. Lungvandawt in Mizoram is found between Biate and Lungdar in the eastern part of Aizawl district. Tadmil 85kms away from Aizawl, it is a tranquil lake. Choose to pedal a boat through the placid waters or just relax. The nearby jungle has a plethora of flora and fauna. Vantawng Falls on the backdrop of the green hills, this is a picturesque waterfall. Dampa Sanctuary In the northwestern tip of Mizo Hills. The sanctuary houses swamp deer, tiger, leopard, elephant and hoolock gibbon. Last Updated on : 19/09/2013 Travel to Mizoram Travel to Mizoram Flights to Mizoram Flights to Aizawl About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule