Himachal Pradesh Colleges Home » Himachal Pradesh »Himachal Pradesh Colleges   i Colleges in Himachal Pradesh Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Nursing Colleges हिमाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Universities in Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                 (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Cities Manali Shimla Dharamshala Dalhousie Kasauli                        more... Travel to Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Himachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Subhash Baoli Shivkul Sankat Mochan Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una Hotels in Kangra              more... Assembly Polls HP Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities in Himachal Pradesh       Himachal Pradesh Colleges Colleges in Himachal Pradesh provide a wide range of courses for the students as for instance medical colleges, engineering colleges, law colleges and many others. The education standard in the state is significantly high and has reached a certain elevated position. List of Colleges in Himachal Pradesh The list of colleges in the state are enlisted below categorically: Engineering Institutes A list of the several engineering colleges are- Green Hills Engineering College (Approved by AICTE) Vpo-Baholi, Gandhi Gram, Kumar Hatti, Solan, Himachal Pradesh-173229 Himalayan Institute of Engineering and Technology: (Approved by (AICTE) It is affiliated to H.P. University Kala Amb, Himachal Pradesh IITT College Of Engineering & Technology: (Approved by AICTE) Kala Amb, Himachal Pradesh-173030 National Institute Of Technology: (Approved by AICTE) Rec), Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh-177005 University Institute of Information Technology: (Approved by AICTE) Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla Himachal Pradesh-171005 Medical Colleges Find the list of the medical colleges in the state- A.Dr. Rajendar Prasad Government Medical College: (Affiliated to Himachal Pradesh University) Kangra, Tanda - 176001 B.Indira Gandhi Medical College: (Affiliated to Himachal Pradesh University) Shimla - 171001 Management Institutes The colleges in the management arena are listed as: Himalayan Institute of Management : Affiliated to H.P.U. Shimla Department of Management Studies : Summer Hills, Shimla Himachal Pradesh Institute Of Engineering & Emerging Technologies , Makhnumajra, Baddi-173205,Dist. Solan (H.P.) Institute of Management Studies, Himachal Pradesh University : Shimla-171005 (H.P.) Computer and IT colleges The computer institutes of the state are: Centre for Computer Education & Software Development 79\9,Ayushmaan Bhawan Post Office Road Mandi 175001 Himalayan Institute of Computer Sciences (Affiliated to H.P.U. Shimla) Kala-Amb, Himachal Pradesh Department of Computer Science Himachal Pradesh University Summer Hills Shimla - 171 005 Himachal Pradesh Electronics Test and Development Centre STQC Directorate Deptt. Of Electronics Chambaghat Solan 173213 National Institute Of Computer Courses Near Govt. Degree College Anu Chowk Hamirpur 177005 Law Colleges The list of the law colleges are: Faculty of Law, Himachal Pradesh University (BCI Approved) (Affiliated to Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla) Summer Hill, Shimla 171005 School of Legal Studies, Regional Centre (BCI Approved) (Affiliated to Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla) H.P.University, Dharmsala School of Legal Studies (BCI Approved) (Affiliated to Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla) H. P. Univ., Manse, Shimla - 1 Himachal Pradesh College of Law (BCI Approved) (Affiliated to Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla) Kalal Amb, Sirmour L. R. Institute of Legal Studies (BCI Approved) (Affiliated to Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla) Solan Mass Communication and Media Colleges Students willing to take up mass communication courses can get proper education from the list of colleges below: Department of Journalism & Mass Communication , Himachal Pradesh University Summer Hill, Shimla 171005 M.S. Panwar Institute of Communication and Management Near Gas Godown, Rajgarh Road Shamti, Solan, Himachal Pradesh- 173212 Architecture Colleges Architectural courses can be taken up in- Faculty of Architecture National Institute of Technology (AICTE Approved) (Affiliated to NIT (Deemed University) Hamirpur-177 005 (Himachal Pradesh) Pharmacy Colleges The list is as below: Himalayan Institute of Pharmacy Affiliated to H.P. University Kala Amb, Himachal Pradesh Govt. Polytechnic for Women (PCI Approved) Kandaghat - 173 215 (Distt. Solan) Nursing Colleges Few of the nursing colleges of the state: A.Himalayan School of Nursing (GNM) Affiliated to HPU Shimla Kala-Amb (Himachal Pradesh) Indus College of Nursing Shimla 171002 (Himachal Pradesh) Ayurvedic Colleges The Ayurvedic colleges are enlisted below: Himachal Govt. Institute of Post-graduate Education and Research in Ayurved (Affiliated to Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla) Paprola -176115, (Himachal Pradesh) Rajiv Gandhi Rajkiya Government Ayurvedic Post Graduate College (Affiliated to Himachal Pradesh) Paprola, Kangra, Paprola 176 115 Veterinary Colleges A veterinary college of the state is as College of Veterinary & Animal Sciences (VCI Approved) CSK Himachal Pradesh Krishi Vishva Vidyalaya Palampur. Himachal Pradesh Hotel Management Colleges The colleges offering hotel management courses in the state are: Institute of Hotel Management Kufri, Shimla - 171012 Food Craft Institute Kufri, Shimla 171019 Dental Colleges The list of the dental colleges of the state are: Bhojia Dental College & Hospital Chandigarh - Nalagarh Road, Budh, (Baddi) Teh. Nalagarh (H.P.) H.P. Govt. Dental College & Hospital Shimla - 171 001 (Himachal Pradesh) Himachal Dental College Sunder Nagar, Distt. Mandi, (HimachalPradesh) Himachal Institute of Dental Sciences Paonta Sahib, Distt. Sirmour (H.P.) MNDAV Dental College & Hospital Tatul, P.O. Oachghat-173223 (H.P.) The numbers of colleges in Himachal Pradesh have been divided into the following areas: Number of Government Colleges : 67 Number of Skt. Colleges : 5 Number of non aided private colleges : 26 95% Aided Colleges : 4 Last Updated on : 24 May 2011 Colleges in Himachal Pradesh Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Nursing Colleges Universities in Himachal Pradesh             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule