By organic we mean... | Chetna Organic Skip to main content Search this site Login Register Home About Us Vision & Mission Organisational Structure Board of Directors Operational Area Achievements Thrust Areas Building Sustainable Institutions Integrated Farming Systems Natural Resources Management Improving Livelihood Options Value Chain Development Food Security and Nutrition Seed Sovereignty Gender Mainstreaming and Child Welfare Programs Green Cotton (New Program) Seed Guardians (New Program) Chetna Organic & Fair Trade Cotton Intervention Program Enhancing the capacities of the producer organizations for market development Jackpot Community Development Program Indo-German Watershed Development Project Integrated Watershed Management Program (IWMP) Peace By Peace Cotton Project Orissa Tribal Empowerment and Livelihoods Program Plus (OTELP+) Pratima Organic Growers Groups – ProCotton Program Convergence of Agriculture Initiatives in Maharashtra (CAIM) Revitalizing Rainfed Agriculture Network (RRA) Impact Partners COAPCL About COAPCL The COAPCL Approach Organisation Structure Co-operatives with Chetna Organic Roles and Responsibilities Products Services Systems & Certifications href ="#" Internal Control Systems Traceability in Chetna Organic Support/Relations Current Status Contact Us You are here Home By organic we mean...   Shifting in cropping patterns from food to cash crops like Soya and Cotton has made rain-fed agriculture input intensive. Especially, small and marginal farmers have witnessed a spurt in their working capital requirement due to dependence on external inputs such as hybrid, genetically engineered seeds chemical fertilizers and pesticides which, apart from featuring potential health hazards (prominently for women and girls) have also escalated their credit needs. Lack of a corresponding growth of the rural banking sector, however has forced farmers to depend on the exploits of non-institutional credit sources. The inevitable result of such a foray have clearly resulted in mounting debts, increased outlays on health costs and also adversely affecting soil health / fertility and ecology at large.     Chetna Organic’s model of organic/ecological farming has proven out to be a multifaceted panacea for such disorders. Focussing on locally available input resources and viable financing models has resulted in minimizing and averting external risks associated with rain-fed agriculture. Apart from garnering individual benefits to farmers in terms of better prices, reduced input costs& health outlays and thus enhancing net profits for farmers. Chetna is a platform where farmers are engaged in voicing their concerns and fostering interventions imperative to community welfare.   Healthier and more secure than before, farmers in chetna organic project a promising picture of their future in complete harmony with nature. A growth from 250 farmers in 2004 to over 15000 farmers by 2012 speaks for itself on how farmers have chosen to stand on a common pedestal of Environment…Ethics…Equilibrium!               "Organic agriculture is a holistic way of farming: besides production of goods of high quality, an important aim is the conservation of the natural resources fertile soil, clean water and rich biodiversity. The art of organic farming is to make the best use of ecological principles and processes. "         Organic Agriculture according to IFOAM:   “Organic agriculture is a production system that sustains the health of soils, ecosystems and people. It relies on ecological processes, biodiversity and cycles adapted to local conditions, rather than the use of inputs with adverse effects. Organic agriculture combines tradition, innovation and science to benefit the shared environment and promote fair relationships and a good quality of life for all involved”.       Principles of Organic Farming  Principle of Health  Principle of Ecology.  Principle of Fairness.  Principle of Care.       Basis of Organic standards Co-exist with, rather than dominate, natural systems. Sustain and/or build soil fertility. Minimize pollution/damage to the environment. Minimize the use of non-renewable resources Ensure the ethical treatment of animals. Do not rely on significant amounts of external inputs or on the use of GMO’s. Protect and enhance the farm environment with particular regard to conserve the bio diversity. Consider the wider social and ecological impact of agricultural systems. Conserve the habitat.   Organic Certification Organic certification is a third party certification system of certifying a process when it has passed quality assurance systems and qualification requirements or the organic standards stipulated in but not limited to National Program for Organic Production (NPOP), EU regulation 834/2007, National Organic Program (NOP), Japanese Agricultural Standards (JAS) etc.. It is primarily certification of a production system or a production method, including the products thereof.   Organic certification has the following benefits:   Helps build trust in between the buyer & producer Facilitate marketing & extension.                                 Facilitate production planning. Helps in maintaining transparency in the whole system.                                                                                                                             Improvement in the credibility of the produce. No biasness or conflict of interest comes during whole process of certification. Proper verification of system for compliance as per the standards at field & documentation level. systematic analysis of the production system to support learning clear guidelines to distinguish organic from conventional practices clear distinction between organic and conventional products for buyers   Copyright © Chetna Organic. All Rights Reserved. Theme by Danetsoft and Danang Probo Sayekti inspired by Maksimer