ï»¿ AED     Gallery Links Site Map FAQ           Home Schemes Central Sector Demonstration of Agricultural Machinery and Implements Training to Farmers on operation and maintenance of Agrl. Machinery State Sector Rain water harvesting and Run off management programme Master plan - Artificial Recharge to Ground Water SWC in Tribal areas under Integrated Tribal Development Programme Pulses Villages in Rain fed Areas - NADP Scheme to Revive Agriculture In Fallow Land - NADP SWC under Hill Area Development Programme Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project Soil Conservations in the Catchment of River Valley Project - NADP SWC under Western Ghats Development Programme Agricultural Mechanization under NADP Training on operation and maintenance of farm machinery Training rural youth on agricultural machinery and implements Diesel Engine Pump set with Rain gun / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation. Solar Powered Pumping system with Micro Irrigation Solar Chilli Drier Onion Storage structures TN IAMWARM Project Centre and State Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Command Area Development and Water Management Programme Services Land Development Minor Irrigation Mandate Downloads RTI Contacts                                 Schemes State Sector   Provision of Diesel Engine Pumpset with Rain gun / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation System for Critical Life Saving Supplemental Irrigation       Objectives     To give lifesaving supplementary irrigation to rainfed crops for avoiding total crop loss, utilizing rainwater harvested in farm ponds executed in the individual farmers field by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department under MGNREGS scheme. To sustain agricultural productivity and to improve the economic status of the farmers in rainfed areas through provision of diesel engine pumpsets with Rain gun / Portable irrigation systems at nominal rental charges.     Funding Pattern     State Plan Scheme     Project Area     350 Blocks In Tamil Nadu State.     Details of Works     Construction of Farm Ponds by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department under MGNREGS scheme. Procurement of Diesel Engine with Rain gun irrigation System / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation System Renting of these irrigation systems to the farmers at nominal rates to irrigate land with the water stored in the farm ponds.     Eligibility     All the farmers whose lands are covered in the blocks selected.     Subsidy     Provision of the irrigation systems consisting of Diesel engine pumpset and Raingun / Sprinkler irrigation system to the farmers at nominal rental charges.     Officer to be approached     Assistant Executive Engineer (A.E) in the selected Blocks Executive Engineer (A.E) in the District. Superintending Engineer (A.E) in the Region. Chief Engineer(AE), Agricultural Engineering Department, 487, Anna Salai, Nandanam, Chennai-600 035. Phone - 24352686, 24352622                            