People, Culture, Festivals of Punjab Home » Punjab » People Culture and Festivals » People,Culture and Festivals of Punjab   People Culture and Festivals Festivals Dance People Arts and Crafts more पंजाब का नक्शा Punjab Punjab Map Cities in Punjab Districts of Punjab Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Punjab Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Punjab Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Economy Telephone Directory Government and Politics Travel to Punjab Places to visit in Punjab Wildlife Sanctuaries Golden Temple Jallianwala Bagh Hotels in Punjab Amritsar Hotels Bhatinda Hotels Chandigarh Hotels Jalandhar Hotels Ludhiana Hotels Mohali Hotels Pathankot Hotels Patiala Hotels Geography and History Handicrafts Pin Code Universities In Punjab       People,Culture and Festivals of Punjab People, Culture, Festivals of Punjab collectively form a vivacious base of enlightening social verve. While the People of Punjab are known for their strong determination, the Culture of the state presents a multi-hued heritage of ancient civilizations. The Festivals of the place have a unique charm. The prime communities that populate the fertile land of Punjab are Sikh Jats and Khatris. Earning their livelihood from cultivation, some of the groups are engaged with commerce and trade also. The tribal sects of the state occupy a major part of Punjab and form a large portion of productive unskilled labors. The skilled labors of the state efficiently help in enhancing the economic richness of the place. Enriched with sacred doctrines of the various respected Sikh Gurus, the Culture of Punjab indicates an age-old tradition of enchanting customs. Being linked with the most ancient of civilizations, the Cultural cradle of the state flaunts a glorious ensemble of different conventional practices that have become a synonymous identity for the place. The jovial folklores, colorful costumes and the popular dance forms are the key ingredients of the Festivals of Punjab. From Bhangra, Gidda and Baisakhi to folk music and beating of dhol, the traditional Festivals of the state enthralls all through their never-ending charisma. Celebrated in different time of the year all the festivals symbolize the immense energy and mirth of the inhabitants of the place. The hearty demeanor and the enigmatic essence of the People, Culture and Festivals of Punjab enchant all those who come to visit this fertile land of conventional practices and contemporary pleasures. Last Updated on 22th January 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule