Focus on Delhi Information About Delhi | Government and politics | History | Contact Us | Sitemap Home Maps Business and Finance Travel Hotels NCR Utilities Sports Education Transport Infrastructure Events in Delhi Shopping in Delhi Focus Delhi Delhi is the capital of India. Iit won’t be wrong to say that it stands out from the rest of the cities in the country for more than one reason. It has developed in all the sectors of the economy. And the best part is it has managed to brave the rough financial weather when all the economies around the globe were reeling under a financial catastrophe. This only indicates that India was not severely affected by the worldwide financial crisis as other economies did. Ranging from the education sector to real estate, Delhi has shown growth in all sectors. And this ensures that living in Delhi will never be the same again. It has a rich cultural heritage that speaks volume of the country’s historical past. It is a place where you will hear people speaking different languages. The city is cosmopolitan and is a classical example of religious tolerance where people belonging to different religion celebrate their festival together. Delhi is one of the cities in India where many events take place. This is a venue for the automobile shows, trade fairs, computer fairs, property fairs, fairs related to environment and many more. Delhi Fashion Week is an event that pulls a huge crowd. Delhi of late has come to be known synonymous with development and progress. Anyone visiting the city after a decade or longer would have difficulties recognizing the place as the city has changes tremendously. Delhi Metro has written a new chapter of success for the city. It would not be wrong to call Delhi a melting pot of cultures as one is likely to encounter people from various ethnic and religious groups here. Fact file of Delhi Literacy Rate 86.3% Area 1,483 sq km Population Density 9340/sq km Population 1,67, 53, 235 Time Zone IST (GMT+05:30 hours) STD Code +91 11 Temperatures during Summer Max temperature 47 degree Celsius Temperatures during Winter Drops to 1 degree Celsius Longitude 77.383 ° E Latitude 29.016 ° N Altitude 239 meter above sea level Annual Rainfall (Average) 714 mm (28.1 inches) Popular Places in Delhi India Gate Akshardham Temple Jama Masjid Lal Quila Sacred Heart Church Read More... Education Universities in Delhi IIT Delhi Colleges in Delhi Schools in Delhi IGNOU Delhi Read More... Culture Delhi Art Delhi Culture Delhi Cuisine Restaurants in Delhi Chinese restaurants in Delhi Read More... Maps Delhi City Map Delhi Metro Map Delhi Travel Map Formula 1 In India Budh International Circuit Read More... How to reach Delhi By Road By Rail By Air Highways and roads connect you to the different cities and towns. The roadways are well developed. And over the years the condition of the roads has improved. There are buses that leave and arrive at the city at regular intervals. Indian Railways is one of the major modes of transportation that will take you to Delhi. There are many railway stations in Delhi. Trains like Shatabdi Express and Rajdhani Express are an all time favorite of the travelers. Delhi can also be reached by air. Domestic as well as International flights help you to reach Delhi. Important airline companies like Air France, Japan Airlines, KLM, Malaysian Airlines, British Airways, and Gulf Air etc operate from the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi. Delhi Travel DTC Bus Routes Delhi Travel Guide Tourism in Delhi Tourist Attractions in Delhi Flights to Delhi Fairs and Festivals in Delhi Read More... Shopping in Delhi Malls in NCR Khan Market Sarojini Nagar Dilli Haat Karolbagh South Extension Read More... Plan Your Trip Hotels Luxury Hotels Five Star Hotels Four Star Hotels Heritage Hotels in Delhi Economy Hotels Read More... History Tomar Dynasty Mughal Dynasty Sher Shah Suri Nader Shah British Rule Read More... Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) Tel : +91-11-41588011, 41588013, 41588014 Fax : + 91-11-25547264 Home | About Delhi | History | Maps | Business and Finance | Government and politics | Travel | Hotels Transport | Education | Sports | NCR | Infrastructure | Utilities | Events on Delhi | Shopping in Delhi Copyright 2010 .All rights reserved