Stevia - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Stevia Home Stevia Stevia is the world’s only all-natural sweetener with zero calories, zero carbohydrates and a zero glycemic index making it completely safe for diabetics and calorie conscious. Even though stevia has such positive health attributes, why does sugar still dominate the Indian market? The AgricultureInformation. com Forum Mr. Chirag Gajjar, manager, K.T.C. International, reasons, “Stevia is the best sweetener available to the human. But it cannot be compared with the sugar. Sugar has its own importance in the food and nutrition to the human. It is not the diabetics generator. Stevia is sweet in taste but still is liked by people. Sugar has its own importance in preservatives, bakery items, confectioneries, and many Indian sweet dishes use sugar as a bonding product. At any cost stevia, even though the best sweetener, cannot replace sugar.” Mr. Dilip Gandhi, proprietor, Hi-Tech Agro, says, “Yes very true, stevia is a natural sweetener but when I contacted a sweet manufacturer here at Indore, he commented that the quality of sweets made with stevia is not as good as sweets made with sugar. They have tried to offer sugar free sweets here but this needs more work, and also the price is high currently.” Mr. P.R. Kumaresh, proprietor Sanjivini Herbals, blames it on lack of promotion. “Marketing of stevia in India is till slow. It should pick up in 2 to 3 years, once the European market accepts stevia,” he says. Ideal Conditions for Stevia Cultivation Mr. Gandhi speaks about agricultural practices for procuring quality stevia leaves, “Micro sprinkler, shed net, raised beds, and good organic matter in the soil are very much required for producing quality stevia leaves.” He adds, “The ideal temperature required at the maximum is 42 deg Celsius in summer and may dip to 5 deg Celsius in winter. The ideal rainfall can be 40 inch. Stevia is an easy to grow crop. I don’t however have accurate climatic data for stevia cultivation.” He further comments, “To start with a project, the first step of paramount importance is to have the irrigation at the location. For stevia, the mini sprinkler is quite suitable as it increases humidity. Eventually this encourages new growth after harvesting the leaves. Planting needs to be done on raised beds to accommodate 25 K – 30 K plants per acre, and ample quantity of organic matter has to be applied before planting. For areas near Bangalore, shade may not be necessary.” Mr. Ganesh Prajapat, executive director, ACI Agrosolution, suggests, “Farmers should go for soil and water testing before stevia cultivation. He should prepare the field in the month of May and June, and plant saplings with well-developed rooting system, as they will easily establish in the farm. He should go for the ridge plantation method. The application of the neem farm input should be regular. He should regularly check for termite attack on the crop. The immediate and easy way to control the termite is irrigation. There must be availability of the water in the farm. In the summer period, it is recommended to go for the regular irrigation.” He adds, “Stevia requires regular water. There should not be water logging condition in the farm. The crop should be harvested before the peak climatic condition like heavy summer, heavy winter, and heavy rain. It will check the loss and minimize the water requirement and nutrient loss.” Challenges Faced by Farmers Speaking about the challenges faced by farmers in the industry, Mr. Gandhi says, “Market is the key, and farmers need assured tie ups for the dry leaves of stevia. Simple crops have to be made popular with end users. More education is required to make it popular among masses, cultivation made easy, and research work on making sugar free products using stevia has to be done at institutional level for use of the same in day to day food preparations.” Regarding finance, Mr. Gandhi says, “NABARD has some policy for stevia which they refinance to banks.” Mr. Prajapat adds, “The farmer plays an important role in the growth of the stevia industry. But the farmer is not getting good planting material or efficient farm inputs. There is also lack of training. He does not have access to any direct knowledge centre for the stevia cultivation. He lacks knowledge about harvest and post-harvest management, and quality management. This results in loss of profit. The grower must have buy back facility. He must get good price for his crop.” He suggests, “The government should start a separate research directorate for the stevia crop. There must be the crop improvement genetically. The government should distribute the free plants / sapling to the growers.” Investment Required Replying to member Mr. Anwar’s queries about the investment required to start stevia cultivation, Mr. Prajapat informs, “The investment would be around Rs. 1,30,000 per acre for the first year. If you cultivate stevia on 10 acres, the fixed cost may go down. If there is subsidy for drip irrigation in your state, the investment may go down further to Rs. 1,25,000 per acre. For this you will have to do the detailed technical meeting. In the technical meeting we will discuss all the aspects. Besides we will organize a field visit for better understandings,” he says, adding, “We offer complete solution for stevia plantation and buyback, including planting material to farm input. Our buyback is at Rs 100/kg.” Further speaking about the consultancy offered, Mr. Prajapat adds, “Our agriculture expert will visit the proposed site, do the topography and cultivation condition analysis, take the soil and water samples, and prepare the layout plans. He will discuss all the aspects of stevia cultivation, processing and marketing. We will submit a detailed project report of your proposed stevia cultivation project. The project report will include the information about stevia, package and practices of the stevia cultivation, cost of cultivation and the complete financial analysis. Up to 250 km we do the stevia cultivation field visit at our own cost. After 250 km the field visit charges are borne by the growers.” He also avers, “We can supply good quality planting material. We can also assist in installation of drip system, supply organic manure, and most importantly give you buy back guarantee. We have a strong team of agriculturists with core competencies in cultivation practices, plant protection, input management and agriculture economics. We try to limit our scope toward sustainable agriculture practices.” Buy Back Mr. Anwar further wanted to learn about the suppliers/buyers of genuine stevia plant saplings and dried leaves in South India. Mr. Prajapat informs, “Since stevia is a new crop and comes under the medicinal herbs, there is no any permanent buyer in south India like the paddy or other field crops. We provide 100% buyback assurance to our growers. The grower will have to supply the material to our desired location. Normally the transportation charge isn’t more than Rs 10-15/kg.”  He adds, “We have our supply agreement to the processing industries and foreign buyers. The growers need only to hand over the material to the transport company/ railway department. The grower also purchases from the trusted supplier. We have to do the grading of the leaves as per the physical property of the leaves, remove the other plant particles, dust, pebbles, and other plants leaves. Selling of stevia is not a big problem as there is huge shortage of stevia leaves supply.” Suggesting a business plan and profitability analysis of the crop, Mr. Prajapat says, “Stevia is a plantation crop. A grower should not depend on the existing buyers alone but also reach out to international buyers. This is a five-year crop. The crops need regular care. If proper care is taken then one can earn net profit up to Rs. 1,50,000/ year/ acre up to five years. If the buyer is careful at the initial stages, he can easily maintain export quality and get good price from the market.” Packaging and Exports Mr. Prajapat says, “The crops start to give yield for the first time after 3-4 months of the plantation. The leaves must be harvested and dried carefully. The leaves should be dried in the shade. There must be ventilation in the collected green leaves as otherwise it will turn black. It must be well dried and stored in the hygienic cool and dry conditions. The leaves should be free from plant part at the initial stage. The drying can be done on the green shade net. The dried leaves must be first packed in the 2-3 kg plastic bags. Always pack leaves in the food grade polythene bags. The leaves will not absorb moisture from the environment. They should be further packed in big bags and stored in moisture-less well ventilated store. Due to the moisture the leaves turn black. That creates quality degradation problem. If someone wants to go for the processing of the stevia leaves to stevioside, he must have regular supply of the dry stevia leaves minimum from 200 acre cultivation.” He adds, “To get good price one must wait for six months to one year. The leaves should not be black or contain plant particles more than 2-3 per cent. The leaves should be well dried. The leaves should be green. The material should be well packed. If the grower gets the organic certification, he will earn more profit from the international buyer. The South India and North East climatic condition has huge potential in the stevia production.” Financial Assistance Regarding financial assistance Mr. Prajapat says, “The crop comes under the medicinal plants. The National Medicinal Plants Board gives dedicated subsidy for the stevia cultivation. There is also subsidy from the various state and central government schemes for irrigation, farm infrastructure, solar power, plantation, farm implements, and export promotion. The grower will have to work out the assistance available from different institutes. If the repaying capacity is good and there is credit worthiness, the local bank will also provide the crop loan.” Training Programs Replying to queries about training programs on stevia, Mr. Prajapat says, “We provide training to individual farmers and groups. We also take the farmers for field visits to stevia farms. The training covers all the aspects of stevia cultivation, farm planning, field preparation, plantation, nutrient management, pest and disease management, harvesting, post-harvest management, storage, supply and transportation, export-import, and export-import documentations. This is complete training program.” Anwar Sadaath Mr. Anwar Sadaath is an ITES professional with over 10 years of experience in the healthcare BPO sector.  He has worked in projects related to operations management, client relationship management, quality management, and training and development. Mr. Sadaath is BSc Physics. He is based in Coimbatore. “I have always had the dream of venturing out on my own and have been seeking out opportunities with interests in education and training, agriculture produce and marketing, and renewable energy sector,” he says. He learned about stevia cultivation from the website www.agricultureinformation.com. “There were several forum queries related to stevia and its cultivation and I started doing some basic research about the crop and I am in the process of gathering information and viability of a stevia cultivation project in South India.  The reason for my interest in this crop is that it has a good business potential with decent returns, and stevia cultivation is in the nascent stages in India, especially in South India. Since stevia is a natural sweetener and is a potential replacement for sugar and aspartame, it has an untapped local market as well with our ever-rising diabetic population,” informs Mr. Sadaath. Future Growth Prospects of Stevia Mr. Ganesh Prajapat, Executive Director, ACI Agro Solution, says, “Stevia is one of the most profitable crops for the coming future, as it is the only source of natural sweetener. With lifestyle changes and related disease, people need more of calorie-free substitute of the sugar. Artificial sweeteners are not good for long term consumption. In countries like Japan and Korea, stevia sweetener contributes 50% market share.” “The stevia crop is propagated by the seedlings. One can plant 30,000 seedlings per acre. We provide complete consultancy from cultivation technology, planting material supply, nutrient management (manure), water management (drip irrigation instalation), and  buyback guarantee. We provide buyback before starting the cultivation to our growers so that they can be ensured at the marketing side,” says Mr. Prajapat.  Mr. Gandhi adds, “India has turned into the diabetic capital of the globe as we have the maximum number of diabetic people. Considering these aspects, the market will expand exponentially in future once publicity is done properly and is advised by doctors.”  He adds, “I am a small player in stevia industry. I have facilitated rooted cuttings to the farmers to cultivate stevia. It is still on a small scale.  I have supplied dry stevia leaves to a company in Hyderabad and I am in touch with a company from Baroda. Currently I am supplying 500 – 800 kgs per month.” Mr. Shrigovind wanted to learn how to increase yield of stevia leaves in organic way. To this, member Sabujayan advises using florigen/surgrow to increase stevia production organically. Our Correspondent Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Stevia Related – articles, consultants, downloads ACI Agro Solution Prashant Chaturvedi discusses about Aloe Vera Plantations You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading