Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Departments    Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Faculties 1. Dr.J.Alice R.P. Sujeetha  -Associate Professor and HOD 2. Dr.M.Loganathan - Associate Professor 3. Dr.R.Meenakshi  - Assistant Professor 4. Dr.Jeyan Arthur Moses - Assistant Professor The department is headed by Dr. Alice R.P Sujeetha (Alice) and the associated faculty member are Dr. M. Loganathan (Logu), Associate Professor and Dr. R.Meenakshi (Meena), Assistant Professor. Dr. Alice, Dr. Loganathan and Dr.R.Meenakshi have earned Doctoral degrees in Entomology This Department offers solutions to problems related to post harvest processing and storage of food grains, pulses, oil seeds, millets and spices. Food is lost between harvest and consumption, often because of poor choice of storage facilities that allow moisture, fungus, rodents and insects to take their toll or unaware of the available processing in handling. Training and consultancies are offered by the faculty members on solving problems and storage and handling. Research projects on Public Private Partnership mode are also conducted. Furthermore, the faculty members of the department also focus on pest management techniques in stored commodities. The faculty members also work in teams with other Departments on inter-disciplinary projects that require their expertise. Normal atmosphere storage, fumigation of food grains, controlled atmosphere storage and modified atmosphere storage in bulk and bag are some areas the faculty members work on. The Department has a Storage Entomology laboratory and a bulk storage research facility which comprise of five galvanized metal bins of various diameters and heights with fully automated loading, aerating and drying systems. The faculty members also accept students from other Institutions for conducting their M.Sc., M.Phil., and Ph.D. research works. Current on-going research projects in the Department are: 1. Safe storage guidelines for the Mung Bean Vigna radiata (L.) and Urd Bean Vigna mungo (L.) 2. House hold silos for food security in the new millennium 3. Ensuring food security: harnessing science to protect our grain harvest from insect threats 4. Management of Pests in Copra Processing and Storage 5. Oxidative stability studies and quality assessment of olive oil blends for the benefit of Indian Consumers 6. Effect of process parameters of ohmic heating of soymilk on yield and quality of tofu No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com