Subrahmanyam Chandrasekhar India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Science Technology » Subrahmanyam Chandrasekhar   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Subrahmanyam Chandrasekhar One of the greatest scientists of the 20th century, Subrahmanyam Chandrasekhar was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1983 jointly with the nuclear astrophysicist W.A. Fowler. Born on October 19, 1910 in Lahore, his father was an officer in the Indian Audits and Accounts Department while the famous scientists Sir C.V. Raman was his uncle. He had his education at home till the age of 12 and started his school education in 1922 at the age of 12. He joined the Madras Presidency College in 1925. He went on to complete his Bachelors degree in June 1930. The same year he was awarded a Government of India scholarship for pursue his doctoral studies in England. He completed his Ph.D. degree at Cambridge in 1933 and in the same year was elected to a Prize Fellowship at Trinity College for the period 1933-37. He was offered a position as a Research Associate at the University of Chicago in 1936. He tied the nuptial knot with Lomita Doraiswamy in September 1936. His discovery of the Chandrasekhar Limit made him famous, which plays a very important role in understanding stellar evolution. He conducted research on many other areas which include the theory of Brownian motion, theory of the illumination and the polarization of the sunlit sky, the equilibrium and the stability of ellipsoidal figures of equilibrium, the general theory of relativity and relativistic astrophysics and the mathematical theory of black holes. This great scientist passed away on August 21, 1995. Last Updated on : January 30, 2014   Related Links   Scientists Prafulla Chandra Roy Homi J. Bhabha M.K. Vainu Bappu Jagdish Chandra Bose G. N. Ramachandran M.S. Swaminathan Bhaskara I Meghnad Saha Bhaskara I Sam Pitroda Aryabhatta II Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar Bhaskara II Sir C.V. Raman Harish Chandra Subrahmanyam Chandrasekhar Aryabhatta Vikram Sarabhai Dr. H. Khorana               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule