Industries in Amritsar Home » Amritsar » Industries   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Industries in Amritsar The city of Amritsar has long been one of the biggest business and commercial centers in the northern zone of India. Industries in Amritsar play a significant role in the economy of the state. One of the factors that has contributed to the growth of Amritsar as trading center is that the city is the seat of the Sikh religion. Thousands of pilgrims visit Amritsar every year which was a boost for the various industries. Amritsar is famous for the manufacturing of fine pashmina shawls, thick serge, silk goods and carpets. Besides the pashmina work, Amritsar is also engaged in the manufacturing of silk goods. Carpet weaving is another industry, which is very popular in Amritsar. This was an offshoot of pashmina industry, since the carpets were produced from inferior varieties of raw wool. Industrialization is occurring at a fast pace in the city. The 1950s saw a huge expansion in the industrial sector of Amritsar with many new industries coming up and the old ones expanding at a fast rate. In between the years 1967-68, there were 27 large-scale industries and 5,500 small-scale industries. The Industries in Amritsar are mostly engaged in the production of various goods namely panel pins, paper-cutting, engineering goods, textile machinery, wood and machine screws, printing and machinery, electric fans, chemicals and the textiles including woollen, silken, cotton, etc. Throughout India, Amritsar holds a place of prominence in the production of woollen fabrics, like worsted, tweeds, blankets, shawls, etc. the district holds a prominent place in the country. Last Updated on : 08 June 2012 About Amritsar History Massacre Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Weather             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule