About Us JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    About Us About Us History The Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (Formerly Paddy Processing Research Centre) is a pioneer Research and Development Institute under the Ministry of Food Processing Industries, Government of India. The Institute has its origin way back in 1967 when it was started as R & D laboratory in the Modern Rice Mill complex of Thanjavur Co-operative Marketing Federation (TCMF) at Tiruvarur, Tamil Nadu, India under the dedicated leadership and the able guidance of late Dr. V. Subrahmanyan. an eminent scientist and founder Director, Central Food Technological Research Institute, Mysore. The mandate of the Institute at its inception was to seek solutions for preserving high moisture paddy because the paddy harvest season in Southern India coincided with the tail end of the South West monsoon. The Institute was later upgraded as a national laboratory with the name Paddy Processing Research Centre (PPRC) in 1972. At the time of up-gradation the mandates of the Institute were also changed and the scientists in the Institute focused their research in identifying technologies for post harvest procession and preservation of paddy. The Institute was moved to it current location at Thanjavur in 1984. Considering the vital importance of strengthening R & D efforts in the post-harvest processing, preservation and value addition of raw agricultural produce, the Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI) strengthened and upgraded the PPRC as a National Institute in February 2008 and was called as Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). The Institute is located at Thanjavur, the ancient capital of Chola Kingdom and the granary of Tamil Nadu. The IICPT with its modern laboratories equipped with hi-tech instruments, is engaged in the R&D of food grain processing, value addition, by-product utilization through bio-processing, process and product development. Our Food Testing Laboratory is NABL accredited. We have a hi-tech and cottage level food processing incubation cum training center. Hands-on-training on different food processing technologies, renting facilities and other supports are offered all thought the year to help the entrepreneurs to put in their innovative ideas for the development of new products. IICPT also offers B.Tech., M.Tech. and Ph.D. programs in Food Process Engineering. No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com