MARKETING  INFRASTRUCTURE MARKETING  INFRASTRUCTURE  &  AGRICULTURAL   MARKETING  REFORMS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXPERT COMMITTEE REPORT PREFACE   SUMMARY & RECOMMENDATIONS   INTRODUCTION   PRESENT AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SYSTEM   DIRECT/ALTERNATIVE MARKETING AND PLEDGE FINANCING   PRICE STABLISATION WHEN POOR HARVEST IS EXPECTED AGRICULTURAL MARKETING INFRASTRUCTURE   MARKETING EXTENSION, TRAINING AND RESEARCH   Annexure-I               PREFACE   1.      India is one of the largest agrarian economies of the world.   Its agriculture sector is at the core of the economy’s purchasing power.   The agriculture produce sector is the most important component of the Indian commodity sector.   India ’s commodity sector comprises activities, regulations, institutions and producers, consumers, intermediaries, service producers and marketplaces that collectively cause and explain some part of the economy’s total output.   The agriculture produce sector comprehensively explains the geographic dispersion and statistical distribution of household incomes and purchasing power but the sector itself is under unprecedented stress.   There is increasing pressure on all segments of the agriculture produce economy to respond to the challenges that the global markets pose in the new post-WTO world trade order.     2.      As the earlier marketing system was developed in the context of a planned economy afresh approach to marketing is necessary in the atmosphere of liberalization and globalization. The National Agricultural Policy indicates the need for new demand driven marketing set up. The Expert Committee was therefore appointed to suggest ways and means to meet this new challenge through strengthening and developing agricultural marketing system in the country.             3.      The National Agriculture Policy (NAP) envisages promotion of demand driven agriculture growth catering to domestic as well as export markets.   As the efficient agricultural marketing system lies at the core of agriculture growth, the Government of India constituted an Expert Committee under my chairmanship to review the present system and suggest ways and means to strengthen and develop it.   The order of the Government of India regarding constitution of the Committee and its Terms of Reference is at Annexure-I & IA.     4.      The Committee worked through 4 Working Groups which dealt with TOR I and II; III, IV; and V, VI, VII respectively. TOR VIII was common to all    The Working Groups were headed by Dr. B.D.Pawar, Shri G.Ramachandran, Prof. S.S.Acharya and Shri T.R.Verma respectively. It held three meetings of each of the Working Groups and four meetings of the full Committee. The present report is based on deliberations during these meetings. The Committee wishes to place on record appreciation for efforts of the conveners of the Working Groups for their contribution and support.   The Committee expresses its thanks to all of its Members for their support and guidance.   Particular thanks are due to Dr. S.L.Bapna of IIM Ahmedabad and Sh. A.D. Rane of R.B.I. Munbai for their fruitful participation in deliberations. Shri M.K.Mandal, AMA to the Government of India was associated as Member Secretary of the Committee till 14 th May, 2001 .   Shri P.K. Agarwal who took over as AMA and Member Secretary from Shri Mandal proved an asset to the Committee. He worked with missionary zeal for preparation of the report.   The Committee would like to record its appreciation for the services of Shri Mandal.   Shri Agarwal’s untiring motivation and efforts made it possible for the Committee to submit its report in time.     5.      The Committee submitted its Interium report on 10 th April 2001as desired by the Honourable Union Minister of Agriculture. The Committee is grateful to Hon’ble Union Minister of Agriculture Sh. Nitish Kumar, Minister of State for Agriculture Sh. S.Y. Naik and Sh. J. N.L. Srivastava, Secretary to GOI (DAC) for their guidance and contribution from time to time.             6.      The Committee expresses its thanks to Hapur Chamber of Commerce and Shri D.S.Kolamkar, Director, Forward Market Commission, Mumbai for fruitful discussions on the subject of forward and futures markets in Agricultural products.   The officials of NIAM and DMI extended wholehearted cooperation and support to the Working Groups and Expert Committee during the deliberations.    The committee recognises sincere and hard work put in by Sh. G.H. Dhankar, Deputy AMA, Dr. Kamal Mathur, Dr. M.S.Jairath and Dr. Hema Yadav.     7.      I hope that the report will be useful to agricultural marketing policy planners and practitioners in the Centre and the States in initiating measures to strengthen and develop agricultural marketing in the country to meet the challenges of new economic order.   Dated 29 th June                                                  (Shankerlal Guru)                                                                                                  Chairman     SUMMARY & RECOMMENDATIONS     1.     Government is promoting organized marketing of agricultural commodities in the country through a network of regulated markets.   Most of the state Governments and Union Territories have enacted legislations to provide for development of agricultural produce market.   As on 31.3.2001, 7177 markets have been covered under regulation.   The country also has nearly 27,294 rural periodical markets, about 15% of which function under the ambit of regulation.   2.     Regulated markets have helped in mitigating the market handicaps of producers/sellers at the wholesale assembling level. But, the rural periodic markets in general, and the tribal markets in particular, remained out of its developmental ambit.   It was envisaged that physical markets with facilities and services would attract the farmers and the buyers creating competitive trade environment thereby offering best of the prices to the producers/sellers.   3.     The Institution of regulated market has, however, achieved a limited success. These markets were supposed to ensure smooth and orderly development of agri-marketing by ensuring fair play of trade practices and market forces. Over a period of time these markets have, however, acquired the status of restrictive and regulated markets, providing no help in direct and free marketing, organized retailing, smooth raw material supplies to agro – processing, competitive trading, information exchange and adoption of innovative marketing systems and technologies. Monopolistic practices and modalities have prevented development of free and competitive trade in agri- marketing, future markets, use of latest technologies in post harvest technology and handling exports, agro based industries, warehousing etc. Now these markets have failed in containing the scenarios of plenty’s and scarcities.   4.     An efficient agricultural marketing is essential for the development of the agricultural sector.   In as much as it provides outlets and incentives for increased production, the marketing system contributes greatly to the commercialization of subsistence farmers. World-wide, Governments have recognized the importance of liberalizing agricultural markets.   Government policy has to effectively address issues of marketing liberalization and help to overcome the constraints faced by various organizations including private sector involved in agri-marketing. The ever increasing production, spread of latest technologies, changing socio – economic environment, increasing demand for downsizing the distribution chain and reducing the margin between farmers and ultimate consumers, challenges emerging out of liberalization and globalization in the post WTO period requires a vibrant, dynamic and   assimilative marketing structure and system.   5.   In promoting vibrant competitive marketing systems, Government need to examine all existing policies, rules and regulations with a view to remove all legal provisions inhibiting free marketing system. Today, State Governments alone are empowered to initiate the process of setting up of a market for certain commodities, which are regulated and for certain areas, in which the Regulation is enforced. These provisions will have to be replaced by providing an omnibus provision that anybody can set up a market, provided minimum standards, specifications, formalities and procedures which may be let down by the Government of India are complied with. The Government of Karnataka has set the ball rolling by amending its Act to allow the National Dairy Development Board to set up wholesale fruit and vegetables market at Bangalore with the subsidiary collection centers to promote integrated marketing of horticultural produce grown in the State.   Private Sector, Corporates, Joint Ventures need to be similarly encouraged to set up markets for free and competitive trade.     6.    The institution of regulated markets, set up to strengthen and develop agricultural marketing in the country has achieved a limited success.    The restrictive legal provisions did not augur well with competitive market structure. Promoting competition in the trade and facilitating farmers with supporting services like grading, standardization, storage with pledge finance and facilities in the markets have become secondary activities. Funds from the Agricultural Marketing Boards have been siphoned off in many states to Public Ledger Account by the State Authorities.   Consequently, the modernization/infrastructure development conducive to operational efficiency of the markets has suffered heavily.   The Committee recommends that by an appropriate amendment in the Act the utilization of funds by the market committees and the Marketing Boards for these activities may be made mandatory.     7.    The spot markets, have not been linked with the forward and future markets to receive price signals. The futures trading in agricultural commodities is also regulated by the Government. The linkage between the spot and futures markets seems to be poor due to domination of the speculators.   Government has, to continue its efforts to strengthen and institutionalize commodity exchanges to instill confidence and awareness among market players.   8.   There is an imperative need to make Government administered marketing organizations administratively viable and managerially competent in keeping with liberalized trade atmosphere.   The marketing activities are many-folded and need liaison and collaboration with related organizations.   Market committees including sub-yards, should be headed by professionals.   Existing Secretaries need to be trained in professional management of the markets.   The functions of APMC and Marketing Boards may have to be remodeled for this purpose.     9.     The nature of legal framework within which agricultural markets operate has a fundamental effect on the functioning of the agricultural marketing system. Legal reforms can play an important role in making the marketing system more effective and efficient by removing unnecessary conditions and by establishing a sound framework to reduce uncertainty of the market. A review is, therefore required in respect of all laws which regulate participation in market such as registration/licensing, commodities traded, controls on packaging and labeling, laws affecting market place, laws affecting supply including controls on movement of produc and volume of commodities traded, laws relating to access to credit and capital dispute resolution mechanism.     10. The Essential Commodities Act, 1955 which has resulted in restrictions on storage and free movement of stocks, initiative by the trade in innovation and investment, should be repealed to make way for play of free market forces in real sense.   The Committee recommends that a Task Force be set up under the Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation to undertake a review of all marketing legislations, policies and programmes and suggest various reforms in the statutory arrangements relating to agricultural marketing as well as policies and programmes for development and strengthening of agricultural marketing with specific reference to needed investment, package of incentives and easy and adequate marketing credit.   11.   Direct marketing enables farmers to meet the specific requirements of wholesalers from the farmers' inventory of graded produce and of retail consumers based on consumers' preferences, thus enabling farmers to dynamically take advantage of favourable prices and improve their net margin. It encourages farmers to undertake grading of farm produce at the farm gate and obviates the necessity of farmers to haul produce to regulated markets that are not necessarily spaced on the principles of efficiency. Direct marketing thus enables farmers and buyers to economize on transportation costs and to improve price realization considerably.     12. The Committee suggests promotion of direct marketing as one of the alternative marketing structure that sustains incentives for quality and enhanced productivity, reduce distribution losses, improving farmer incomes with improved technology support and methods. The market will operate outside the purview of the Agricultural produce Marketing Act and will be owned by professional agencies in private sector, wholesalers, trade associations and other investors.   The government’s role should be that of a facilitator rather than that of having control over the management of the markets.     13. Direct marketing by farmers to the consumers was experimented through Apni Mandis in Punjab and Haryana.   The concept, with certain improvements got popularized in Andhra Pradesh through Rythu Bazars and   in Tamil Nadu as Uzhavar Santhaigal.   At present, these markets are being run at the expenses of State exchequer, as a promotional measure, to inculcate habit of marketing without help of middlemen by the small and marginal producers of fruit and vegetables.   Considering the vastness of the country, more and more such markets need to come up in the organized sector with private investment so that they can be developed in tune with the market requirements with backward & forward linkages.   A common Code of Conduct and modalities with regard to ownership, operation & need based infrastructure will have to be prepared and circulated to spread the concept of direct marketing by the farmers.   14.   The similar logic holds good for consumer organizations also who can procure directly from producers and distribute to the consumers commensurate with their purchasing powers.   The Government should support these organizations with schemes like providing back ended incentives for refrigerated as well general transport, setting up of grading and packing houses, credit at low interest etc., till they become financially self-sufficient on commercial lines.     15.   Direct marketing through SHGs or informal groups, NGOs, cooperatives, Farmers Associations, Companies, partnership, joint ventures may be encouraged by government to various policy back up and programmes. These organizations may be encouraged to create and manage markets physical as well as futures. The cooperatives however, will have to be freed from the shackles of politician and bureaucrats.   16. As another form of direct marketing, the unemployed youth could be involved in procurement of orders and supply of graded and packed products to different city dwellers.   The youth could be trained in marketing practices of procuring products and supplying them.   The financial assistance from the public sector to such ventures would generate entrepreneurship and provide profitable employment to the younger generation.    They could be given assistance in the form of working capital to start the enterprise along with the necessary agri-business training.     17. The use of information technology in agri-marketing has become indispensable. Therefore encouragement may be provided to generate and host useful portals, websites, databases, information packages and other soft wares, generic as well as customize on agricultural marketing.   Info kiosks may be encouraged to be set up in the markets, spot as well as futures, farmers organizations, Associations of traders and other functionaries for exploiting the opportunities of information revolution, especially for online demand of different products; product specifications with regard to quality, pack size, packaging material, quantity and the time frame of supply; the transport cost involved and the marketing charges likely to be incurred in the market where the goods are to be delivered; facilities available to the farmer in the buying market; Re-handling of the produce, if necessary, in the supplying market to suit to the requirement of the buyer market; the rules and regulations of the destination market, if it is located outside the state at distant place, and other specific information as may be conducive for the seller to transact the business with the purchasers; and the legal provisions related to storage, transportation, phyto-sanitary requirements etc.     18.   Forward contract may well be regarded as direct and alternative marketing facilitator. With the initiation of the liberalization process in India, interest in futures markets has been revived for their price risk management and price discovery roles, as well as handling the situation of plenty’s and scarcities.   In the country currently, futures contracts are traded in nine commodities in 20 commodity exchanges. It is suggested that more and more commodities be added to facilitate competitive and free marketing system.     19. A recent study conducted by the IIM, Ahmedabad has indicated that the performance of the Indian commodity futures markets is varied across the commodities, exchanges and contracts.   They are deficient in several aspects such as infrastructure, logistic, management, linkages with financial institutions, reliability, integrity and an efficient information system which do not encourage a large group of the market players in the commodity sector to trade in this market.   Government has, therefore, to continue its efforts to strengthen the exchanges and to instill confidence and awareness among market players.     20. Poor credit flows have had an adverse effect on the development of agricultural marketing systems in the country.   Certified warehouses and a system of negotiable warehouse receipts could lead to improved credit delivery, better loan recovery and convenience in asset management. The existing Government warehousing corporations should play a leading role in the development of warehousing.   However, they can only cover part of the field, which should be opened up to private operators, particularly those who already provide storage services. The institutionalization of the warehouse receipts system through the commodity exchanges is most likely to yield the best results in the context of promoting and propagating warehouse receipts, in particular electronic warehouse receipts, and a national system of warehouse receipts.   21. Pledge financing enables the usage of inventories of graded produce as collateral for accessing credit from the organized credit market at cheaper rates of interest that reflect the lower credit and collateral risk, thus enabling farmers to dynamically take advantage of favourable prices and improve their net margin. It enables farmers to hold inventory of graded produce under favourable storage conditions and standardized preservation under supervisory conditions; promotes rural godowns and warehousing. It also advances grading of farm produce to the farm gate, thus enabling farmers to improve price realization considerably; identifying preserved storage closer to farms.   22. Produce market loan for a period up to six months to farmers availing crop loans up to Rs. One lakh are reckoned as priority sector advance. Banks are financing Artiya’s for provision of inputs to farmers. Finance to wholesaler / traders is not treated as agricultural finance. Loans for construction/ running storage facilities are already included under priority lending. It is suggested that the existing limit of priority sector advance should be revised upward suitably taking in to consideration innovation in agricultural sector in the post WTO regime. The credit flow to the agricultural marketing is very meager. The banking environment and lending policies and programmes for financing is not found conducive for the increased capital needs of agricultural marketing. Therefore government is requested to design full fledged agricultural marketing credit policy considering the requirement of increased production, market innovations, technologies and socio-economic changes with specific reference to post WTO regime.   23. Market infrastructure is important not only for the performance of various marketing functions and expansion of the size of the market but also for transfer of appropriate price signals leading to improved marketing efficiency. High investment with entrepreneurial skills are required for creation and managing these infrastructures. Therefore private investment in the market infrastructure development may be encouraged by modifying various procedure backed up by package of incentives. Nevertheless, for providing infrastructure in remote and difficult areas, the public sector would need to continue to play an important role. 24. Projections of production and marketed surplus of various farm products show that even at the existing marketed surplus-output ratios, the quantities which the marketing system will be required to handle in future, are quite large. The marketing system backed by strong, adequate infrastructure is the core content of agri-marketing. Development of infrastructure with in spot markets and others places is a huge task. Committee based on the estimates of the State Master Plan for Development of Regulated Markets found that there is a need of total investment of Rs 6026 crores   25.   Apart from general purpose markets, there is need for developing specialized markets for fruits and vegetables.   It has been assessed that there are at least 241 such places in the country where fruit and vegetables markets should be developed.    The investment requirement for fruit and vegetables markets in the country is around Rs.970 crores.   26.   Rural periodic market is the first contact point for producer – sellers for encashing his agricultural produce and buying other goods needed by them. There are in all 27294 rural periodic markets including those for livestock, in the country.    There is urgent need to develop these rural periodic markets in a phased manner with necessary infrastructural amenities to have a strong base level link in the marketing chain. The investment requirement for developing these primary rural market places is estimated at Rs.2146 crores.   27. Encouragement by way of policy back up as well as financial support is recommended for special type of markets like floriculture, cattles etc. For export promotion and inter state marketing setting up of 50 mega markets in the country with government financial support in private, public, cooperative or joint venture is suggested. Encouragement may be considered for promoting marketing of organically grown produce, fruits & vegetables, medicinal plants, herbs etc.   28. Storage infrastructure is found necessary for carrying the agricultural produce from production to consuming periods.   Country needs much more storage   facility than what is available now.   This is specially more important for hill and remote areas in several states.   For an additional 20 million storage capacity the investment required is estimated at Rs.5400 Crores. The private sector needs to be encouraged to enter the storage and warehousing activity and make investment of this magnitude. Village Panchayats, cooperatives, SHGs and farmers organizations may be encouraged for undertaking warehousing.  