Welcome to the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources — College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Search OKSTATE.EDU... Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Academic Depts Ag Economics Ag Education, Communications & Leadership Animal Science Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resources Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences Multidisciplinary Programs Environmental Sciences Master of International Agriculture Program Future Students Student Services Visitors CASNR Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Now Be an OSU Cowboy! Undergraduate Admissions Graduate College College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Navigation Home Academic Departments Future Students Student Services CASNR Scholarships Applications Study Abroad Farm to Fork News Events Alumni Employers Faculty Resources Personnel Request for Information Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Search Advanced Search…   Login You are here: Home Info College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Welcome to the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Front page Slideshow Expanding Minds, Inspiring Purpose. Visit the OSU Alumni Association's car tag page to learn more! Connect with us! Facebook • Twitter • Instagram CASNR Opening Paragraph Welcome to the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Explore our website and learn about the opportunities available to you as an OSU Cowboy! With more than 16 majors and 62 study options, more than 60 student organizations and competitive teams and study abroad trips all over the world, there is a place for you in CASNR. CASNR News CASNR News   ( View MORE... ) Berryhill to Compete at College National Finals Rodeo May 29, 2015 For the second consecutive year, Thompson Berryhill, agricultural economics senior at Oklahoma State University, will attend the College National Finals Rodeo June 14-20 to pursue the title of national champion. Farm machinery focus of LA artist’s paintings at OSU Museum of Art May 27, 2015 Los Angeles artist Karen Carson unveils her large-scale paintings depicting the gargantuan machines that are familiar sights in rural America and revered icons of agricultural in the exhibit “Movers and Shapers: Combines, Tractors, and Swathers,” at the OSU Museum of Art from June 1 to August 29. An opening reception with the artist and curator, including a question and answer session, is set for June 1, from 5 – 7 p.m. Recent Biosystems Engineering graduate named one of nation’s Most Promising Engineers of Tomorrow May 27, 2015 Oklahoma State University’s Jonathan Overton, recent biosystems engineering alumnus from Yukon, Oklahoma, was recently honored by DiscoverE as one of 12 of the nation’s most promising engineering professionals of tomorrow in its fourth annual New Faces of Engineering College Edition. Next 3 items » 1 2 3 4 … 25 Document Actions RSS feed About the Division About the Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources The College is one of three entities within the Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources , which is also comprised of the Oklahoma Agricultural Experiment Station and the Oklahoma Cooperative Extension Service . The Hatch Act of 1887 established the Agricultural Experiment Station system. The Smith-Lever Act of 1914 created the Cooperative Extension Service to disseminate information obtained through agricultural research. If you think a career in an agriculture- or natural resources-related field may be in your future, we'd love to hear from you! Email us today! Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Accessibilty Safety Legal and Trademarks Webmaster © 2015 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved