Construction Trade Show,Real Estate Trade Fair,International Property Expo JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Construction & Real Estate Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Construction & Real EstateTrade Shows Date : 09 Sep - 12 Sep 2015 Ceramics & Sanitaryware Indonesia -  Indonesia Ceramics & Sanitaryware Indonesia, an exhibition dedicated to bathroom and sanitary equipment fittings, appliances and accessories, attracting plumbers, architects, builders merchants and local authorities. Exhibit Latest Technology in Building.... Venue : The Jakarta International Expo (JIExpo) ,Jakarta Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Sep - 12 Sep 2015 Building & Construction Indonesia Series -  Indonesia The 17th International Series of Building, Construction and Infrastructure Development Exhibitions. Building & Construction Indonesia is 4 days event for exploring various avenues of building and construction industries in all over.... Venue : Jakarta International Expo (JIExpo) ,Jakarta Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Sep - 24 Sep 2015 Elmia Fastighet -  Sweden Elmia Fastighet 2015 is one of the leading repair and extension, property management, maintenance show, which is providing there best platform for the related industry and related professionals. Venue : Elmia exhibition halls ,SE Sweden Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 19 Nov - 22 Nov 2015 Concreta - Portugal -  Portugal Concreta is an International Exhibition for the Construction Industry that provides the ideal opportunity to get to know the most innovative products in the market, setting trends and showing the most advanced technology being applied in.... Venue : Exponor ,Porto Portugal Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 29 Oct - 01 Nov 2015 Buildtech Odessa -  Ukraine BuildTech - the largest gathering of construction, road, mountain, and special machinery, equipment and technologies. BuildTech provides an opportunity not only to see the new models, but also to evaluate the technical and performance.... Venue : Odessa Sea Commercial Port Exhibition Complex ,Odessa Ukraine Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Jun - 11 Jun 2016 Glass Technology & Design-South America -  Brazil The main target of Glass South America is to provide a strategic space for networking, experience exchange and generation of business to the important players in this market, who seek solutions and new applications for glass. Venue : Transamérica Expo Center ,São Paulo Brazil Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 Mar - 15 Mar 2016 Plumbing, Heating and Air 2016 -  Germany The trade fair for Sanitary, Heating Equipment and Air Conditioning Exhibition. Venue : Messe Essen ,Essen Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 Mar - 15 Mar 2016 Shk Essen -  Germany Shk Essen Trade Fair for Sanitary Installation, Heating, Air Conditioning and Regenerative Energies. The focus will be on current bathroom trends and highlights of the major sanitary installation brands, technologies for modern living space.... Venue : Messe Essen Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Oct - 23 Oct 2015 Ceramitec-Germany -  Germany Ceramitec-Germany 2015 is international trade fair for machinery, equipment, plants, processes and raw materials for ceramics and powder metallurgy.this new subtitle aptly sums up the entire bandwidth of areas covered by ceramitec – from.... Venue : New Munich Trade Fair Centre ,München Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Oct - 22 Oct 2015 MATERIALICA 2008 -  Germany 8th International Trade Fair for Materials Applications, Surface Technology and Product Engineering with MATERIALS WEEK Congress. Venue : New Munich Trade Fair Centre Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Jan - 30 Jan 2016 International trade fair for creative habitat design, furnishing, decorating and lifestyles -  Austria International trade fair for creative habitat design, furnishing, decorating and lifestyles is the most important furniture and deco accessories trade fair.this show is an annual ‘must’ for all painters, decorators, furnishers,.... Venue : Messezentrum Salzburg (Salzburg Exhibition Centre) ,Salzburg Austria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Jun - 05 Jun 2015 IBCTF - International Building & Construction Trade Fair -  China International Building & Construction Trade Fair, A promotion campaign towards to the extensive visitors like end-users, decision-makers, importing and exporting companies, designers, engineers, technicians, etc. is to be launched before the opening.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Nov - 29 Nov 2015 Excon-Bangalore -  India Confederation of India Industry (CII), India's premiere industry Association presents Excon 2015 - the 8th edition of Excon is scheduled to be held 25th - 29th November 2015, Bangalore, Karnataka, India. Venue : Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) ,Bangalore ,Karnataka India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 May - 13 May 2016 ISSA INTERCLEAN AMSTERDAM -  Netherlands he ISSA/INTERCLEAN Promo Packages offer you the ideal solution to reach and exceed your promotional goals. All packages have been designed to attract your potential customers before, during and after the exhibition. They take your specific.... Venue : RAI International Exhibition and Congress Centre Netherlands Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Jan - 31 Jan 2016 Klimahouse Expo -  Italy Klimahouse Expo is the ideal center in order to introduce new or solutions building alternatives for 1 and the reorganization and the relates to your advantages in terms of consumptions. Venue : Fiera Bolzano ,BZ Italy Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Oct - 30 Oct 2015 IREIS - International Real Estate & Investment Show -  United Arab Emirates 7th annual International Real Estate and Investment Show – IREIS 2015, the only real estate event in Abu Dhabi targeted at the final consumer rather than at trade visitors. IREIS is set to be our most exciting show yet and.... Venue : Abu Dhabi International Exhibition Centre (Adiec) United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Jan - 23 Jan 2016 Strechy Praha Roofs Prague -  Czech Republic The fair  Roofs Prague  is the largest and most unique events in the field of roofs in the Czech Republic and Central Europe with the participation of traditional leading manufacturers and suppliers. In January 2016 has held its 18th.... Venue : Prague Exhibition Grounds ,Prague Czech Republic Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Sep - 05 Sep 2015 KAZBUILD 2015 -  Kazakhstan The Kazakh building industry benefits from the economic growth and the inflow of foreign capital and is regarded as a very promising market. It is growing rapidly, and numerous projects in the field of road construction, house building and the.... Venue : Atakent International Exhibition Centre ,Almaty Kazakhstan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Jan - 31 Jan 2016 Bauen & Energie Wien-Austria -  Austria International Fair for Healthy and Ecological Building, Modernization, Financing and Energy Saving. Venue : Messezentrum Wien (Vienna Exhibition Centre) ,Vienna Austria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Jul - 28 Jul 2016 QME-Queensland Mining & Engineering Exhibition-Australia -  Australia QME-Queensland Mining & Engineering Exhibition-Australia is the largest regional event in the heart of the coal mining area, exhibiting products and services for the mining mineral processing, power generation, sugar processing and metal.... Venue : Mackay Showgrounds ,Mackay Australia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Feb - 19 Feb 2016 Bautec 2016 -  Germany Bautec 2016 is expected to attract over 40,000 international trade visitors and private investors interested in building and modernization. The focus of visitor interest was on the concept of energy-saving which integrates.... Venue : Berlin Exhibition Grounds Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 May - 31 May 2015 HIA Sydney Home Show -  Australia HIA Sydney Home Show 2015 is the tried, proven and trusted building and renovation event: it will significantly increase your company sales. every year more than 350+ leading building and renovation companies select this show to exhibit in.... Venue : Sydney Olympic Park ,NSW Australia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 23 Nov - 26 Nov 2015 The Big 5 - Dubai -  United Arab Emirates The largest ever Big 5 was held from 23 - 26 November 2015 at the Dubai International Exhibition Centre, Tens of thousands of industry professionals joined us to source innovative products including exhibitors part of the innovation trail, learn.... Venue : Dubai International Exhibition Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Mar - 10 Mar 2016 Build Expo Dallas -  United States Construction Expo Dallas is expected to attract more than 150 exhibitors who will come to exhibit various ways for marketing investment for the visitors. Construction Expo Houston is a business-to-business exhibition is the place where visitors can.... Venue : Kay Bailey Hutchison Convention Center ,Dallas United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Nov - 06 Nov 2015