Meghalaya Media Home » Meghalaya » Meghalaya Media   Media in Meghalaya Mawphor The Shillong Times मेघालय का नक्शा Meghalaya Meghalaya Map Cities in Meghalaya Districts Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Shillong City Map Cherrapunji City Map Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Agricultural Map Geography Government Education Universities in Meghalaya History Mineral Map Society Information Travel to Meghalaya Places to visit in Meghalaya Wildlife Sanctuaries Elephant Falls Cherrapunji Travel Hotels in Meghalaya Shillong Hotels Sex Ratio Parliamentary Constituencies Assembly Polls Pincode STD Code       Meghalaya Media Meghalaya Media includes a strong presence of both the electronic and printed modes. Whereas a group of many national and local newspapers and magazines take care of the print medium, the news channels and the news portals form the electronic Meghalaya media. Print Media Print media is the highlight of the media in Meghalaya . Meghalaya Media is proud of having the presence of some of the best national level dailies. Many state dailies and weeklies also comprise the media in Meghalaya. Shillong Times and the Meghalaya Guardian rub shoulders with the Hindustan Times and the Indian Express on the stands of Meghalaya. Almost all national and even some international magazines are found in the media of Meghalaya. They cover a wide range of issues and subjects from sports to entertainment and politics to business. Television and Radio Both television and radio enjoy great popularity as parts of Meghalaya Media. The infrastructure for television and radio transmissions are great in the state. The television of Meghalaya features almost all the national channels as well as international channels. Doordarshan continues to enjoy great popularity in Meghalaya. Both news and entertainment channels feature prominently in the media at Meghalaya. Radio continues to enjoy great popularity in Meghalaya. All India Radio has an extensive network in the state, having as many as five radio stations in five major cities of the state. Apart from the government channels, there are many private FM channels which enjoy great popularity among the youth of the urban areas, as does World Space radio. News Meghalaya news feature a whole array of electronic and print mediums. There are many newspapers, as well as news channels and magazines. Even on line news portals are becoming extremely popular with the steady growth of computer literacy in the state. Altogether, there is never a dearth of news at Meghalaya. Newspapers of Meghalaya Newspapers, along with television news channels, is the most important medium for the dissemination of Meghalaya news. Many newspapers of both state and national levels are there in Meghalaya. Whereas News of Meghalaya is published in one of the most significant local level newspaper, Indian Express, Hindustan Times and The Hindu are the most important national level newspapers of the state. The Shillong Times and the Meghalaya Guardian are two of the many local newspapers of Meghalaya. News Channels of Meghalaya The news channels on television are considered to be significant parts of Meghalaya news. Almost all important news channels of national importance are available in Meghalaya. These news channels are in a wide range of languages like English, Hindi, Bengali as well as local languages like Khasi and Garo. However, it is to the national and international channels that the people largely look forward for the gathering of news. CNN, BBC, NDTV as well as Taja News are some of the most popular TV channels in Meghalaya. Magazines Almost all news magazines of national importance are available in Meghalaya. They contribute a great deal in the world of news in Meghalaya. These magazines cover news from across the board like politics, sports,art and entertainment. With the rise in awareness and education, even technology and computer based magazines have gained wide popularity in Meghalaya. India today, Outlook and Frontline are some of the leading magazines that deal with Meghalaya News. Newspapers Meghalaya newspapers play an important role in the public awareness of Meghalaya. Newspapers in Meghalaya seems to be the link between the government and the general public. The issues and problems that are discussed by the government, as well as the rules are implemented, are made available in Meghalaya by the newspapers of Meghalaya. Since the time when printing press was invented, newspapers have become an integral part of the human society: the human settlements in Meghalaya are no exception. The newspapers at Meghalaya serves the role of the informer in Meghalaya. The newspapers in Meghalaya informs the common people of Meghalaya about the different aspects of the socio-political life in Meghalaya and help them keep abreast with the different socio-political issues. Newspapers at Meghalaya is dynamic: it is growing everyday with the development of the Meghalayan society. It can be said that from its genesis, the newspapers in Meghalaya have come a long way. Some of the important Meghalaya newspapers that deserve special mention in this context are: Newspapers Editor Correspondents The Shillong Times Mr. Manas Chaudhuri. Mr. EM Jose. Mr. Sanjeeb Bhattacharya. U Mawphor Mr. DL Shiangshai. Mr. Powell D. Sohkhlet. Mr. RM Kharlyngka. U Nongsain Hima Mr. Lambok Thabah. Mr. C. Lyndoh. The Meghalaya Guardian Mr. MA Venugopal. Mr. Suraj Joshi. Mr. Rajoo Sharma. U Rupang Mr. RM Shabong. Mr. Commander Shangpliang. To name a few weeklies in Meghalaya: Ka Syrwet Ujmer U Dongmusa U Khlur Ka Ri Sawlyer U Naphang Ka Pyrthei Mynta Yakyntu Jakgitel Shlem Jingtip Kynjat Shai, etc. Therefore, it can be said that the newspapers of Meghalaya play a major role in the socio-political life of Meghalaya. Noth East Telegraph North East Telegraph of Meghalaya is a branch of The Telegraph published by the Ananda Bazar Patrika group in Calcutta. North East Telegraph is the only English newspaper that was published after the Indian Independence. The Telegraph came into existence on 7th July, 1982; and in a short span of about 25 years, The Telegraph has become the largest circulated newspaper in eastern India. The edition of The Telegraph in Meghalaya is known as North East Telegraph. North East Telegraph aims at informing the common masses of Meghalaya about the daily affairs of the state. In fact, the North East Telegraph in Meghalaya deals with various socio-economic and political conditions of Meghalaya. Therefore, the many editions of the newspaper contains various illustrations on the daily events of the state. Further, adhering to the demands of entertainment of the general public, the North East Telegraph also publishes many issues according to the demands of the common people. Among the important issues published by the North East Telegraph at Meghalaya are: Knowhow - Published on Monday, the supplement contains factual details on science, health and IT. Jobs - This issue published on Tuesdays deals with the different techniques that should be followed while taking an interview. Telekids - This is a colorful tabloid issued on Wednesday, which is chiefly meant for the children. CareerGraph - This Thursday issue presents an illustrations on the different kinds of jobs and other career opportunities. Personal Telegraph - Issued on Saturday, this supplement contains a short review on the gadgets, travel, cars, holidaying, etc. Graphiti - On Sundays, the North East Telegraph issues a short magazine dealing with the various aspects of life, along with other supplements such as 7 Day and Classifieds. Thus, it can be concluded that Meghalaya North East Telegraph is working vigorously towards public awareness, as well as entertainment. Meghalaya Radio Meghalaya radio is extremely popular. Surprisingly, in the age of satellite television channels and news portals on the Internet, radio continues to enjoy great popularity in Meghalaya. Meghalaya radio includes both government and private radio stations. All India Radio has as many as five stations in Meghalaya. The programs are both devoted to news, necessary information, government bulletins and entertainment. Radio in Meghalaya has an extremely efficient infrastructure built by the government of the state. Shillong itself has a 100 KW medium wave radio transmitter, with Tura in the West Garo Hills having a 10 KW relay transmitter. Apart from the medium wave transmission, there is also a short wave transmitter at Shillong, called the 'North Eastern Services'. Together they contribute towards the elaborate scope of the radio of Meghalaya. All India Radio is the chief feature of radio at Meghalaya. Not only do they enjoy great popularity in the rural regions of the state in the remote mountainous stretches of the state, but in the city and town areas as well. There are five All India Radio centers in Meghalaya: Shillong radio station Tura Radio station Jowai radio station Williamnagar radio station Jowai radio station Private and FM radio form an integral part of Meghalaya radio. Shillong has a short wave transmitter. Called the 'North Eastern Services', these transmitter broadcasts news and entertainment programs. The FM facilities are also widely available in Shillong and some of the other major urban centers of the state. This latest addition to the scene of Meghalaya radio, enjoys great popularity among the inhabitants of Meghalaya, specially the younger sections. Meghalaya Television Meghalaya Television features almost all important TV channels of national and international importance. With an extremely efficient infrastructure, even the most distant place of Meghalaya has a rich heritage of television coverage. Meghalaya Television features programs in many languages, largely English and Hindi. Bangla television channels are extremely popular in the border areas of the state. Television in Meghalaya is also committed towards preserving some of the most indigenous forms of Meghalaya culture through various programs in the local television channels. The government of Meghalaya has taken great steps to improve the infrastructures of television at Meghalaya. Meghalaya Television is equipped with an extremely efficient network. Shillong boasts of a massive 1 KW TV center. The district towns are also equipped with wonderful television network system. Tura in the Garo Hills has a 10 KW transmitter. Jowai in the Jaintia Hills area has a LPT relay transmitter, whereas Williamnagar and Nongstoin have VLPT relay transmitters. Television of Meghalaya features channels ranging from hard core news channels to sports and entertainment channels. They all enjoy great popularity in the state. Some of the major news channels of Meghalaya Television are Zee News, Star TV, BBC and CNN. Doordarshan also enjoys wide viewer-ship among the people of Meghalaya. Some Bangla TV channels like CTVN and Tara Bangla are also widely viewed by the people of Meghalaya, as well Assamese channels. The indigenous television channels of Meghalaya are still at a very rudimentary stage. However, there are chances that the programs will become vastly improved in the near future and secure a much wider audience. Last Updated on 6/18/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule