LUCRATIVE BUSINESS PROPOSAL for People working in Animal Nutrition Feed. AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Consultancy Services LUCRATIVE BUSINESS PROPOSAL for People working in Animal Nutrition Feed. Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: LUCRATIVE BUSINESS PROPOSAL for People working in Animal Nutrition Feed. LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 1 Week Ago #1 pheonix9190 Join Date May 2015 Posts 1 LUCRATIVE BUSINESS PROPOSAL for People working in Animal Nutrition Feed. We are Importers of Formulated Feed Supplement (Rumen Bypass Fat Supplement)based in Gujarat. krishna9190@gmail.com According the Dairy Feed Industry survey, India has market potential for Bypass fat Feed Supplement of Rs.2000 crore. But the current market tapped is only of Rs.250 crore across INDIA. This segment of the industry is growing by 30-40% year on year. Currently bypass fat feed supplement available in INDIA are of two types. 1. Pure Bypass Fat. 2. Formulated Bypass Fat. The main source of bypass fat in INDIA is from Malaysia. This bypass fat available in the market is in pure form and contains mainly Palmatic Acid. Feeding pure bypass fat to cattle is not as effective as the formulated bypass fat. The formulated bypass fat contains natural yeast, calcium and other natural products along with pure bypass fat. The formulation of the rumen bypass fat makes it more effective than the natural bypass fat. Here the formulation of bypass fat is key for the product to be different from what is available in the market. Here are the advantages of feeding our Rumen Bypass Fat (NUTRI-PRO). Increases milk yield significantly over period of time after feed Nutri- Pro regularly. · Milk Fat increases instantly and maintains the increased feed level. · Energy content of the feed increases. · Fulfill the nutrient requirements in high performance dairy animals · Improves body score condition in animals and helps in lowering rumen heat production. · Reduces Heat Stress in animals during summer · Improves digestibility of feed and improves appetite. · Decrease in metabolic complications such as ketosis, acidosis, and milk fever. · Reproductive performance can be enhanced because the cow can return to positive energy balance sooner which can affect follicle size, ovum fertility, circulating blood, and progesterone levels. Method of feeding : 100gm per day along with the regular feed, one hour before milking the cow. We guarantee increase in fat % and quantity of milk within 48-60 hours after feeding. Now coming to business proposal. We can supply you the formulated rumen bypass fat in quantity as per your requirement. (MOQ - 5tons) (Qaulity is our gaurantee). You can re-pack the material in your own brand name and sell in the market. According to our market knowledge you can earn around 30% profit after all the expense, given you have established dealer network for your existing products. Please give us your reviews and write back to us if you are interested. krishna9190@gmail.com Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 11:22 PM .