Orissa University of Agriculture & Technology   Orissa University of Agriculture & Technology Bhubaneswar- 751003, Orissa, India   Home Sitemap Contact Us Login About OUAT College College of Agriculture, Bhubaneswar College of Agriculture, Chiplima College of Agriculture, Bhawanipatna College of Horticulture, Chiplima College of Agricultural Engineering & Technology, Bhubaneswar College of Veterinary Science & Animal Husbandry, Bhubaneswar College of Fisheries, Rangeilunda College of Home Science, Bhubaneswar College of Forestry, Bhubaneswar College of Basic Science & Humanities Centre for P.G. Studies, Bhubaneswar M.C.A M.Sc.(Bioinformatics) M.B.A(Agri Business Management) About Bhubaneswar Research Extension Profile Planning  Administration   Gallery  . Notice Circular *Notice for Commercialization of Technology *Guidelines to ensure Uniformity in Thesis Writing *TRAINING BROCHURE IN SKILL and ENTREPRENEURSHIP PROGRAMME (SEDP) IN BIOTECHNOLOGY Clik here to Download Admit card for U.G. Entrance Examination 2015 *Circular for submission of photocopy of PAN Card. *Circular for OUAT Employees *UGC Regulation-2010 for promotion of Teachers/ Scientists in different stages under Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) *OUAT Employee's Health and Welfare Society (OEHWS) Notification *OUAT Employee's Health and Welfare Society (OEHWS) Rules and Bye-Laws *Price Forecasting in English *Price Forecast Information for coconut crop *Circular for the Director, College of Fisheries, Rangeilunda, Berhampur and Director College of Home Science, Bhubaneswar, OUAT  Library  Research Achievements Right to Information Act Publications OUAT at a glance OUAT Anual Report OUAT Alumini Examination System Student Research Weather Forecast Agro-Advisory Service System Result Forthcoming Events Advertisement for Licensing of OUAT Varieties Notice For OUAT Pensioners Circulars Admission Notices Recruitments Tender & Quotations Agricultural Technology Information Center Knowledge Based e-KrishiShiksha Mahindra Samriddhi INDIA AGRI AWARDS 2014 Welcome to OUAT The Radhakrishnan University Education Commission of 1949 emphasised the need for establishing Agricultural Universities in India., Subsequently, the indo-American team consistitued under the Chairmanship of Dr. K.R. Damle (1955), the then Vice-president of Indian Council of Agricultural Research, suggested a system of education for Indian as followed in the Land Grant Colleges of USA. The Planning Commission Committee felt the inadequacy of trained personnel for substantial output in agricultural operations with the then set up of research, education and extension in Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and allied fields. In course of time, these recommendations led to the creation of the agricultural universities to accomplish the integration of teaching, research and extension. In 1956, Dr. J.H. Longwell from the University of Misouri visited Orissa and had discussion with the State Government which resulted in a contract between the Government of India and the University of Missouri to provide assistance to the Agriculture and Veterinary Colleges of the State. In 1960, a decision was taken to establish an Agricultural University in Orissa in the pattern of the Land Grant Colleges of USA and Dr. Ide P. Trotter joined the Utkal Krishi Mahavidyalaya on 1st April, 1960, as a consultant in Educational Administration. President Elmer Ellies of the University of Missouri, visited the Agriculture and Veterinary Colleges of Orissa in 1961 and had discussion with the State Government for establishment of the Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology. Readmore...     News Of OUAT Student Corner OUAT Gallery *3rd Kissen Kanungo Memorial Lecture is scheduled to be held on 22.06.2015 at 11:00 AM in the Dr. M.S. Swaminathan Conference Hall of O.U.A.T., Bhubaneswar Coming Soon...   Image Gallery Video Gallery Music Gallery Vice Chancellor Prof Manoranjan Kar I am extremely happy to present the Annual Report of the Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneswar for... Read More Video E-Admisson Examination Result Reports Google Map Quick Link College About OUAT About Bhubaneswar Research Extension Profile Planning  Administration   Library  Useful Link Research Achievements Right to Information Act Publications OUAT at a glance OUAT Anual Report OUAT Alumini Examination System Student Research Weather Forecast Contact Us No of Visits: 5188 Copy right 2002, Orissa University of Agriculture & Technology002, Orissa University of Agriculture & Technology Powered by: