Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Biography, Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Business Profile Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Top Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Kumar Mangalam Birla Dhirajlal Hirachand Ambani Gautam Adani Indu Jain Jamsedji Tata Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Ratan Naval Tata Shiv Nadar Sunil Bharti Mittal Adi Godrej Anil Agarwal Chandru Raheja Yusuf Hamied Cyrus Ponawalla Grandhi Mallikarjuna Rao Naresh Goyal JRD Tata KP Singh Senapathy Kris Gopalkrishnan Kalanithi Maran Narayan Murthy Pankaj Ramanbhai Patel Rahul Bajaj Ramesh Chandra Subhash Chandra Subroto Roy Gautam Thapar Uday Kotak Top Leaders You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Business-leaders » Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  7  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 Name Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Born on 15 June 1950 Place of Birth Sadalpur, Rajasthan,India Educated from St.Xavier's College,Calcutta Works for Arcelor Mittal Valued at US $ 31.1 Billion Position Chairman & Executive Officer Married to Usha Mittal Father of Vanisha Mittal Aditya Mittal Family Until 1960's, the village Lakshmi was born into was deprived of basic amenities, such as electricity. His family then moved to Calcutta in West Bengal, where his father Mohan Lal Mittal set up a small steel plant. He has two siblings (brothers), Pramod and Vinod Mittal, who run the family business. Growing Up In Calcutta, Mittal studied business and accounting at the reputed St. Xavier's College. After classes, he used to work with his father in the family steel mill. He graduated as Bachelor of Commerce in accounting and business with first class distinction. Endeavors His first step towards reaching the billionaire club, took place in the early seventies, when he started working in his father's steel firm.In 1976, he moved to Indonesia, on the realization of the fact that opportunities for higher growth were limited to him in India.There, with his father's backing, he found a steel plant, Ispat Indo and made this company a success. A shrewd businessman, his success has largely been built on buying up loss making state owned firms and turning their fortunes around. In 1989, he turned a government owned firm that was making a loss of $1 million a day, in Trinidad and Tobago, into a profitable business. It was a situation, where US consultants and German experts had failed to find any solution. With the similar strategy, he went ahead acquiring various firms all over the world, proving every risk worth its effort. His list of acquisitions is a lengthy catalogue, including, Sircasta: Mexico's third largest steel producer, in 1992, Steel Blast furnace plant, owned by the state in Kazakhastan, Steel plant in Europe,Germany in 1995, along with the formation of two new companies Ispat international Ltd and Ispat Shipping to assist the group. Meanwhile, in 1994, a partition in the family business transferred all its foreign business under Ispat International. Conjugal Relationship He is married to Usha Mittal, who was, then, the daughter of a well settled moneylender. Today, she handles the Indonesian business. They have two children, Vanisha and Aditya Mittal, who are members of the Board of Directors of Mittal Steels. Lakshmi is known for spending extravagantly on his family. His daughter's marriage was a five day event, which cost him more than $ 55 million. Company Profile It was in the year 2004, when Mittal steel was formed through the merger of Ispat International and LNM holdings. During the same period, Ispat International also merged with International Steel Group Inc. ISG was an Ohio based company, which became the world's largest steel producer, with a net worth over $22 billion. Mittal's steel empire stretches over 14 countries of the world. In 2006, after major negotiations and oppositions, Mittal Steels took over European Steel giant Arselor for $33 billion, becoming the world's largest 100 million tonne steel entity. This merged entity was called, Arcelor Mittal, with the family owning 43.6 share of the group. Apart from the mainstream steel business, they have diversified into shipping, coal, power, oil enterprises. Man of Substance Today, he stands as the richest man in United Kingdom, and the sixth richest in the world, with a personal wealth of US$31.1 billion. He has won many awards to his credit, and is a member of many prestigious groups of societies. 2007, he won the Padma Vibhushan , by the President of India. Fellowship of King's college, London. Grand Cross of Civil Merit, by Government of Spain. 2004, Entrepreneur of the year, by Wall Street Journal. European businessman of the year, Forbes Times magazine, named him in their list of ''100 most influential people of the world. Obstacles Faced In 2001, Mittal Steel had to close down on the Irish Steel plant. It led to a lot of criticism, as it left 400 people redundant and affected the concerned environment. 2002, 'The Mittal affair’, exposed links between UK Prime Minister Tony Blair and Lakshmi Mittal. Mittal's LNM steel company, sought Blair's aid in its bid to purchase steel industry in the state of Romania. Blair,on his part, wrote a letter to the Romanian government, hinting that the privatization of the firm and it's sale to Mittal might help them smooth their way into the European union. Apart from this, multiple fatalities in his mines have raised questions about safety conditions. He has also been accused of 'slave labour'. Virtues He is an active philanthropist. Mittal Champion trust was set up with US $ 9 million to support 10 Indian athletes with world-beating potential. A CSR system has also been set up to produce safe sustainable steel. An astute businessman, with a knack of calculating risks to his own advantage, he has practically made his mark in the world. More Indian Leaders Top Business Leaders About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED