India Energy Infrastructure Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Infrastructure in India 2010 Tax Saving Eligibility Under 80ccF How to Buy Infrastructure Bonds Comparison Available Infrastructure Bonds Infrastructure Bonds by IDFC Infrastructure Bonds By LIC Infrastructure Bonds by SBI Tax Saving on Infrastructure Agriculture Infrastructure Bangalore Infrastructure Infrastructure Bonds India Infrastructure Bonds India BPO Infrastructure Business Infrastructure Company Infrastructure India Energy Infrastructure India Infrastructure Finance GE Infrastructure India Infrastructure Government India Infrastructure Growth India China Infrastructure Rural Infrastructure Report Industrial Infrastructure Infrastructure Industry India Infrastructure Investment IT Infrastructure Ministry of Infrastructure Mumbai Infrastructure India Infrastructure News India Infrastructure Projects India Rural Infrastructure Infrastructure Companies Infrastructure in India India Infrastructure Report Limited Infrastructure Marketing Infrastructure Chennai Infrastructure Finance Company Limited Indian Air Transport India Telecom Infrastructure Offshore Infrastructure Infrastructure Technology Tourism Infrastructure Statistics Infrastructure Gujarat Infrastructure India Infrastructure Fund India Infrastructure Needs Infrastructure Problems Pune Infrastructure Punjab Infrastructure TATA Infrastructure IBM Infrastructure Tax Infrastructure Home » India-budget » Infrastructure » India Energy Infrastructure India Energy Infrastructure Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  2  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 India Energy Infrastructure: India is certainly among the fastest growing countries in the world and its energy needs have increased exponentially over the past few years. This has put immense pressure on the existing power infrastructure (India Energy Infrastructure). In recent times the Indian government has realized the gravity of the situation and has shifted its focus to the power transmission and distribution sector. A key part of the overall power reform strategy is to relay power effectively and efficiently from regions of surplus to deficit areas and load centers. The government is pushing ahead aggressively with its plans to build a national power grid. This is expected to ease peak-time shortages and make better use of available generating capacity. Under this plan, ABB recently won a prestigious order valued at $48 million from Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL) to design, build and install a new power transmission system at Vishakapatnam, in the state of Andhra Pradesh, located on India's southeast coast. The Vizag II high voltage direct current (HVDC) back-to-back East-South Inter connector III system will increase the capacity for high voltage power exchange between the two power grids by 500 MW. The system will operate alongside an existing HVDC station and feeds power to millions of consumers in India. Power is a critical India Energy Infrastructure for the economic development of the country. To meet the projected power requirement by 2012, an additional capacity addition of 100000 MW is required in the next two five year plans. A capacity of nearly 41000 MW would be set up in the 10th plan and the remaining in the 11th plan with a stronger focus on hydro power. The central sector would contribute 22,5000 MW, the state sector 11400 MW and Private Sector 7,100 MW in the 10th Plan. Projects of above 19000 MW are already under construction and projects of 8900 MW aggregate capacity have the requisite approvals. Creating an enabling infrastructure for Energy Sector growth: For the growth in the India Energy Infrastructure, investments in ports, railways, pipelines and power transmission are urgently needed to attract energy sector investments in the first place and to enable efficient energy choices. Today, the capacities of these infrastructures are fully stressed and there is much inefficiency. Recognizing this, the Government has announced policies to involve private participation and India is witnessing private investment in ports, pipelines and power transmission. Even in case of railways, the Government has recently announced a policy decision to open container transportation to private sector on a common-carrier principle using the existing railroads. The basic requirements for the development of Tourism Infrastructure are - Accommodation - Forest lodges. Tented accommodation. Tourist complexes / tourist lodges. Wayside amenities. Restaurants. Tourist reception centers. Pilgrim sheds / dormitories, etc. at pilgrimage centers. Tourist transport - Mini-buses, jeeps, elephants, etc. for wild life viewing. Cruise boats, ferry launchers, etc. for water transport. Tourist coaches in selected circuits. Special tourist trains. The Central Department of Tourism meets almost the entire expenditure, except the cost of land and interior decoration in the case of construction projects. The Central Government provides 28% cost of the project and 12% is provided by the State Governments. The remaining 60% has to be raised as a loan from financial institutions or banks. It is expected that the State Governments would be able to mobilize more resources from financial institutions for investment in Tourism Infrastructure Last updated On: 1/3/2012 Infrastructure Bonds India Tax Saving Tax Saving Bonds Tax Saving Options Tax Saving Bonds in India Tax Saver Benefit Plan Tax Exemption Tax Exemption Rules Investment Industry Bond Market >> More about India Budget About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED