Naya Raipur , Chhattisgarh Home » Maps » Chhattisgarh Map » Naya Raipur   Cities in Chhattisgarh Naya Raipur Surajpur Kondagaon Baloda Bazar Ambikapur Pendra Kirandul Baikunthpur                      more... छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Chhattisgarh Chhattisgarh Map Districts of Chhattisgarh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Chhattisgarh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Chhattisgarh Forests Parliamentary Constituencies Economy History Government Politics How to Reach Geography People Culture Festivals Travel to Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Chitrakoot Waterfall Indravati National Park Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Area Chhattisgarh at a Glance Capital City Chief Minister Governor Pincode Population Telephone Code Chhattisgarh Factsheet District Map in Hindi Universities in Chhattisgarh       Naya Raipur City Map of Naya Raipur Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Naya Raipur is the new administrative capital of the Chhattisgarh , just a few kilometers south of the former capital Raipur. The city is the fourth planned city in the country (after Chandigarh, Ahmedabad and Bhubaneshwar) and has been constructed in phases incorporating world class architecture and design. Apart from housing the seat of the Chhattisgarh government, the city is also planned to be the cultural and educational capital of the state. Location The new city is spread over 8000 hectares and lies between NH 6 (its northern boundary) and NH 43 (its south eastern boundary). The city is well connected by rail. The Raipur railway station, the biggest junction in the state, is 20 kilometers away and the new railway station at Mandir Hassaud is just 2 kilometers away. The airport Swami Vivekananda Airport, formerly known as Mana Airport, lies 5-7 kilometers and separates the new city from Raipur. Amenities As Naya Raipur is one of the few planned cities in the country, the government of Chhattisgarh amalgamated state of the art modern grid pattern along with absorbing traditional Chhattisgarhi architecture in the design of the city. Naya Raipur has been developed as a modern green city with 23% of the land in the city having green cover. The city has a 500 meter wide green belt around it along with parks and landscaped recreational facilities within. There are arrangements for water conservation and water recycling, along with the maximum use of no-conventional energy. Wide roads have been developed along with underground electricity and tele-communication network with no overhead wires visible. The city is equipped to provide 24 hours uninterrupted water and power supply. A residential housing complex of 2600 housing units has already been developed by Chhattisgarh housing Board on 62 hectares of land. As part of the second phase of construction, a circular Capital Complex housing the state secretariat and the other government offices has been constructed. The new Capital Complex was inaugurated in November 2012 by the president of India, Shri Pranab Mukerjee. It has the Mantralaya Bhawan (Secretariat) in the center along with Head of Department complex and the Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Bhawan. Close to the Capital Complex lie the Raj Bhawan and residences of Ministers. There are plans to construct a sports complex, a central business district, logistics hub, a gems and jewelry park, an Information Technology SEZ, museums, and university research and institutional complex. Other amenities planned for the residents are shopping malls and multiplexes, an 18-hole Golf course, Convention center, and star hotels-- all geared to make the city a modern, visitor friendly and people friendly place to live. Cities in Chhattisgarh Kirandul City Namna Kalan City Sirgiti City Bhatapara City Chhuikhadan City Shivrinarayan City Baloda City Pandariya City Bhilai City Bemetra City Arang City Phunderdihari City Dharamjaigarh City Dongragarh City Birgao City Jamul-Durg City Mehmand City Baloda Bazar City Takhatpur City Surajpur City Khairagarh City Dipka City Simga City Lormi City Kunkuri City Telgaon City Baikunthpur City Bhilai Charoda City Tilda-Newra City Lingiyadih City Gandai City Urla-Raipur City Akaltara City Chharchha City Jashpur-Nagar City Bhatgaon City Gharghoda City Bagbahara City Mowa City Bade-Bacheli City Saraipali City Deori Bilaspur City Bhanpuri City Kota City Bilha City Bodri City Kondagaon City Gobranawapara City Chirmiri City Ahiwara City Champa City Dongargaon City Bhaiyathan City Pathalgaon City Pithora City Geedam City Jagdalpur City Kharod City Katghora City Ambikapur City Dhamdha City Frezarpur City Balod City Sarangarh City Kharsia City Pendra City Kumhari City Naila Janjgir City Naya Baradwar City Basna City Patan City Gogaon City Khamhria City Sakti City Gaurella City Manendragarh City Ambagarh Chowki City Kurud City Ratanpur City Ramanujganj City Dalli Rajhara City Banarsi City Vishrampur City Naya Raipur City Mungeli City Khongapani City     Last Updated on : 29 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule