Dalhousie City Map Home » Maps » Himachal Pradesh Map » Dalhousie City Map   Himachal Pradesh Cities Map Manali Shimla Dharamshala Dalhousie Kasauli Chamba Kullu                        more.. हिमाचल प्रदेश का नक्शा Himachal Pradesh Geography Climate Himachal Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                 (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Travel to Himachal Pradesh Places to visit in Himachal Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Subhash Baoli Shivkul Sankat Mochan Hotels in Himachal Pradesh Hotels in Dalhousie Hotels in Manali Hotels in Dharamshala Hotels in Solan Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Kullu Hotels in Shimla Hotels in Hamirpur Hotels in Kasauli Hotels in Parwanoo Hotels in Pragpur Hotels in Sirmour Hotels in Taragarh Hotels in Una Hotels in Kangra              more... Assembly Polls HP Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities in Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh Colleges       Dalhousie City Map City Map Dalhousie Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * The Map showing roads, rivers and places of interest in the City. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of Himachal Pradesh   Chamba City Map Dalhousie City Map Dharamshala City Map Solan City Map         Kasauli City Map Kullu City Map Manali City Map Shimla City Map     other cities of Himachal Pradesh  >>   Travel Map of Himachal Pradesh   Manali Travel Map Shimla Travel Map         A captivating hill station located in Himachal Pradesh , Dalhousie came into existence in the year 1854 by the British, to serve as a summer retreat for them. The town derived its named from the then British Viceroy, Lord Dalhousie. Dalhousie is situated at a height of about 2080m. It is on the west side of the Dhauladhar mountainous range and is built in and around the 5 hills. Dalhousie serves as the gateway to the old hill state of Chamba, presently known as the Chamba District in Himachel Pradesh, India. The region is a storehouse of the ancient and rich Hindu art, culture, temples, and handicrafts. A municipal town, Dalhousie is a sought after tourist destination in the district of Chamba. The important industry in the Dalhousie city is the Tourism Industry. Large number of hotels find place at Dalhousie. More than 600 hotels located in Dalhousie, makes way for job opportunities for more than five thousand people. Dalhousie alone counts for about 3% of the gross domestic product of the state. As per the Census of India in the year 2001, Dalhousie's population counts to about 9389 people. Schools in Dalhousie Dalhousie Public School Sacred Heart Public School Gurunanak Public School Hilltop Public School Major Attractions in Dalhousie Dainkund Peak Bakrota Hills Khajjiar It is unique and rare to find a Road junction with more than four roads. In Dalhousie however, we can find a Road junction of 8 roads in Ghandhi Chowk. These roads would take you to: Subhash Chowk Upper Bakrota Panchpula Diankund Banikhet via Busstand Sadar Bazar Khajjiar Motitibba Important Areas in Dalhousie Gandhi Chowk Dalhousie Cantonment Diankund Bakrota Hills Tibetan Market Sadar Bazar Throughout the year, Dalhousie has a cold winter climate. In the months between June to September, thunder showers and heavy rain can be experienced. In the months from May to July, the mornings and the afternoons are warm while the evenings and the nights are cold and comfortable. In the peak winters, that is in the months of December and January, snow can also be experienced at Dalhousie also experience snow during peak winter period i.e. December and January. Since Dalhousie has a salubrious Climate, the ideal time to pay a visit to this beautiful city of Dalhousie is during the months of May to September. Dalhousie Facts City Name Dalhousie State Himachal Pradesh District Chamba District Headquarters Chamba Tehsil/Taluk Dalhousie Ward CB-2, M CI-9 Lat Long 32.546803, 75.966940 Area 14 sq. km Population as per 2011 7051 (M CI) 3549 (CB) Official Languages Hindi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) STD Code 01899 Transport Air, Road, Train, Bus, Car, Bike Vehicle registration HP-47 Food and Cuisine North Indian Cuisine, Rice, Lentil Broth, Dish of Vegetables , Unleavened Bread, Madra, South-Indian, Thai, Italian ,Tibetan and Japanese Cuisine, Momos and Thukpas etc. Religion Buddhist Shrines, Muslim, Sufi, Christianity & Hindu Festival Dussehra, Diwali, Christmas , Ice Skating Carnival, Fancy Dress Competitions, Dance Shows, Ice Hockey , New Year Celebration, Lohri , Maghi, Minjar Fair, Manimahesh fair etc. Monuments Rang Mahal , Bhuri Singh Museum, Panchpula, Dakhina Murti, Satdhara, Jandhri Ghat , Panjpulla, Bakrota Hills , St. Andrew's Church, St. Patrick's Church, St. Francis Church, Panchpula etc. Places of interest Dainkund Peak , Khajjiar, Bakrota Hills, Chamera Dam Dalhousie, Village Lohali, Gandhi Chowk (G.P.O), Bakrota Hills, Dalhousie Cantonment, Sadar Bazar, Tibetan Market, Panchpula, Kalatop and Kalatop Forest etc. Hospital Civil Hospital, Red Cross, Dispensary Dalhousie Cantt., Ashirwad Hospital, Military Hospital, NHPC Hospital, etc. Hotels Hotel Mount View, Ashiana Regency, Mongas Hotel, Grand View Hotel, Dalhousie Heights, Hotel Pearl, Sagrika Resort Dalhousie etc. Markets Tibetan Market ,Tibetan Handicrafts Centre, Himachal Handloom Industry Emporium. Last Updated on : July 7, 2014 Cities in Himachal Pradesh Chamba Dalhousie Dharamshala Kangra Kasauli Kullu Manali Shimla Solan             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule