Directorateof Plant Protection Quarantine & Storage Introduction The “ Locust Control and Research “ is one of the divisions of the Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage, being implemented through an Organization known as Locust Warning Organization(LWO) established in 1939, to monitor, forewarn and control of Desert Locust (an international pest) with its 10 Circle Offices located at Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Barmer, Palanpur, Bhuj, Jalore, Phalodi, Nagaur, Suratgarh and Churu with its field Headquarters at Jodhpur and a Central Headquarter Faridabad. Besides, there is one Field Station for Investigations on Locusts (FSIL) situated at Bikaner. To strengthen the locust monitoring and forecasting, a Remote Sensing Laboratory has also been set up to prepare vegetation maps based on satellite imageries for locust forecasting.   Mandate of the scheme To monitor, forewarn and control the Locust in Indian Scheduled Desert Area (SDA) of Rajasthan, Gujarat and part of Haryana States in an area of about 2 lakh sq km by way of conducting survey and surveillance. To conduct locust control operation in SDA if the situation so warrants. To conduct research on locusts and grasshoppers at “Field Station for Investigations on Locusts” (FSIL), Bikaner. To fulfill the international obligation and commitments to Control Desert Locust under the agreement of Desert Locust Control Committee (DLCC) of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) as an International liability.   Set-Up of Locust Warning Organization (LWO) The scheme Locust Control and Research is being implemented through an Organization known as Locust Warning Organization (LWO). The Locust Warning Organization (LWO) monitors locust development/ activities over an area of 2.00 lakh sq km of the Scheduled Desert Area (SDA) in parts of Rajasthan, Gujarat and Haryana States. It has 10 Circle Offices located at Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Barmer, Palanpur, Bhuj, Jalore, Phalodi, Nagaur, Suratgarh and Churu with its field Headquarters at Jodhpur and a Central Headquarter Faridabad. Besides, there is one Field Station for Investigations on Locusts (FSIL) situated at Bikaner. To strengthen the locust monitoring and forecasting, a Remote Sensing Laboratory has also been set up to prepare vegetation maps based on satellite imageries for locust forecasting. (LWO) maintains its own wireless network for exchanging information on locust surveys and control between Locust Outposts, Circle offices and Headquarters, Faridabad . Wireless communication between Jodhpur (India) and Karachi (Pakistan) is also maintained every year during June to November for exchanging locust intelligence between the two countries). Satisfactory locust control potential is being maintained in the form of pesticides, plant protection equipments, wireless sets and trained technical, wireless communication and mechanical staff.  A satisfactory locust control potential is being maintained in the form of pesticides for locust control, Locust control equipments, and a fleet of 61 vehicles and 9 vehicles are being purchased during 2011, 64 Nos. of wireless sets, 52 GPS, 30 Nos. codon wireless sets and trained staff. Besides, there is one “Field Station for Investigations on Locusts” (FSIL) situated at Bikaner. Presently the total staff strength of Locust Control and Research scheme at various levels is 254 (Central H.Q 5, Field H.Q Jodhpur 44, Field Circle Offices 178 and FSIL Bikaner 27.) Setup of Locust Warning Organization (LWO)   OBJECTIVES , FUNCTIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF LWO: Objectives : To monitor and forewarn the locust activity/situation in Scheduled Desert Area of Rajasthan, Gujarat and part of Haryana by way of intensive and extensive locust survey and surveillance. To organize locust control operations for preventing the locust menace and crop losses in case of any locust upsurge/invasion. To conduct Research on locusts and Grasshoppers to evolve eco-friendly control measures. Functions: To keep constant and close watch and regular monitoring on the locust activity in the SDA through regular surveys and also to conduct control operations, if the situation so warrants. To keep close coordination and liaison with Food and Agriculture Organization(FAO) of United Nations and neighboring countries for exchange of locust information and to seek technical/financial assistance. To organize trainings for the farmers, LWO staff, State officers and Defense/BSF personnel about locust intelligence, identification and control. To conduct field oriented research on Locusts and Grasshoppers so as to evolve eco-friendly bio-control methods of locust control. Activities: 1.        Locust surveillance and monitoring through 10 Circle Offices. One field Headquarter and one FSIL Bikaner. 2.        Organizing control operations against locust build up of locust population and invading locust swarms. 3.        To issue fortnightly locust situation bulletins and their circulation to locust prone countries. 4.        Organizing Indo-Pak border Meetings and maintaining wireless contact between Jodhpur and Karachi during June to November. 5.        Coordination with locust prone countries and FAO as a part of International Commitment. 6.        Participation in International Meetings on Locust and Regional Commission. 7.        Conducting field research on locust behaviour, biology and control. 8.        Efforts for use of satellite data for locust surveillance and forecasting. Achievements:            The greatest achievement of Locust Warning Organization (LWO) is that no Locust Plagues have occurred/ reported since 1962, only due to careful and extensive surveys monitoring and successful control operations undertaken by LWO against exotic swarms and localized small and large scale locust breeding at all occasions. As a result, the devastation of cultivated crops could be avoided by controlling the locust in SDA several times in the past which resulted in the saving enormous crop/vegetation losses.    LOCUST PLAGUE CYCLES AND UPSURGES OBSERVED IN INDIA           Plagues 1812-1821 1900-1907 1843-1844 1912-1920 1863-1867 1926-1930 1869-1873 1940-1946 1876-1881 1949-1955 1889-1891 1959-1962   Upsurges Year No. of swarms incursion 1964 004 1968 167 1970 002 1973 006 1974 006 1975 019 1976 002 1978 020 1983 026 1986 003 1989 015 1993 172 1997 004       Small scale localized locust breeding have also been reported and controlled during the period from 1998- 2002,2005.2007,2010     Field Station For Investigations on Locust (FSIL): Field Station for Investigations on Locusts (FSIL) was established in 1957 at Bikaner , Rajasthan (India) under the Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage of Department of Agriculture and Cooperation (DAC) in the Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India. It is a research station for conducting field research on Locust and grasshoppers. This Institution is responsible for conducting research on various aspects of Locusts and Grasshoppers viz. biology, ecology and control in the field/laboratory conditions with ultimate aim of finding out cheaper, more effective and environmental friendly methods of Locust Control. Different Laboratory and field trials are conducted for which a laboratory is maintained. The mass rearing of locust is done in the laboratory and field cage conditions. The results of the research which are of practical value are passed on to LWO for adoption. This station is headed by a Deputy Director(Entomology) who is assisted by two Assistant Directors (Entomology), an Assistant Statistician and one Junior Scientific Officer along with 31 other supportive staff members of different categories. This station has got a meteorological observatory and two field cages for conducting observations under semi natural conditions. Recently, the building of LWO Bikaner Circle Office has also been constructed in the same premises which will also facilitate in executing the technical programmes of each other by providing close cooperation. Thus, all the total 27 staff members of FSIL remain engaged for research on Locusts and Grasshoppers throughout year in achieving its broad Technical Programme. Mandate of Field Station for Investigations on Locust (FSIL): To conduct research study on various aspects of biology, ecology and behaviour of Locusts and Grasshoppers. To study and evaluate the different chemical and biological pesticides against Locusts and Grasshoppers in Laboratory and field conditions. To evaluate and evolve new techniques for the control and monitoring of Locusts and grasshoppers. Activities of Field Station for Investigations on Locust (FSIL)   ·          Mass rearing of different species of Locusts and Grasshoppers in Laboratory and field                     cages. ·          Mass production of entomophagus live Metarhyzium anisoplae and Beauveria bassiana fungi. ·          To study Biology of Grasshoppers and Locusts. ·          Toxicological Studies- Screening of newer chemical, biological, plant origin insecticides                     against Locust and Grasshoppers. ·          Biochemical studies of different plants on Locusts and grasshoppers. ·          Ecological surveys and co-relation of ecological factors on population buildup of locust. ·          Field trials of different chemical, biological and plant origin insecticides against Locusts and                      Grasshoppers. ·          To participate in locust control operation during the locust incursions. ·          To conduct research trials on various aspects of behaviour, ecology and biology of locust                      during the locust incursions. ·          Collection & collation of meteorological Data.  ·          To conduct light trap study on Locusts and Grasshoppers.  ·          To conduct trainings for LWO staff and farmers regarding Locust Monitoring and Control. Major Achievement of FSIL : Publication work - This station contributed/ published 158 scientific research papers on various aspects                           of Locusts and Grasshoppers in different scientific journals of national and                           International repute.   Research programme of FSIL : ·          Screening of newer insecticides against Locusts & Grasshoppers. ·          Field evaluation of Insect growth Regulator ( IGR) against Desert Locust and Grasshoppers. ·          Study of Entomopathogens Metarhyzium anisoplae and Beauveria bassiana against                          Locusts and Grasshoppers under Laboratory & field conditions to substitute chemical                       pesticides. ·          Study of biology of different species of Locusts & Grasshoppers in cropped as well as in                      desert areas. ·          Study of neem based pesticides to explore the possibilities of locusts and Grasshoppers                      control in cropped as well as in desert area. ·          Co-relation of meteorological/weather factors and incidence of locust. ·          Study of Role of biotic and abiotic factors in locust control. ·          To organize training course on biology, behaviour and monitoring and control of locust.