West Bengal Map Home » Maps » West Bengal Map   West Bengal पश्चिम बंगाल का नक्शा West Bengal Map পশ্চিমবঙ্গ মানচিত্র Cities in West Bengal পশ্চিমবঙ্গের শহরসমুহ Kolkata Darjeeling Siliguri Barrackpore Haldia Bankura Suri                    more... West Bengal Districts পশ্চিমবঙ্গ জেলা মানচিত্র West Bengal Roads West Bengal Railways West Bengal Rivers Tehsils of West Bengal Physical Map West Bengal Location Lat Long Map Mineral Map Industry Map Agriculture Map West Bengal Forests West Bengal Assembly Polls West Bengal Lok Sabha Elections West Bengal Economy West Bengal Government Places to Visit in West Bengal Travel to West Bengal Wildlife Sanctuaries Travel to Kolkata Travel to Siliguri Travel to Darjeeling Places to visit in Kolkata Places to visit in Darjeeling Victoria Memorial Hotels in West Bengal Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Kalimpong Hotels in Howrah Hotels in Durgapur            more... Society and Culture West Bengal Geography West Bengal History West Bengal Airport Map Kolkata Metro Map Siliguri Location Map Road Companion West Bengal Information West Bengal Media West Bengal Emergency numbers West Bengal Pin Code West Bengal STD Code পশ্চিমবঙ্গ পর্যটন Sex Ratio Map Salt Lake Map Location of Nakhoda Masjid Varanasi Darjeeling Route Map Delhi Darjeeling Route Map Patna Darjeeling Route Map Power Network Map West Bengal Judiciary West Bengal Handicrafts Growth Centers Kolkata Siliguri Route Map Varanasi Siliguri Route Map Patna Siliguri Route Map Universities in West Bengal       West Bengal Map Map of West Bengal Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map of West Bengal with districts, railways, rivers and major road network. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. West Bengal Location Map West Bengal District Map Cities of West Bengal West Bengal Tehsil Map         West Bengal Road Map West Bengal Physical Map West Bengal Railway Map West Bengal Travel Map West Bengal is a state which is located in eastern India. The state extends from Bay of Bengal in the south to the Himalayan mountain ranges in the north. The capital of the state of West Bengal is Kolkata and it is the biggest city of the state as well. In Bengali language, it is referred to as Paschim Banga. West Bengal: An Overview In terms of population, West Bengal ranks as the fourth most populated state in India. Districts of West Bengal There are 19 districts in the state and they are as follows: Darjeeling, Cooch Behar, Malda, Jalpaiguri, South Dinajpur (Dakshin Dinajpur), North Dinajpur (Uttar Dinajpur), Bardhaman, Bankura, East Midnapore (Purba Medinipur), Birbhum, Purulia, Hooghly, Howrah, West Midnapore (Paschim Medinipur), Murshidabad, Kolkata, North 24 Parganas (Uttar 24 Parganas), Nadia, and South 24 Parganas (Dakshin 24 Parganas). Divisions of West Bengal There are three divisions in the state and they are the Jalpaiguri division, Burdwan division, and Presidency division. Area of West Bengal The state covers a total area of 34,267.3 sq miles or 88,752 km2. Population of West Bengal According to the census performed in 2011, the population of the state is 91,347,736. Tourist Attractions in West Bengal The state is known all over the globe for the Sunderbans. It has nineteen districts and the major cities are Kolkata, Siliguri, Burdwan, Durgapur, Kharagpur, Darjeeling and Malda. The state is home to two very big natural zones and they are the sub-Himalayan and Himalayan region to the north and the Gangetic Plain to the south. Neighboring states and countries The neighboring states are Jharkhand , Odisha , Sikkim , bihar , and Assam . The state shares its international boundaries with Bhutan, Nepal, and Bangladesh. Economy The principal occupation of the people of the state is farming. It makes the sixth highest contribution to the Gross Domestic Product of the country. Education in West Bengal The state is a pioneer in bringing modern education in India. Given below are the names of the famous educational institutes in the state: Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur, Aliah University, Jadavpur University, Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya Haringhata, Presidency University, Kolkata, Netaji Subhas Open University, Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda University, Rabindra Bharati University, University of Burdwan, University of Calcutta, Sidho Kanho Birsha University, University of Kalyani, University of North Bengal, University of Gour Banga, Vidyasagar University, Uttar Banga Krishi Vishwavidyalaya, West Bengal State University, Visva-Bharati University, West Bengal University of Health Sciences, West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences and West Bengal University of Technology. Government of West Bengal At present, the Governor of the state is Mr. Keshari Nath Tripathi. He is appointed by the President of India for a term of five years and acts as the constitutional head of the state. The Chief Minister of West Bengal is Smt. Mamata Banerjee who represents the Trinamool Congress party. The Legislative Assembly or Vidhan Sabha of the state is unicameral in nature and contains 295 seats. Geography of West Bengal The state has diverse geographical features which include towering summits of the Himalayan Mountain Range, flat terrain, rivers, and sea. The state shares its boundaries with the Himalayas in the north and the Bay of Bengal to the south. To the west, it is bordered by the states of Jharkhand and Bihar. To the east, it is edged by Bangladesh. To the northeast, it is bordered by Assam, Sikkim and Bhutan. The territory of Nepal lies to the northwest. The state of Orissa is situated to the southwest of the state. Landforms The state is made up of the following varieties of landforms: Darjeeling Himalayan hill region Terai region North Bengal plains Rarh region Coastal plain Sunderbans Western plateau and high lands Ganges delta Agro-climatic regions The state can be divided into the following agro-climatic regions: The Teesta and Terai alluvial areas of North Bengal The mountainous areas in the north The shoreline alluvial areas in the south The red, laterectic, and severely rolling areas to the west The Vindhya alluvial area in the middle The Gangetic alluvial area in the west West Bengal State Information Capital Kolkata Date of formation 26. Jan. 1950 Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Tourist attractions Victoria Memorial, Vidyasagar Setu, Shantiniketan, Darjeeling Festivals Durga Puja, Rabindra Jayanti Major dance and music forms Jatra theatre; Baul; Rabindrasangeet Arts and crafts Terracotta Bankura horses; Kalighat style of painting; hand-woven Baluchari Silk textiles Languages Bengali, Hindi, Urdu Size 88,752 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 91,276,115 Rivers Hooghly, Teesta, Torsa, Subarnarekha, Joldhara Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Sunderbans Tiger Reserve, Jaldapara WS State animal Fishing cat State bird White-throated kingfisher State flower Shephali State tree Devil tree or chatian Major crops Rice, maize, oil seeds, sugarcane Factoids Bengali literature developed early thanks to the cultural awakening brought about by the Brahmo Samaj. Rabindranath Tagore, the first Asian to win the Nobel Prize for Literature, was from Bengal. No. of District 20 Blogs about West Bengal West Bengal – Why It’s Called A Safe Haven For Terrorists? :   Even those with elephantine memory might find it difficult to recollect when was the last time Kolkata encountered a terror attack. Well, the attack on the American Center in 2002 has been the single such incident. Since then, Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore, Pune and even tier-2 cities have witnessed terror attacks. But not Kolkata. One question was on everyone’s mind – Why was Kolkata spared every time? Intelligence inputs, confessions by the arrested terrorists and… read more... TMC cornered yet poised to dominate the last phase of polling in Bengal : Karma, as we all know, is a tricky customer; it strikes and bites back when one least expects. Mamata Banerjee’s evolution from a confident leader ready for a national role to a shaky regional satrap involved in a bitter fight has been quite startling and revealing. Within a couple of months, the BJP has had a remarkable surge, courtesy an aggressive policy which used to be the trademark of Bengal’s firebrand Didi. Irrespective of the… read more... Opposition cries foul, EC says “all is well” in Bengal election : After couple of rounds of relatively peaceful polling in Bengal, the third phase brought back old memories of CPIM “activism” in their heydays. This time though the allegations were primarily against ruling party of the state TMC who have promptly rebutted those complaints. Surprisingly TMC got support from Election Commission, which said that voting was broadly peaceful. Mantra of “peaceful barricading” The last two phases were held in North Bengal, where TMC doesn't have any… read more... TMC hopes to win big, EC cautious of possible poll violence : The third round of polling is currently underway in West Bengal. In this phase electorates of 9 seats belonging to 4 districts of South Bengal are voting. TMC remains the overarching dominant player in these seats and is expected to win most. In the last General election, TMC got 5 seats out of the 9 in fray today. Left Front got the rest. Congress and BJP are also putting up a spirited fight in these… read more... Modi attacks Mamata, gets branded as butcher of Gujarat : 7 years after Sonia Gandhi’s ill-timed “Maut Ka Saudagar” jibe helped Narendra Modi to win emphatically in Gujarat, the Prime Ministerial candidate has been branded as “Butcher of Gujarat” in Bengal. Normally suave Derek-O'Brien tweeted this tirade to counter Modi’s direct bid for supremacy in didi’s land. From sending flowers after Modi won in Gujarat, to launching a vicious personal attack via spokesperson, Mamata – Modi relation has truly undergone a full circle.   Modi… read more... Last Updated on : November 5, 2014