NERFMTTI Home Page »  Programmes »  Calender »  Facilities »  List of machineries for training »  Application Procedure »  List of selected Candidates »  Application for Utilisation Course (U-Series) »  Application for Other than U-Series Course »  Objectives »  Types of Test »  Application for Testing Machinery »  Testing Charges »  Facilities »  Regulations »  Testing Logistic »  Detail of machine tested »  Trainees Trained Since Inception - Coursewise »   Trainees Trained Year wise - Categorywise »  Machines Tested Year wise - Catgorywise »  About RTI Act »  A.O. Order »  C.P.I.O. Order »  Contact Address »  Obtain Institute's Information from »  P.I.O. Particulars »  Organisational Chart »  Directory of Officers & Staff »  Functions of NERFMT&TI »  Power & duties »  Procedure followed in decision making »  Rules & Regulations »  Remuneration »  Service details »  History »  Location & Climate »  Organisation Chart »  Guest House & Housing for Staff Disclaimer: The content of these websites are owned by the respective organizations and they may be contacted for any further information or suggestion. Maintained & Updated by North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, B.Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam Site Designed & Hosted by: National Informatics Centre   North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute Home हिंदी   Objectives of Testing To test Agriculture Implements and other Agriculture Machinery manufactured within the country or imported with a view to assess their functional suitability and performance characteristics, so that, the published test results would: Serve as a basis to decide the type of machine best suited for Indian conditions which could be encouraged for import, production and popularization. Help the farmer and other prospective purchasers in determining the comparative performance of Machine available in market. Provide material to Engineers and Extension workers for guiding farmers in proper selection of equipment. Form the basis for standard specification to be used by the manufacturers. Help financial Institution in recommending financial assistance both to the manufacturers as well as to farmers. Provide feedback to the manufacturers through user’s survey on the nature of field complaints and standard of pre and after sales service facilities provided by them. Assist Bureau of Indian Standard in formulation of standards and testing of Agriculture machines covered under the scope of certification marks scheme Help the manufacturers in product development by providing confidential Test Report.