Places to Visit in Goa, Tourist Destinations near Goa Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Goa Travel Tourist Map Honeymoon in Goa Shopping Hotels in Goa Resorts in Goa Food and Dining Guides How to Reach Goa Panaji Travel Panaji Map Places to See in Panaji Tourist Places in Goa Dudhsagar Waterfall Forts in Goa Goa State Museum Wildlife Sanctuaries Temples in Goa more.. Beaches in Goa Candolim Beach Colva Beach Anjuna Beach Arambol Beach Varca Beach Benaulim Beach more.. Churches in Goa Basilica of Bom Jesus Church of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception more.. Tourist Destinations near Goa Badami Travel Mangalore Travel Panchghani Travel Mahabaleshwar Travel Pune Travel more.. Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels More... About Goa Weather History Culture Events in Goa Sunburn Festival Goa Carnival Christmas Shigmotsav Festival Margao Crafts Festival more.. Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map more.. Home » Maps » Goa » Places to Visit in Goa Places to Visit in Goa Goa is a verdant natural paradise bounded on the one side by the foothills of the Sahyadri range and on the other by the Arabian Sea. Goa, a tiny green land surrounded by azure waters on the West Coast of India, with its natural picturesque beauty, attractive beaches and famous architectural temples, grand parties and festivals and its rich Anglo-Indian heritage is a great attraction for all tourists.The most important places of interests are the beaches of Goa which are filled with millions of tourists every year as visitors all over the world flock to this natural paradise to bathe in the pleasant sun and crystal clear azure-green waters of the sea. To gorge on the lip-smacking and mouth-watering Konkan and Goanese cuisine like chicken rechado and xacuti and to rock and rave in the night parties by the fire-lit sea beaches.The vast collection of diverse rocky and sand,golden or silver sand beaches spellbinds the tourists with their awe-inspiring scenic beauty. Travel Maps Goa Tourist Map Churches in Goa Forts in Goa Beaches in Goa Forest in Goa Temples in Goa Waterfalls of Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries in Goa Places to See in Goa Candolim Beach Category : Nature Located 14 kms north of Panaji in the state of Goa, the Candolim Beach is a part of a long extension of beach coastline along the Arabian Sea that begins at Fort Aguada and ends at Chapora Beach.This place is also famous as it is the birth place of Abba Faria, considered to be one of Goan freedom fighters and the Father of Hypnotism. More... Miramar Beach Category : Nature Miramar Beach is situated 1 kilometer ahead of the confluence of Mandovi River and the Arabian Sea. It is situated on the way towards Dona Paula, about 3 kilometers from Panjim, the capital city of Goa. MiramarBeach of Goa is also known as 'Gasper Dias'. The Miramar Beach in Goa begins at the gulf and then culminates in the Emerald Coast Parkway. It is a golden beach fringed with palm trees. The soft sands of the beach makes it the best site for evening walks. Moreover, 'miramar' in Portuguese implies 'viewing the sea'. Tourists can get a glimpse of the majesty of the Arabian Sea from the Miramar Beach at Goa. More... Majorda Beach Category : Nature Majorda Beach is situated in the southern part of Bogmola. It is one of the marvelous beaches in Goa that is located about 18 kilometers from Dabolim Airport. Marjorda Beach in Goa is connected to Margao with an excellent network of roadways, including buses, auto rickshaws and taxis. It is one of the most popularbeaches of Goa. Majorda Beach of Goa has a strong bearing upon the Indian mythology. Legends believed that Lord Rama was kidnapped and brought to the Majorda beach in his childhood. It is also said that Lord Rama came to the beach in search of his wife, Sita. He is said to have come to Cabo-de-Rama, which lies in he southern part of the beach. More... Mobor Beach Category : Nature Mobor Beach is an ideal location for the adventure tourists. It is one of the most popular beaches in Goa, which enables the tourists to indulge in adventure sports such as water skiing, water surfing, jet ski, banana and bump rides and parasailing. The beach can be visited throughout the year; however, the best months to visit Mobor Beach of Goa is between the months of September and March. The Mobor beach in Goa is one of the most popular tourist sites in the city. Every year thousands of tourists come to the beach to indulge in water sports. In fact, the Cavelossium-Mobor is famous for water sports. More... Colva Beach Category : Nature The Colva Beach lies about 6 Kms to the west of Margao and is the oldest, largest and the most spectacular beaches of South Goa. The beach consists of about 25kms of the fine powdered white sand and is bounded along its coast by coconut palms that stretch from Bogmalo in the north to Cabo de Rama in the south along south Goa's coastline. In the colonial days it used to be the resting area for Margao's high society, who would visit Colva for their "Mundanca" or change of air. Today the area that is reminiscent of the luxurious lifestyle of the aristrocratic class has the beautiful houses or villas that dot the village. More... Anjuna Beach Category : Nature Located about 18kms from Panaji and situated in Bardez taluka, the Anjuna Beach is the part of a 30 km extended beach coastline along the west coast of Goa by the Arabian sea. The Village of Anjuna, a five square mile area is nestled between the Arabian Sea and the Hill overlooking the beach. The beach is famous for its stunning natural beauty with swaying palms trees and soft powered white sands. More... Varca Beach Category : Nature Varca Beach is one most popular tourist sites in Goa. It is one of the most beautiful and exotic beaches of Goaand is situated about 2 kilometers from Benaulim. The beach is marked by a number of wooden boats, belonging to the fishermen of the city. The Varca Beach in Goa is known to its soft white sands and its cleanliness. It is one of the cleanest beaches in Goa that allows the tourists to spend some time in solitude. More... Sinquerim Beach Category : Nature The Sinquerim Beach of Goa is located some 13 km away from Panaji and is stunningly beautiful and quieter than the other beaches of Goa. This long, extended sandy terrain that runs incessantly along the coast is ideal for taking a walk. The feel of the glistening sands and the cool water caressing the feet gives you out of the feeling. The beach is one of a series of tranquil and spectacular stretch of sand and an ideal place for swimming. The tourists come down to this beach and prefer it for its pristine and serene setting.The lovely beach of Sinquerim is one of the oldest preserved beaches in Goa. The famous fort Aguada is located near the beach. Fort Aguada was built by the Portuguese in the early 17th century Portuguese fort that was built by the Portuguese to defend themselves against any foreign attack and to control the entry of the intruders through River Mandovi. Vagator Beach Category : Nature The Vagator beach located near Mapusa Road, North Goa and 22 km far from the state capital Panaji is less crowded and isolated compared to other Goan beaches. It boasts of pure white sand, doted with black lava rocks and swaying coconut and palm trees and lies within the backdrop of the 500-year-old Portuguese Fort and takes the visitors down the memory lane depicting the Old Portuguese era. Vagator's broad white sandy beach - Big Vagator Beach also known as "Little Vagator" is undeniably beautiful and offers picturesque vista with the red ramparts of Chapora Fort.At the southern end of the beach, a row of makeshift cafes provides shade and sustenance for a predominantly Israeli crowd. Like Anjuna, Vagator is a relaxed, comparatively undeveloped resort that appeals, in the main, to budget travellers with time on their hands. Accommodation is limited, Reaching There Immaculate Conception Church & Reis Magos Fort Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception Church was one of the first church to be built in Goa, being there by 1541. The early church was completely re-built from its foundation in 1619 and this was even considered, taking into account of the negligible population of the area and the size of the new church, a striking commentary on the religious climate of the time and the wealth available to the churches. More... Morjim Beach Category : Nature The Morjim Beach, popularly known as the Turtle Beach, is located in Pernem, north Goa. The beach is bestowed with elegant vistas, including a blossoming, green environment. The Morjim Beach is special as it serves as a hatching and nesting habitat of the Olive Ridley turtles, which are an endangered species. The sight of the tiny hatchlings, turtles and crabs makes your experience at the beach an unforgettable one. Kite surfing is another activity popular at this beach because of its shallow depth. More... Betalbatim Beach Category : Nature Each one of us has definitely been lucky enough to witness beautiful sunsets sometime but the beauty of the sunsets at the Betalbatim Beach is beyond imagination. Located in the south of the Majorda Beach, Betalbatim Beach is one most beautiful beaches of Goa. Owing to the spectacular sunsets it offers, it is popularly known as the "Sunset beach of Goa". Not only is it more peaceful than the other beaches but is also much cleaner. The quiet and secluded location of this beach makes it all the more attractive and inviting. More... Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary Category : Nature Heading to Goa this season? Then don't forget to set foot in the Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary for a close rendezvous with your favorite animals. The smallest yet most popular sanctuary in Goa, it is located in Ponda Taluka in the northeastern part of the city. Contained in a very small area of just 8 km, the Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary is covered with moist deciduous forest and evergreen vegetation patches. This little sanctuary proudly houses a Mini Zoo, Rose Garden, Deer Safari Park, Botanical Gardens, Nature Education Centre and Eco-Tourism Cottages within its premises. More... Baga Beach Category : Nature Goa, an endearing paradise of scenic charm, is famous for its mesmerizing beaches all over the world. With glistening sands, sky-high coconut trees, majestic sea waves and delectable sea food, Goa has so much to offer. It is blessed with a number of exotic beaches, yet as we think of Goa the first name that comes to the mind is the super-adventurous Baga Beach. Anybody who has had a chance to witness the beauty of Goa will vouch for the fact that Baga beach is for sure the most happening beach in Goa. More... Arvalem Caves Category : Nature Apart from the admirable beaches and waterfalls, Goa is also one of the most sought after destinations for heritage architectures. Goa is an ancient state and so is the architecture found here. A beautiful example of the historical monuments present in Goa is the Arvalem Caves or the "Pandava Caves". Located in the Bicholim town of North Goa, these caves are ancient rock cut caves that give us a chance to steep into the mythological tales. The origin of these caves dates back to the 6th century. More... Arvalem Waterfalls Category : Nature A thunderous spurt of water beautifully cascading down a rocky terrain of a mountain! This is the picture of the splendrous Arvalem Waterfalls in Goa. Popularly known as the Harvalem Waterfalls, it is located at Arvalem, around 9 km from Bicholim, North Goa. With water falling headlong from a height of 70 meters, it makes up for an absolutely breathtaking view. More... Palolem Beach Category : Nature The Palolem Beach is located about 2-km West of Chaudi, Canacona District of South Goa and is also known as the "Paradise Beach". It was amongst the virgin beaches of Goa which remained secluded from the tourists' eyes until a few years back, but now it is gradually becoming commercialized and developed since tourists have started pouring in. It is the place of glorious sunsets and stunning sunrises with backdrop of Western Ghats situated in Southern Taluka of Canacona. The enthralling Paolem Beach instills in us a feeling of tranquility that is one of the major attribute of this serene Goa beach. Goa Churches Category : History & Culture Goa churches enjoy their share of popularity. There are several churches in the state owing to the long history of Portuguese rule in Goa. These churches other than being a place of worship, also makes for beautiful pieces of architecture from by gone days. Some of the popular churches in Goa are St Cathedral Church, St Francis of Assisi, Basilica of Bom Jesus, St Augustine Church among others. These churches are visited by most of the tourists heading to the state of Goa. More... Arvalam Waterfall Category : Nature Arvalem Waterfall is located 2 km from the town of Sinquelim in the North of Goa. The 24 feet high waterfalls makes for a beautiful picnic spot. One can have a look at the waterfall from the staircase of the famous Rudreshwar Temple. The government has also constructed a park near the waterfall to help people have a closer look of the fall and appreciate its beauty. More... Aguada Fort Category : History & Culture Aguada Fort stands tall as one of the most known representatives of the Goan history. The fort was constructed in 1612 by the Portuguese afearing an attack from the Marathas and the Dutch. The fort had a fresh water spring that provided for the water requirements of all those who used to pass through the place. The giant fort served as crucial point for all the important operations of the Portueguese. Chapoli Dam Category : History & Culture Located about 40 km from Margoa, Chapoli Dam is blessed with scenic charm as it lies in a valley which is surrounded by hills. If you are fond of fishing, this eco-tourist spot of Goa, is a place for you. Mahalaxmi Temple Category : Religious Mahalaxmi Temple situated in Bandora Village of Goa, is dedicated to goddess Mahalaxmi (Goddess of power and strength). The Temple has a beautifully constructed Chowk which is its major attraction. The temple constructed as early as 1413 A.D, is visited by tourists all across the country especially during the Navratri which is celebrated with a great pomp and show at the place. More... Mangeshi Temple Category : Religious Mangeshi temple in Goa is an amalgamation of modern and traditional Hindu pieces of architecture. The Temple is a dedication to Lord Mangueshi, incarnation of Lord Shiva. Legend has it that Lord Brahma himself consecrated the Linga that is worshipped here. The idol of the presiding deity is taken out in a procession every week on Monday. More... Tourist Destinations Near Goa An excursion can be planned to the states of Maharashtra and Karnataka from the state of Goa. Both these states have a lot to offer to the tourists. The cities like Mumbai and Pune are visited by a lot of people across the country. Mumbai is the home of the Bollywood (largest film industry in India). One can visit places like the Gateway of India, Essel World and the popular beaches of Goa while in Mumbai. Pune has a lot of parks, museums and zoos to woo the visitors. Bengaluru, the capital of Karnataka is one of the fastest growing cities in India. Mysore is known for its numerous temples including Chamundeshwari Temple. Last Updated on : May 19, 2014 Places to see in Goa Dudsagar Waterfall Goa State Museum Basilica of Bom Jesus Church of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception Beaches in Goa Temples in Goa Candolim Beach Colva Beach Anjuna Beach Arambol Beach Forts in Goa Forests in Goa Varca Beach Benaulim Beach Nehru Stadium Goa Waterfalls Wildlife Sanctuaries Churches in Goa Tourist Destinations near Goa Badami Travel Coorg Travel Bijapur Travel Mangalore Travel Panchghani Travel Mahabaleshwar Travel Pune Travel Hampi Travel Mumbai Travel Kozikhode Travel Hyderabad Travel Khandala Travel Lonavala Travel Travel to Goa South Goa North Goa Honeymoon in Goa Hotels in Goa Goan Food Shopping in Goa Events in Goa Getting around Goa Travel Agents Goa Airport Flights to Goa International Flights from Goa About Goa Weather History Area Pin code STD code Facts Liberation of Goa Languages Culture Dance About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune