What Factors Affect the Biomass Pellet Mill Efficiency? AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS For Sale What Factors Affect the Biomass Pellet Mill Efficiency? Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: What Factors Affect the Biomass Pellet Mill Efficiency? LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 1 Day Ago #1 carambole Join Date May 2015 Posts 10 What Factors Affect the Biomass Pellet Mill Efficiency? Biomass pellet mill is used to produce pellets for heating, cooking or animal bedding. It can process raw materials like wood, sawdust, bamboo, pine, alfalfa, straw, wheat bran, cotton stalk, rice husk, cotton stalk, and many other biomass materials. The pellet is a product with complicated technologies, there are many factors that affect the production efficiency of pellet mill , it include several points below: 1. The first point is the effect of raw material. Raw material of different feed formula directly affects the pelletizing performance. The feedstock with high starch contents is easy to gelation by the steam. After tempering, these materials are sticky which are advantageous to formation of pellet; for the high fiber content material, a small amount of grease are added to decrease the wearing resistance between the feedstock with ring die, which the feedstock pass through the ring die easily, as well as the smooth surface of the pellet. The adding amount is usually about 1%. 2. The reasonable technology and experienced operation skills can improve the production efficiency of feed pellet mill and the quality of pellet feed, which has close relationship with each feed plant’s economic benefits and reputation. 3. Affect of feeding amount. In order to keep the pellet mill ( Products - Fote Machinery ) work with full capacity without stop, the amount of feeding material entered into the feeding hopper should meet the demand of pelletizing, especially feeding hopper should be avoid of on and off feeding due to the forming dregs. 4. The right way of operation. Take good control of the gap between compression roller and die. If the gap is too small, the roller and die are easy to wearing with louder noise; if the gap is too large, it affects the compression of feedstock. In general, the gap should be adjusted on the basis of diameter of pelletizing pellet, and the best gas is controlled between 0.05-0.3mm. Welcome to contact or visit Fote Machinery: info@sinoftm.com . Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 05:31 PM .