Sampada Farms - agri consultancy - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Sampada Farms – agri consultancy Home Sampada Farms – agri consultancy Hyderabad based consultants helps entrepreneurs venturing into agribusiness projects Raghu Ram Sampada Farms is an agri consulting company. The company was set up in 1991. It is based in Secunderabad, Andhra Pradesh.   Sampada Farms is headed by Mr. Raghu Ram, managing consultant. The company provides consultancy in horticulture, organic farming, agro forestry, bio fuel crops, medicinal plants and aromatic plants, besides others. “Most of the people who venture into agri sector lack knowledge about the industry. We educate them about the cost and risk involved. We have presence across the county,” says Mr. Ram. Service Provided The general services provided include: • Searching suitable agriculture land and identifying suitable crops • Building infrastructure including fencing, getting power and digging borewell • Procuring farm implements and machinery • Preparing farm layout The technical services include: • Survey of land, and water • Soil, water and crop suitability analyses • Preparing the land for cultivation • Procuring planting material for identified crop • Handling cultivation practices • Adopting pre and pro harvesting methods • Marketing of end agri produce The company also provides other services like: • Development and maintenance of farms, orchards and farmhouses • On-farm research on germination and growth of a plant • Providing data on active compounds and uses of a plant • Standardizing cultivation and providing information for commercial cultivation of any crop • Preparing feasibility report • Preparing detailed project report Challenges Faced Speaking about the challenges faced initially, Mr. Ram says, “In the initial stages, we got only one enquiry in two months. Out of those enquiries only 1 or 2 leads converted into business. Now we get almost one enquiry per day. Out of these enquiries, at least 5-6 are converted into business.” Services Provided The company provides on-farm services to agri entrepreneurs. “We have current market information regarding the demand and price of agri products. We guide agriculturists when to plant and harvest their produce to get good price. We also assist in marketing. However, we don’t purchase from the farmers.” Intercropping Commenting on intercropping of medicinal plants in mature rubber plantation for extra income, Mr. Ram says, “Getting income from intercrops is a good idea and it works out with some limitations. In rubber plantations banana, ginger and pineapple can be grown. Shade loving plants can also be intercropped with rubber. Choosing the right intercrop for a particular rubber plantation is the key.” He adds, “The medicinal plants that used as intercrop in rubber plantations are plumbago rosea, adathoda vasica, strobilanthus haenianus and decalepis hamiltonii besides others. From these crops depending upon the area and location, one can expect Rs.7000 to 25000 from an acre as additional income. All of these mentioned plants are shade loving and have good market. It is better to cultivate by becoming a group or cluster of villages to have good market control.” Sappan Wood Mr. Ram opposes the income projections shown from sappan wood by people selling sappan plants, maintaining that there is no market for sappan wood in India. He says, “In traditional Indian practices sappan wood is used for natural coloring of goods especially for mats and water purification process. Due to the latest innovations and takeover of mats industry by mechanization and plastics, no one is using sappan as coloring agent. It is however used for water purification in a few pockets of Kerala. Other than these pockets, there is no utilization of sappan wood in the country.” Jatropha Mr. Ram maintains that people venture into jatropha plantation without proper knowledge. He says, “Jatropha plantation projects on a commercial basis need a lot of care and management. To produce one tank (12 k liters) of bio diesel every day, you require a minimum 5000 acres of land. This is not viable in India.” He adds, “Jatropha requires good management like any other commercial crops. It requires good planting material, fertilizers management, irrigation management, and pest and disease management. By nature, any seed requires moisture in pot mixture. Like any other seed jatropha requires moisture to germinate.  In dry media you can’t expect germination from any seed.” He further maintains, “For jatropha we have assisted to prepare estimates, cultivation practices to Indian entrepreneurs along a Malaysia- and Oman-based companies.” Speaking about the future growth prospects of jatropha in India, Mr. Ram says, “Agro climatic conditions of India are very much suitable for jatropha plantation. But commercially it is not going to be implemented in India. Jatropha’s success depends on very large scale plantations, close to a minimum of 20- 25 thousand acres. It is impossible to get such massive land extents in India as the income from jatropha is less than the other crops. So, no farmer shows interest towards jatropha. Farmers prefer crops from which they get good and more assured returns,” adding, “Jatropha yields around 300 kg per ton of seed.” When asked about government intervention, Mr. Ram says, “The government came out with a policy long time back. Even with intervention of government, no one can make jatropha a success story in India.” Training Provided Sampada Farms also provides training in various agri fields. “We conducted world’s first work shop on biofuels/jatropha in association with Government of Andhra Pradesh in 2004 with a 5 years home work on jatropha. It brought us instant recognition,” says Mr. Ram, adding, “We organized workshops on the cultivation of medicinal plants and horticulture crops. These workshops got us good number of clients. Now we are providing training on advance management of dairy farms in association of KVK, Baramati. It is a great hit in farming community across the country, who wants to venture into dairy farming. These courses got us excellent recognition and we were awarded with good projects of dairy.” Advising people entering the agri sector, Mr. Ram says, “You should undertake agriculture with the right understanding so that you can make money. For example, you can make a minimum of Rs.50k/acre/annum from the cultivation of papaya. You have to choose the right crops and make a good investment. However, you cannot make profits from small plots.”  Mr. Ram is a graduate with agri background. “I have over 20 years of experience in this sector,” he adds. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr. Raghu Ram, Managing Consultant. SAMPADA FARMS 408-Panchasheela Towers Park Lane, M.G.Road, SECUNDERABAD-500 003. A.P., INDIA Phone: 9848203647, 040 64641344 Email: sampadafarms@gmail.com Website: www.sampadafarms.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Sampada Farms – agri consultancy Related – articles, consultants, downloads SK Agri Consultant Farm – medicinal plantation Coconut Breeding – DEEJAY FARMS ACI Agrosolution – jatropha plantation Insight Quality Consultancy Services You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture