Ministry of Food Processing Industries Announcements made in the Budget 2015-16: Extract a) Fiscal incentives for food processing sector: i. Income Tax: With a view to facilitating generation of employment, it is proposed to amend the provisions of section 80JJAA of the Income-tax Act so as to provide that tax benefit under the said section shall be available to a „person‟ deriving profits from manufacture of goods in a factory and paying wages to new regular workmen. The eligibility threshold of minimum 100 workmen is proposed is to reduce to 50. ii. Excise Duty: The entry “waters, including mineral waters and aerated waters, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured” in the Seventh Schedule to the Finance Act, 2005 related to levy of additional duty of excise @ 5% is being omitted. Till the enactment of the Finance Bill, 2015, the said additional duty of excise of 5% leviable on such goods is being exempted. Simultaneously, the Basic Excise Duty on these goods is being increased from 12% to 18%. Excise duty of 2% without CENVAT credit or 6% with CENVAT credit is being levied on peanut butter and condensed milk put up in unit containers. It is also being notified under section 4A of the Central Excise Act for the purpose of valuation with reference to the Retail Sale Price with an abatement of 30%. iii. Service Tax: Services of pre-conditioning, pre-cooling, ripening, waxing, retail packing, labelling of fruits and vegetables are being exempted. Exemption to transportation of „food stuff‟ by rail, or vessels or road will be limited to transportation of food grains including rice and pulses, flours, milk and salt only. Transportation of agricultural produce is separately exempt which would continue. b) Related announcements with positive impact on Food Processing Sector: i. Micro Units Development Refinance Agency (MUDRA) Bank, with a corpus of `20,000 crore, and credit guarantee corpus of 3,000 crore will be created. MUDRA Bank will refinance Micro-Finance Institutions through a Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana. Credit Guarantee corpus will help small entrepreneurs to avail loan without collateral. ii. To increase the incomes of farmers, a unified National Agricultural Market is proposed to be created.