Printing Trade Shows,International Printing Exhibition,Screen Printing Trade Show JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Printing & Publishing Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Printing & PublishingTrade Shows Date : 27 Oct - 29 Oct 2015 Isprint -  Israel Isprint is the largest exhibition for the Printing Industry and Cross Media Technologies. Isprint reflects the technological and structural changes of the whole printing Industry - changes which affect the end user as well. Venue : Tel Aviv Fairgrounds ,Tel-Aviv Israel Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 30 Jul - 02 Aug 2015 India Corrugated Show 2015 -  India India Corrugated Show will bring together the worldwide manufacturers and providers of machinery, materials and services for corrugated industry in India and the packaging buyers from India and neighboring countries. Venue : Pragati Maidan ,Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 24 Jul - 26 Jul 2015 Media Expo - Delhi -  India Media Expo 2015 has come forward as a major show with both national and international exhibitors who join forces to exhibit creativity and latest technology in signage, point of purchase, advertising, printing, retail & shop.... Venue : Pragati Maidan ,Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Sep - 11 Sep 2015 Print & Sign -  Romania Is a trade event for the Printing and Packaging industry, as well as for the Sign Making industry. Print & Sign is the key domestic printing industry event, reflecting the entire spectrum of the trade. Where a visitor-targeted multimedia.... Venue : Romexpo Exhibition Centre ,Bucharest Romania Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Jan - 15 Jan 2016 PWB Expo - Printed Wiring Boards Expo -  Japan The latest PCBs and related technologies, enabling greater functionality and higher performance of electronic products, will gather. Must-attend show for all designers/developers involved in the electronics industry. Venue : Tokyo International Exhibition Center (Tokyo Big Sight) ,Tokyo Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Mar - 11 Mar 2016 FESPA Digital -  Netherlands This is the largest, most comprehensive and international digital wide format print exhibition. With a market share worth a massive €100 billion worldwide, visitors can discover how digital technology can help them add new capabilities and.... Venue : Amsterdam RAI ,Europaplein 1078 AZ Netherlands Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Aug - 22 Aug 2015 FESPA Mexico -  Mexico FESPA Mexico offers a unique environment where the market can unite to share the latest technologies and solutions for the signage, textile, screen and digital printing industries. Venue : Centro Banamex ,México DF Mexico Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Nov - 10 Nov 2015 Istanbul Book Fair -  Turkey The Istanbul Book Fair offers a huge potential for European book market - especially for Germany as a major trading partner. Istanbul Book Fair would be an ideal opportunity for you, to showcase Books & Periodicals to a large urban market in this.... Venue : Tüyap Fair, Convention and Congress Center ,ISTANBUL Turkey Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Aug - 06 Aug 2015 International Converting Exhibition South America -  Brazil International Converting Exhibition South America is one of the biggest exhibition for the paper, film and foil converting industry. The event will feautres wide range of products for materials, coating & laminating, drying, treating, control.... Venue : Transamerica Expo Center ,SP Brazil Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Aug - 25 Aug 2015 Signs & Media World Expo -  Philippines SIGNS & MEDIA WORLD EXPO 2015 is the 6th International Signage & Displays, Out of Home Media, Multimedia & Presentation Technology, Equipment, Materials and Services Exhibition. Venue : SMX Convention Center ,Manila Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 Nov - 07 Nov 2015 Print & Label Philippines -  Philippines 12th International Printing & Label Machinery, Paper & Paper Products, Graphic Communications, Digital Imaging Equipment, Pre-Press Solutions, Accessories & Services Exhibition and Conference. Venue : SMX Exhibition and Convention Center ,Metro Manila Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Sep - 24 Sep 2015 Rex-Kyiv -  Ukraine Rex-Kyiv 2015 is one of the famous advertising exhibition which is the showing full range of modern advertising, marketing and PR-technologies, equipment, goods and services and providing best platfrom for the related industries. Venue : KyivExpoPlaza ,Kyiv Ukraine Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 May - 16 May 2015 PLAST-PRINT-PACK-PAPER East Africa 2015 -  Tanzania, United Republic of International Trade Show on Plastics & Polymers - Printing & Packaging Equipment & Machinery - Papers & Converters Venue : Diamond Jubilee Hall ,Dar-es-salaam Tanzania, United Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 May - 15 May 2015 Printex -  Australia Printex Australia is an international exhibition for printing, pre-print, publishing, graphic, arts, bookbinding and paper, digital design and publishing. Printex Australia adjusts itself to the structural modification of the whole printing Industry.... Venue : Sydney Showground (Olympic Park) ,NSW Australia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 May - 13 May 2015 Abu Dhabi International Book Fair -  United Arab Emirates The Abu Dhabi International Book Fair is an annual book fair held in Abu Dhabi. It provides a platform where publishers, booksellers, agents, cultural organisations and press can meet, exchange ideas and identify business opportunities. Since.... Venue : Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre ,Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 May - 11 May 2015 Book Fair Skopje -  Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of The 27Th Book Fair 2015 Will Undoubtedly Be A Place Of Literary Readings And Speeches Of Prominent Authors In This Field Which Will Again Highlight The Power Of Literary Works As An Essential Factor For The Cultural Creation Of Every Nation. At.... Venue : Skopje Fair Exhbition Ground ,Skopje Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Apr - 24 Apr 2015 Poligrafia Expo -  Poland Poligrafia Expo is Poland's renowned and largest trade fair for the printing industry. The show will be held on numerous levels since another important trade show related to the printing sector, i.e. the International Trade.... Venue : Poznan International Fair Grounds Poland Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Apr - 16 Apr 2015 Gulf Print -  United Arab Emirates Gulf Print will have a special focus on the integration of processes in printing and packaging and its supply chain as this will eventually lead both industries to claim market leadership and turning UAE to a printing and packaging hub. This.... Venue : Dubai World Trade Centre ,Dubai United Arab Emirates Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 24 Mar - 27 Mar 2015 Graphispag 2015 -  Spain The leading trade show for the Spanish graphics industry will be showcasing large machinery, equipment and accessories for every kind of printing, finishing and transformation system, as well as the latest digital graphic technology and a wide.... Venue : Fira de Barcelona - Recinto Gran Via ,Barcelona Spain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Mar - 11 Mar 2015 Printing South China -  China Printing South China 2015 is the international exhibition on printing show, which has received high recognition from the industry players and become the largest and the most influential international trade fair. Venue : China Import and Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,Guangdong China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Mar - 11 Mar 2015 Sino Label & Print -  China China International Exhibition on Label Printing Technology (also known as “Sino-Label”) has established itself a remarkable and influential international exhibition in China covering the spectrum of label printing, decoration,.... Venue : China Import and Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,Guangdong China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Feb - 22 Feb 2015 New Delhi World Book Fair -  India India is the largest Book Fair in the Afro-Asian region. The Trust has so far successfully organized seventeen book fairs of the magnitude of ‘world’ book fair quite successfully. Venue : Praqati Maidan ,Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 Nov - 08 Nov 2014 KOSIGN - Korea Int\'l Sign and Design Show -  Korea, Republic of Organized by Coex, Korea Outdoor Advertising Association and the KODPA (Korea Digital Printing Equipment and Materials Industry Association), Kosign is one of Korea\'s largest and oldest sign and design show. Sponsor: DGI - Digital Graphics.... Venue : Coex ,Gyeonggi Korea, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration « Prev 1 Next » Trade Shows by Month May 2015 Jun 2015 Jul 2015 Aug 2015 Sep 2015 Oct 2015 Nov 2015 Dec 2015 Jan 2016 Feb 2016 Mar 2016 Apr 2016 Trade Shows by Country Argentina Australia China Germany France