Travel to Along - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Arunachal Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Travel Agents Tourist Places in Arunachal Pradesh Picnic Spots Museums Pilgrimage Adventure Sports Ita Fort Buddha Temple Ganga Lake Polo Park Tawang Gompa Bumla Pass Apatani Villages Kile Pakho Taley Wildlife Sanctuary Cities to Visit in Arunachal Pradesh Along Travel Itanagar Travel Tawang Travel Ziro Travel Hotels in Arunachal Pradesh Itanagar Hotels About Arunachal Pradesh History Geography Home » Arunachal Pradesh » Travel to Along Travel to Along Along Tourism Located in Arunachal Pradesh, Along is a little market town and is the headquarter of the West Siang district. Along is located around 150 km from Likabali, which is situated at the border of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. This little town is famous for its natural beauty and is surrounded by mountains and has two rivers running through it, the Sipu and Yomga. Climate of Along Since Along is not located at a very high altitude, it experiences a temperate climate. Best Time to Visit Along The best time to visit Along is between October to April. How to Reach Along A small little town, Along is gaining popularity as a tourist destination gradually and here is how one can reach Along. By Rail The closest railway station to Along is at Silapathar. This is a very small station and only one train stops here, which is the Arunachal Express. One can hire a taxi from here to reach Along. By Road Along has a good road network and the road which runs from north Lakhimpur to the capital city of Itanagar, connects the town of Along to the city. Regular bus services to Along run from Itanagar. Arunachal Pradesh State Transport Service (APSTS) buses are available to and from Along. There is a 5 hours journey by bus from Pasighat to Along (106 km) while from Moying (150 km) the bus will take around 6.5 hours to reach Along. By Air The nearest airport to Along is at Lilabari, which is situated in the state of Assam. Lilabari is connected by flight services to Guwahati and Dibrugarh. One can take a bus or hire a taxi from Lilabari to Along. Tourist Places in Along Given its temperate climate and beautiful surroundings, Along is a perfect and peaceful place for a vacation. Here are a few of Along's popular tourist attractions: Ramakrishna Ashram Patum Bridge Darka Village Donyi Polo Temple River Rafting at Silom River Orange Orchards Along is a wonderful place for adventure lovers and one can enjoy river rafting, angling, trekking and hiking here. Kazu Village 2 km north of Along is a village by the name of Kazu, inhabited by the Adi tribe. Before entering the village, one must take permission from the village headman who charges Rs.500 as a fee. Kazu is a beautiful little village and an interesting and lesser known of tourist destination in the area. Worth checking out is the longhouse architecture which is typical of Adi villages. Also worth taking a look at is the cable-tussed and bamboo- decked suspension bridge over the river. When visiting the Kazu village remember that locals aren't very comfortable with having their pictures taken, so be discreet with your camera and ask for permission before clicking. Last Updated on : 30/09/2013 Travel to Arunachal Pradesh Travel to Along Travel to Bhalukpong Travel to Bomdila Travel to Itanagar Travel to Tawang Travel to Ziro Places to visit in Arunachal-pradesh Places to visit in Itanagar Places to visit in Tawang Places to visit in Ziro About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule