Kumkum Mohanty India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Art and Culture » Kumkum Mohanty   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Kumkum Mohanty Shrimati Kumkum Mohanty is a world famous Odissi dancer. She has received training under Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra at Kala Vikash Kendra. Her contribution to the field of Odissi dance has been vast and praiseworthy. Kumkum Mohanty has been honoured with the Sangeet Natak Academy Award in 1994. As a child, Kumkum Mohanty was an exceptional dancer. A serious student of Kelucharan Mohapatra, Kumkum Mohanty grew up as an outstanding dancer, dedicated to the dance form of Odissi. She has shined in her sensitive portrayal of Asthapadis from the Gita Govinda and she has also taken lead roles in a large number of choreographic works by her guru. She has also participated in many important dance recitals in the country as well as in abroad. When the Government of Orissa founded the Odissi Research Centre, the chair of the chief executive was presented to none other than Kumkum Mohanty, one of the prominent and senior Odissi dancers in India as she is. With the other masters of Odissi dance and music Kumkum Mohanty carried out noteworthy work in recording the documents and diffusion of the tradition. Kumkum has choreographed a number of dance pieces herself. Shrimati Mohanty is also the Special Secretary (Culture) to the Government of Orissa. She has been rewarded with Orissa Sangeet Natak Academy Award in 1993, followed by the Sangeet Natak Academy Award the next year.   Related Links   Odissi Sanjukta Panigrahi Protima Bedi Kumkum Mohanty Sonal Mansingh Kelucharan Mohapatra   Bharatnatyam Chitra Vishweswaran Padma Suvramanyum Mallika Sarabhai   Kathakali Anita Ratnam   Kathak PT. Birju Maharaj   Kuchipudi Vempati Chinna Satyam Raja and Radha Reddy Siddhendra Yogi Mrinalini Sadananda Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule