Education in Assam Home » Assam » Education in Assam   Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Silchar Jorhat Haflong Nagoan Guwahati Tezpur Dispur Sibsagar                          more... असम का नक्शा Districts of Assam Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map National Parks of Assam Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Economy & Development Society Travel to Assam Places to Visit in Assam Wildlife Sanctuaries Kamakhya Temple National Parks in Assam Manas National Park Dibru-Saikhowa National Park Kaziranga National Park Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Education in Assam Universities in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info       Education in Assam In the Northeast region of India, Assam occupies a distinct place in the field of education. The overall literacy rate of Assam is 64.28%, where the literacy rate of male is 71.93% and female 56.03%. Huge numbers of educational institutions are established here imparting education to the students of entire. Northeastern region. Formal education starts in schools with elementary, secondary, higher secondary. Then the students move to a college and pursue education in a stream he is interested in. The Directorate of Elementary Education of Assam organizes numerous activities to universalize Elementary Education (UEE). The Elementary education in Assam includes classes from Class I to Class VII, within the age group of 6 - 14 years of students. Secondary and higher secondary schools in Assam covering class tenth and twelfth respectively, finally prepares the child for higher education. Assam has set up many educational institutions for higher studies following high standards to impart education in the field of engineering and management. The Government of Assam provides free and compulsory education for children till the age of 14. The requirement for technical education has been increasing gradually as a result the government has paid due attention in this field and set up many esteemed institutions in Assam. Assam has 5 universities namely Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati (Guwahati), Assam Agricultural University (Jorhat), Dibrugarh University (Dibrugarh), Gauhati University (Gauhati), Tezpur University (Tezpur) and Assam University. Universities The Assam University was established in the year 1994 after the Assam University Act of 1989 recommended the establishment of a central university in the state of Assam. The university is situated in Dargakona and is a renowned seat of learning and education in the state of Assam. The huge campus of the university is situated at a distance of 20 kilometers from the city of Silchar. The postal address of the university with the telephonic address of the Vice Chancellor and the Registrar of the university is stated below: Assam University, Silchar - 788 011, Assam Telephone: Vice Chancellor: 91-03842-270801 Registrar: 91-03842-270806 The university offers several courses in various disciplines. It has 24 departments working under eight schools offering as much as 51 undergraduate courses. The eight schools under which the disciples are offered are listed below: Social Science Life Science Information Science Environmental Science Physical Science Languages Humanities Management Studies The courses are taught by the distinguished faculty members of the university. The strength of the faculty of the university has risen to a number of more than 120 teachers. The university provides the students with the hostel facilities. It has also arranged for transportation to commute the students from Silchar to the University and back. The university intends to grow and become a complete residential university attracting more students from outside the state of Assam. The objective of the Assam University is to promote education and advance the knowledge of the affiliated students. The university offers instructional facilities and educational programs to increment and promote the intellectual capacity of the students. There are six universities in Assam : Assam Agricultural University Assam University Dibrugarh University Gauhati University K.K. Handique State Open University Tezpur University Libraries Assam is one of the leading states in northeast where literacy and overall education is of a great concern. The educated mass in the state has resulted in increased readership. More and more schools, colleges and technical institutes are coming up in the state. With that, an inflow of students from different states can be observed. All these factors have encouraged in the growth of many Libraries in Assam. These Assam libraries help the students, professionals, service holders and book lovers to get hold of their desired books, which may be not available in the market. The state has a Central Library, which is one important library in the state, has a total of eighty-one thousand volumes of books. These include various kinds of textbooks, reference books, and non-book materials like slides, audiotapes and videotapes. It also subscribes to a total number of about four hundred and eighty-four recent periodicals. Academic Staff College District Library Staff College Library S.K. Bhuyan Library Nabin Bord oloi Library Marwari Hindi Pustakalaya K.K. Hendique Library Bishnu Nirmala Trust Bhawan District Library Schools In the Northeastern region of India, Assam schools occupy an important position. In the state of Assam Guwahati has become a major destination for education because of its world-class schools. Assam schools are either affiliated to Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and the Indian School Certificate (ISC) examinations of Delhi, Assam Board of School Education, or Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) board. Most of the schools of Assam have very good infrastructure with good school buildings, libraries, playgrounds, laboratories etc. Some of the schools in Assam have residential facilities for outstation students. The different schools in Assam are run by different organizations, either they are Government schools or run by private organizations. The medium of instruction in these schools is either Assamese or English. Maharishi Vidya Mandir Doon Public School - Assam St Xavier's Public School Pinewood Residential School Vivekananda Kendra Vidyalaya Pranabananda Vidyamandir Godwins School Gems Nps International School St. Francis De Sales School Engineering Institutes The Assam Engineering College was set up in the year 1955 as the first under graduate college of engineering with a single department of civil engineering. The college is situated amidst the beautiful surroundings of the Deepor Beel in the fringes of the city of Guwahati in the Assam. The Assam Engineering College started with a single department and has grown in the past few decades to incorporate several other disciplines. The college also offers a three-year postgraduate course and degree in Masters of Computer Application. The department was added to the other existing departments of the college in the year 1990. The engineering college offers to its students various facilities. It has a well established Training and Placement Cell that ensures that the students are recruited into the companies from the campus itself. Scheduled buses ply from the Church Field stop commuting students to the college. The college has collaborated with other centers to set up three centers in the college itself. The AEC Nodal Center works under the Institute of Applied Manpower Research. The college collaborated with the Housing and Urban Development Corporation to establish the Assam Engineering College Building Center. The Rural Technology Center undertakes research for the upliftment of the rural areas with the Assam Science Technology and Environment Council. IIT Guwahati - Indian Institute of Technology Assam Engineering College Don Bosco College of Engineering and Technology Girijananda Chowdhury Institute of Management & Technology - GIMT Royal School of Engineering & Technology Central Institute of Technology National Institute Of Technoogy Jorhat Engineering College Assam Administrative Staff College of Guwahati It trains the administrators and staffs employedin the Government organizations of Assam. The Staff College firmly believes that learning increases productivity, developing the potential of employees, and facilitates teamwork. The central vision of Assam Administrative Staff College is to carry on the learning process. The main aim of the College is to create an environment where people learn easily and instantly and apply their knowledge and understanding at their workplace for the development of the Government and country. The methodology of the training followed is through class room sessions, group activities, panel discussions, projects, seminars, film shows, field visits, case studies, role play, exercises, etc. Assam Administrative Staff College (AASC) is located at Jawaharnagar, 30 Km from Borjhar Airport Guwahati and 11 Km away from the railway station of Guwahati. If you want to avail a bus to reach the College, board the bus from the Khanapara Bus Terminal, and from the Beltola Tri-Junction. The various activities of Assam Administrative Staff College are as follows: Carry on analysis on the training requirements. To conceptualize various training programs. Develop and modify training materials. Conduct internal and external validation to improve training. Methodological analysis of training from time to time to make it cost effective. Various foundation courses are held for State Civil Service Officers and other departments of Assam and the other States of North-East India. Orientation and refresher courses are held in Decentralized Planning Process, Management, Development Administration, Rural Development, Public Distribution System, Project Formulation, computer systems, etc. Assam Distance Education The concept of Distance learning has made the journey of acquiring higher education easier for those people who are already working. This helps them to work and study in the same phase by saving a lot of precious time. Assam Distance Education is a popular among the people of the state, especially for those who are working or are engaged in the household works and are yet ea-ger to enroll themselves for a course. Distance learning is offered in the different universities in Assam. There are other institutes that provide only courses on distance education. Distance learning courses are also known as Correspondence Courses. In the fast pace of life to-day, correspondence or distance learning is highly preferred as it saves a lot of valuable time. It gives ample scope for one study along with doing other activities. One can stay at one's own place and study from a university situated far away. Assam Distance Education is very popular the distance learning centers and the universities that offer distance or correspondence courses charge much lower amount of fees when compared to that of the regular study programs. The distance education courses or the correspondence courses in Assam provide all the neces-sary materials for study in the distance courses. Gauhati University, one of the leading universities of Assam, conducts some special classes on holidays so that the students are able to attend to the classes. The classes are intentionally held on holidays so that the students, who are working or live far away, can manage to attend to the classes and clarify their doubts. Assam Dental Colleges In the portfolio of Assam Dental Colleges, the Regional Dental College of Guwahati stands as one of the prominent educational institutions in the concerned field. Conducting courses of MDS and BDS, the College is affiliated to the University of Gauhati. With the establishment of the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital in 1960, a need has been felt to form specialized institutions for various professional courses. As such, the government of Assam started making several committees. The members of these committees were veteran educationalists who took great interest in forming separate colleges for different academic streams. In the year of 1987, the Regional Dental College in Guwahati came into being and since then the institution is successfully conducting various courses on dental surgery and other similar courses. During the initial periods, the student strength of the Dental College was not so high. The teaching faculty of the College was limited to a certain number. However, with the passing of time, several positive changes have took place within the premises of Regional Dental college of Guwahati. Presently, the prestigious dental college of Assam holds a total of around 55 students who are admitted through an entrance examination. Those who score commendable marks in the entrance test, are allowed to get a seat in the Dental college. The faculty of the regional dental college of Guwahati comprises of some of the best dental experts who have relevant experience in this field. Apart from providing international standards of dental education, the college also ensures that the students are getting the best of other educational facilities like that of library, laboratory and hostel. The Regional Dental College of Guwahati is truly a remarkable educational landmark of Assam Dental Colleges. Last Updated on 10 January 2011 Exam Assam Board Date Sheet for HS(12th) Exams Assam Board Date Sheet for HSLC(10th) Exams Education Hotel Management Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Fashion Designing Colleges Architecture Colleges             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule