How to raise bank loans for farming? - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop How to raise bank loans for farming? Home How to raise bank loans for farming? Bank finances all crops which brings money. Good planning key to success in getting loans A.S.Patil Mr. A.S Patil has been in the field of agriculture finance consultancy services for more than three decades. He shares his insight and throws some light on financing and raising funds for farming activities. Funding from Government, Indian and International Organizations Government bodies like NABARD, NHB, NHM offer subsidies to encourage farmers to take new ventures. The loans or funding is done by nationalized banks and private banks for term loans to acquire fixed assets and for crops as working capital. For large projects, one can form companies and look for equity from public. Some venture capitalists can fund both from India or abroad provided projects are pretty large, standing from last 5 years and are profit making. Companies fund farmers for cultivation under contract farming logic and supply seeds, fertilizers as kind and buy back the produce. Procurement of funding options Mr. Patil says, “for bank funding you can meet the branch manager of nearest bank, you can visit website of NABARD, NHB, NHM and also bank websites, state department of agriculture and horticulture and agri universities.” Loans from friends and relatives are another source. Government encourages self-help groups and one can think of exploring that option as well. Criteria to be fulfilled to avail funding offers Conceptualization of idea, SWOT analysis, confirmation of technical support, and display managerial capacity are important criteria that are considered during funding. A detailed project should be prepared with all these factors explained well. Basic infrastructure like land, water- water and soil suitability, availability of your portion i.e., margin money, should be discussed in the report with the quotation. There should not be any violations of law of the land like land reforms act. One can then approach a bank and convince their capability. This would lead to sanction and then application of government subsidies. Generally farmers are ill equipped to prepare a detailed project report. They may at their discretion, avail consultants’ service. Consultants can also help in identifying suitable projects. Time period for loan application Fundings are open 365 days year after year. A project however is started based on certain seasonal advantages if any. Farmers can walk in at any point of time and apply for a loan. Banks are finding it difficult to hit their targeted figure of 18 % under direct agriculture and are hence always eager to lend. Good planning is a must for success in getting loans. Parameters to be considered by borrower The down payment, which is the contribution of the farmer, is expected to be around 20-25 %. Repayment period depends upon type of the project. Crop loans can extend to one year while term loans can extend up to 9 years or more in some special cases. All crops which can bring in money are financed by the bank without exception. Security expected by the bank, is of two types. • Primary security coming from crop, animal, machinery financed by the bank. • Collateral security can be from land and building of the farm or other property. The property can be situated anywhere in India but should have marketability and all legal parameters should be clear. The total value of security, post development should be around 150 to 200 % of the loan. Repayment or the installments will be fixed so that the time matches with income generation by sale of crop or animal/animal products like milk or egg. During gestation period when income is not being generated there will not be any demand by the banks. Technical feasibility and financial viability are the criteria for getting large funding. Mr. Patil’s financial consulting services Mr. Patil’s consultancy provides end to end services. “Farmer counseling, technical support for cultivation, preparation of project reports, support for bank loan, visit to farms for advise on fortnightly basis, teaching bank managers on agricultural lending and rural development are the domains of our business” Mr. Patil shares. The consultancy’s fee varies depending on the size of the farm and scope of work. It may be around 1.5 to 2.5 % of the project cost. These services are provided in South India and Maharashtra. Our Correspondent Contact : A. S. Patil 307, 14th cross, 2nd block, Jayanagar Bangalore 560011 Mob: 9448028970 Email: anil1956@hotmail.com Web: www.agriprojectsconsultants.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > How to raise bank loans for farming? Related – articles, consultants, downloads Agriculture loans – Interest rates Parmeshwar Hegde talks on dairy farming Friends Farm – Sustainable farming Ashrams Bio Health – Contract farming You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water