Competitive Analysis of Germany Greenhouse Cultivation Industry 2014-2018 AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Press Releases Competitive Analysis of Germany Greenhouse Cultivation Industry 2014-2018 Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Competitive Analysis of Germany Greenhouse Cultivation Industry 2014-2018 LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… March 27th, 2015 #1 rajbksh Join Date Jan 2014 Posts 36 Blog Entries 2 Competitive Analysis of Germany Greenhouse Cultivation Industry 2014-2018 Germany Greenhouse Cultivation Market Outlook to 2018 - Government Initiatives to Propel Growth” provides a comprehensive analysis of the various aspects such as market size of the Germany Greenhouse Cultivation Market, market segmentation on the basis of vegetables, fruits, flowers and tree nurseries grown by number and area covered and macroeconomic factors affecting the industry. The report also covers the market shares and revenues of major greenhouse construction companies engaged in the market. The area covered under the greenhouse has been following a downward trend since 2005. The same trend is supported by the decreasing number of greenhouses in the country on account of rising costs and increasing imports from other countries. The recent trend suggests a slow growth in the profit of the greenhouses, the rising costs of operation has put downward pressures on the revenue earned. The area covered under plantation by the greenhouse growers in Germany has decreased from ~ hectares in 2005 to ~ hectares in 2010. The acreage of greenhouse vegetables has declined consistently from ~ hectares in 2009 to ~ hectares in 2013, thus demurring at a negative CAGR of 3.3% during the period. However, the production of vegetables witnessed an increasing trend in the period 2012-2013 on account of modernization in cultivation methods used in the country. Tomatoes have the largest acreage among all other greenhouse vegetables in Germany. Tomatoes accounted for ~% share in total acreage of greenhouse vegetables in Germany in 2013. The most important strength that would help the greenhouse cultivation market in Germany is the high importance given to health, sustainable and regional products. The campaign supported by the German Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection, known as ‘5-a-day’, has encouraged Germans to adopt a healthy lifestyle by increasing the intake of fresh fruits and vegetables to prevent diseases related to nutritional deficiency. The demographic profile of the population in the Germany suggests that the majority of population is getting older. As this trend continues, it is likely that the older people would tend to form a greater proportion of the population. As fruits and vegetables form a major part of the diet of elderly, it may be correct to speculate that the demand for fresh vegetables and fruits would increase in the country. According to the research report, the Germany Greenhouse Cultivation market size market will grow at a moderate CAGR in the next 5 years. The year on year growth of the market is expected to follow a rocky path as the market size would be dependent on various domestic factors as well as on factors existing in the world agricultural market. This increase might be accompanied with a decrease in the number of greenhouses operating in the country as modernization would increase productivity of the existing greenhouses, causing a fall in the profitability of small businesses engaged in the market. The area covered by greenhouses in Germany is expected to grow gradually in the coming years. Key Topics Covered in the Report: • The market size of the Germany Greenhouse Cultivation Market on the basis of Plantation Area. • Market segmentation of the Germany Greenhouse Cultivation Market on the basis of vegetables, fruits, flowers and tree nurseries grown in the greenhouses by number and area covered. • Trends and Development in the Germany Greenhouse Cultivation Market. • Competitive landscape of the major greenhouse construction companies in the Germany Greenhouse Cultivation Market. • Future outlook of the Germany Greenhouse Cultivation Market Source: https://www.kenresearch.com/agricult...t/629-104.html Contact: Ken Research Ankur Gupta, Head Marketing & Communications query@kenresearch.com +91-11-47017199 Reply With Quote Tags for this Thread germany greenhouse sector , greenhouse fruits market , greenhouse market report , ornamental plants View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 03:59 PM .