CNN invites Nominations for 2010 CNN Heroes | ngogateway.com Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Latest : Sri Vivekananda Educational Society Posted 1 year ago MARS FOUNDATION Posted 1 year ago St.Theresa’s Educational Society Posted 1 year ago Ray Welfare Society Posted 1 year ago Narain Sewa Sansthan Posted 1 year ago WOMEN ORGANISATION RURAL DEVELOPMENT TRUST Posted 1 year ago Sewa Bhav Foundation Posted 1 year ago Panrui Swajan Welfare Society Posted 4 years ago Sampark Samaj Kalyan Sansthan Posted 4 years ago The Catholic Health Association of India Posted 4 years ago Home   >   Funding   >   CNN invites Nominations for 2010 CNN Heroes CNN invites Nominations for 2010 CNN Heroes By admin on May 2, 2010 CNN, the US-based international television network is seeking nominations for its 2010 CNN Heroes competition, which is held annually to recognize individuals who have made contributions and inspired others. CNN Heroes is for individuals who have made accomplishments in their areas of work and left others inspired. The winner of this competition will receive a grant award of $100,000 and each of the ten finalists will receive $25,000 each. Although the areas or fields of their contributions have not been specified, CNN offers the following information for nominators to help them make the nominations: * “Think about what makes your hero special. Ask yourself: What makes my nominee unique? What specific accomplishment has he or she achieved that is truly remarkable? What impact has their work had on others? We encourage you to watch videos of previous CNN Heroes to familiarize yourself with the achievements of the inspiring individuals we honor as “everyday people changing the world.” * Take a look at our nomination form. We suggest you review the information requested about yourself, your nominee and their work before filling out your submission. * Tell us about your hero! Take your time and write from the heart. Remember: What you share — in your own words — is the most important factor in advancing a nomination for further consideration. You can enter your answers to the essay questions directly on the form, or write them first in a word-processing document and “cut-and-paste” them into each answer field. Please note that the information you provide will be used in accordance with our privacy policy.” This competition is open to only individuals (13 or more than 13 years of age) and their accomplishments should have occurred on or after 26 November 2009. There is also a “Young Wonder” category in this award where nominees who are 25 years old or less than that. Organizations or groups are not eligible. Also, individuals from voided countries cannot be nominated or can be awarded here. The list of voided countries and others is given at the below link. Self-nominations are not accepted. To submit nominations, the online form at the CNN website has to be filled and submitted. The selection process will include judges who will narrow the submissions in the first round. Following this, there will be an independent panel of Blue Ribbon judges to select 10 potential finalists and in the final round there will be an online viewer vote which will finally decide “the Winner.” The deadline to submit nominations is 1 August 2010. For more information, visit this link . Source Link: http://www.fundsforngos.org/latest-funds-for-ngos/cnn-invites-nominations-for-2010-cnn-heroes/#ixzz0mmZyiKiz Copyright©FUNDSFORNGOS.ORG. Do not remove this link. Under Creative Commons License: Attribution Related Posts: Aiesec India IAEET SHADOW-PAK Shaloom Foundation Gojra Pakistan Human Life Society. 13 Years Accomplishment Cnn Essay Questions Everyday People Grant Award Heart Hero Heroes International Television Nomination Form Privacy Policy Submission Television Network Videos Word Processing About admin Related Posts Mukti Sevabhavi Sanghatana Mukti Sevabhavi Sanghatana Taiwan Foundation for Democracy: 2010 Asia Democracy and Human Rights Award Taiwan Foundation for Democracy: 2010 Asia Democracy and Human Rights Award BBC’s World Challenge 2010 for Grassroots-level Projects – up to $30,000 as Grants for Projects BBC’s World Challenge 2010 for Grassroots-level Projects – up to $30,000 as Grants for Projects World Rabies Day World Rabies Day 5 Comments MR.SHUBHA DEEP November 16, 2010 at 6:03 pm NATIONAL INTERGRATION PROGRESIVE CUTURAL ACADEMY (REGD). SPECIAL PRROGRAMME ON SUBJECT (World Peace, Aids, Drug Addiction, Blood Donation, Pollution, Population, Women Impunity, Dignity of Lob our, Pulls Polio Golden India, Get lost- Terrorist) Etc. MR. SHUBHA DEEP (Chief Programmer& Director) To The Director, Sub: Application for the Nomination for awards by your renowned org. for new type of School songs for children’s / Peace Education /Aids based awareness songs in (English/Hindi and Bengali) with Entertainment for Asia specific. Dear Sir / Madam, Kindly refer to the cited above I am the singer and composer of the above songs. My group stage programming of the above songs is more than nine years by the cultural affairs Government of Maharashtra.I have got acceptance from the Mumbai University Vocational Department and Recommended by the Deputy Secretary Department of Cultural, Honorable Union Minister letter no. F-9-55/2001-ZCC, 3rdJuly 2001, Govt. of India for performing different states and different cities Recommended by the Hon. President, Govt. of India letter No. P1/D –48076 dated 24-Oct.2002.Recommended has been Hon broadcasting Minister. Govt.of India DO no.1770/VIP dated on 28thNov. 2003. Accepted this Music Project by the Secretary of Secondary &Higher Secondary School Education Govt. of Maharashtra dated on 26 July 2004 recommended by the Hon. Prime Minister of India to the DG Office All India Radio. However, these songs are composed based on Indian folk and light classical (Indian).The themes are strongly reflected to the National and International crises. I think this Music project definitely will give a big contribution for Awareness, Education, World Integration and Friendship. I had worked as cultural awareness volunteers by the World Youth Intl. org. Aus. The placement was Nepal ( Katmandu ) for three months. Nepali students are very impress above music Project. I can send to you sort of work English Version demo recorded Cassettes/Hindi version recorded video CD and all my recommended and acceptations letters copies whenever you want. Everybody is Music lover of this world. We can very easy to reach to the one and all by Music, take our awareness comment. I am also a Music teacher looking at present all in the school of India learning before issue based songs. My Music project is based on current issues; it is very needful for every student’s whole world people. Lets go we do try to make for a refined, beautiful, Peaceful world for coming generation if again return the ancient time it is very shame for us. I am the little power of the God. Just only try. So, with my rich experience in the field of music, I hope you would consider my case favorably. And if kindly give me an opportunity/ chance by your renowned org. I assure you that your Org. would be getting the great personality as per your expectations and standards set by you. Thanking you in anticipation, Yours sincerely, (SHUBHA DEEP) N. B. I will strictly prefer to contact to me by E-Mail & Mobile C/ o S.G. Ashim K. Das,Iskon, Hare Krishna Land , Juhu,Mumbai- 400049. Mobile : 09967209630. Krishnapur Mohishgote, Dhalipara Rajarhat New Township, Kolkata-700102. shubhadeep2002@yahoo.co.in sandeep November 26, 2010 at 3:30 pm sir/madam.. mai ek collage open karna chata hu.jis kai liya muzay fund ki jaraurat hi kya aap muzay batta sakti hi ki mai kaha apply karo ki funds muzay mil sakta hi. thanks my name …sandeep rathore rasi…raja ka bag gali no-6b mainpuri pin…205001 my contact no-09319965771..09639120337 kedar nath Aruk January 27, 2011 at 3:04 pm Dearsir/madam. Greetings from STAR.we will open a rehabilatation centre for HIV/AIDs affected in keonjhar district of orissa state in INDIA.arrange some funds from any where.Thanking you. yours sinceerly. kedarnath Aruk secretary,STAR MR.SHUBHA DEE October 24, 2012 at 7:48 pm To The Director, CNN TV Channel. Dear Sirs/Madam, According to E-Mail message I had been nominated by your renowned org for grants dated on 16 Nov.2010 for my special awareness music project .Now I want to perform by your TV channel above songs CNN invites Nominations for 2010 CNN Heroes | ngogateway.com ngogateway.com/funding/cnn-invites-nominations-for-2010-cnn-heroes/ – Cached 2 May 2010 … CNN, the US-based international television network is seeking nominations for its … MR. SHUBHA DEEP. (Chief Programmer& Director). To … I have to waiting for your precious response, Thanking you in anticipation, Yours Sincerely, SHUBHA DEEP N. B. I will strictly prefer to contact to me by E-Mail & Mobile 8017303042 shubhadeep2002@yahoo.co.in MR.SHUBHA DEEP October 24, 2012 at 7:51 pm To The Director, CNN TV Channel. Dear Sirs/Madam, According to E-Mail message I had been nominated by your renowned org for grants dated on 16 Nov.2010 for my special awareness music project .Now I want to perform by your TV channel above songs CNN invites Nominations for 2010 CNN Heroes | ngogateway.com ngogateway.com/funding/cnn-invites-nominations-for-2010-cnn-heroes/ – Cached 2 May 2010 … CNN, the US-based international television network is seeking nominations for its … MR. SHUBHA DEEP. (Chief Programmer& Director). To … I have to waiting for your precious response, Thanking you in anticipation, Yours Sincerely, SHUBHA DEEP N. B. I will strictly prefer to contact to me by E-Mail & Mobile 8017303042 shubhadeep2002@yahoo.co.in . You must be logged in to post a comment Login Latest News pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile: A.... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2. Type... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym) –... Posted 8 months ago 0 Society for Peoples Integrated Development General information: Full Name of organization Society for People’s Integrated... Posted 8 months ago 0 Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Address: At – Bhalunka Po- Ramdaspur (Godisahi) Dist – Cuttack... Posted 8 months ago 0 Shri Durga Mahila Mandal (SDMM) Village & P.O. Ghanauli, District Roopnagar (Punjab) Shri Durga Mahila... Posted 8 months ago 0 Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) Switch ON (Environment Conservation Society) 1A, D. L. Khan Road,... Posted 8 months ago 0 Feedback Funding Agencies A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W Search Latest Popular Comments pragati welfare society Address: B/31, Indrapuri Colony, Ashiana Road, Patna-800014(Bihar) NGO’s Profile:... Posted 8 months ago 0 gariasathi 1. Name of the Organization: – Garia Sathi 2.... Posted 8 months ago 0 Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE in acronym)... Posted 8 months ago 0 Funding Agencies in India A M M Foundation “Tiam House” No 28, Rajaji... Posted 5 years ago 213 List of Foundations providing Grants and Funding Support to NGOs American Jewish World Service Ananda Foundation Asia Foundation Baxter... Posted 6 years ago 116 Funding Agencies – C CAAC OF PIKE COUNTY 941 Market Street Piketon OH... Posted 6 years ago 91 Blog about human anatomy says: Awesome post.... Paul Ponniah says: Dear Sir, II, for Jeevan Sagar Trust, are w... Paul Ponniah says: Fine work for the Cause.... Recently Added pragati welfare society gariasathi Action for Better Living and Environment (ABLE) Society for Peoples Integrated Development Sarba Dharma Samanwaya SS Nilapadma Ashram Home About Us Add your NGO Maps Volunteer Contacts Privacy Policy Copyright © 2007 - 14 | All Rights Reserved: advertisement advertisement