TNAU Agritech Portal :: NGO & SHG Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact NGO & SHG :: SHG INTRODUCTION Self Help Group What is a SHG History of SHG Why SHGs are formed? Process of evolving and maintaining a Self Help Group Role of Animators Role of Representative Role of SHG members Cluster level federations WHAT IS A SHG SHG is a small group of rural poor, who have voluntarily come forward to form a group for improvement of the social and economic status of the members. It can be formal (registered) or informal. The concept underlines the principle of Thrift, Credit and Self Help. Members of SHG agree to save regularly and contribute to a common fund. The members agree to use this common fund and such other funds (like grants and loans from banks), which they may receive as a group, to give small loans to needy members as per the decision of the group. The SHG members are encouraged to make voluntary savings at regular intervals so that resources so pooled could be used to make small interest bearing loans to their members on a rotational or needs basis. In India, innovative approach in SHG  group movement was made by NABARD by the introduction of pilot project in 1991. NABARD defines it as a group of 20 or less people from a homogenous class who are willing to come together for addressing their common problems. Generally the Self Help Group  is a development group  and informal in nature  may consist 10 to 20 persons. In case of areas with scattered and sparse population and difficult areas like desert and hills, this number may be from 5-20. The difficult areas have to be identified by the state level committee and the above relaxation in membership will be permitted only in such areas. The group shall not consist of more than one member from the family. The central idea of self-help is: "You alone can do it-but you can’t do it alone." The SHG method is used by the government,NGOs and others worldwide. SHG are considered as an  important institution at local level. Top HISTORY OF SELF HELP GROUP      Between 1984 and 1985, MYRADA, a non-governmental organization engaged in rural development and based in Karnataka, promoted several co-operative societies that were enabled to give loans to their members. Karnataka does not figure on the top of the tables published by financial institutions that show the number of self-help groups formed in each state. This is mainly because the tables capture data after 1991-92 when the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) launched the SHG-Bank Linkage Programme.Subsequently, the large co-operatives broke up into small groups, which were the genesis of the first SHGs, referred to at that time as Credit Management Groups , with a focus on the management of credit. The concept of each member making a saving in the group soon followed, as also the establishment of a system of regular meetings, book keeping and records, and collective decision-making. A pilot study (Puhazhendi and Sai, 2000) gave NABARD the confidence to mainstream the SHG- Bank Linkage Programme in 1996 as a normal lending activity. The programme then spread rapidly, if unevenly, across the country, making it by 2002, the largest microfinance programme in the world. Thus, the history of SHG promotion started with NGOs taking the lead in the mid-1980s and the lead passing on to NABARD by the late 1980s. After the SHG-Bank Linkage Programme was launched in 1991-92, the very first loans to SHGs in the country were given in  Kolar district of Karnataka: by the Vysya Bank, Top WHY SHG ARE FORMED        Self-help groups are an effective strategy for poverty alleviation, human development and social empowerment . The purpose of the SHG is to build the functional capacity of the poor and the marginalized in the field of employment and income generating activities. Forming a group can Change the basic thinking of members about themselves and their ability to perform independently; Provide social recognition and acceptance for a given task through its collective approach; Build collective strength and promote initiation of new projects/ideas to bring out necessary changes in the lives of members; Improve the economic status of its members by regular savings/quick loans; Promote group access to bank/loans; Improve access to information about governmental/non-governmental & Beneficiary Oriented Schemes/Programmes; Resolve social and other disputes; Inculcate the feeling of self-reliance leading to the development in the right direction Top Process of evolving and maintaining a Self Help Group Group formation              Group formation is generally preceded by a village-level household survey, which provides the base-line data. This would be conducted by non-governmental organisations, for which techniques like Participatory Rural Approach (PRA), Wealth Ranking and Social Mapping should be used. The BPL list prepared by DRDAs would also be used.  Really poor women omitted by chance from the BPL list will be included in SHGs. Membership A SHG shall have a membership of not less than 10 persons or more than 20 Members  elect  one Animator and one Representative among the group who operate the  group Members should reside in the same village Membership should be based on affinity The groups could be mixed /male or female The members of the groups should preferable be from the low-income group. A person should not be a member of more than one group. DISQUALIFICATION FROM SHGS A member being absent consecutively 3 times from SHG meetings A member who violated the objectives principles and management of the group and the rules and regulation set by the group and found in its written constitution Group meeting Each group must preferably meet weekly for savings, loan repayment, loan sanctions and to discuss all other matters in addition to savings and repayment openly and in  presence of all members. Democratic functioning of  each group is ensured by careful supervision by the NGO for uniform development of all members of each group. No individual mem­ber/animator should be permitted to dominate and domination is not a hallmark of a good or progressive group. Transparency in SHG operations is a result of adoption of certain systems and procedures that permit even illiterate members understand the financial transactions at every meeting and promote shared or collective responsibility. This can be verified by asking any member of a SHG about transactions or fund position of the SHG. There needs to be fixed day/date for weekly meetings. Certain items such as savings, rotation of sangha funds, bank loans and repayments, social and community action programmes must be discussed in every meeting without fail and loan sanctions, loan repayments, overdue and overall fund position read out loudly at the end of each meeting. S avings and Thrift All SHG members regularly save a small amount. The amount may be small, but savings have to  be regular and continuous habit with all the members. “Savings first-Credit later” should be the motto of every SHG member. SHG members take a step towards self-dependence when they start small savings. They learn financial discipline through savings and internal lending. (Advantage: This is useful when they use bank loans). Internal lending The SHG should use the savings amount for giving loans to members. The purpose, amounts, rate of interest, schedule of repayment etc. are to be decided by the group itself. Proper accounts to be kept by the SHG. This loan would enable the members to meet their small consumption and emergency needs in the early years, while such loans may meet even large productive needs in the later years.  Group Reserve Fund (GRF) is an essential aid for sustainability. This will be created after II or III year. Purpose of the group reserve fund will be for meeting maintenance costs, payment to members for any emergency expenses and other contingencies. It should be need-based. It is generally a part of the funds of regular savings bank account of the group, notionally earmarked.  It may be in the form of fixed deposit or recurring deposit also with same bank in case of older SHGs. It should be judiciously utilised for the above purposes.  Office bearers The animator should preferably be literate and must possess certain leadership qualities. She must be a role model and a change agent for the group and for the village as a whole.  Payment to the animator is at the discretion of the group. Periodical rotation of leadership is essential to avoid the animator becoming a power-centre and to ensure smooth functioning of group. It is recommended that the animator be replaced every year. Even if all other members are illiterate, the animator can be replaced and the earlier animator (the only educated member) can continue to be the book writer. The cheque signing and cash handling powers would be with the new animator. Bankers may lend a helping hand in this replacement of animators and representatives every two years in the interest of sustainable and democratic development of the SHG (which is in the bankers' interest too) by promptly arranging to authorise operation of bank account by the new functionaries on production of the SHG resolution to this effect. Books And Registers The following Books And Registers have to be maintained in every group. 1. Attendance register  - This register is required to record the attendance of all members of the group during the group meetings. The members may sign in this register.   2. Minutes book/ Proceeding register -  The proceedings of all the group meetings alongwith the important  decisions taken in each meeting are recorded in this register for the purpose of record keeping, reference and future planning.                                                                  3 . Savings ledger - This register shall have details of the total/individual savings made by the group members. 4. Loan ledger- It has the details about the group loan      5. Cash Book -   Total group transactions are maintained in this book/register. 6 . General ledger -  It has the resolution of formation self help groups  is maintained by the office bearers. 7 . Individual passbook and Bank pass Book - Individual pass book should be in the hands of individual members of the group. They should bring this pass book during meetings. Thrift and loan amount should be entered in the pass book by book keeper. The first set of books and registers will be supplied free of cost by the project. Double-entry book keeping system has been deliberately followed in order to make way for a system that is tamper-proof and sustainable with scale of operations. Amounts of individual and group savings, sangha loan amounts given, repaid and due, bank loan amounts received, disbursed, due for repayment and repaid are to be clearly decided by the SHG and recorded in each SHG meeting, so that all members are aware of it, leading to transparent operations. The bank account should be in the name of the SHG and should be operated jointly by two authorized representatives of the group as far as withdrawals are concerned. For better financial discipline, confidence building among group members and safety of funds, all monetary transac­tions of group should be routed through bank account only. SHGs deposit all their savings immediately after every meeting and make withdrawals of loans sanctioned to members. Further, group members are encouraged to go by rotation to banks to deposit money so that they understand banking principles and get better exposure, besides ensuring that there is collective leadership and transparency in the SHG. For older SHGs with larger transactions branch managers may consider grant of cheque facility , which permits SHG members to make withdrawals. Bank managers may actively encourage members to come to banks by rotation to deposit money or withdraw cheques. Group accounts should be audited annually by engaging a qualified local auditor in the village itself.  Groups should meet the audit cost. NGOs will facilitate this process. In the long term, cluster or block-level federations will arrange for auditing and ensure completion of audit of all SHGs in the cluster. Discussing problems: In every meeting, the SHG should be encouraged to discuss and try to find solutions to the problems faced by the members of the group. Individually, the poor people are weak and lack resources to solve their problems. When the group tries to help its members, it become easier for them to face the difficulties and come up with solutions. Planning: The SHG should prepare plans for the future so that each member can collectively work for the achievement of the same. It should plan to get financial support from Government, Bank and NGO for its sustainability. It can take up some development programmes in the locality and all the members should involve themselves in implementation and monitoring of the programmes. Role of Animator : Top Convene and conduct women’s group meetings at regular intervals. Create awareness of present social position, objectives of the programme and motivate building up of team spirit and team-work. Work for improvement of literacy and numeracy of the group members. Disseminate information to members about Government Welfare schemes, especially in relation to health and family welfare, education etc., Disseminate information received during training sessions to SHG members - eg. relating to SHG management, general hygiene, environment consciousness, women and the law. Facilitate group to identify appropriate income generating activities for members, coordinate with banks for getting loans and ensure prompt repayment. Training the members in the procedures of bank activities. Encourage members for collective thinking and action. Working for improvement of socio-economic development of members. Ensure regular group savings by members. Maintenance of Minute Book, Account Book, Loan Records, Asset creation register etc. Observing proceedings of the group meetings for passing resolution for grant of loans. Assist group in getting bank loan, asset creation and motivation for repayment. Ensure participation of all members of the group. Make regular house visits and motivate absentees to attend meetings regularly. Attend training organised by NGO/PIU. Attend coordination meetings. Motivating the members to act with unity and integrity Ensure that SHGs become self-reliant and sustainable over 2 or 3 years. Role of Representatives : Top Convening the group meetings at regular intervals. Assist the animator in achievement of programme objectives. Operate bank account jointly as authorised by group. Disseminate information received during training sessions to SHG members - relating to SHG management, general hygiene, environment consciousness, women and the law etc., Assist group in getting bank loan, asset creation and motivation for repayment. Handling cash and all related banking activities. Help problem solving within the group. Try to mobilise local resources for benefit of the group/village. Management and effective use of Group savings and Loan funds. Provide (assist) training of group members to improve their business skills, management of their activities and understanding of credit and banking procedures. Carry out decisions of the group. Represent the group in other forums. Role of SHG members Top Promptly attend SHG meetings. Fully participate in SHG meetings and voice opinion clearly and freely. Share responsibility of SHG collectively like going to banks by rotation . Prompt repayment of SHG loans. Participate in Village and Social Action Programmes. To ensure unity and mutual trust between all members and adopt  the principle of “give and take“ Ask questions/doubts openly and ensure that the SHG functions transparently. Ensure prompt annual re-election of atleast representatives and also animators. Promptly attend training programmes and ensure implementation of good practices. Share problems, experience, feelings and ideas with all members of the SHG. Cluster level federations Top Federation of women’s groups will be promoted at the cluster level at an appropriate time, say in the 2nd or 3rd year. Formation of federations would be facilitated only after it becomes a felt need. In the early years, federations are expected to play the role of a social intermediary and help in strengthening weak groups and help in sharing successful experience and articulating common issues affecting women. However, its assistance may be sought in recovering loan arrears, if any, from groups and in performing tasks, which cannot be, ordinarily, undertaken by groups. Cluster level federations would aim at taking over routine and even some important functions of NGOs in the long run. Banks may cultivate relationships with federations as a measure of sustainability. However, SHG loans should not be routed through SHG federations in the early stages of the CLF. This would undermine the autonomy of SHGs. Federations may however extend special lines of credit for housing, toilet construction, etc., which cannot be accessed by SHGs. Even this may be done after 4 or 5 years of CLF formation and only after it has been graded and found stable.  The independence and transparency within the CLF are points of evaluation.  Top   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.