Chandigarh Map Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Chandigarh Travel How to Reach Shopping Flight Schedule Hotels in Chandigarh Travel Agents Places to Visit in Chandigarh Shanti Kunj Fun City Garden of Fragrance International Dolls Museum Choki Dhani Sukhna Lake Rock Garden Route Maps Chandigarh to Srinagar Chandigarh to Manali Chandigarh to Shimla Chandigarh to Dehradun Chandigarh to Amritsar Chandigarh to Jammu Chandigarh to Srinagar Chandigarh to Kullu Chandigarh to Vaishnodevi Chandigarh to Dalhousie Chandigarh to Kurukshetra Chandigarh to Haridwar Chandigarh to Jalandhar Chandigarh to Dharamshala About Chandigarh Home » Maps » Chandigarh Chandigarh Map Map of Chandigarh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing roads, railway lines, river, proposed metro lines, wards, sectors, tourist places, etc in Chandigarh. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Chandigarh Location Map Chandigarh City Map Chandigarh River Map Chandigarh Road Map Chandigarh Railway Map This city serves as a capital of two states, Punjab and Haryana. But it is administered by a federal government and is classified as a Union Territory. Chandigarh has two satellite cities located in Punjab and Haryana that are built on the lines of Chandigarh: Panchkula and Mohali. Both these cities are virtually the parts of Chandigarh and house a major population operating in Chandigarh. Chandigarh Technology Park is the city's entry gate to the world of information technology. Chandigarh is also famous for its Rock Garden, Rose Garden, Sukhna Lake and its famous market in Sector 17. These spots are very popular with both locals and tourists. It also has state of the art lodging facilities to cater to the flourishing tourism industry. The service sector, which comprises of educational institutes, consultancies, tourism industry, real estate and insurance companies, make considerable contribution to the state economy. Chandigarh Information Capital Chandigarh Date of formation 19. May. 1905 Mayor Subhash Chawla Tourist attractions Rock gardens, Sukhna Lake, Capitol Complex, Open-Hand monument, Rose garden. Festivals Festival of Gardens, Mango Festival, Maha Moorldi Sammelan (April Fool's Day) Languages Hindi, Punjabi, English Size 114 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 1,055,450 Major crops wheat, maize, paddy Factoids Chandigarh gets its name from the Goddess Chandi. French architect Le Corbusier (Charles Edourd Jeanneret) planned the city. No. of District 1 List of Districts in Chandigarh Sr. No. District District HQ Population (2011) Growth Sex Ratio Literacy Area (km 2 ) Density (/km 2 ) 1 Chandigarh Chandigarh 1055450 17.19% 818 86.05 114 9252 Last Updated on : September 24, 2014 Chandigarh Map Location Map Outline Map Tehsil Map Ambala Chandigarh Expressway Chandigarh Metro Map Road Map River Map Railway Map About Chandigarh Lat Long Localities Hospitals Accommodation Hotels IT Companies Property Property Dealers Chandigarh Builders Route Maps Jammu to Chandigarh Chandigarh to Srinagar Chandigarh to Manali Chandigarh to Shimla Chandigarh to Dehradun Chandigarh to Amritsar Chandigarh to Jammu Chandigarh to Srinagar Chandigarh to Kullu Chandigarh to Vaishnodevi Chandigarh to Dalhousie Chandigarh to Kurukshetra Chandigarh to Haridwar Chandigarh to Jalandhar Chandigarh to Dharamshala Delhi to Chandigarh About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule