Agriculture Department, Jammu Agriculture Department, Jammu Government of Jammu and Kashmir Home Page Beneficiary Lists Profile of District Doda Doda acquired the status of a district when it was carved out the erstwhile district Udhampur in the year 1948. Lying in the middle and outer Himalayan ranges of Jammu region. The district has mostly a hilly terrain. In view if its vastness and due to the inconvenience faced by the people living in its far flung areas and for making the whole area administratively manageable, the state Govt. in July, 2006 trifurcated the district in to the districts namely Doda, Ramban and Kishtwar. The district is surrounded by the district Anantnag of Kashmir division on its North, district Kishtwar in the North-East, Chamba area of Himachal Pradesh in the south, district Kathua in the south, district Udhampur in the south-west and district Ramban in the west. Doda District lies amidst outer Himalayan range of Jammu division. Doda district lies lies on its latitude 330 09' N and 750 36' E. Administratively district Doda comprises of 4 tehsils namely Doda, Bhaderwah, Thathri and Gundoh and 8 Rural blocks Doda, Bhaderwah, Gundna, Bhagwah, Assar, and Marmat, Thathri and Gundoh which in turn comprises of 232 panchayats. Strengths Different agro climatic conditions are suitable for different crop productions. Soils are fit for intensive cultivation. Market available for predominant major crops of the district. Receptive farmers willing to adopt improved farm technologies Rich germ plasm of local land races suitable for organic cultivation Weaknesses Lack of assured irrigation Small holding size Lack of awareness on resource conservation technologies Undulated topography unsuitable for high farm mechanization Predominant scattered holdings Low availability of FYM and manures Inadequate availability of quality seeds of various crops. Opportunities Immense scope for higher crop productivity of crops in the district Opportunities prevail for profitable diversification of existing cropping pattern within crops and with non crop husbandry Established and up coming marketing and agro-processing facilities in and around the district Post harvest processing. A mix of acidic and alkaline soils with predominant natural resources of gypsum, use of light weight power tillers. Threats Lack of post harvest infrastructure. Inaccessibility of remote areas to market centres. Inefficient and less transparent marketing with monopoly of traders and multiple level intermediaries. Lack of proper integration of horticulture with other agri allied enterprises/commodities. Disclaimer: The information put on this web site is obtained from our field agencies and other sources. The Department is not responsible for any error or invalid data crept into  inadvertently or otherwise. It is our sincere request that any error or discrepancy if noticed may kindly be brought to the attention of the department for its immediate rectification on our e-mail id :agrijammu@rediffmail.com