Travel to Neemrana: Destinations, Hotels, Food, Transport and Tour Guide Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Alwar Travel Tourist Map Hotels Places to Visit in Alwar Siliserh Lake Purjan Vihar Sariska Place Bala Quila Rani Moosi Chhatri Sariska Park Vijay Mandir Palace Pandupol City palace Kankwari Fort Museums Neemrana Bhangarh Temples Hanuman Temple Neelkanth Temple Jain Temple Bhartrihari Temple Travel to Behror Travel to Neemrana About Alwar Culture History Weather Geography Festivals Alwar Map Road Map Railway Map District Map Tehsil Map Rajasthan Travel Tourist Map Shopping Hotels Resorts Food How to Reach Home » Alwar » Travel to Neemrana Travel to Neemrana Neemrana Travel Neemrana is a historical town in Alwar district of Rajasthan, India. The town is situated on the Delhi-Jaipur highway in Behror tehsil at around 120 km from Delhi and around 90 km from the NCR region of Gurgaon. This area is the site of the 14th century hill-fort which was occupied by the erstwhile ruling family Chauhans till 1947 and they are considered to be the lineage of Prithviraj Chauhan. Neemrana is developing into an industrial hub. As the Rajasthan government and the Rajasthan Industrial Cooperation (RIICO), have developed industrial zones in various stages in Neemrana in the past several years. Indian and International Companies have set up their units in this area and many more new industries are making their way here adding industrial progress and creating new employment opportunities. History of Neemrana Neemrana is situated in the north-east part of Rajasthan. The town of Neemrana is surrounded around the Neemrana fort. The region is bleak and sandy and is also known as Raath. The Neemrana Fort Palace is situated on an elevated hillock and offers magnificent picturesque views of the surrounding region. In 1467, The Chauhan's capital shifted from Mandhan to Neemrana when the fort was established by Raja Dup Raj. It was subsequently conquered by the Mughals and the Jats before reverting back to the Rajputs in 1775 when the princely state of Alwar was established. It was made into a heritage resort back in 1986 and is among India's oldest heritage resort hotels. Demographics Time zone GMT/UTC +5:30 District Alwar Territory Rajasthan Population Approx 2.5 lakhs Elevation 312 m Main languages Hindi, Rajasthani, English STD code 149460 Pincode 301705 How to reach Neemrana The Neemrana is a marvelous place weekend destination away from the hustle and bustle of the city life. Located on the Delhi-Jaipur highway, the place is easily accessible and is famous for the Neemrana Fort Palace, the historical fort which was turned into a beautiful resort back in 1986. The Neemrana town is rapidly developing industrial area with lots of big companies established in this area. By Air The nearest airport to Neemrana is in Delhi about 109 km away. One can hire a taxi from the airport to reach Neemrana. By Train The nearest major rail junction to Neemrana is in Delhi about 117 km away. There is also a railway station at Rewari which is about 38 km away. This station is connected by trains from Delhi. By Road Neemrana is located at almost midway Delhi and Jaipur. All buses to and from Delhi and Jaipur will travel by Neemrana but to reach to the fort palace you will have to walk a bit. A more convenient option would be to hire a taxi or drive over there. Getting Around Neemrana There is very less or hardly any public transportation available here. To catch a bus one has to go to the main road, approximately 3 km from the fort. It is highly recommended to have your own vehicle or a hired taxi. Places to see in neemrana Vinay Vilas Mahal Bala Quila Neemrana Fort Palace Sariska National Park Siliserh Lake More on tourist attractions of Neemrana Last Updated on : 3/10/2013 Travel to Neemrana About Alwar Culture History Weather Geography Festivals About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule