about-edit About us Administrative Setup Infrastructure Training Faculty Contact Picture Gallery ABOUT US History Philosophy Objectives Our Activities Our Focus Quality Systems KEYNOTE MESSAGES Chairman & MD Executive Director (Genl.) Director, IFS INFRASTRUCTURE Acedemic Area Library Computer Lab Quality Control Lab Hostel Training FCI Regular Course FCI Direct Recruitment Training Other Traning Conference   Message from the Chairman & Managing Director , FCI हिंदी रूपांतर FCI has been given the onerous responsibility of ensuring food security of the Nation. Our officers and staff – member of FCI team are ensuring the growth and performance of the Corporation. Continuous up-gradation of skills and knowledge pool of existing members of the Corporation is a must for sustained success and coping up with the fast changing and highly competitive nation and international environment. Special emphasis is to be laid in training of newly recruited officers so that they are adequately developed and engaged to fulfil Corporation’s goals. I am happy to learn that the Institute of Food Security(IFS),the apex training and Development Centre, has been playing a key role in promoting employee learning and development through a large number of interventions. IFS has been matching its role by developing state of the art infrastructure and adopting latest training methodology, thereby creating a unique learning ambience. Besides imparting training on various functional subjects. It is also helping managers to become great mentors. I believe in the coming years IFS has an extremely strategic role to play in fulfilling FCI’s vision of enabling its officers to become a family of committed professionals making FCI a learning organization. I wish IFS all success in its endeavours. Chairman and Managing Director Home About us Infrastructure Our Courses Faculty Contact Picture Gallery Copyright @ 2008, Institute of Food Security, Food Corporation of India "Site is designed and developed by IFS and is hosted by National Informatics Centre"