TNAU Agritech Portal :: Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | Contact TNAU Agritech Portal :: Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) :: SREP Strategic Research and Extension Plan (SREP) What is SREP ? Purpose of SREP What is Done to Achieve this ? Contents of SREP Program Thrusts Operationalisation of SREP Model SREP Book State Extension Work Plan (SEWP) SREP of districts What is SREP ? The SREP (Strategic Research Extension Plan) is an exercise for developing strategic research extension plan for the districts. The important focus of this exercise is to improve the farmers input into programme planning by diagnosing the information obtained through participatory appraisals, analyzing the feed back obtained from farmers, on the basis of this analyzed data the research and extension gaps are identified for the districts, the strategies and activities are then delineated based on these gaps. To achieve this the ATMA established at the district level is responsible for the proper planning and implementation of this exercise with the help of MANAGE/NAARM/SAMETI. NAARM is involved for institutionalizing priority setting at the Micro level. Therefore the SREP can be defined as a participatory methodology to prepare strategic research extension plan at the district level to increase agricultural production, to formulate research extension agenda based on producers’ requirement to develop technology acceptable to users and to prioritize resource allocation to research and extension at the district level .The SREP is prepared through participatory methodologies such as   Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) involving all the stakeholders and farmers. The SREP contains detailed analysis of all the information on existing farming systems in the district and research – extension gaps required to be filled-up.  It also prioritizes the research – extension strategies within the district. It becomes the basis for development of work plans at block/ district level. Top Purpose of SREP : The purposes of SREP is to increase farmers input in programme planning and resource allocation at block level and to increase accountability of stake holders, further it is to increase programme co-ordination and integration. The farming system innovation can be increased by better farmers’ organization, identifying technical gaps, which lead to better natural resource management if implemented effectively and efficiently. Top What is Done to Achieve this? SREP focuses on farms and farming systems in the district. Firstly the team of farm advisors (TOFA) identifies Agro Ecological Situations (AES) and its problems, this is called as the diagnostic section. They shall integrate efforts of multiple service providers to develop ownership of agricultural technology system by stakeholders. The next section is the development of strategy either intensification or diversification for technology interventions. It may be value addition and marketing, aiming at the empowerment of farmers. Appropriate research extension linkages develop multiple communication and information support Top Contents of SREP : The SREP has two sections namely 1) the Diagnostic section 2) the Strategy section Diagnostic section: Under this section research gap would be identified if there were no recommendations available for the problems identified under each AES (Agro ecological situations). Extension gaps are identified if recommendations have not reached farmers to solve their problems. Developmental problems are diagnosed if infrastructure and other facilities shall solve farmers’ problems. Identification of all these three gaps is based on participatory methodology. The SWOT (Strengths, Weakness, Opportunities and threats) analysis of existing farming system, opportunities for optimal exploitation of resources, new markets and technologies, threats to existing natural resource base and markets would be identified. The success stories of innovative farmers would be documented for multiplier effect to other farmers for faster diffusion of technology. The Strategy section: Under this section the strategies and activities are formulated for addressing the research and extension gaps. Research activities would be prioritized for the district (This done by NAARM) to be taken up urgently to alleviate the problems faced by farmers. Extension programmes and activities would be drawn to address extension gaps for the speedy transfer of available agricultural technology to be used to solve farmers’ problems. The strategies are based on the magnitude of the problem and resource availability at district level Top Program Thrusts Each district will prepare a Strategic Research and Extension Plan (SREP) and it will focus on four major program thrusts including, 1. Farming system Innovations – especially the intensification and/or diversification into high value commodities and/or value – added marketing and processing activities 2. Farmer organization – especially for high value commodities and resource poor farmers.   3. Technology Gaps in both crop and livestock production systems and 4. Natural Resource Management – especially soil and water management and to reduce pesticide use through  integrated pest management (IPM) programs. Top State Extension Work Plan (SEWP) : Based on the research-extension strategies given in the SREPs, block/ district level plans shall be developed by each ATMA like institutions. The State Extension Work Plan developed at state level shall contain a consolidated activity-wise plan incorporating all the District Agriculture Action Plans (DAAPs) in the state and state level activities to be carried out with activity-wise budgetary requirement as per the norms prescribed in the cafeteria.   It will also indicate all other extension activities that may be undertaken from out of resources provided under any other scheme of the Centre/ State Governments.  Top SREP of various districts :   District District Website Bihar Munger http://www.atmamunger.com/SREP.htm Jharkand Hazaribagh http://www.atmahazaribagh.org/CHAPTER%20I%20-%20IV.pdf Karnataka Kolar   Jharkand Dumka   Top   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved. TNAU-2015