mKisan:Farmer Registration Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access हिंदी में Follow us on Twitter USSD About USSD USSD Application Register for USSD Pull SMS About Pull SMS Structure & Codes IVRS About IVRS IVRS Dashboard Agent Rating Call Response Push SMS About Push SMS Search SMS Database Ksewa About KSEWA Register for KSEWA Login for KSEWA List of Services KCC About KCC KCC Locations Features of KCC KCC Nodal Officers Query Escalation Process Implementation of Escalation Process Involvement of States KCC Dashboard Buyer Seller About Buyer Seller Platform Buyers Login New Buyer Registration Mobile Apps About Mobile Apps Downloads Reach Us Queries on Portal Feedback/Grievance You are here : Home > Registration Search About mKisan Dashboard Registration for SMS Accolades RSS Twitter Farmer Registration 1. Collection of farmers details for mKisan Portal by Extension Workers   All Block Technology Managers, Assistant Technology Managers and all other extension functionaries at District / Block level need to collect data of farmers for mKisan Portal during their field visits and enter or get the same entered in the database. Number of new farmers registered by an extension functionary will be linked to mobile number of such a person. Performance on this account also will be considered for regularization or extension of BTMs and ATMs. Considering significance of this data in extension services, the State Governments are being requested to keep this aspect in mind during annual performance appraisal of all other staff. Click here to download the Format of Crop Details , SMS Language Codes , and Data Collection by Extension workers 2. Kisan Call Centre Registration Farmers can call up Kisan Call Center (KCC) through a toll free number 1800-180-1551. Registration of the farmers is done by Kisan Call Centre Agent at the Kisan Call Centre who records personal details of the farmer in the Kisan Knowledge Management System (KKMS). Farmer is then asked to opt for his mode of receiving information/advice i.e. Text message (SMS) or Voice message (Voice messaging will be implemented shortly). Preferred language options are then entered. Hindi and English option are given all over India while Regional Language in Roman Script is State specific. Regional Language written in Roman Script is given for handsets not supporting Regional Language fonts (e.g.Kisan Ko salah di jati hai). Up to 8 options of Crop/Activity can be given by the farmer so that he/she does not receive unnecessary messages for crops/practices he is not interested in. Immediately on registration, farmer will receive a welcome SMS message. 3. Web Registration A farmer having internet access can register through the portal or go to the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) to register with the help of a Village Level Entrepreneur (VLE). A onetime fee of Rs. 3 per registration will be charged by the VLE. Link for web registration is http://mkisan.gov.in/wbreg.aspx Following fields are mandatory in personal details: Name Mobile Number State District Block The farmer is also expected to enter preference for mode of communication and also preference for Language, crop/activities. After pressing ‘Register’ button, a verification code will be sent to farmer’s mobile which needs to be entered on the web-page to complete the registration process. 4. Registration through SMS Farmers can also register by sending an SMS on 51969 or 7738299899. Procedure and format for registration are as under:- Format for typing in the message text box is “KISAAN REG < NAME > , <STATE NAME >, <DISTRICT NAME>, and <BLOCK NAME>” (only first 3 letters of State, District & Block Names are needed) After typing the message send it to 51969 or 7738299899. Farmer will be charged for this SMS. There will however be no charge for subsequent SMSs received from experts & officers. Please note that commas (,) are necessary. Home About Us Help RTI Terms and Conditions Copyright Policy Hyperlinking Policy Privacy Policy Sitemap Accessibility Statement Website Policy This website belongs to Department of Agriculture & Cooperation,Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India Page Last Updated on : 10 October, 2014