Top 10 Headphone Brands In India Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Top-Brands-India         Educational Food Products Kitchen Appliances Life Insurance Mutual Fund Consumer Durables DTH Laptop Retail Matress Brands AC Brands Beer Brands Bi Cycle Brands Biscuit Brands Desktop Computer Brands Basmati Rice Brands Namkeen Brands Shampoo Brands Tea Brands Baby Food Brands Jewelry Brands Perfume Brands Apparel Brands Chocolate Brands Digital Camera Brands Lipstick Brands hotel Brands Shirt Brands Men Clothing Brands Milk Brands Newspaper Brands Restaurant Chain Brands Car Brands Coffee Brands ice Cream Brands Mobile Brands Detergent Brands Face Wash Brands Baby Toy Brands Skin Care Cream Brands Soap Brands Tooth Paste Brands Bathroom Fittings Brands Washing Machine Brands Watch Brands Microwave Oven Brands Shoe Brands TV Brands Ketchup Brands Motor Bike Brands Soft Drink Brands Noodle Brands Scooty Brands Shaving Cream Brands Top Online Retailers You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home » Top brands India » Top 10 Headphones Brands In India Top 10 Headphone Brands of India Overall Rating:  [ 2 / 5 ]Total Votes [  3  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 The market for electronic products in India is huge and considering how much Indians love listening to music, especially on the go, companies that offer headphones are doing well. There are around 30 brands in India to choose from and it is an eclectic mix of companies that are subsidiaries of well-known international brands as well as ones that are based in India itself. List of Top Headphone brands in India Sennheiser Sennheiser is one of the leading brands of India as well as the world when it comes to headphones. The company was established by Professor Doctor Fritz Sennheiser as Laboratorium Wennebostel in 1945. Its product categories can be enumerated as below: Microphones Products for assistive listening Wired microphones and monitoring systems Aviation headsets Information and conference technology In 2013, its turnover was 590.5 million euros from its sales around the world. The twitter ID of its India operations is @SennheiserIndia. Sony Sony India is a subsidiary of Sony Corporation, one of the leading global names in the world of electronic products. It was established on 7 May 1946 and its head offices are in Tokyo. Kazuo Hirai is the CEO and President of the organisation and Kenichiro Yoshida is the CFO-cum-Executive Deputy President. Following are the major product areas of Sony: LCD televisions Semiconductors such as image sensors Interchangeable single lens cameras Batteries Compact digital cameras Recording media Video cameras Data recording systems Home audio systems Equipment for professional use and broadcast Blu-ray disc recorders and players Medical equipment Memory based portable audio devices The Facebook address of Sony India is https://www.facebook.com/SonyIndia and it has a YouTube channel - https://www.youtube.com/user/sonyindia. JBL JBL headphones are sold by Harman India, which is a part of the Harman group that has till date brought out a number of well-known products such as Harman Kardon, Infinity, and Mark Levinson. Harman India is headed by M Lakshminarayan, who is its Country Manager and Managing Director. The products and services offered by Harman can be divided into the following categories: Lifestyle Audio Professional Audio Luxury Audio Infotainment Harman India is present on Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/indiajbl. Philips Philips has had a commendable presence in India for many years and even with various international brands coming into the Indian electronic market it has not ceded much ground. Philips India Limited is a part of Royal Philips, based in Netherlands and one of the global leaders in healthcare, lighting, and consumer lifestyle products. The CEO of Phillips India is Krishna Kumar. Following are the major categories in which its products are offered: Sound and vision Lighting Personal care PC products and phones Mother and child care Home health Household products Accessories Philips India is well represented on social media as may be evident from its various social media channels: Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/PhilipsIndia YouTube - https://www.youtube.com/user/philipsindia Twitter - @philipsindia Skullcandy Skullcandy is one of the newer brands to have entered the electronics market of India. Apart from headphones, Skullcandy offers ear buds and wireless audio products. The company is based in the US. However, its India operations are well represented on social media with the Twitter ID @SkullcandyIndia and Facebook profile https://www.facebook.com/SkullcandyIndia. Beats by Dr. Dre Beats by Dr. Dre is one of the leading headphone brands available in India. Apart from headphones, it offers audio accessories such as earphones and speakers. It is one of the top audio brands of the world. Dr. Dre and Jimmy Lovine founded the brand in 2006. In the nine years of its existence, the company has been able to bring the very best in sound based entertainment thanks to its world class products. Apple bought the company in 2014. Panasonic Panasonic is one of the leading electronics brands of the world and enjoys a significant presence in India as well. The parent company Panasonic Corporation is headquartered in Japan and was established in 1918. Panasonic India specialises in a number of products in categories such as consumer electronics, communication-based system products, home appliances, products for video conferencing, and professional audio and video products. The President of Panasonic India is Daizo Ito. The Facebook address of Panasonic India is https://www.facebook.com/panasonicindia and its YouTube channel is https://www.youtube.com/user/PanasonicIn. Its Twitter id is @PanasonicIndia. Yamaha Even though Yamaha is known for its bikes, it also offers musical products through its subsidiary Yamaha Music India. It was set up during March 2008. The organisation started its operations during October that year and its head offices are in Gurgaon. Its products can be categorised into professional audio, musical instruments, audio and visual apps and music production tools. Its Facebook address is https://www.facebook.com/ymindia. iBall iBall is one of the relatively newer entrants in the Indian electronics market. The company was incorporated in September 2001. The company started its journey with the manufacture of the mouse and now offers 27 different kinds of products that can be divided into categories such as technology accessories, Guard, Slide, Lappie, mobiles, Winkles and Baton. Right now, the company is held in high regard for the innovation it has been able to bring about in its products. The Facebook id of iBall India is https://www.facebook.com/iBall.co.in. Zebronics Zebronics was established in 1997 and since then it has gone from strength to strength with 31 offices in India. It also has 108 plus care centres and it offers 25 product categories that can be broadly divided into IT peripherals, accessories, audio and video, and surveillance products. Its Twitter id is @zebronics. Last Updated on : May 18, 2015 More Products New Product Launches New Insurance Product Petrochemical Products Leading dairy Product About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Beginners For Housewives For Women With Low Investment For Graduates Home Based Online Business Ideas Small Business Ideas Insurance Aviva HDFC Standard Life Insurance LIC Bajaj Allianz Birla Sun Life Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Tata AIG MetLife India India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Bank Branch Locator Corporation Bank IDBI Bank Nationalised Banks Bank of India Syndicate Bank Union Bank of India Top Banking Companies Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Credit Card Rates Credit Cards for Students List of Credit Cards Indian Sectors Agriculture Export Financial Import Manufacturing Private Public Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED