Places to Visit in Bengaluru (Bangalore), Tourist Destinations near Bengaluru Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Bangalore Travel About Bangalore Tourist Map Hotels in Bangalore Resorts in Bangalore Shopping Areas Restaurants in Bangalore Bangalore Airport Map Bangalore Weather Bangalore Fort Murudeshwar Temple Bird Sanctuaries in Karnataka Tourist Places Near Bangalore Museums in Bangalore Parks in Bangalore Bangalore Shopping Areas Places to Visit in Bangalore Ulsoor Lake Cubbon Park Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan palace Shiva Temple Bangalore Palace Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium Historical Monuments in Bangalore Lakes in Bangalore Amusement Parks in Bangalore Bangalore Wildlife Museums in Bangalore Religious Places in Bangalore Parks and Gardens in Bangalore Weekend Getaways Innovative Film City Tourist Destinations Near Bangalore Belur Travel Hampi Travel Halebid Travel Coorg Travel Mysore Travel Mangalore Travel Road Distance Guide Banasvadi to Ulsoor Bapuji Nagar to Ulsoor Bangalore City to Yelahanka Banasvadi to J.P. Nagar Anjana Nagar to Ulsoor Bapuji Nagar to JP Nagar Bengaluru to Tirupati Bangalore to Kodaikanal Bengaluru to Ooty Bangalore to Tirupati Bengaluru to Munnar Bangalore Map Road Map District Map Railway Map Bangalore Metro Map Metro Stations Map Karnataka Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Karnataka Places to visit in Karnataka Home » Bengaluru » Places to Visit in Bengaluru Places to Visit in Bengaluru (Bangalore) Bangalore, Capital of Karnataka, is at present Asia's fastest growing cosmopolitan city with huge demand from technological giants worldwide. With rapid development 'The Garden city of India' boasts now of also being 'The Silicon Valley of India'. Spread over an area of 2190 sq.km. Bangalore, the fifth major metropolis of India is home to 6.52 million people. The city is lined with green landscapes and is free from extremes of climate due to its convenient location in the heart of Peninsular India. Founded in 1537, Bangalore now is a kaleidoscope of striking colors. The city epitomizes India's excursion from an emergent nation to the hub of Information Technology. Recently renamed as Bengaluru, it is also the core of some of the major scientific establishments in India. The city bears mark of a splendid past and this mingles with modern conveniences and pleasures. A delightful destination, the city of Bangalore is beautifully decorated with parks, gardens, lakes and fountains. It also serves as a perfect stopover for some very beautiful places nearby including Mysore and the Jog Falls. While in Bangalore, you can visit the Lal Baug Summer Palace of Tipu Sultan or just take a break in one of the numerous amusement parks. Breeze through some of the best eating joints, the swankiest shopping malls or the hip-n-happening pubs. Pleasant climate, architectural landmarks and the beautiful city--Bangalore has something for everyone. Places to See in Bengaluru (Bangalore) Ulsoor Lake The Ulsoor Lake, also known as Halasuru, is in central Bangalore, close to M. G. Road. It is said that God Somesvara came to Kempe Gowda in his dream and blessed him with hidden treasure. He then built a pagoda using Dravidian architectural style, dedicated to God Somesvara. The lake was formed for harvesting rainwater and has a surface area of 125 acres. City drainage also contributed as a source of water. The lake is an interesting location for tourists, as it has boating and cruise facility to visit beautiful islands that contain various kinds of flowers, birds and insects. The Sri Guru Singh Sabha Gurudwara on the edge of the Ulsoor Lake enhances the beauty and attraction for the visitors. Govt Museum (Visvesvaraya Museum) The Government Museum of Bangalore, an archaeological museum located on the Kasturba Gandhi Road, is considered one of the oldest museums in India. The building, originally designed by Colonel Sankey in 1876, was extended later. The museum has two exhibition floors, with eighteen galleries housing sections on sculpture, geology, natural history, art, numismatics, etc. The collections in museum are enriched by ancient coins, jewellery, sculpture, inscriptions, and artifacts including relics from Mohenjodaro, Halebid and Vijayanagar. Some prehistoric artifacts of Neolithic period found during excavation at Chandravalli adore the museum. The museum is governed by the Directorate of Archeology and Museum of Karnataka State. It is open for viewers from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. except on Wednesdays. ISKCON temple complex The ISKCON an international society having 350 temples dedicated to Lord Krishna across the world. Among these, the temple in Bangaluru is the largest. It was inaugurated in 1977 by the President of India. Built atop a hillock, the temple offers the visitor an ethnic view of the surrounding. The architecture is a mix of neo-classical and Dravidian style, with four tall towers called gopurams. Its large prayer hall can accommodate 2,000 devotees. Roof paintings depicting the life of Krishna are unique and informative. The temple houses five incarnations of God Vishnu. Daily puja starts with mangala aarti at 4:15 a.m., followed by various other pujas and kirtans, ending with Shayana Utsava at night. The complex also houses ISKCON museum, Bhaktivedanta Book Trust, and the Dakshinakriti shop for handicrafts. Bull Temple Category : Religious Bull Temple in Bangalore, also known as "Nandi temple"or Bhoganandiswara temple. The temple is a sculptural masterpiece. It is dedicated to Nandi, the bull, which is considered as Lord Shiva's Vahana or vehicle according to Hindu mythology. The temple is situated in Bungle hill on the south of Bull Temple Road. There is a large sculpture of Bull, which is about 4.6 metres tall and 6m long. One of the distinguishing characteristics of the structure is that it has been carved out from a single rock of granite. Someshwara Temple Category : Religious Someshwara Temple in Bangalore is dedicated to Lord Shiva. It was built by Kempegowda at Ulsoor. It is one of the oldest and biggest temples of Bangalore, reminding us of the rich heritage of the Chola Kingdom. The marvelous architecture of the temple with glorious Rajagopuram (tower) and Dhwajastambha (massive pillar) in the entrance of the temple attracts devotees from far off places. Presently the temple is under the supervision of Endowment Department of the Karnataka Government. St. Mary's Church Category : Religious In 1818 , St. Mary's Church was built by a French missionary, Abbe Dubois in the form of a chapel and called it 'Kaanike Mathe Devaalaya' (Our Lady of Presentation). Later it was rebuilt in 1882 to its present form. Both the interiors and the exteriors of the church are extremely ornamental. The intricate stained glass windows of the Church were imported from Paris. In the year 1973, St. Mary's Church was granted the the status of a basilica and many ceremonial privileges were granted to it. Every year on 8th of September, Virgin Mary's festival is celebrated with glory and grandeur. A procession is taken out on this eve, that attracts thousands of devotees and a chariot moves with the statue of St. Mary. Lalbagh Botanical Gardens Category : Garden Literally translated as the "Red Garden" this is one of the star attractions of the city of Bangalore, the Lalbagh Botanical Gardens are spread over a sprawling 96 hectares and is rich in a variety of flora. This park was founded by Hyder Ali in the year 1760 who commissioned it as a private retreat for himself and wanted it be along the lines of the Mughal Gardens in Delhi. Tipu Sultan, Hyder Ali's son completed this garden and named it Lalbagh due to it's profusion of red roses. The Lalbagh Gardens is popular for it's collection of rare trees, the famous Lalbagh Rock that is believed to date back to 3000 million years and a glasshouse inspired by the Crystal Palace in London. Lalbagh Gardens host bi annual flower shows, one a week preceding 26th January for Republic Day and the other a week before 15th August for Independence Day. Bangalore Palace Category : History & Culture If you wish to see a replica of the Windsor Castle in the middle of India, complete with Tudor and Scottish Gothic architecture, granite turrets, towers and battlements then a visit to the Bangalore Palace Is a must. Spread over a rambling 430 acres the Bangalore Palace was acquired by the King Chamarajendra Wodeyar in 1873 from its original owner Reverend J Garret who was then the principal of the Bangalore Central High School. A visit to Bangalore without visiting the Bangalore Palace is surely incomplete. More... Vidhana Soudha Category : History & Culture Vidhana Soudha houses the state legislature of Karnataka, constructed in the Neo-Dravidian style of architecture this is one of Bangalore's most imposing buildings. The Vishana Soudha is known for the intricate woodwork on the insides of the building, including the Sandalwood door to the cabinet room and the speaker's chair that is made out of Rosewood from Mysore. Unfortunately the Vidhana Soudha is not open to the public, though it is beautifully floodlit on Sunday evenings. Tipu Sultan's Palace Category : History & Culture Tipu Sultan's Palace can be found in one of the most congested markets in Bangalore. This palace was initially built as a summer home for Tipu Sultan and was also called "The Abode of Peace". This palace is sculpted entirely out of teakwood and is known for its ornamental pillars, curved arches and balconies. Tipu Sultan's palace is known for the beautiful floral patterns on the walls and a Ganesha Temple, a testament of Tipu Sultan's religious tolerance. Cubbon Park Category : Garden Cubbon Park is situated in the middle of the Central Administrative Area of Bangalore and is also known as the "Lung Area" of the city. This park is maintained by the Department of Horticulture of the State of Karnataka and has many tourist attractions. Tourist Destinations Near Bengaluru Wayanad Wayanad is a popular wildlife sanctuary in the state of Kerala. It is famous for its variety of exotic fauna like the elephant, Indian Bison, tiger, and deer. The place is ideal for different categories of tourism such as adventure tourism, recreational tourism, pilgrim tourism, and historic tourism. Wayanad comes on the route from Sulthan Battery to Mysore. The Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary was founded in 1973 and it is the second biggest wildlife reserve in Kerala. Visitors enjoy elephant rides in this reserve. Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, also known as Muthanga Wildlife Sanctuary, is home to verdant green jungles and diverse wildlife. Mysore City Mysore city, popularly called the 'City of Palaces', is famous for its magnificent palaces, beautiful gardens, majestic temples and serene lakes. This is a place of festivals as well since many festivals are celebrated here with great joy and enthusiasm. Besides these, this city attracts tourists from all over the country for its rich tradition and culture. Visitors get enthralled by the place's quaint charm. This city of Karnataka is even known for its silk and sandalwood products, for which it is even called by the name of "Sandalwood City". Apart from being the state's cultural capital, this is the 2nd cleanest Indian city. More... Tirupati One of the far-familiar pilgrimages of India, Tirupati, is located at the Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh at the foothills of the Eastern Ghats. It is at a distance of 550 km south from the capital of Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad. Being one of the major pilgrimages of India, this place is the busiest pilgrimage centre in the world. Coorg Located on the plateau region of the Western Ghats, this is Karnataka's administrative district. The British called it the "Scotland of India". Some people have named the place as the "Kashmir of South India" as well. This place is one of the famous tourist destinations of the state as well as the country. The natural beauty of the area has made it popular even among tourists from all over the world. Thus, this district of Karnataka is mostly frequented by the nature lovers from across the globe. Ooty Ooty travel provides a tranquil retreat amidst the exquisite natural splendor of the pristine Nilgiri mountains. Ooty or Ootacumund is a tranquil hill station that is located in the state of Tamil Nadu in South India. Ooty is one of the most popular tourist destinations in India and is visited by thousands of travelers every year, who arrive from all corners of the world. Ooty is known for its verdant valleys covered with wild flowers and lush forests. The lovely tea plantations add to its scenic value. More... Kanchipuram If you ever wished to visit a city with only temples and temples around, you should travel to Kanchipuram. Known as the 'city of thousand temples' Kanchipuram located about 70 kms from Chennai, is one of the most sacred Hindu pilgrimage sites in India. The history of Kanchipuram is intertwined with the glorious reign of the Pallavas, the Cholas and the Rayas of Vijayanagar.The city is also famous as an ancient center of Tamil learning and culture. Shankaracharya or Adi Shankara established his Episcopal seat here called Kamakotipeetam. The temples are undoubtedly the foremost tourist attractions in Kanchipuram.The Kamakshi Amman Temple, Kailashanathar Temple, the Ekambareshwar, the Kumara Kottam Temple, the Varadaraja Temple and the Ullahalanda Temple are the famous temples in Kanchipuram. Shiva Temple Renowned author, singer and philanthropist R.V.M. founded the Shiva Temple in 1994 on the Old Airport Road. The 65-feet-tall idol of Lord Shiva, hand-sculpted by Kashinath using marble paste, is a splendor. The temple is also the abode of a 32-feet-high idol of Lord Ganesha. The roofless temple makes one feel that Lord Shiva is sitting in the Kailash facing Manasarovar, with the infinite sky above. Daily at 8:30 a.m., 7:30 p.m. and 11:45 p.m., aartis are performed and bhajans are played. Devotees engage in various spiritual activities, such as chanting mantras, which they believe will fulfill their wishes. A light and sound show, conducted thrice every evening at 7 p.m., 8 p.m. and 9 p.m., is a real spiritual experience. The temple is open 24 hours. Nandi Hills Nandi Hills, also called Nandydroog, are situated near the Bangalore International Airport (Kempegowda International Airport) at a height of 4,851 ft. The River Arkavathi originates from the hills. The Summer Palace and the Fort of Tipu Sultan are among the notable places. This was where the British army first attacked Tipu Sultan. The climatic conditions of this place has supported rare species of plants. Nandi Hills is of interest to bird-watchers as well. Sites of historical interest are Tipu's Drop, Horse Way, and Secret Escape Route. Temples of Sri Ugra Narasimha, Sri Bhoga Narasimha, Sri Yoga Narasimha, Gavi Veerbhadra Swamy; Brahmashram cave; and Amruth Sarovar Lake are places of tourist interest. One can go for paragliding, trekking or cycling here. Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium Located at Sir T. Chowdaiah Road, the Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium was set up by Bangalore City Corporation and is managed by the Bangalore Association for Science Education. The planetarium has a dome with a diametre of 15 metres. Its seating capacity is 210. The planetarium compound also houses a Science Park and Science Centre. With a German Carl Zeiss, Space Master, the night sky is projected for conducting shows as well as teaching astronomy. Special-effects projectors, video and slide projectors are also used. The Sky Theatre program that includes visuals like computer animations, cartoons special effects, and video clippings, is very popular. Two shows are conducted, at 3:00 p.m. and 4:30 p.m., except on Mondays and second Tuesdays. A special educational program called "Know your Stars" is held every month. Last Updated on : May 19, 2014 Travel to Karnataka Travel to Bangalore Travel to Belagavi Travel to Belur Travel to Coorg Travel to Halebid Travel to Hampi Travel to Mangalore Travel to Mysore Travel to Sringeri Places to visit in Karnataka Places to visit in Bangalore Places to visit in Belur Places to visit in Coorg Places to visit in Halebid Places to visit in Hampi Places to visit in Mangalore Places to visit in Mysore Places to Visit in Bangalore Ulsoor Lake Cubbon Park Nandi Hills Tipu Sultan palace Shiva Temple Bangalore Palace Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium Historical Monuments in Bangalore Lakes in Bangalore Amusement Parks in Bangalore Bangalore Wildlife Religious Places in Bangalore Parks and Gardens in Bangalore Weekend Getaways Innovative Film City About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule