Sathya Sai Baba India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Religious & Spiritual Gurus » Sri Sathya Sai Baba   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Sri Sathya Sai Baba Born on November 23, 1926, Sathya Sai Baba is one of the most famous Indian spiritual and religious gurus. He has millions of followers all across the globe and there are more than 1000 Sathya Sai Baba Centers in around 130 countries spread across the globe. Born as Sathyanarayana Raju in the village of Puttaparthi, in Andhra Pradesh , he studied at a nearby school. In 1940 he proclaimed himself to be a reincarnation of the saint Shirdi Sai Baba. The year 1944 saw the beginning of the construction of a temple for the followers of Sathya Sai Baba. The construction of the present Ashram, Prashanthi Nilayam started in 1948. Sanathana Sarathi, the official magazine for the followers of Sathya Sai Baba, was first published in 1958. His native village Puttaparthi, which was a remote hamlet now boasts of a University complex, a world-religions Museum, a planetarium, railway station and even an airport. During Sai Baba's 80th birthday celebrations, over a million people from all across the attended the celebrations. Though he resides much of the time in Prashanthi Nilayam, he also spends some time in his Ashram in Whitefield, in the outskirts of Bangalore . He has established three primary centers or mandirs in India in Mumbai , Hyderabad and Chennai respectively. Sathya Sai Baba is believed to have performed many miracles, but there are many people who have question his miracles.   Related Links   Spiritual gurus Abdul Rahim Khan-e-Khana Ramkrishna Paramhansa Gautama Buddha Sri Sathya Sai Baba Mata Amritanandamayi Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Last Updated on : February 3, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule