Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar and Tourist Destinations near Andaman and Nicobar Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andaman and Nicobar Travel Shopping How to Reach Andaman and Nicobar Hotels Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar Long Island Cellular Jail Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park Anthropological Museum Islands Beaches in Andaman & Nicobar Andaman & Nicobar Monuments Museums in Andaman & Nicobar Picnic Sports Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Activities Honeymoon Places to See in Nicobar Port Blair Indira Point Car Nicobar Katchal Great Nicobar Island About Andaman Nicobar History Climate Home » Andaman & Nicobar Islands » Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar The Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a paradise for the nature lovers and thus attracts a large number of tourists every year. This is a beautiful place which provides an ideal vacation. Nicobar holds a small but fully furnished world in itself. Sightseeing at Nicobar means to enjoy the breathtaking beautiful beaches and mangrove forests. Andaman and Nicobar Islands are an ideal place for those who love to be in the complete silence of nature. The surrounding area of the sea shores are divine. The Nicobar Island of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands is rich in marine life. Places to See in Andaman Long Island Category : Nature Long Island is one of the favorite spots of sightseeing of Andaman. Tourists gather at this site to see the convoy of dolphins found in this area. The sandy beach at Lalaji bay also seems to be a major site at the Long Islands. Cellular Jail Category : History & Culture Andaman had been the location, where the convicts charged against the British regime were kept behind the bars. Therefore, Cellular Jail enfolds a great past under its realms. As a result, tourists, as well as enthusiasts, come to the Cellular Jail to witness the suffering that the freedom fighters had gone through. Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park Category : Wild Life Andaman sightseeingalso include the Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park. The National Park, stationed at Wandoor, is made up of the open sea and creeks, as well as 15 islands. Tourists come to this site to see the beauty of the rare corals and the exotic life of the marine animals in Andaman. With the provision for scuba diving and snorkeling, the national park seems to the indelible part of sightseeing in Andaman. Anthropological Museum Category : History & Culture The Anthropological Museum houses the traces of the ethnicity of Andaman. Therefore, here we come across many artifacts, utensils, clothes, sculptures, etc. belonging to the different tribes of Andaman. Places to See in Nicobar Birds and flowers are another attraction of this island which allures large number of tourists. Sightseeing in Nicobar also includes a variety of beaches of the Nicobar Island having a homogeneous nature. One can enjoy the pristine beauty of nature in this island. The famous Indira Point is the lighthouse of this Island which is situated on the southern tip of this land. The sight of the gigantic structure of this lighthouse is enough to make the visitors spell bound. Nicobar Sightseeing also includes the most attractive Katchal Island which is popular for its magnificent beaches. Other tourist attractions like the Car Nicobar and the Great Nicobar are also famous for their unending natural beauty. The wonderful and fascinating forests, white sandy beaches and crystal clear waters of the sea are the major attractions of Nicobar Island. Indira Point Category : Nature The Nicobar Island is one of the most aspiring tourist destinations of India. This place is full of scenic beauty and poetic charm. It has some popular tourist destinations which are largely visited by tourists every year. Among these destinations, the Indira Point is one of the frequently visited. The Indira Point is one of the most beautiful places which is known for its sky touching lighthouse. Beautiful beach along with mind blowing natural beauty around, is another attraction for the nature lovers. The coastal area has given exposure to the unpolluted nature. The Indira Point Lighthouse was established in the year 1972 and since then it is working as a towering feature and as an important landmark for the ships coming from Malacca. This light station was formerly known as Parsons Point and then Pygmalion Point but was ultimately named as Indira Point once the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi visited the place. Indira Point of Nicobar is situated on the great Nicobar island of eastern Indian Ocean. It is one of the prime attractions of the Nicobar islands. Located in the middle of water, the light house is one of the most visited and beautifully maintained light houses of the world. The sight of the gigantic lighthouse of Indira Point will make the visitors mesmerize in complete wonder. The external stairway spiraling around the light house is painted in white and red bands. The devastating tsunami of 24th December 2004 affected the the whole Indian Territory a lot. It destroyed the whole power station but could not affect the lighthouse. Nicobar Lighthouse Indira Point is a major tourist destination of the island. Car Nicobar Category : Nature The Andaman and Nicobar Islands comprises of a cluster of islands that lies in the heart of the Bay of Bengal. Very recently this place has become a major tourist concern and sees a large number of visitors across the world every year. Among the major tourist attractions of this Island, the Car Nicobar is a frequently visited one. The Car Nicobar is basically the headquarters of the Nicobar Island. One can spend a delightful holiday on the lap of nature in the Car Nicobar Island. This flat fertile island is covered with coconut trees. Even the continuous roaring sound of the sea will enchant the mind of the visitors. The enigmatic beauty of nature could be best experienced in the Car Nicobar Island of Nicobar district. The Car Nicobar Island of Nicobar has a diversified specie of flora and fauna. Also, it provides a spectacular view of the forest and the sea shore as well. The wonderful white sandy beaches have made this island one of the most visited tourist hubs. It takes a 16 hours journey through water from Port Blair to reach into that island. One more unique thing is that the typical Nicobari huts are made on stilts which are having entrance through floor, made of wood which undoubtedly deserves some complements. Coconut is the main item of trade and a major item of food for the people there. If you are willing to avail a trip to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands then you must pay a visit to the well known Car Nicobar. Katchal Category : Nature Nicobar has innumerable locations which are full of exquisite natural beauty. Though most of the tourist places are homogeneous in nature having beautiful sea shore with a huge collection of flora and fauna, but the beauty of the Katchal Island is matchless. Earlier Katchal was known as Tihnyu. It stretches over an area of 174.4 sq. km. The Katchal Island of Nicobar is one amongst the 572 islets of the Union Territory. Due to the unexploited innocence nature of the island, this is a popular tourist place for the visitors worldwide. Katchal Island is full of natural beauty which has made it a popular tourist destination. The water of the sea is crystal clear. The sunrise and sunset on the sea shore will leave an unforgettable memory in your mind. The Katchal Island in Nicobar boasts of a huge collection of flora and rare fauna. Seasonal flowers of the coastal area are very beautiful. The wildlife of the Katchal island is another attraction for the tourists. Some unique species of birds and animals could be found there. One should not miss to visit the cluster of beaches. The sea beach of Katchal has got a magnificent natural beauty. The sea of the Katchal Island is full of fishes and corals. The water of the sea is best for sunbath and swimming. Both the summer and winter seasons are the best time to visit this island. Great Nicobar Island Category : Nature The Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands has numerous beautiful beaches and are mainly known for its different islands. The Andaman and Nicobar count a number of islands among which the Great Nicobar Island is a place largely visited by the tourists. People from different corners of the world every year come to this place to discover the unexploited beauty of the island of Great Nicobar. The warm and tropical climate has given chance to a large variety of trees to grow in the Great Nicobar Island. Even a wide diversity in orchids could be seen there. The native floras of this island is a great attraction to the botanists and zoologists and thus have attracted a large number of scientists to this island. The nature of this island is very eco-friendly. The beauty of the sea beaches in the Great Nicobar Island of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is beyond any description. The Great Nicobar has become successful in alluring tourists in a large number to this island. The gigantic light house Indira Point is located here. The beach which is located near Galathia is a happy residing place for the turtles which are popularly known as Gaint Leather back Turtles. Last Updated on: 25/09/2013 Hotels in Andaman and Nicobar Portblair Hotels Havelock Hotels Travel to Andaman & Nicobar Travel to Port Blair Places to visit in Andaman nicobar islands Places to visit in Port Blair About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule