CASNR Alumni — College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Search OKSTATE.EDU... Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Academic Depts Ag Economics Ag Education, Communications & Leadership Animal Science Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resources Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences Multidisciplinary Programs Environmental Sciences Master of International Agriculture Program Future Students Student Services Visitors CASNR Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Now Be an OSU Cowboy! Undergraduate Admissions Graduate College College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Navigation Home Academic Departments Future Students Student Services CASNR Scholarships Applications Study Abroad Farm to Fork News Events Alumni Involvement Early Career Achievement Award Winners CASNR Alumni Board Employers Faculty Resources Personnel Request for Information Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Search Advanced Search…   Login You are here: Home / Alumni Info College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources CASNR Alumni CASNR Alumni The College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Alumni Board requests the pleasure of your company at our annual Alumni Reunion and Gala.  Join us as we celebrate the accomplishments of the college and honor our 2015 Early Career Achievement Awardees at 6 p.m. on May 2, 2015 in Click Hall at the ConocoPhillips OSU Alumni Center in Stillwater, Okla. The evening will include entertainment as well as hors d’oeuvres and a cash bar. Requested dress is western casual.  Register by April 24th online at orange connection.org/casnrreunion or  call 405.744.5395.     Do you remember the pride you felt in yourself and Oklahoma State University when you walked across the stage to receive your diploma? This feeling of pride leaves us all with a permanent bond to our alma mater. Being a CASNR Alumni member provides an opportunity for alumni to support and to stay in touch with their alma mater. Mission Statement This nonprofit organization is engaged in recruitment, promotes academic excellence in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources by providing support for the college, building scholarship programs and promoting CASNR student activities. By paying your membership dues, you can join other alums who are dedicated to fellowship among CASNR alumni and support of OSU agriculture and natural resources programs. Benefits of Membership Automatically a member of the OSU Alumni Association Subscription to STATE magazine, The Cowboy Journal and other University publications Invitations to local alumni club activities Access to online alumni directory and locator as well as free e-mail service Opportunity for reduced fee credit cards and merchant discounts for shopping, lodging and rental cars OSU library and Colvin Center privileges Reduced cost access to the OSU HIRE System for job postings   Membership dues help support: Student recruitment Undergraduate scholarships Homecoming activities Student and alumni awards Alumni programming and services More Information CASNR Alumni Board Early Career Achievement Award winners Opportunities for involvement Contact To find local alumni clubs and for membership information, contact: The College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Alumni Association Dr. Steve Damron, Executive Secretary 136 Agricultural Hall Stillwater, OK 74078 (405) 744-5395 Email If you think a career in an agriculture- or natural resources-related field may be in your future, we'd love to hear from you! Email us today! Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Accessibilty Safety Legal and Trademarks Webmaster © 2015 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved