Japan | INTERNATIONAL SERICULTURAL COMMISSION Skip to main content HOME About Us Historical Background Current Position Mission and Objectives Organizational Structure Membership Country Membership Collective Associate Membership Individual Associate Membership Join as a Member Core Activity Research and Development Training Scholarship Volunteer Expert Programme Sharing of Genetic Resources Global Partnership Programme Consultancy Global Meetings Awards Publications Benefits Member Country Collective Associate Member Individual Associate Member Non Member Country Silk Companies Fashion Industry Pharmaceutical, Cosmetics & other Sectors Researchers / Students Sericologia About Sericologia Structure Chief Editor How to Subscribe Sericologia Information to Contributors Publication Current Issue Previous Issues Portfolio National Delegates Secretary General Officer on Special Duty Secretary to Secretary General Executive Silk Industry Silk - An Introduction Evolution of Silk Types of Silk Key Components Merits Millennium Development Goal Statistics Silk Products Search form Search this site You are here Home » Country Profile » Japan Japan Date of Joining:  Thursday, March 23, 1961 National Delegate:  Mr Masato SHIRAI Nodal Ministry:  Ministry of Agriculture Region:  Asia Vertical Tabs History Silk is believed to have originated in China during the early Neolithic era as clothing textile, and brought to Japan between the third and second century BC when Japanese silk weaving techniques began to develop. From the mid 7th century AD, naturalized Japanese from China and the Korean Peninsula brought in techniques of sericulture, silk-reeling, dyeing and weaving, which spread throughout Japan. As the Japanese climate was suited to sericulture, silk-reeling and weaving, these processes followed a unique development in each region, which led to a wide range of silk textiles being produced in a number of regions. Present status of the Industry Sericulture and cocoon production have seen dramatic decline in recent years. The main factors are a decrease in profitability of cocoon production and a shortage of people inheriting farms. Cocoon production occurs mostly in parts of central Japan. Silk-reeling industry Today, there are 7 silk-reeling factories in Japan, and although their number has not changed in the past few years, the raw silk production per factory has been decreasing. Silk-reeling factories are located near the cocoon producing regions, and only small-scale factories remain. Silk Processing industry The number of weaving looms in Japan is decreasing each year, and the production of silk textiles is decreasing at a rate exceeding that of weaving looms. Much of Japan’s silk industry is located on the side of Japan Sea. As the humidity is relatively high, the conditions are more suitable for weaving silk textiles than on the Pacific Ocean side of Japan. There are also not many other local industries and historically had been a long tradition of silk textile production in these areas of Japan. 2. Types Sericulture was once a flourishing industry of the world. The Japese have produced some finest highly productive silwkrom breeds of the country. But due to rapid industrialization and urbanization, the sericulture is a declining industry in the country. Only bivoltine silk is produced in the country. Types of Silk Sericulture was once a flourishing industry in Japan. The Japanese have produced some finest highly productive silwkrom breeds of the country. But due to rapid industrialization and urbanization, the sericulture is now a declining industry in the country. Only bivoltine silk is produced in the country. Infrastructure a) Institute of Sericulture, Silk Science Research Institute, University of Tokyo b) Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology c) Shinshu University d) Hokkaido University e) Iwate University f) Kyoto Institute of Textile g) Kyushu University h) Gunma Sericultural Technology Center Statistics Silk Production Particulars Item Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Production Cocoon M.T 382 327 265 220 202 Raw silk M.T 96 72 54 42 30 Silk Fabric Export 14,043 11,472 11,612 10,418 -- Demand Domestic M.T 11,820 10,440 8,160 -- -- Export Raw Silk M.T 0 0 0 0 0 Silk Yarn M.T 28 23 19 9 19 Silk Fabric M.T 428 376 378 90 333 Import Raw silk M.T 902 725 733 559 598 Silk Yarn M.T 1,358 999 978 1,052 971 Silk Fabric M.T 698 540 542 513 444 Export of raw silk Japan’s borders were closed for trade from the early 17th century until their re-opening in 1859. Silk production flourished as a modern industry, and raw silk became one of Japan’s major exports. In 1901, Japan’s production of raw silk surpassed that of France and Italy, and in 1907, Japan’s export of raw silk exceeded that of China, making Japan the top exporter of raw silk in the world. From 1941, due to the impacts of the World War II, production and export of raw silk in Japan began to decline. Although raw silk production recovered during the 50s, the domestic consumption of silk increased with Japan’s economic growth from the 60s and Japan began importing raw silk from 1965. Silk Products The Japanese have traditionally favored silk, and the long tradition of “kimono” has contributed to the development of silk textiles in Japan. There is a record of silk textiles being produced in Japan approximately 2000 years ago, and also records of silk textiles being presented to Yamato dynasty from Yuki in early third century, Kiryu in 713, and Ashikaga in 714. The production of silk textiles began in various regions during the 10th century (Heian period). At first, silk textiles were produced for the clothing of royals and nobility, and the techniques gradually spread to various regions. By the early 17th century (Edo period), silk textiles were being produced in many regions for the promotion of local industry. Today, crepe is produced in the Tango region in Kyoto prefecture and Nagahama in Shiga prefecture. Hakata in Fukuoka prefecture and Kyoto mainly produce obi (a sash for kimono). The silk gauze, commonly used for summer clothes, is produced in Gosen in Niigata prefecture. Yonezawa in Yamagata prefecture is known for its production of hakama (a skirt for formal wear) and clothing materials for export. In Gunma prefecture and Saitama prefecture, silk is used for the production of “kimono” linings. There are many other regions producing unique silk textiles, and each region produces silk goods with characteristics specific to that region. KIMINOS “Yuki-tsumugi” is a silk textile produced chiefly in the vicinity of Yuki in Ibaraki prefecture which was recognized as an Intangible Cultural Heritage by UNESCO and was designated as one of the Important Intangible Cultural Properties of Japan. As a traditional Japanese garment, “kimono” reflects the aesthetic values and delicate senses of the Japanese people. The manufacturing method, dye colour and pattern design of the fabrics used can therefore be seen as a reflection of Japanese aesthetics. In Japan, a “kimono” is commonly worn at ceremonial occasions, but it serves many other uses as daily wear and work attire for people in various professions. However, the westernization of lifestyles, the introduction of western formal wear and the need for a certain skill to dress in a “kimono,” has meant that in recent years, the demand for “kimono” has been in decline. Kimono accounts for 80% of the demand for silk textiles in Japan. Therefore, the decline in demand for kimono and decrease in international competitiveness of Japanese silk textiles have led to a trend of decreasing domestic production of silk textiles and a steady import from overseas. STRAPLESS JAPANESE CERAMIC FACE PRINT SILK DRESS CARD CASE Links # Name of Institution Web site 1 Institute of Sericulture, Silk Science Research Institute, University of Tokyo, www.u-tokyo.ac.jp/en/ ‎ 2 Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology   www.tuat.ac.jp/en/ ‎ 3 Shinshu University,   www.shinshu-u.ac.jp/english/ ‎ 4 Hokkaido University, www.oia.hokudai.ac.jp/ ‎ 5 Iwate University   www.iwate-u.ac.jp/english/ ‎ 6 Kyoto Institute of Textile www.kit.ac.jp/english/ ‎ 7 Kyushu University www.kyushu-u.ac.jp/english/ ‎ 8 Gunma Sericultural Technology Center www.nippon.com/en/tag/gunma-sericultural-technology-center/ ‎ 9       Afghanistan Bangladesh Brazil DPR Korea Egypt France Greece India Indonesia Iran Japan Madagascar Romania Syria Thailand Tunisia Copyright © 2013 Home Contact Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Disclamer Netiapps