Goat Farming AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Goat Farming - Mohsin Shaikh Goat Farming Results 1 to 2 of 2 Thread: Goat Farming LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… February 3rd, 2015 #1 aminbori Join Date Mar 2013 Posts 1 Goat Farming Dear Mr. Mohsin, i would like to know that whether there are some training course available if some one want to start goat farm. Do we have to take some sort of approval from Maharashtra government or get some register certificate in order to start goat farm. Is there any issue if we start a commercial goat farm directly without any approval from local authority( municipality or gram Panchayat) Awaiting for reply. Thanks Amin Reply With Quote February 5th, 2015 #2 smy82482 Join Date Mar 2012 Posts 2,324 Yes training facility is available at our farm in Marathi language.Training is conducted practically along with goats.It is Maharashtra's the only one practical training center where farmers shown how to manage the goat farm.Its one day training programme,11A.M to 5P.M.For address and contact details visit our websites link- Contact Us - My website No you dont have to take have any sort of approval from Maharashtra government or get some register certificate in order to start goat farm.Goat farming is an agriculture business ,so no documents are required at all. No issue at all if you start a commercial goat farm directly without any approval from local authority( municipality or gram Panchayat).Goat farming is not banned or has restrictions,even though if you start on commercial level in any part of Maharashtra. Regards, DR.Shaikh www.goatfarm.co.in www.osmanabadigoat.com Last edited by smy82482; February 5th, 2015 at 06:33 PM . Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 03:11 PM .