Exporters of Panch Tulsi Ras in India Offered by Jhanil Healthcare Private Limited | ID - 1166316 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Jhanil Healthcare Private Limited Member Since : 2012 | Country : India Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Anti Diabetic Supplement, Ashwagandha, Fenugreek Extract, Stevia Extract Home » Product » Exporters of Panch Tulsi Ras in India Exporters of Panch Tulsi Ras in India KRISHNA TULSI Krishna Tulsi(PANCH TULSI RAS) is the liquid extract of five types of tulsi i.e.Drudriha Tulsi, Rama Tulsi, Shama Tulsi,Babi tulsi and Tukshmiya Tulsi mixed in very effective proportion. KRISHNA TULSI BENEFITS Tulsi has a lot of benefits. It has super natural health curing qualities and helpful in all types of Allergies. It has beneficial effect on mind and body. It gives relaxation to mind and body. Scientists have also acknowledged the medicinal properties of tulsi. It keeps away the deadly fevers like Dengue, Malaria and Swine Flu etc .The intake of tulsi is the best way of intestine cleaning. It is very effective in any kind of gynae problem. Krishna tulsi is very effective in cough, cold, acidity, constipation, stomach pain, abdominal pain, and Viral or Seasonal fever, swelling in Lungs, hypertension, chest congestion, fatique, vomiting, obesity, arthritis, asthma, anemia, and ulcers. It removes the impurities of blood and increases the immunity of human body. It is very helpful in controlling diabetes. It has Anti-bacterial and Anti-viral Action. How to Use • 1 to 2 drop in a Glass of Water • 1 to 2 drop in a Cup of Coffee • 1 to 2 drop in a Cup of General Tea • 1 to 2 drop in a Cup of Herbal Tea An adult can take 8-10 drops per day in Tea, coffee, water, Salad etc.For ladies they can take its steam in lukewarm water with a soft cloth it will glow the face and is very helpful in face pimples. Pack size:20 ml MRP:Rs.182 SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mr. Deepak Jindal Primary Number : 08042755944 Telephone : +91-1676-222089 Mobile Phone : +91-9317912089 » More detail Hot Products » Aloe Vera Juice » Amla Juice » Dry Insulin Leaves » Krishna Tulsi (Panch Tulsi Drops) » Madhutulsi(The Future Sugar) » Noni Juice » Organic Stevia Leaves/ Powder » Shugar Apple (anti Diabetic Health Supplement) » Stevia Extract Powder » Triphala Juice Other Products » Aloe Amla Juice » Aloe Vera » Aloe Vera » Aloe Vera » Aloe Vera » Aloe Vera » Aloe Vera Drinking Gel » Aloe Vera Extract » Aloe Vera Gel » Aloe Vera Juice » Aloe Vera juice » Aloe Vera Juice » Aloe Vera Products » Amla Juice » Amla Juice » Amla Juice » Amla Juice » Amla Juice » Amla Juice » Amla Juice Zindagi View more products Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com