Biosystems & Ag Engineering     Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Fact Sheets Navigation: Home Content Map Whats New Help Skip to Contents Guest Login In: This Collection This Entire Site Advanced Search Text Contained In: Any Part Title, Summary, Description, Keywords, Content Title, Summary, Description, Keywords Document Content Only Keywords Only Owner Only Last Modified: None Today Since Yesterday Within the last week Within the last 2 weeks Within the last month Within the last 2 months Within the last 6 months Within the last year Object Types: All Object Types Documents & Collections Calendars & Events Weblogs & Wikis Discussions & Topics Collections Only Documents Only Document Types: All Document Types Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Powerpoint) Microsoft Word Microsoft PowerPoint Microsoft Excel Adobe PDF (.pdf) Any Image Document Maximum Results: 5 20 50 100 250 500 1000 Sort Results: Ranked Order By Title By Date By Date Ascending By Type and Title By Type and Date By Title Reversed By Owner Location:  Home       OSU Fact Sheets       Departmental list       Biosystems & Ag Engineering  Listing Properties Delete Collection Permissions Scan Cover Sheet Biosystems & Ag Engineering Fact sheets for Biosystems & Ag Engineering have a prefix of BAE-(number) Show: 1 - 16 of 16 Refresh   Title Size   Buildings & Farm Processing 20   Energy Management 19   Equipment 15   Farm Home 25   General Biosystems & Ag Engineering 59   Water Management 40   Water Quality Series 55   BAE-1734 What Is A Waste Management System? By Douglas Hamilton. This fact sheet looks at what a waste management system is and how it performs its task. Reviewed November 2014. 259 KB   BAE-1748 Proper Disposal of Routine and Catastrophic Livestock and Poultry Mortality By Josh Payne. This fact sheet gives descriptive information on how to properly dispose of dead animal carcasses. Revised April 2010 427 KB   BAE-1749 On-Farm Mortality Composting of Livestock Carcasses By Josh Payne and Brian Pugh. Livestock mortality is an issue faced by every livestock farming operation, both large and small. For many producers, carcass disposal options are limited, can be costly, and may temporarily disturb the land needed for grazing. Improper disposal of dead animal carcasses and the resulting leach­ate (carcass fluids) can negatively impact surface water and groundwater quality. One state approved procedure that livestock producers may not be familiar with is composting. By definition, composting is a controlled biological decomposition process that converts organic matter into a stable, humus-like product. While backyard composting systems have a well-blended mixture of components (carbon and nitrogen), which results in a rapid compost cycle, livestock composting is a slower process. Composting livestock carcasses is characterized by the break down of a large centralized nitrogen source (carcass) that is surrounded by a carbon source (bulking agent). Reviewed June 2013. 1 MB   BAE-1750 Anaerobic Digestion of Animal Manures: Types of Digesters By Douglas Hamilton. All anaerobic digesters perform the same basic function. They hold manure in the absence of oxygen and maintain the proper conditions for methane forming microorganisms to grow. There are a wide variety of anaerobic digesters, each performing this basic function in a subtly different way. Seven of the most common digesters are described in this document. Revised February 2014. 1 MB   BAE-1759 Solids Content of Wastewater and Manure By Doug Hamilton and Hailin Zhang. This fact sheet highlights definitions and relationships among different types of solids in wastewater and manure. Reviewed November 2014. 316 KB   BAE-1762 Anaerobic Digestion of Animal Manures: Methane Production Potential of Waste Materials By Douglas Hamilton. This fact sheet discusses methane production potential of waste materials. 417 KB   E-1027 Poultry Litter Nutrient Management: A Guide for Producers and Applicators By Josh Payne and Hailin Zhang. When properly managed, poultry litter provides an excellent source of plant nutrients and organic matter for application to pastureland and cropland. Continual applications also may raise the pH of acidic soils in some cases. Many variables affect the overall value and cost of litter to the end-buyer and should be carefully considered before purchasing. Due to air and water quality concerns, regulations and proper nutrient management must be followed to reduce environmental impact. Reviewed November 2014. 9 MB   L-453 What is the Difference Between Weather and Climate? By Al Sutherland, Peter Tomlinson, Mary Knapp and Amber Campbell. Our communities and farms are affected by short-term weather events. Their long-term sustainability is affected by climate and climate variability attributed to natural processes and human activities. This leaflet discusses these differences. 1016 KB   Department of Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering website link 0 Home | OSU | DASNR | OCES | OAES | CASNR Copyright © 2015 Oklahoma State University. All Rights Reserved.