Khmer Rouge - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Khmer Rouge From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation , search Khmer Rouge The flag of Democratic Kampuchea. The design was used by Khmer guerrillas since the 1950s with the building design varying. Active 1968–96 Ideology Communism Marxism–Leninism Left-wing nationalism Cambodian nationalism Headquarters Phnom Penh Pol Pot , leader of the Khmer Rouge and Prime Minister of Democratic Kampuchea, in 1978. This article contains Khmer text. Without proper rendering support , you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Khmer script . Khmers rouges ( French for "Red Khmers"; French pronunciation: ​ [kmɛʁ ʁuʒ] ; Khmer : ខ្មែរក្រហម Khmer Kraham ), more commonly known in English as ' Khmer Rouge ' ( / k ə ˈ m ɛər ˈ r uː ʒ / ) ( corruption of 'Khmers rouges'), was the name given to the followers of the Communist Party of Kampuchea in Cambodia . It was formed in 1968 as an offshoot of the Vietnam People's Army from North Vietnam . It was the ruling party in Cambodia from 1975 to 1979, led by Pol Pot , Nuon Chea , Ieng Sary , Son Sen , and Khieu Samphan . Democratic Kampuchea was the name of the state as controlled by the government of the Khmer Rouge from 1975 to 1979. It allied with North Vietnam , the Viet Cong , and Pathet Lao during the Vietnam War against the anti-Communist forces. The organization is remembered especially for orchestrating the Cambodian genocide , which resulted from the enforcement of its social engineering policies. [ 1 ] Its attempts at agricultural reform led to widespread famine , while its insistence on absolute self-sufficiency , even in the supply of medicine, led to the death of thousands from treatable diseases such as malaria . Arbitrary executions and torture carried out by its cadres against perceived subversive elements, or during purges of its own ranks between 1975 and 1978, are considered to have constituted genocide . [ 2 ] By 1979, the Khmer Rouge had fled the country, while the People's Republic of Kampuchea was being established. [ 3 ] The governments-in-exile (including the Khmer Rouge) still had a seat in the UN at this point, but it was later taken away, in 1993, as the monarchy was restored and the country underwent a name change to the Kingdom of Cambodia. A year later thousands of Khmer Rouge guerrillas surrendered themselves in a government amnesty. In 1996, a new political party, the Democratic National Union Movement , was formed by Ieng Sary , who was granted amnesty for all of his roles as the deputy leader of the Khmer Rouge. [ 4 ] The organization (Khmer Rouge) was largely dissolved by the mid-1990s, and finally surrendered completely in 1999. [ 5 ] In 2014 two Khmer Rouge leaders Nuon Chea and Kheiu Samphan were jailed by a UN backed court for life, which found them guilty of crimes against humanity and responsible for the deaths of up to 2,000,000 Cambodians (Khmer), nearly a quarter of the country's then population, during the " Killing Fields " era between 1975-1979. Contents 1 Name history 2 Ideology 3 Origins 3.1 Early history 3.2 Paris student group 4 Path to power and reign 4.1 KPRP Second Congress 4.2 Sihanouk and the GRUNK 4.3 Foreign involvement 5 The regime 5.1 Rulers 5.2 Life under the Khmer Rouge 5.3 Language reforms 5.4 Crimes against humanity 5.4.1 Number of deaths 6 Fall 6.1 Place in the United Nations 6.2 Ramifications of Vietnamese victory 7 Memorialization 7.1 Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia (ECCC) 7.2 Museums 7.3 Publications 7.4 Dialogues 7.5 Media coverage 8 Historic legacy 9 See also 10 References 11 Further reading 12 External links 12.1 Other online sources 12.2 Genocide 12.3 Uncategorized Name history [ edit ] The term "Khmers rouges", French for "Red Khmers ", was coined by Cambodian head of state Norodom Sihanouk and later adopted by English speakers (in the form of the corrupted version 'Khmer Rouge'). It was used to refer to a succession of Communist parties in Cambodia which evolved into the Communist Party of Kampuchea (CPK) and later the Party of Democratic Kampuchea . The organization was also known as the Kampuchea or Khmer Communist Party and the National Army of Democratic Kampuchea . [ 6 ] Ideology [ edit ] The Khmer Rouge's ideology combined elements of Marxism with an extreme version of Khmer nationalism and xenophobia . It combined an idealization of the Angkor Empire (802–1431), with an existential fear for the existence of the Cambodian state, which had historically been liquidated under Vietnamese and Siamese intervention. [ 7 ] The spillover of Vietnamese fighters from the Vietnam War further aggravated anti-Vietnamese feeling. The Khmer Rouge explicitly targeted the Chinese, Vietnamese, and even their partially Khmer offspring for extinction; although the Cham Muslims were treated unfavorably, they were encouraged to "mix flesh and blood", to intermarry and assimilate. Some people with partial Chinese or Vietnamese ancestry were present in the Khmer Rouge leadership; they either were purged or participated in the ethnic cleansing campaigns. [ 8 ] The Khmer Rouge's social policy focused on working towards a purely agrarian society. Pol Pot strongly influenced the propagation of this policy. He was reportedly impressed with how the mountain tribes of Cambodia lived, which the party interpreted as a form of primitive communism ; as a result, those minorities received more lenient and sometimes even more favorable treatment than the urbanized " bourgeois " Chinese and Vietnamese. [ 8 ] Pol Pot wanted to remove social institutions and to transform the society into an agrarian one. This was his way of "[creating] a complete Communist society without wasting time on the intermediate steps" as the Khmer Rouge said to China in 1975. [ 9 ] The evacuation of the cities disproportionately affected Chinese and Vietnamese, who were not accustomed to agricultural work, segregated from Khmers in labor camps, and forbidden to speak their own language. [ 8 ] Origins [ edit ] Early history [ edit ] The history of the communist movement in Cambodia can be divided into six phases: the emergence of the Indochinese Communist Party (ICP), whose members were almost exclusively Vietnamese, before World War II ; the 10-year struggle for independence from the French, when a separate Cambodian communist party, the Kampuchean (or Khmer) People's Revolutionary Party (KPRP), was established under Vietnamese auspices; the period following the Second Party Congress of the KPRP in 1960, when Saloth Sar ( Pol Pot after 1976) and other future Khmer Rouge leaders gained control of its apparatus; the revolutionary struggle from the initiation of the Khmer Rouge insurgency in 1967–68 to the fall of the Lon Nol government in April 1975; the Democratic Kampuchea regime, from April 1975 to January 1979; and the period following the Third Party Congress of the KPRP in January 1979, when Hanoi effectively assumed control over Cambodia's government and communist party. [ 10 ] In 1930, Ho Chi Minh founded the Communist Party of Vietnam by unifying three smaller communist movements that had emerged in northern, central, and southern Vietnam during the late 1920s. The name was changed almost immediately to the Indochinese Communist Party (ICP), ostensibly to include revolutionaries from Cambodia and Laos . Almost without exception, all the earliest party members were Vietnamese. By the end of World War II, a handful of Cambodians had joined its ranks, but their influence on the Indochinese communist movement and on developments within Cambodia was negligible. [ 11 ] Viet Minh units occasionally made forays into Cambodian bases during their war against the French, and, in conjunction with the leftist government that ruled Thailand until 1947, the Viet Minh encouraged the formation of armed, left-wing Khmer Issarak bands. On April 17, 1950 (25 years to the day before the Khmer Rouge captured Phnom Penh ), the first nationwide congress of the Khmer Issarak groups convened, and the United Issarak Front was established. Its leader was Son Ngoc Minh , and a third of its leadership consisted of members of the ICP. According to the historian David P. Chandler , the leftist Issarak groups, aided by the Viet Minh , occupied a sixth of Cambodia's territory by 1952; and, on the eve of the Geneva Conference , they controlled as much as one half of the country. [ 12 ] In 1951, the ICP was reorganized into three national units — the Vietnam Workers' Party , the Lao Itsala , and the Kampuchean (or Khmer) People's Revolutionary Party (KPRP). According to a document issued after the reorganization, the Vietnam Workers' Party would continue to "supervise" the smaller Laotian and Cambodian movements. Most KPRP leaders and rank-and-file seem to have been either Khmer Krom , or ethnic Vietnamese living in Cambodia. The party's appeal to indigenous Khmers appears to have been minimal. [ 13 ] According to Democratic Kampuchea's version of party history, the Viet Minh's failure to negotiate a political role for the KPRP at the 1954 Geneva Conference represented a betrayal of the Cambodian movement, which still controlled large areas of the countryside and which commanded at least 5,000 armed men. Following the conference, about 1,000 members of the KPRP, including Son Ngoc Minh, made a "Long March" into North Vietnam , where they remained in exile. [ 11 ] In late 1954, those who stayed in Cambodia founded a legal political party, the Pracheachon Party, which participated in the 1955 and the 1958 National Assembly elections. In the September 1955 election, it won about four percent of the vote but did not secure a seat in the legislature. [ 14 ] Members of the Pracheachon were subject to constant harassment and to arrests because the party remained outside Sihanouk's political organization, Sangkum. Government attacks prevented it from participating in the 1962 election and drove it underground. Sihanouk habitually labelled local leftists the Khmer Rouge, a term that later came to signify the party and the state headed by Pol Pot, Ieng Sary , Khieu Samphan , and their associates. [ 10 ] During the mid-1950s, KPRP factions, the "urban committee" (headed by Tou Samouth ), and the "rural committee" (headed by Sieu Heng ), emerged. In very general terms, these groups espoused divergent revolutionary lines. The prevalent "urban" line, endorsed by North Vietnam, recognized that Sihanouk, by virtue of his success in winning independence from the French, was a genuine national leader whose neutralism and deep distrust of the United States made him a valuable asset in Hanoi's struggle to "liberate" South Vietnam. [ 15 ] Advocates of this line hoped that the prince could be persuaded to distance himself from the right wing and to adopt leftist policies. The other line, supported for the most part by rural cadres who were familiar with the harsh realities of the countryside, advocated an immediate struggle to overthrow the " feudalist " Sihanouk. [ 16 ] In 1959, Sieu Heng defected to the government and provided the security forces with information that enabled them to destroy as much as 90% of the party's rural apparatus. Although communist networks in Phnom Penh and in other towns under Tou Samouth's jurisdiction fared better, only a few hundred communists remained active in the country by 1960. [ 11 ] Paris student group [ edit ] During the 1950s, Khmer students in Paris organized their own communist movement, which had little, if any, connection to the hard-pressed party in their homeland. From their ranks came the men and women who returned home and took command of the party apparatus during the 1960s, led an effective insurgency against Lon Nol from 1968 until 1975, and established the regime of Democratic Kampuchea. [ 17 ] Pol Pot , who rose to the leadership of the communist movement in the 1960s, was born in 1928 (some sources say 1925) in Kampong Thum Province , northeast of Phnom Penh. He attended a technical high school in the capital and then went to Paris in 1949 to study radio electronics (other sources say he attended a school for printers and typesetters and also studied civil engineering). Described by one source as a "determined, rather plodding organizer", he failed to obtain a degree, but, according to the Jesuit priest, Father François Ponchaud , he acquired a taste for the classics of French literature as well as a taste for the writings of Karl Marx . [ 18 ] Another member of the Paris student group was Ieng Sary, a Chinese-Khmer born in 1925 in South Vietnam. He attended the elite Lycée Sisowath in Phnom Penh before beginning courses in commerce and politics at the Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris (more widely known as Sciences Po ) in France. Khieu Samphan, considered "one of the most brilliant intellects of his generation", was born in 1931 and specialized in economics and politics during his time in Paris. [ citation needed ] In talent he was rivalled by Hou Yuon , born in 1930, who was described as being "of truly astounding physical and intellectual strength", [ citation needed ] and who studied economics and law. Son Sen, born in 1930, studied education and literature; Hu Nim, born in 1932, studied law. [ 19 ] Two members of the group, Khieu Samphan and Hou Yuon, earned doctorates from the University of Paris ; Hu Nim obtained his degree from the University of Phnom Penh in 1965. Most came from landowner or civil servant families. Pol Pot and Hou Yuon may have been related to the royal family. An older sister of Pol Pot had been a concubine at the court of King Monivong . Pol Pot and Ieng Sary married Khieu Ponnary and Khieu Thirith (also known as Ieng Thirith ), purportedly relatives of Khieu Samphan. These two well-educated women also played a central role in the regime of Democratic Kampuchea. [ 20 ] A number turned to orthodox Marxism-Leninism . At some time between 1949 and 1951, Pol Pot and Ieng Sary joined the French Communist Party . In 1951, the two men went to East Berlin to participate in a youth festival. This experience is considered to have been a turning point in their ideological development. Meeting with Khmers who were fighting with the Viet Minh (and whom they subsequently judged to be too subservient to the Vietnamese), they became convinced that only a tightly disciplined party organization and a readiness for armed struggle could achieve revolution. They transformed the Khmer Students Association (KSA), to which most of the 200 or so Khmer students in Paris belonged, into an organization for nationalist and leftist ideas. [ 21 ] Inside the KSA and its successor organizations, there was a secret organization known as the Cercle Marxiste (Marxist circle). The organization was composed of cells of three to six members with most members knowing nothing about the overall structure of the organization. In 1952 Pol Pot, Hou Yuon, Ieng Sary, and other leftists gained notoriety by sending an open letter to Sihanouk calling him the "strangler of infant democracy." A year later, the French authorities closed down the KSA. In 1956, however, Hou Yuon and Khieu Samphan helped to establish a new group, the Khmer Students Union. Inside, the group was still run by the Cercle Marxiste. [ 21 ] The doctoral dissertations written by Hou Yuon and Khieu Samphan express basic themes that were later to become the cornerstones of the policy adopted by Democratic Kampuchea. The central role of the peasants in national development was espoused by Hou Yuon in his 1955 thesis, The Cambodian Peasants and Their Prospects for Modernization , which challenged the conventional view that urbanization and industrialization are necessary precursors of development. [ 22 ] The major argument in Khieu Samphan's 1959 thesis, Cambodia's Economy and Industrial Development , was that the country had to become self-reliant and end its economic dependency on the developed world. In its general contours, Khieu's work reflected the influence of a branch of the " dependency theory " school, [ citation needed ] which blamed lack of development in the Third World on the economic domination of the industrialized nations. [ 23 ] Path to power and reign [ edit ] KPRP Second Congress [ edit ] After returning to Cambodia in 1953, Pol Pot threw himself into party work. At first he went to join with forces allied to the Viet Minh operating in the rural areas of Kampong Cham Province (Kompong Cham). After the end of the war, he moved to Phnom Penh under Tou Samouth's "urban committee" where he became an important point of contact between above-ground parties of the left and the underground secret communist movement. [ 24 ] His comrades, Ieng Sary and Hou Yuon, became teachers at a new private high school, the Lycée Kambuboth, which Hou Yuon helped to establish. Khieu Samphan returned from Paris in 1959, taught as a member of the law faculty of the University of Phnom Penh, and started a left-wing, French-language publication, L'Observateur . The paper soon acquired a reputation in Phnom Penh's small academic circle. The following year, the government closed the paper, and Sihanouk's police publicly humiliated Khieu by beating, undressing and photographing him in public—as Shawcross notes, "not the sort of humiliation that men forgive or forget". [ 25 ] Yet the experience did not prevent Khieu from advocating cooperation with Sihanouk in order to promote a united front against United States activities in South Vietnam. As mentioned, Khieu Samphan, Hou Yuon, and Hu Nim were forced to "work through the system" by joining the Sangkum and by accepting posts in the prince's government. [ 11 ] In late September 1960, twenty-one leaders of the KPRP held a secret congress in a vacant room of the Phnom Penh railroad station. This pivotal event remains shrouded in mystery because its outcome has become an object of contention (and considerable historical rewriting) between pro-Vietnamese and anti-Vietnamese Khmer communist factions. [ 11 ] The question of cooperation with, or resistance to, Sihanouk was thoroughly discussed. Tou Samouth, who advocated a policy of cooperation, was elected general secretary of the KPRP that was renamed the Workers' Party of Kampuchea (WPK). His ally, Nuon Chea (also known as Long Reth), became deputy general secretary; however, Pol Pot and Ieng Sary were named to the Political Bureau to occupy the third and the fifth highest positions in the renamed party's hierarchy. The name change is significant. By calling itself a workers' party, the Cambodian movement claimed equal status with the Vietnam Workers' Party . The pro-Vietnamese regime of the People's Republic of Kampuchea (PRK) implied in the 1980s that the September 1960 meeting was nothing more than the second congress of the KPRP. [ 11 ] On July 20, 1962, Tou Samouth was murdered by the Cambodian government. In February 1963, at the WPK's second congress, Pol Pot was chosen to succeed Tou Samouth as the party's general secretary. Tou's allies, Nuon Chea and Keo Meas , were removed from the Central Committee and replaced by Son Sen and Vorn Vet . From then on, Pol Pot and loyal comrades from his Paris student days controlled the party centre, edging out older veterans whom they considered excessively pro-Vietnamese. [ 26 ] In July 1963, Pol Pot and most of the central committee left Phnom Penh to establish an insurgent base in Ratanakiri Province in the northeast. Pol Pot had shortly before been put on a list of 34 leftists who were summoned by Sihanouk to join the government and sign statements saying Sihanouk was the only possible leader for the country. Pol Pot and Chou Chet were the only people on the list who escaped. All the others agreed to cooperate with the government and were afterward under 24-hour watch by the police. [ 21 ] Sihanouk and the GRUNK [ edit ] The region where Pol Pot and the others moved to was inhabited by tribal minorities, the Khmer Loeu , whose rough treatment (including resettlement and forced assimilation ) at the hands of the central government made them willing recruits for a guerrilla struggle. In 1965, Pol Pot made a visit of several months to North Vietnam and China. [ 21 ] Pol Pot received some training in China, which had enhanced his prestige when he returned to the WPK's "liberated areas". Despite friendly relations between Norodom Sihanouk and the Chinese, the latter kept Pol Pot's visit a secret from Sihanouk. In September 1966, the party changed its name to the Communist Party of Kampuchea (CPK). [ citation needed ] The change in the name of the party was a closely guarded secret. Lower ranking members of the party and even the Vietnamese were not told of it and neither was the membership until many years later. The party leadership endorsed armed struggle against the government, then led by Sihanouk. In 1967, several small-scale attempts at insurgency were made by the CPK but they had little success. [ citation needed ] In 1968, the Khmer Rouge was officially formed and its forces launched a national insurgency across Cambodia (see also Cambodian Civil War ). Though North Vietnam had not been informed of the decision, its forces provided shelter and weapons to the Khmer Rouge after the insurgency started. Vietnamese support for the insurgency made it impossible for the Cambodian military to effectively counter it. For the next two years the insurgency grew as Sihanouk did very little to stop it. As the insurgency grew stronger, the party finally openly declared itself to be the Communist Party of Kampuchea (CPK). [ 21 ] The political appeal of the Khmer Rouge was increased as a result of the situation created by the removal of Sihanouk as head of state in 1970 . Premier Lon Nol , with the support of the National Assembly, deposed Sihanouk. Sihanouk, in exile in Beijing, made an alliance with the Khmer Rouge and became the nominal head of a Khmer Rouge–dominated government-in-exile (known by its French acronym, GRUNK ) backed by China. The Nixon administration, although thoroughly aware of the weakness of Lon Nol's forces and loath to commit American military force to the new conflict in any form other than air power, announced its support of the newly proclaimed Khmer Republic . [ 27 ] On 29 March 1970, the North Vietnamese launched an offensive against the Cambodian army with documents uncovered from the Soviet archives revealing that the invasion was launched at the explicit request of the Khmer Rouge following negotiations with Nuon Chea . [ 28 ] A force of North Vietnamese quickly overran large parts of eastern Cambodia reaching to within 15 miles (24 km) of Phnom Penh before being pushed back. By June, three months after the removal of Sihanouk, they had swept government forces from the entire northeastern third of the country. After defeating those forces, the North Vietnamese turned the newly won territories over to the local insurgents. The Khmer Rouge also established "liberated" areas in the south and the southwestern parts of the country, where they operated independently of the North Vietnamese. [ 29 ] After Sihanouk showed his support for the Khmer Rouge by visiting them in the field, their ranks swelled from 6,000 to 50,000 fighters. Many of the new recruits for the Khmer Rouge were apolitical peasants who fought in support of the King, not for communism, of which they had little understanding. [ 30 ] Sihanouk's popular support in rural Cambodia allowed the Khmer Rouge to extend its power and influence to the point that by 1973 it exercised de facto control over the majority of Cambodian territory, although only a minority of its population. Many people in Cambodia who helped the Khmer Rouge against the Lon Nol government thought they were fighting for the restoration of Sihanouk. By 1975, with the Lon Nol government running out of ammunition, it was clear that it was only a matter of time before the government would collapse. On April 17, 1975 the Khmer Rouge captured Phnom Penh . During the war, the Khmer Rouge caused several times more civilian casualties than the entire U.S. bombing of Cambodia. [ 31 ] Foreign involvement [ edit ] Further information: Operation Menu and Operation Freedom Deal The relationship between the massive carpet bombing of Cambodia by the United States and the growth of the Khmer Rouge, in terms of recruitment and popular support, has been a matter of interest to historians. Some historians have cited the U.S. intervention and bombing campaign (spanning 1965–1973) as a significant factor leading to increased support of the Khmer Rouge among the Cambodian peasantry. [ 32 ] However, Pol Pot biographer David P. Chandler argues that the bombing "had the effect the Americans wanted – it broke the Communist encirclement of Phnom Penh". [ 33 ] [ 34 ] Peter Rodman and Michael Lind claimed that the US intervention saved Cambodia from collapse in 1970 and 1973. [ 35 ] [ 36 ] Craig Etcheson agreed that it was "untenable" to assert that US intervention caused the Khmer Rouge victory while acknowledging that it may have played a small role in boosting recruitment for the insurgents. [ 37 ] William Shawcross , however, wrote that the US bombing and ground incursion plunged Cambodia into the chaos that Sihanouk had worked for years to avoid. [ 38 ] The North Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia, launched at the request of the Khmer Rouge, [ 39 ] has also been cited as a major factor in their eventual victory, including by Shawcross. [ 40 ] Communist Vietnam later admitted that it played "a decisive role" in their seizure of power. [ 41 ] China "armed and trained" the Khmer Rouge during the civil war and continued to aid them for years afterward. [ 42 ] The UN sided with the CGDK , which included the Khmer Rouge, against the Vietnamese-backed People's Republic of Kampuchea . [ citation needed ] The regime [ edit ] Main articles: Democratic Kampuchea and Khmer Rouge rule of Cambodia Rulers [ edit ] The leadership of the Khmer Rouge remained largely unchanged from the 1960s to the mid-1990s. The leaders were mostly from middle-class families and had been educated at French universities. [ citation needed ] The Standing Committee of the Khmer Rouge's Central Committee during its period of power consisted of: Pol Pot (Saloth Sar) (died 1998), "Brother number 1", General Secretary from 1963 until his death, effectively the leader of the movement Nuon Chea (Long Bunruot), "Brother number 2", Prime Minister, arrested in 2007, high status made him Pol Pot's "righthand man", sentenced to life in prison on 7 Aug 2014 Ieng Sary (Pol Pot's brother-in-law) (died in custody awaiting trial for genocide , March 14, 2013), "Brother number 3", Deputy Prime Minister, arrested in 2007 Khieu Samphan , "Brother number 4", President of Democratic Kampuchea, arrested in 2007, sentenced to life in prison on 7 Aug 2014 Ta Mok (Chhit Chhoeun) (died July 21, 2006), "Brother number 5", Southwest Regional Secretary, final Khmer Rouge leader, died in custody awaiting trial for genocide Son Sen (died 1997), Defense Minister, Superior of Kang Kek Iew . Assassinated on Pol Pot's orders for treason. Yun Yat (died 1997) Ke Pauk (died 2002), "Brother number 13", former secretary of the Northern zone Ieng Thirith , arrested in 2007, sister-in-law of Pol Pot, former Social Affairs Minister, deemed unfit to stand trial due to dementia in 2012. [ 43 ] Life under the Khmer Rouge [ edit ] In power, the Khmer Rouge carried out a radical program that included isolating the country from all foreign influences, closing schools, hospitals, and factories, abolishing banking, finance, and currency, outlawing all religions, confiscating all private property and relocating people from urban areas to collective farms where forced labour was widespread. The purpose of this policy was to turn Cambodians into "Old People" through agricultural labour. [ 21 ] In Phnom Penh and other cities, the Khmer Rouge told