Delhi Gurgaon Expressway, Map of Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway » Delhi Gurgaon Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Map of Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Delhi Gurgaon Expressway connects the capital Delhi to the suburban town of Gurgaon in Haryana. The National Highway Authority of India developed this expressway as part of the Golden Quadrilateral joining Delhi and Mumbai as part of its national highway development project. The expressway is part of the N H 8 which joins Delhi to Mumbai. It became operational in 2008. As the domestic and international airports are on this route, the expressway has reduced the travelling time from the city to the airports. Moreover, Gurgaon has many multinational s and national companies operating there, as well as a large residential population so this expressway has connected this very high traffic density corridor between Delhi and Gurgaon. The traffic is specially high in the peak office hours in the morning and evening. The 28 kilometer long elevated eight- lane expressway starts at Dhaula Kuan near Delhi cantonment in New Delhi and ends at Manesar in the outskirts of Gurgaon. It goes over eleven flyovers and over -passes. The elevated sections of the expressway are open only to fast moving vehicles which can attain a speed of 80-100 kmph. Slow moving vehicles such as three wheelers are not allowed in the toll lanes. There are three toll plazas with multiple lanes on the expressway. There is a six-lane toll plaza at the Indira Gandhi international Airport; another one with eighteen lane toll plaza near Haldiram on the NH 8. The largest, a thirty-two lane toll plaza is at the Delhi Gurgaon border. However, despite the number of toll plaza at the Delhi Gurgaon border, the existing toll gates are inadequate to handle the increasing traffic. In addition, there are different lanes for vehicles with smart tags, smart cards, and cash payments. Traffic jams and long queues are common at this point with vehicles often moving in the wrong lanes. Only 40% of the vehicles use the pre paid smart tag facility which ensures a non- stop fast exit through the toll gates. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule