Top Indian Business Schools, Famous B Schools on India Map Business Plans Advertising Agency BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Restaurant Travel Agency Format India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Multinational Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Insurance Agriculture Automobile General Health Insurance Policies Life Insurance Medical Top Insurance Companies Travel Business Leaders Anand Mahindra Anil Ambani Azim Premji Dhirubhai Ambani Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Mukesh Ambani Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Refinance Top 10 Financial companies Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India Allahabad Bank Axis Bank HDFC Bank ICICI Bank Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank SBI UCO Bank Vijaya Bank Top Brands in India Cosmetic Bag Handbags Headphones Laptop Red Wine Rum Beer Chocolate Shoe Watch Vodka B-Schools Amity Business School IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi Online Business School S.P. Jain institute Top B Schools in India XLRI Business Schools Top B Schools in India Online Business School IIM website IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi IIPM Pune S.P. Jain institute Alliance business academy Nirma Institute Of Management Faculty of Management Studies Indian School of Business Management Development Narsee Monjee Institute Mudra Institute Loyola Institute of Business IIFT BIMT – Noida Indian institute of Finance Business School Ranking IIM MBA IIM placements Welingkar Institute XIM – Bhubaneswar IMT Ghaziabad Symbiosis Pune Jamnalal Bajaj Institute XLRI International Management Bharathidasan Institute T.A. Pai Management Institute ICFAI Business School Amity Business School Home   » business-schools » Top Indian B Schools Top Indian Business Schools Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  26  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 With the uninterrupted growth of the Indian economy, the significance of Indian B Schools has been increasing at a fast pace over the years. These B schools in India provide undergraduate and postgraduate degree and diploma courses in management, with secured employment to the students. The attractiveness of an MBA degree and diploma has augmented the demand for good Business Schools in India. That is why, every passing day, the government of India and the private sector have been participating in enhancing the quality of education and other infrastructural facilities.. Top Indian Business Schools on India Map Top B Schools In India - List Listing down the top Indian B schools can be done based on different parameters like placement, education, faculty, intellectual capital etc IIM Ahmedabad Ahmedabad, India IIM Bangalore Bangalore, India IIM Calcutta Kolkata, India IIM Indore Indore, India XLRI Jamshedpur School of Business & Human Resources Jamshedpur, India IIM Lucknow Lucknow, India MDI Gurgaon Gurgaon - Delhi/NCR, India SP Jain Institute of Management & Research Mumbai, India Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies (JBIMS) Mumbai, India Faculty of Management Studies (FMS-Delhi) Delhi/NCR, India IBS, Hyderabad Hyderabad, India Indian Institute of Foreign Trade(IIFT) Delhi/NCR, India Indian Institute of Foreign Trade(IIFT) Kolkata, India National Institute of Industrial Engineering (NITIE) Mumbai, India International Management Institute(IMI) Delhi/NCR, India NMIMS University Bangalore, India NMIMS University Mumbai, India IIM Kozhikode Kozhikode, India Symbiosis Institute of Business Management Bangalore, India Symbiosis Institute of Business Management Pune, India Great Lakes Institute of Management Chennai, India Xavier Institute of Management Bhubaneswar, India Welingkars Institute of Management (We School) Mumbai, India K.J. Somaiya Institute of Management Studies and Research (SIMSR) Mumbai, India Shailesh J Mehta School Of Management, IIT Mumbai(SJSOM) Mumbai, India Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM A) – It has been ranked as the top most business schools in the entire Asian region. With four management programmes, viz, PGP - Post Graduate Program (equivalent to MBA), the FPM - Fellowship Program in Management (similar to that of Ph.D), the FDP - Faculty Development Program for Management teachers and Trainers and the MDP - Management Development Program - a refresher for middle and top level managers. Take the Common Admission Test (CAT), be a part of the group discussion followed by personal interviews (only for the short listed candidates) and be a part of the world-acclaimed course curriculum and run in the best-job league. Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta (IIM C) – it is one of the most prestigious business schools in the Asian region. Offering three full time management programs - the PGDM, Post Graduate Program in Management (equivalent to MBA), the FPM - Fellowship Program in Management, the PGDCM - Post Graduate Diploma in Computer Aided Management, IIM C has been placed in the top slot for its placement record and curriculum. They also offer part time PGDBM - Post Graduate Diploma in Business Management (for managers with relevant work experience). Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIM B) – IIM Bangalore offering two year full time PGP - Post Graduate Program in Management (equivalent to MBA) and a FPM - Fellowship Program in Management, has been keeping up its shine every year with respect to the course curriculum and placement track record. Eligibility is for students who qualify the CAT. They also offer part time non residential PGSM - Post Graduate Program in Software Enterprise Management, with a separate entrance test. They have been featured in the top three business schools in India over the years. Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow (IIM L) – With a two year full time residential PGP - Post Graduate Program in Management and a four year FPM program, IIM Lucknow has made it in the top list for an interesting student exchange program. Through this program, students of IIM L visit a premier B-School across the globe and a part of the curriculum is based there. On the flip side, students and faculty from these globally acclaimed B-Schools visit IIM Lucknow. Being ranked among the top five B-Schools in India, IIM L fulfills all the basic parameters that have made gain the top slot. XLRI - Xavier Labour Research Institute, Jamshedpur – Xavier Labour Research Institute, widely known as XLRI is a Jamshedpur based management institute with two courses at the post graduation level in management - a post graduate diploma in Business administration and a post graduate diploma in Personnel Management and Industrial Relations (PMIR).The compensation package in XLRI has always been lucrative and that is why MBA aspirants try hard to clear the entrance exam for this institute. Placement Scenario of top Indian B Schools Institute City Placement Average (Rs. Lakhs p.a.) IIM, Ahmedabad Ahmedabad 100.00 12.17 XLRI, Jamshedpur Jamshedpur 100.00 12.12 FMS, Delhi Delhi 100.00 11.47 Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies Mumbai 100.00 10.72 Shailesh J. Mehta School of Management Mumbai 100.00 10.28 NITIE Mumbai Mumbai 100.00 10.27 NMIMS University Mumbai 100.00 10.20 S P Jain IMR Mumbai 100.00 10.00 MDI, Gurgaon Gurgaon 100.00 9.55 IIM Kozhikode Kozhikode 100.00 9.47 The main criteria for all budding MBA students to select a business school nowadays are the placement trend. Though global crisis had hit the placement scenario to a certain extent, yet the scenario has improved of late. The top Indian B-schools saw impressive placements; IIM-A, for example, recorded a maximum domestic salary offer of Rs 60 lakh per annum which, along with bonus and other perks, went up to Rs 1 crore. In other top management institutes, the average salary grew by 20-30%. Therefore it is the best time to gather an MBA degree from one of the top Indian B schools and grab the best offer. About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED