Change Text size A    A     A  Home  |  Site Map  |  Circular Search  |  CPENGRAMS  |  Innovative Idea  |  Discussion Forum  |  SANKALP  |  BHAVISHYA Search   Pensioners' Portal About Us Organisation All About Pension Noteworthy Aggrieved ? Circulars/Forms Guidelines Related Resources FAQs Travel/Reservation Citizens Health Services/CGHS State Govt. Pensioners Sixth Central Pay Commission      Pension Calculator Calculate your Pension, Gratuity & DR     Photo Gallery   Contact Us Feedback Terms of Use   Report Broken Links Glossary ( common terms related to pension/pensioner ) - Pensioners Portal Glossary (Some common terms related to pension/pensioner) Accident For the purpose of  CCS(Extraordinary Pension) Rules, the term ‘accident’ means a sudden and unavoidable mishap or a mishap due to an act of devotion to duty in an emergency arising otherwise than by violence out of and in the course of service. Accounts Office An officer, whatever his official designation, who maintains the accounts of a Ministry, Department or Office of the Central Government or Union Territory and includes an Accountant-General, who is entrusted with the functions of maintaining the accounts or part of accounts of the Central Government or Union Territory. Allottee A Government servant to whom Government accommodation has been allotted on payment of license fee or otherwise. Average Emoluments Average emoluments are the emoluments determined with reference to the emoluments drawn by a Government servant during the last ten months of his service in accordance with Rule 34 of CCS  Pension  Rules. Child A  child of the Government servant who, if a son, is under twenty five years of age and if a daughter, is unmarried and is under twenty five years of age and the expression `children' shall be construed accordingly. Date of Injury For the purpose of CCS (Extraordinary Pension Rules), date of injury means the following. In the case of accident or violence: The actual date on which the injury is suffered or such date, not being later than the date of the report of the Medical Board, as the President may fix. In the case of disease: The date on which the Medical Board reports or such earlier date as may be fixed by the President with due regard to the opinion of the Medical Board Dearness Relief Dearness relief on pension/family pension means the relief granted against the price rise to the pensioners/family pensioners as defined in Rule 55-A  of CCS Pension  Rules. Death-Cum-Retirement Gratuity (DCRG) It is  the gratuity payable under sub-rule (1) of Rule 50 of the Pension Rules. Defence Service 'Defence Service' means services under the Government of India in the Ministry of Defence, and in the Defence Accounts Department under the control of the Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure) (Defence Division), paid out of the Defence Services Estimates and not permanently subject to the Air Force Act, 1950 (45 of 1950) or the Army Act, 1950 (46 of 1950) or the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 1957). Emoluments Defined as per  Rule 33   of CCS Pension  Rules for the purpose of  calculating pension (other than Retirement / Death gratuity).  It includes basic pay (substantive or officiating), Non-Practising Allowance and Stagnation Increment.   Further, Dearness Pay (i.e. 50% of basic pay) is also counted as ‘emoluments’ w.e.f. 1.4.2004 for  the said purpose.  However, the emoluments for the purpose of calculating all types of gratuity will include DA , in addition to the above. Family Pension Relief granted to the family of a deceased Government servant  as admissible under Rule 54  of CCS Pension Rules.  It  does not include dearness relief . Foreign Service Foreign service' means services in which a Government servant receives his pay with the sanction of the Government from any source other than the Consolidated Fund of India or the Consolidated Fund of a State or the Consolidated Fund of a Union Territory . Gratuity Includes 'service gratuity' payable under sub-rule (1) of Rule 49 ; retirement gratuity/death gratuity payable under sub-rule (1) of Rule 50 ; and `residuary gratuity' payable under sub-rule (2) of Rule 50 of CCS Pension Rules. Head of  Department The  authority as specified in Schedule I to the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules,1978, and includes such other authority or person whom the President may, by order, specify as Head of the Department. Head of Office A Gazetted Officer declared as the Head of Office under Rule 14 of the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules, 1978, and includes such other authority or person whom the competent authority may, by order, specify as Head of Office. Injury For the purpose of  the CCS(Extraordinary Pension) Rules, the term ‘injury’ means an injury as is mentioned in Schedule-I  annexed to the Rules. 