Siliguri City Map (Teesta Map) Home » Maps » West Bengal » Siliguri City Map   Cities in West Bengal পশ্চিমবঙ্গের শহরসমুহ পশ্চিমবঙ্গের শহরসমুহ Kolkata কলকাতা Darjeeling Siliguri Barrackpore Haldia Bankura Suri                    more... पश्चिम बंगाल का नक्शा West Bengal West Bengal Map পশ্চিমবঙ্গ মানচিত্র West Bengal Districts West Bengal Roads West Bengal Railways West Bengal Rivers Tehsils of West Bengal Physical Map West Bengal Location Lat Long Map Mineral Map Industry Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Agriculture Map West Bengal Forests West Bengal Assembly Polls West Bengal Lok Sabha Elections West Bengal Economy West Bengal Government Places to Visit in West Bengal Travel to West Bengal Wildlife Sanctuaries Travel to Kolkata Travel to Siliguri Travel to Darjeeling Places to visit in Kolkata Places to visit in Darjeeling Victoria Memorial Hotels in West Bengal Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Kalimpong Hotels in Howrah Hotels in Durgapur            more... Society and Culture West Bengal Geography West Bengal History West Bengal Airport Map Kolkata Metro Map Siliguri Location Map Road Companion West Bengal Information West Bengal Media West Bengal Emergency numbers West Bengal Pin Code West Bengal STD Code Travel to Darjeeling Places to Visit in Darjeeling Sex Ratio Map Salt Lake Map Location of Nakhoda Masjid Varanasi Darjeeling Route Map Delhi Darjeeling Route Map Patna Darjeeling Route Map Power Network Map West Bengal Judiciary West Bengal Handicrafts Growth Centers Kolkata Siliguri Route Map Varanasi Siliguri Route Map Patna Siliguri Route Map Universities in West Bengal       Siliguri (Teesta) City Map City Map of Siliguri Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing major roads, landmarks, places of interest, etc of Siliguri city. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of West Bengal   Barrackpore City Map Bankura City Map Kalimpong City Map Salt Lake City Map         Asansol City Map Durgapur City Map Darjeeling City Map Kolkata City Map     other cities of West Bengal  >>   Travel Map of West Bengal   Darjeeling Travel Map Kolkata Travel Map Siliguri Travel Map Siliguri is located in the Darjeeling district of West Bengal between latitude 26° 42' N and Longitude 88°25'E. The city, spread over 48.3 square kilometers, is located on the banks of the Mahananda River, in the foothill of the Himalayan Mountains, in the northern part of the state. The river runs through the center of the city and divides it into two halves. Siliguri has hot summers with average temperature of 35°C and cool winters with temperature of 10°C. In winter the temperature can also touch 2°C. The city gets heavy rain during the monsoon months and sometimes access to the upper regions of the state is cut off. As the city is located in the narrow Siliguiri Corridor or the strip of land connecting India to north east states, it is one of the most important transport hubs of the north east region. The national highway number 31 passes on the west of the city and connects it to Jhumritaliaya, Koderma, Bihar Sharif, Dhakhola in Bihar and West Bengal , and then further to Kokrajhar, Nalbari, to end at Guwahati. This is the most important highway in the region as it connects the north east states and as it passes through Siliguiri, the city has come to be called the Gateway to the North East. Siliguri falls in the North eastern Frontier Zone of the Indian Railways and has a meter gauge connection as well as a narrow gauge rail track. The narrow gauge rail track is for the heritage Darjeeling Himalayan Railway connecting the city to Darjeeling. The rail line passes through the city and has two important railway stations. One is at Siliguri Junction and the other is at Siliguri town. The meter gauge rail track connects Siliguri to Gauhati and Dibrugarh in Assam, besides Delhi. The city has the only airport in the region at Bagdogra, 15 kilometers away from the city. Siliguri has now become an important educational and business center in the region and is the second largest city in West Bengal. The population of the city is mainly Bengali, though immigration from the neighboring state of Bihar and from the north eastern country of Nepal and Bangladesh has added to the population of the city. The residential areas are Gurung Basti, Babupara, Rabindra Nagar, Hakim Para, Haldar Para, Don Bosco Colony, Prakash Nagar and Subhaspally. Some of the business offices located in the city are that of the Food Corporation of India, Indian Oil Corporation, Axis Bank, Durga Hyundai, and Prakash Distillery. Siliguri has one of the highest literacy rates in the state and has a number of educational institutions. The city caters to not only people of the state but also from the neighboring states of Sikkim , Bihar and Assam. The medium of instruction is varied - Bengali, English, along with Nepali and Hindi. Some of the educational institutes are Sri Guru Vidya Mandir High School Margaret SN English School Bharati Hindi Vidyalaya St James High School Valmiki Vidyapeeth Goghumali High School Surya Sen College Nantu's Monalisa Art School. The important landmarks of the city include Hong Kong Market in the center of the city Kanchenjunga Stadium City garden Banga Bhawan Circuit House near the NH 31 Dada Bhai Sporting Ground Radha Gobindo Mandir Dagapur Loknath Mandir Last Updated on : 18/04/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule