 Partnerships | NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India Jump to navigation NGO in India - Women & Girls Health, Education, Empowerment | CARE India HOME CONTACT US Search Search form Search ABOUT US Overview History Vision/Mission Board Members Management Team OUR WORK Our Approach Where We Work Our Programmes Education Health Livelihood Disaster Preparedness & Response GET INVOLVED Careers Internship Campaigns Volunteer Partnerships Power to Empower NEWS National International CARE India in Media Media Contact DONATE NOW You are here Home » Partnerships Find out all that is being said about us in media, and how people are joining us in bringing about the change. Know about the latest updates in CARE International and access CARE's press releases. Keep in touch with the recent developments on project sites, events and success stories. Donate Now Partnerships CARE India recognises that the complex issues faced by modern India can only be resolved when the state, the civil society, individuals and corporates join hands, and work with each other. A wide lens approach that accommodates many more partners has become indispensable to avoid failures and multiply the odds of success. The calls to leverage the efforts and capabilities of all stakeholders to step up the impact of poverty reduction programmes are growing louder, and CARE India is working to achieve our goals, through such collborations. CARE India works with a number of corporates. Some of them have been listed below. The Cashew Value Chain Initiative has now completed two years of implementation in Cuddalore and Nagapattinam districts and reaches out to 1000 marginalised women. It operates in partnership with local and community-based organisations to promote an integrated approach where women not only gain economic empowerment, but also gain relevant education, are better aware of their entitlements and rights and have access to health and safety nets for times of distress. YES Bank and CARE India have entered into a partnership where YES Bank has launched a 'Social Deposit Account'. This account will allow account holders to earmark a certain sum of money from the interest earned to be donated exclusively to CARE India. Implemented in over 675 villages in Tamil Nadu and having distributed over 330,000 insurance plans, the ILAL (Insuring Lives and Livelihoods) project reaches out to women in self-help groups by educating them on basic insurance principles and practices. It enables a quick claim settlement process, and enables their respective households to be resilient against risks. In three project locations, women are also trained in managerial skills so that they can utilise their healthcare scheme to the fullest.   1 of 3 next › CARE Initiatives CARE works with more than 200 districts, in a total of 13 states and union terriotories across India Engage educate empower Assurance of a secure life Livelihood Initiative Tsunami Power to Empower Cyclone Hudhud Horlicks Ahaar Abhiyan GiveAssure Help Shanti JK Flood crisis Join my village VIEW ALL Latest Publications Pages from booklet 1 pages from booklet hindi-7-2.pdf READ MORE Case Studies Education Health Livelihood Emergency Blog Resources © 2014 CARE India. All Rights Reserved