Company Indian Commodities Viadeo Your email address Your password Sign in Keep me logged in Forget your password? Sign up to Viadeo Indian Commodities 24 people are following this company. Follow Please connect to follow Indian Commodities on Viadeo. Sign up Connect E Share this page On Viadeo on Twitter on Facebook Find out more about Indian Commodities. Indian Commodities was one of the first agricultural collateral management companies incepted in India over a decade ago. As the undoubted leader in the Indian Agro sector, Indian Commodities has for almost decade, dedicated itself to provide end to end Agro solution to formers and the Agro sector across the country. Indian Commodities is working with different financial institutes and agricultural clients to give them professional warehousing solutions and collateral management services. Indian Commodities is a division of Suvidh Commodities.e.com Pvt. Ltd. and backed by one of the largest commodities trading group in India with turnover more than 300 cr., offering Complete Solutions in Commodity Management and with immense experience in cotton trading and certification. ... Read more 301-500 employees Agriculture t GroupICCcm x http://www.indiancommodities.com Indian Commodities Live You need to sign in to view all of Indian Commodities’s status updates. Sign up Connect Sign in to comment on this status. Sign up Connect You need to sign in to view who commented, shared or found this status interesting. Sign up Connect You need to sign in to share this status update or find it interesting. Sign up Connect You need to be signed in to find this status interesting, share it with other members, or see who’s found it interesting Sign up Connect They work at Indian Commodities ‹ › Ramaswamy Krishnaswamy Collateral Management of Agri. Commodities For 8 years Add to your contacts Pramod Panda Manager For 5 years Add to your contacts Most viewed profiles Who are they? See who stands out at Indian Commodities. Sign up Connect Similar companies HTMRM COOPERATIVE MIX… 1001-5000 employees Instituto Nacional… NEGOCE EXPANSION 1001-5000 employees Tereos +10000 employees About Help Business Solutions Jobs & Training Companies Groups Questions API Widgets Viadeo Mobile Follow us! Twitter Viadeo on your mobile iPhone Android Windows Phone BlackBerry ©2015 APVO CORP. Legal Information Conditions of Use Tianji.com