Chennai Bypass , Map of Chennai Bypass Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway » Chennai Bypass   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Chennai Bypass Map of Chennai Bypass Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Chennai Bypass Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Chennai bypass expressway, built by the National Highways Authority of India as part of its National Highways Development Project became operational in 2010. The arterial radial expressway connects four highways around the city of Chennai, the capital of Tamil Nadu, and thus is now part of the circular high speed corridor around it. The Chennai bypass connects NH 45, NH 4, NH 205 and NH 5 around the city. A two-lane elevated Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor is planned to be built around the median of this expressway. The expressway has reduced the traffic in the congested city of Chennai as the vehicles need not pass through Chennai city. The 32 kilometer long four-lane expressway connects Tambaram, a suburb of Chennai, to Madhavaram, another suburb in north Chennai, via Maduravoyal. Tambaram is an important urban area and an important connection to all the cities in south Tamil Nadu as it lies on the route of NH 45, one of the busiest highways in south India. N H 45 also called the Grand Southern Trunk Road links Chennai to Thiruchirapalli, an industrial and educational hub of the state. Tambaram has the third biggest railway station in Chennai and also has a suburban line to the Chennai beach. Maduravoyal, an upcoming urban node, lies on the NH 4. The areas close to Maduravoyal include Koyembedu, Porur, Nerkundram, and Valasaravakkam. NH 4 connects Chennai to Bangalore and now with the expressway connecting NH 4 to NH 45, traffic from the southern districts of Tamil Nadu such as Trichy bound for Bangalore, can bypass Chennai. Madhavaram is on the junction of NH 5, an important road connecting Chennai to Kolkata in West Bengal. There is also a truck terminus over 100 acres located here. The Chennai Bypass expressway has interchanges at Maduravoyal , Madhavaram and Irumbuliyur near Tambaram. The bypass begins at Irumbuliyur and has a 3-tier interchange here. The junction at Maduravoyal has a direct link to the Chennai port. The junction at Madhavaram leads to Moolakadai and Anna Nagar. The Expressway has a three kilometer long elevated six-lane highway which cuts across the Ambattur Industrial Estate, the IT hub of Chennai and the largest small scale industrial estate in the country. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule