 कृषि एवं सहकारिता विभाग, कृषि मंत्रालय, भारत सरकार मुख्‍य सामग्री पर जाएं | स्क्रीन रीडर | | | | | English | ट्विटर पर हमसे जुड़ें मुख्‍य पृष्‍ठ अधिनियम नागरिक चार्टर आरएफडी योजनाएं योजनाएं की जानकारी दिशानिर्देश हमें लिखें सी पी जी आर ए एम एस सुझाव व प्रतिवेदन विविध संसदीय प्रश्न भर्तियाँ निविदाएं हम तक पहुँचे हमसे संपर्क करें दूरभाष निर्देशिका आप यहाँ हैं : मुख पृष्ठ > विभाग हमारे बारे में प्रभाग विभागीय संगठन प्रस्‍तुतीकरण रिपोर्ट व प्रकाशन कार्यक्रम व योजनाएं कृषि आकस्‍मिक योजना परिपत्र व अधिसूचनाएं सी ए सी पी बहुधा पूछे जाने वाले प्रश्‍न सूचना का अधिकार ई-अभिशासन परियोजनाएं संबंधित संपर्क विभाग कृषि एवं सहकारिता विभाग 26 प्रभागों में संगठित है एवं इसके अंतर्गत चार संबद्ध कार्यालय तथा देश भर में फैले हुए इक्कीस अधीनस्थ कार्यालय हैं जो अपने संबंधित क्षेत्रों में केन्द्रीय क्षेत्र की योजनाओं के क्रियान्वयन के लिए राज्य स्तर की एजेंसियों के साथ समन्वय रखते हैं इसके अलावा, दो सार्वजनिक क्षेत्र के उपक्रम, आठ स्वायत्त निकाय, दस राष्ट्रीय स्तर के सहकारी संगठन और एक प्राधिकरण इस विभाग के प्रशासनिक नियंत्रण में कार्य कर रहे हैं. प्रशासन संक्षिप्त विवरण कृषि और सहकारिता विभाग में प्रशासन प्रभाग काम के लिए मोटे तौर पर इन विषयों के लिये जिम्मेदार है | कृषि और सहकारिता विभाग में तैनात अधिकारियों और कर्मचायों के सभी प्रशासनिक, स्थापना और सेवा के सभी मामले. विभाग और उसके 5 अन्य भाग लेने वाले इकाइयों में सीएसएस / सीएसएसएस / सीएससीएस अधिकारियों का संवर्ग प्रबंधन, प्रोन्नति, नियुक्ति / स्थानांतरण / पोस्टिंग विभिन्न प्रभागों और इस मुद्दे के बीच कार्य का आवंटन विभाग के संरचनात्मक पुनर्गठन से संबंधित (उचित) आदेश गृह व्यवस्था, मुद्रण और बंधन, स्टेशनरी और स्टाफ कारें, रिहायशी आवास के आवंटन की उपलब्ध कराने, से संबंधित सभी मामले चिकित्सा व्यय और अन्य कल्याणकारी उपायों की प्रतिपूर्ति संसदीय कार्य के समन्वय. संगठन और पद्धति से संबंधित मामलों और शिकायतों का समन्वय. कृषि जनगणना संक्षिप्त विवरण अर्थव्यवस्था में कृषि क्षेत्र के महत्व को स्वीकार करते हुए कृषि और सहकारिता विभाग 1970-71 के बाद से कृषि जनगणना योजना लागू कर रहा है . भारत में कृषि जनगणना खाद्य और संयुक्त राष्ट्र संघ के कृषि संगठन ( एफएओ) द्वारा विकसित और कृषि के दस वर्ष विश्व जनगणना ( WCA ) की व्यापक दिशा निर्देशों का पालन करता है और पांच साल के अंतराल पर आयोजित किया जाता है. परिचालन होल्डिंग कृषि से संबंधित निर्णय लेने के लिए परम इकाई के रूप में कृषि जनगणना में, परिचालन होल्डिंग डेटा संग्रह के लिए सूक्ष्म स्तर पर सांख्यिकीय इकाई के रूप में लिया गया है | Periodic Agriculture Censuses are the main source of information on basic characteristics of operational holdings such as land-use, cropping pattern, irrigation status, tenancy, terms of leasing and dispersal of holdings etc. This information is tabulated by different size classes and social groups and serves as an input for development planning, socio-economic policy formulation and establishment of national priorities. The Census also provides basis for development of a comprehensive integrated national system of agricultural statistics. So far, eight Agriculture Censuses since 1970-71 have been conducted in the country. The current Agriculture Census with reference year 2010-11 is ninth in the series. The provisional results of Phase-I of Agriculture Census 2010-11 have been released in the public domain and data processing activities for Phase-II/Phase-III of the Census are progressing in the country. Agriculture Census Scheme was converted from a Centrally-Sponsored Scheme to a Central Sector Plan Scheme in 2007-08. Accordingly, 100 per cent financial assistance is provided to States/ UTs for payment of salaries, office expenses, honoraria, tabulation and printing of schedules, etc. Click here for more Information अखिल भारतीय रिपोर्ट All India Report on Number and Area of Operational Holdings (Agriculture Census 2010-11) कृषि विपणन संक्षिप्त विवरण Overview on Agriculture Marketing Agriculture sector needs structured and functional markets, preferably in vicinity of farmers, to drive growth, employment, remunerative price and economic prosperity in rural areas of the country. Enabling mechanism were also required to be put in place for procurement of agricultural commodities directly from farmers’ field and to establish effective linkage between the farm production, the retail chain and food processing industries. Agriculture being a state subject, a Model APMC Act was formulated and circulated to the States/UTs in the year 2003 for adoption. The Model Act provides for contract farming, direct marketing, setting up markets in private and co-operative sector, e-trading, single point levy of market fee, single registration of market functionaries, farmer-consumer market etc. Subsidy/eligibility under one central sector scheme( AMIGS) has been restricted to States/ UTs where reforms to APMC Act has been done providing for Direct Marketing, Contract Farming and Markets in Private/ Coop Sectors. States/UTs having done these three reforms are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Goa, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Mizoram, Nagaland, Orissa, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Tripura. States/ UTs where reforms to APMC Act have been done partially are NCT of Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh. States/ UTs where there is no APMC Act are Kerala, Bihar(APMC Act repealed in year 2006),Manipur, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman & Diu, and Lakshadweep. Tamil Nadu has done reforms by executive orders instead of amending APMC Act. States/ UTs where reforms required to be done are Meghalaya, J & K, West Bengal, Puducherry, and Uttar Pradesh. Click here for more Information कार्यक्रम एवं योजनाएं Central Sector Schemes Rural Godown Scheme The scheme was started from 1st April 2001. The main objectives of the scheme are to meet the requirements of farmers for storing farm produce, processed farm produce, consumer articles and agricultural inputs, promotion of grading, standardization and quality control of agricultural produce to improve their marketability, prevention of distress sale immediately after harvest by providing the facility of pledge financing and marketing credit, and to strengthen agricultural marketing infrastructure by paving the way for introduction of a national system of warehouse receipts in respect of agricultural commodities stored in such godowns and to reverse the declining trend of investment in agriculture sector by encouraging private and cooperative sector to invest in the creation of storage infrastructure in the country. The scheme of Rural Godowns has been formulated for creation of scientific storage capacity with allied facilities in rural areas by encouraging private and cooperative sector to invest in the creation of storage infrastructure in the country. Under the scheme, 25% back-ended subsidy (33.3% in case of NE States, Tribal & Hilly areas and SC/ST) on the total project costs is being provided for the purpose. The eligible promoters for construction of rural godowns are individual farmers, group of farmers/ growers, partnership/ proprietary firms, NGO, companies, corporations, cooperatives, Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees, Marketing Boards and Agro Processing Corporations. As on 31st January 2013, there are 30,574 Godown projects have been sanctioned and a storage capacity of 38.36million tonnes was created under the scheme. An amount of Rs.1017.32crores of subsidy has been released to various banks and Cooperatives through NABARD and NCDC. Guidelines & Other informations ( English ) / ( Hindi ) Strengthening / Developement of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure, Grading & Standardisation With a view to induce large investment in the development of marketing infrastructure, the Ministry has formulated a scheme for “Development/Strengthening of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure, Grading and Standardization” during 2004. Under this scheme investment subsidy is provided on the capital cost of general or commodity specific infrastructure for marketing of agricultural commodities and for strengthening and modernization of existing agricultural markets, wholesale, rural and periodic or in tribal areas. The scheme is reform linked, to be implemented in those States/UTs that amend the APMC Act wherever required to allow setting up of agricultural markets in private and cooperative sectors. Under the scheme, back ended subsidy @ 25% of capital cost of the project is provided in all States and @ 33.3% of capital cost in case of NE States, hilly areas and SC/ST entrepreneurs. In respect of infrastructure projects of State Agencies, there is no upper ceiling on subsidy to be provided under the scheme. Agricultural Marketing being the State subject the Directorate has only an advisory role so far as improvement/development of marketing system is concerned. In the field of grading and quality assurance also, Directorate endeavors to involve State authorities more and more to make it consumer/public oriented. Being a central coordinating organization, Directorate is actively associated with the development in agricultural marketing in both State and National level by introducing various reform initiatives of Government of India. Since Inception of the scheme up to 31-12-2012, a total number of 8087 marketing Infrastructure projects have been sanctioned and subsidy of Rs 782.14 crores has been released. Guidelines & more information ( English ) / ( Hindi ) Marketing Research & Information Network This Central Sector Scheme was sanctioned by the Ministry Of Agriculture in March, 2000. The objective of the scheme is to establish a nationwide information network for speedy collection and dissemination of market data for its efficient and timely utilization; to ensure flow of regular and reliable data to the producers, traders and consumers to derive maximum advantage out of their sales and purchases, and to increase efficiency in marketing by effective improvement in the existing market information system. As on March 2013, more than 3200 markets have been covered under the network and market information on arrivals and prices from more than 2100 markets are received regularly in respect of 400 commodities and 3000 varieties daily covering all major agricultural and horticultural produce. The AGMARKNET portal is continuously being enriched with other information related to agricultural marketing for the benefit of farmers and other market users. ‘AGMARKNET’ is a unique live portal on agricultural commodities anywhere in the world, technically supported by a high capacity Central server and the programming capabilities of the NIC and the data is fed into the system in a decentralized mode through the voluntary cooperation of mandi staff. This is acceptable since the aim of the network is to keep farmers and other market functionaries informed of price and market related information. The portal is in public domain and anybody can access information from the portal as per their requirement. The portal is becoming popular as the information related to different aspects of marketing. The market information from the portal being broadcasted by various Television News Channels and published in News Papers for befit if farmers and other stakeholders. Efforts are also being made for dissemination of market information in association with other service providers like IKSL, NOKIA and IIT, Kanpur (BSNL Telecom Center of Excellence)etc. through SMS and voice mode to the farmers and other beneficiaries. As on March 2013 around 50lakh beneficiaries are getting Marketing information in SMS or Voice mode in their mobile handsets. for further information (English) / (Hindi) National Agricultural Market Atlas Terminal Market Complex Programmes Grading And Standardisation of Agricultural and Allied Produce Quality standards for agricultural commodities are framed based on their intrinsic quality. Food safety factors are being incorporated in the standards to compete in World trade. Standards are being harmonised with international standards keeping in view the WTO requirements. Certification of agricultural commodities is carried out for the benefit of producer/manufacturer and consumer. Certification of adulteration prone commodities viz. Butter, Ghee, Vegetable Oils, Ground-Spices, Honey, Wheat Atta etc. is very popular. Blended Edible Vegetable Oils and Fat Spread are compulsorily required to be certified under Agmark. The Certification mark under the Agricultural Produce (Grading & Marking) Act is popularly known as "AGMARK". Grading is carried out in accordance with the standards notified, following meticulous procedure of sampling, testing, packaging, marking and sealing as per the instructions issued under the Act and Rules. Click here for more information संबद्ध कार्यालय The Directorate of Marketing and Inspection (DMI), an attached Office of the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation under Ministry Of Agriculture, was set up in the year 1935 to implement the agricultural marketing policies and programmes for the integrated development of marketing of agricultural and other allied produce in the country with a view to safeguard the interests of farmers as well as the consumers. It maintains a close liaison between the Central and the State Governments Directorate of Marketing and Inspection कृषि मंडियों का पोर्टल बजट, वित्त एवं लेखा परिणाम बजट Outcome Budget 2013-2014   English /   Hindi Outcome Budget 2012-2013 Outcome Budget 2011-2012 Outcome Budget 2010-2011 English / Hindi Outcome Budget 2009-2010 English / Hindi Outcome Budget 2008-2009 अनुदानों की मांग Detailed Demands for Grants (2013-2014) Detailed Demands for Grants (2012-2013) Detailed Demands for Grants (2011-2012) Detailed Demands for Grants (2010-2011) Detailed Demands for Grants (2009-2010) Detailed Demands for Grants (2008-2009) Detailed Demands for Grants (2007-2008) Detailed Demands for Grants (2006-2007) Detailed Demands for Grants (2005-2006) सहकारिता संक्षिप्त विवरण The Cooperative Sector has been playing a significant role in the area of disbursing agricultural credit, providing market support to farmers, distribution of agricultural inputs and imparting cooperative education and training etc. The basic objective of the Cooperation Division is to design long term and short term strategies for reducing economic disparities between the downtrodden rural people and the rural rich as well as regional imbalances including rural and urban differences. Cooperation Division is implementing two Central Sector Plan Schemes in the country during the year 2012-13 namely Restructured Central Sector Scheme for Cooperative Education and Training and Restructured Central Sector Scheme for assistance to NCDC Programmes for Development of Cooperatives. Click here for more Information कार्यक्रम एवं योजनाएं NCDC Programme under Restructured Central Sector Scheme The Government of India implements its cooperative development programmes through National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC). The programmes/schemes being implemented through NCDC are (i) Integrated Cooperative Development Projects in selected districts, (ii) assistance to cooperative marketing, processing and storage etc., programmes in cooperatively under-developed/least developed States/Union Territories, and (iii) share capital participation in growers’/weavers’ cooperative spinning mills under the restructured central sector scheme. It has been decided that under this scheme, subsidy component will be provided by Government of India and the loan component will be arranged by NCDC through its own sources. Cooperative Education & Training Assistance of National Cooperative Federations Assistance to National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India. (NAFED) अधीनस्थ कार्यालय National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (NAFED) National Council for Cooperative Training, (NCCT) National Cooperative Union of India, (NCUI) National Cooperative Development Corporation, (NCDC) क्रेडिट संक्षिप्त विवरण Agricultural Credit Agriculture is a dominant sector of our economy and credit plays an important role in increasing agriculture production. Availability and access to adequate, timely and low cost credit from institutional sources is of great importance especially to small and marginal farmers. Along with other inputs, credit is essential for establishing sustainable and profitable farming systems. Most of the farmers are small producers engaged in agricultural activities in areas of widely varying potential. Experience has shown that easy access to financial services at affordable cost positively affects the productivity, asset formation, income and food security of the rural poor. The major concern of the Government is therefore, to bring all the farmer households within the banking fold and promote complete financial inclusion Click here for more Information Agriculture Insurance At present four crop Insurance schemes namely National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS), Pilot Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS), Pilot Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (WBCIS) and Pilot Coconut Palm Insurance Scheme (CPIS) is being implemented in the country. Click here for more Information कार्यक्रम एवं योजनाएं National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS)- Scheme and Operational Modalities Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS) - Scheme Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS) - Operational Guidelines Coconut Palm Insurance Scheme (CPIS) - Scheme Progress National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS) States / Districts Covered Crops Covered Business Statistics Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS) States / Districts Covered Crops Covered Business Statistics Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme(WBCIS) States / Districts Covered Crops Covered Business Statistics Coconut Palm Insurance Scheme (CPIS) Flow of Credit to Agriculture Agency-wise credit flow Investment in Debentures of State Land Development Banks (SLDB) फसलें संक्षिप्त विवरण A record production of 259.32 million tonnes of foodgrains has been achieved during 2011-12 which includes 105.31 million tonnes of Rice, 94.88 million tonnes of Wheat and 17.09 million tonnes of Pulses. As per 2nd Advance Estimates, the production of foodgrains during the year 2012-13 is estimated at 250.14 million tonnes; production of Rice is estimated at 101.80 million tonnes, Wheat at 92.30 million tonnes, Pulses at 17.58 million tonnes and Coarse Cereals at 38.47 million tonnes. The production of Sugarcane during 2012-13 is estimated at 334.54 million tonnes (2nd Advance Estimates) against 361.04 million tonnes achieved during 2011-12. The Cotton production is estimated at 338.00 lakh bales during 2012-13 against 352.00 lakh bales during 2011-12. The production of Jute & Mesta during the year 2012-13 is estimated at 111.27 lakh bales as against 113.99 lakh bales during 2011-12. The National Target for foodgrains production for the year 2012-13 has been ﬁxed at 254.24 million tonnes. Crops Division is implementing several crop development schemes for increasing production through area expansion and productivity enhancement by adoption of improved techniques and recommended agronomic practices. There are also 9 Crop Development Directorates under the Crops Division for specific crops, including Rice, Wheat, Sugarcane, Cotton etc. Click Here For More Information कार्यक्रम एवं योजनाएं NFSM A3P Special Plan to Achieve 19+ Million Tonnes of Pulses Production during Kharif 2013 Additional Area Coverage of Pulses during Rabi/Summer 2013 BGREI INSIMP TMC JTM अधीनस्थ कार्यालय All Crop Directorates (9 CDDs) Directorate of Cotton Development, 14, Ramjibhai Kamani Marg, Ballard Estate, P.B.No. 1002, Mumbai-400001 (Maharashtra). Directorate of Jute Development, Nizam Palace Campus ,234/4, Acharya Jagdish Bose Road, Kolkata- 700020 (West Bengal). Directorate of Millets Development, Kendriya Sadan Room No. 210, 2nd Floor, Block-A, Sector-10, Vidyadhar Nagar, Jaipur-302023. Directorate of Tobacco Development, 26 Haddows Road, Shastri Bhawan Annexe, 3rd Floor, Chennai-600006 (Tamil Nadu). Directorate of Sugarcane Development, 8th Floor, Hall No.3, Kendriya Bhavan,Aliganj, Lucknow - 226024 (U.P). Directorate of Rice Development, 250 A, Patliputra Colony, Patna-800013 (Bihar). Directorate of Wheat Development, CGO Complex, Kamla Nehru Nagar, Ghaziabad-201002 (U.P). Directorate of Oilseeds Development, Telhan Bhavan, Himayat Nagar,Hyderabad-500029 (A.P). Directorate of Pulses Development, 6th Floor, Vindhyachal Bhavan, Bhopal-462004 (M.P). राष्ट्रीय खाद्य सुरक्षा मिशन पोर्टल सूखा प्रबंधन संक्षिप्त विवरण Department of Agriculture & Cooperation is mandated to coordinate relief measures necessitated by drought, hailstorm, pest attacks and cold wave/frost. Spatial distribution and quantum of rainfall during South-West Monsoon (June - September) mainly determines the incidence of drought in the country, as it accounts for more than 75% of annual rainfall. The Department of Agriculture & Cooperation closely monitors progress of South-West Monsoon in the country, in close coordination with India Meteorological Department (IMD) and keeps watch over deficit rainfall conditions. The Department has reviewed and updated the Crisis Management Plan (CMP) for Drought 2012 (National) during the current year. It defines roles and responsibilities of various agencies involved in crisis management including media management during drought. After review and updation, the CMP for Drought (National) for the year, 2013 is being circulated to State Governments/UTs for preparing their own CMPs. State Governments initiate necessary relief measures in the wake of natural calamities including drought from State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) which is readily available. Contribution to SDRF is made by Central and State Governments in the ratio 3:1 for 17 General Category States and 9:1 for 11 Special Category States (North-Eastern States including Sikkim and 3 hill States of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu & Kashmir). Government of India supplements the efforts of the State Government by providing requisite financial and logistic support. Additional financial assistance, over and above SDRF is also provided from National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) for natural calamities of severe nature as per established procedure and extant norms. Allocation under SDRF has been made on the basis of recommendations of the 13th Finance Commission for a period of 5 years from 2010-11 to 2014-15. Assistance approved to States from NDRF to mitigate Drought situation is at Annexure-A . Click here for more Information कार्यक्रम एवं योजनाएं Drought Measures बाहरी वेब संपर्क NDMA NIDM Department of Expenditure आर्थिक प्रशासन संक्षिप्त विवरण About Economic Administration Division EA Division deals with all Administrative & Financial matters relating to the Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP) and the Directorate of Economics & Statistics (DES). Policy matters relating to Indian Economic Service (IES) and Indian Statistical Service (ISS) posts in the Department including attached/ subordinate offices; their encadrement, review of authorised cadre strength of these two services in the Department are also dealt with. CACP is headed by a Chairman (Pay scale: Rs.80,000/- fixed), one Member (Official), two Members (Non-Official) and a Member Secretary, all in the pay-scale of Rs.37400 – 67000/- + Grade Pay of Rs.10000/-. As per the existing guidelines, appointment to the posts of Chairman, Members (Official and Non-Official) and Member Secretary, CACP requires approval of the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC). The selection of the Chairman and Members of the CACP is made by a Selection Committee constituted for this purpose. ACC has conveyed its approval for filling up one post of Member (Non-Official), CACP. Proposal for filling up of another post of Member (Non-Official), CACP is under process. Release of grants-in-aid to scheme implementing agencies under two Plan Schemes of DES, namely, Studies on Input for Agricultural Economic Policy and Development (SIAEP&D) and Improvement of Agricultural Statistics (IAS), is also processed by EA Division. The “Studies on Input for Agricultural Economic Policy and Development (SIAEP&D)” scheme comprises five components namely:- Comprehensive Scheme for Studying the Cost of Cultivation of Principal Crops; Regional Centres for Agro-Economic Research; Strengthening of Agricultural Statistics & Policy Formulation; Planning & Management of Agriculture and Drought Management in Agriculture The "Improvement of Agricultural Statistics (IAS)" scheme is being implemented to:- Obtain reliable and timely estimates of area under principal crops in each season; generate estimates of area production of principal crops in each season; bring improvement in crop statistics by conducting spot supervision of Area aggregation, and crop cutting experiments in 10,000 villages and obtain reliable estimates of area, yield and production of selected fruit and vegetable crops (7 fruits & 5 vegetable crops and 2 spices). A provision of Rs.7000 lakh and Rs.10000 lakh respectively for SIAEP&D and IAS schemes was made in Budget Estimates (BE) for the financial year 2012-13. 98.41% of the Budget allocation (RE) amounting to Rs.13697.70 lakh was released during the financial year 2012-13. A provision of Rs.8000 lakh and Rs.9500 lakh respectively for SIAEP&D and IAS schemes has been made in Budget Estimates (BE) for the financial year 2013-14. संबद्ध कार्यालय