Feed for goat AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum EXPERT FORUMS Goat Farming - Mohsin Shaikh Feed for goat Results 1 to 2 of 2 Thread: Feed for goat LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… 1 Week Ago #1 jaypees Join Date Apr 2015 Posts 11 Feed for goat Can we feed oil cake and cotton seed raw or we have to mix it with water??? are they good for goat as concentrate...also i want to knw abt corn (rough dried) is tat good....just for home goats...i love pets....i wanna start a goat farm but nw i am goin abroad for 10 month project....so i bought two goats just to knw the thngs but these goats r vry selective and they smell the leaves if its dirty they r not eating.....they love mulberry leaves.,mooranga leaves and some pulses.they drink very less water.from morning to evening we leave it in coconut farm it eats the grass...kindly help me to keep them in good condn any feed suggestion plz help... Reply With Quote 21 Hours Ago #2 smy82482 Join Date Mar 2012 Posts 2,324 Yes you can feed oil cake and cotton seed raw to goats,but don't mix it with water as goats usually wont like wet fodder to eat.Goats are hydrophobic in nature,that means they usually hate water and thats the reason they usually drinks less water as compare to other pet animals. In concentrated feed you can also use dried corn(maize) crushed one,husk of any pulses,remaining of grains,crushed wheat or barley etc.Concentrated feed is essential for goats for their proper development of body,for enhancing the milking capacity in mother goats,for fattening of kids,for proper development of kids when they are in embryo(before birth)concentrated feed contains lots of vitamins,minerals,calcium and phosphorous which is must for goats,otherwise their deficiency leads to various diseases and disorders. Yes goats are selective in nature while feeding any fodder,and thats the main difference between cows,buffaloes and goats.Cows and buffaloes will eat any dirty fodder(smelling bad) but goats requires only fresh fodder which is odor less. Regards, Dr.Shaikh International Goat Farm Expert. www.goatfarm.co.in Originally Posted by jaypees Can we feed oil cake and cotton seed raw or we have to mix it with water??? are they good for goat as concentrate...also i want to knw abt corn (rough dried) is tat good....just for home goats...i love pets....i wanna start a goat farm but nw i am goin abroad for 10 month project....so i bought two goats just to knw the thngs but these goats r vry selective and they smell the leaves if its dirty they r not eating.....they love mulberry leaves.,mooranga leaves and some pulses.they drink very less water.from morning to evening we leave it in coconut farm it eats the grass...kindly help me to keep them in good condn any feed suggestion plz help... Reply With Quote « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 03:13 PM .