Slave Dynasty Map, Mamluk Sultanate, Slave Empires Home » History » Slave Dynasty Map   Indian Dynasties Chola Dynasty Chalukya Dynasty Pallava Dynasty Chera Dynasty Pandyan Dynasty                      more.. History of India Independence Delhi in 1857 1956 Map Pre partition Map Stone Age Ancient Map Mediaval Map Indus Valley civilization Map Ancient Saraswati River Map Ancient Kalinga Map Non Cooperation Movement    Map Dandi march Map Indian Freedom Struggle Indian National Congress    Sessions Map Magadha Travancore Kingdom Deccan Sultanates Hyderabad Nizam Indian Empires History map in a flash Mahajanapadas Map Economic       Slave Dynasty Map Map of Slave Dynasty Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * Map showing highlights the Slave Dynasty or Mamluk Sultanate with Capital and current country boundaries. Slave Empires existed from 1206 to 1290. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. The Slave dynasty played the role of the foundation dynasty of the Delhi sultanate period. This dynasty was founded by Qutub-ud-din Aibak. His master was Muhammed of Ghur, after whose death he declared himself the Sultan. Though he faced a little competition with Taj-ud-din, he was supported by most of the nobles. The result of their tiff didn't make any difference since Qutub-ud-din-Aibak emerged as an Indian Sultan whereas Taj-ud-din remained an Afghanistan Sultan. Qutub-ud-din-Aibak was believed to deliver a fair and just decision to his citizens and rarely lost any battle. Since a turbulent time prevailed he basically aimed for peace and prosperity to his people. Since he was a devout Muslim, construction of several mosques were seen in his reign. His reign lasted for a few years only. It was he who had initiated the construction of the Qutab Minar in Delhi, but could not complete its construction and so was completed by his successor. A struggle for the power was seen after the death of Qutub-ud-din- Aibak. Later his son-in-law, Malik Shams-ud-din Iltutmish, took over the throne. Iltutmish was considered a very intelligent man. He began expanding his empire once he ascended the throne and did that through a series of battles. Iltutmish received the title of Khalifah of Baghdad from Ali Mastansir Billah in 1299 AD. Also later he was known as the sovereign ruler of his conquered land and was honored with another title of Sultan-I-Azam (Great Sultan). Later in 1221 AD, he even fought away a Mongol attack which was lead by the famous brutal Chengiz Khan. He ensured that the Sultanate was maintaining its control over India and gradually extended his empire covering a major part of the country. He nominated his own daughter Raziyya, as his successor and the next Sultan as he didn't consider any of his sons capable enough. Since the people and nobles didn't agree with a female running the empire, they united and put up Rukn-ud-din Firuz, Iltutmish's eldest son, to the throne. Since he had no interest in this empire making him the successor of Iltutmish proved to be a grave mistake. Taking opportunity of the situation his mother Shah Turkhan seized control. The nobles were still not ready and so they re-appointed Razziya as their sultan, although there was still a group who did nt agree with her being the Sultan. Raziyya proved to be a very capable ruler. She even overcame many difficulties with her tactful and diplomatic capabilities. She always dressed like a man. Muiz-ud-din Bahram, her brother became the Sultan when Razziya was captured by the Turkish noble Ikhtiyar-ud-din Altuniya. In order to save her, Razziya won over Ikhtiyar-ud-din Altuniya by marrying him. They together were put to death by Muiz-ud-din Bahram's forces when they marched in Delhi. Next was Iltutmish's younger son, Nasir-ud-din who was appointed as the Sultan. Nasir-ud-din was not capable enough and so indirectly his deputy, Ghiyas-ud-din Balban worked for him. In 1266 Nasir-ud-din died leaving no male heir behind, and so Balban succeeded the throne. Balban proved to be a great ruler and soon repaired the damage made to the empire. With his death, began the Khilji Dynasty which was the founded by Jalal-ud-din Khilji. Last Updated on : 4/5/2012               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule