CODEX Alimentarius: GSFA online (food additives) english français español العربية ﻿中文 pусский Home About Codex Members & Observers Committees & Task Forces Meetings & Reports Circular letters Standards List of standards GSFA online (food additives) Veterinary Drugs MRLs Pesticide MRLs Thematic compilations FAO/WHO Trust Fund Procedures & Strategies Scientific basis for Codex Contact & Links Login/Dashboard Codex General Standard for Food Additives (GSFA) Online Database The "Codex General Standard for Food Additives" (GSFA, Codex STAN 192-1995) sets forth the conditions under which permitted food additives may be used in all foods, whether or not they have previously been standardized by Codex. The Preamble of the GSFA contains additional information for interpreting the data. Users are encouraged to consult the Preamble when using this database. This database provides, in a searchable format, all the provisions for food additives that have been adopted by the Codex Alimentarius Commission. Provisions are searchable by food additive (name, synonym, INS number), by functional class and by food category, as described in Annex B of the Codex GSFA. Please note that the summary and conclusions of recent JECFA meetings and other relevant information, such as call for data for future meetings, are available on the FAO website and the WHO website . Other useful links: JECFA reports and toxicological monographs JECFA specifications Click here to view the current version of the Codex General Standard for Food Additives . Please note: The Codex General Standard for Food Additives is currently under development and it will be regularly updated to include additional food additive provisions adopted by the Codex Alimentarius Commission. GSFA Home Food Categories Food Additives Search Functional Classes Glossary Updated on: 03-03-2015 FAO/WHO Scientific Basis for Codex JECFA JMPR JEMRA Other scientific advice Latest news We need common international safety standards for food. 27 May 2015 -  Dr Kazuaki Miyagishima WHO Director, Department of Food Safety and Zoonoses and former Codex Secretary,   [...] Trade in Olives 25 May 2015 -  A recent online article in Mumbai reported on containers of olives being held up at customs at   [...] Proposed draft Regional Standard for Doogh 20 May 2015 -  Doogh is a savory yogurt-based beverage popular in Iran, Afghanistan, Armenia, Iraq, and Syria. It   [...] Near East Meeting to be held in Rome 1-5 June 13 May 2015 -  The eighth session of the Joint FAO/WHO Food Standards Programme FAO/WHO Coordinating Committee for the   [...] Residues of Veterinary Drugs in Foods 23 Apr 2015 -  The Codex Committee on Residues of Veterinary Drugs in Foods will be meeting next week   [...] News archive © Copyright 2015 Codex Alimentarius | RSS Feed | Guided Tour | Sitemap | Contact us | Print | Send link | Custom footer