Dr M. L. Dhawale Memorial Trust - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Dr M. L. Dhawale Memorial Trust Home Dr M. L. Dhawale Memorial Trust Mumbai based NGO assisting tribal farmers to grow paddy and vegetables organically. Also dedicated to supply the produce directly to consumers Dr. Ujjwala Pendse Dr. M L Dhawale Memorial Trust was started in 1987 in memory of Dr. M L Dhawale who was an eminent homeopath educationist and physician researcher. The trust’s origin lies in homeopathy. It is active in clinical services, academic research, and communication. Having been involved in the medical profession, the founders noticed that a lot of farmers and people from rural areas could not benefit from the available medical services due to lack of income. The trust initiated farming related activities in 2005 to increase farming income so that the farmers would not be devoid of necessary amenities like medicines and hospitals. It also got involved with the tribal community to help them become self-sufficient. Tribal women have since been involved with the self-help group movement accessing government schemes, getting funds, starting small micro enterprises, buying tractors, and hiring the same. Paddy Cultivation Right from the beginning its focus has been on organic farming. The cost of input in conventional agriculture is exorbitant. It also has adverse effect on health and the soil. “Since we are a health care organization, we were also looking from that point of view,” shares Dr Ujjwala Pendse, Trustee, Dr. M.L.Dhawale Memorial Trust. First, the trust started with paddy cultivation as it is the dominant crop in the area. Most farmers however tend to discontinue paddy unable to keep up with its irrigation needs. With the trust’s intervention in the sector, paddy cultivation grew significantly to around 700 kg to 800 kg per acre. The trust looked into the existing methods of paddy cultivation and carried out various researches. They stepped ahead with the SRI method. The SRI method helped in increasing the cultivation in the area. Various technologies were also made available to the farmers. It initially started off with 4 to 5 farmers. “It was quite an uphill task for us, and then we started with a small plot for our initial experimentation and as the people felt the results were positive, they got interested and made other farmers also experiment. At one point we had about 40 to 45 farmers who were practicing in varied degrees of adherence for improved organic paddy,” adds Dr. Pendse. The trust also took up direct seeding as another method for paddy cultivation. Last year they procured the farm seeder which increased production considerably. Farmers’ livelihood has thus been improving in a significant manner. Currently 20 farmers are associated with these farming activities of the trust. With constant guidance from the trust, paddy cultivation has increased by 25 to 30% in the last three years. Most farmers are motivated to take up organic farming when marketing interventions take place. “One thing we have realized is that intervention only at the farm level in terms of cultivation is not at all adequate unless we tie up in marketing interface because the farmers are not going to be motivated ideologically to adapt organic methods,” shares Dr Pendse. The trust has tie ups with various organic shops in Mumbai for paddy supply which pay the farmers higher prices for their yield comparatively. These stores often prefer paddy without its husk removed thus reducing the farmer’s efforts and expenses. To make the most of the farm in non-paddy season, it also encourages farmers to take up vegetable farming. It has marketing tie ups for vegetables as well, thus providing an income source for farmers throughout the year. Unique Concept of Hari Bhari Tokri In association with MOFCA, Mumbai Organic Farmers and Consumers Association, the trust introduced a concept called Hari Bhari Tokri. It is a marketing initiative for organic vegetables to promote sustainable farming. A tie up with 250 consumers was made prepaid for a particular season. The season typically lasted for 16 weeks. After a number of meetings, capacity building of the farmers by providing the seeds and soft loans was undertaken. Farmers would gather their produce, and these vegetables would then be sorted and packed. Five to six pick up points depending on the consumer’s location was decided, and the Tokri was then delivered at these points to the consumers directly. “We then had a tie up with Mumbai famous dabba wallahs for delivering Hari Bhari Tokri to the consumers at their residence. We took this step as dabba wallahs are experts in making deliveries and they are free after 2 pm in afternoon”, informs Dr. Pendse. This initiative ran for almost 5 seasons for about 2½ years. To make some improvisations and to give more choice to the customers, the initiative has been put to rest for some time. “We are now looking at different models and different systems, and so hopefully from the next kharif season we may come up with different models, whereby we can continue to market our produce with not just vegetables but also other farm produce,” adds Dr. Pendse. Dr M. L. Dhawale Memorial Trust is dedicated to bring in positive and productive change in the livelihood of tribal farmers and helping the society to turn organic by taking innovative initiatives. Our Correspondent Contact details: Dr M. L. Dhawale Memorial Trust, Ujjwala Pendse, Trustee 701, Venus Residency, 251 Bhandar Lane, Near Lokmanya Vidya Mandir, Mahim Mumbai 400016 Mobile: 09821226489 E: ujjwalapendse@gmail.com We: http://www.mldtrust.org Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Dr M. L. Dhawale Memorial Trust Related – articles, consultants, downloads Mr. Amit – Vegetable Cultivation Passim Texin – Vegetable exporters Lake Forest Farmtech Patel Farms – Fruits & Vegetables grower You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water