Uttar Pradesh Map Home » Maps » Uttar Pradesh Map   Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                  (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map उत्तर प्रदेश का नक्शा Thematic Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Handicraft Centres Map Proposed New States Map Awadh Pradesh Bundelkhand Paschim Pradesh Purvanchal Uttar Pradesh City Map Noida Map Lucknow Map Allahabad Map Kanpur Map Agra Map                more.. About Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Yamuna Expressway Lucknow Metro Map Noida Metro Map Industries Thermal Power Plants Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Places to Visit in Uttar Pradesh Travel to Uttar Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Taj Mahal Agra Red Fort Fatehpur Sikri Forts and Palaces in Uttar Pradesh Temples and Shrines in Uttar Pradesh Hotels in Uttar Pradesh Agra Hotels Varanasi Hotels Lucknow Hotels Noida Hotels Allahabad Hotels Kanpur Hotels             more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Uttar Pradesh Architectural Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Uttar Pradesh Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Uttar   Pradesh       Uttar Pradesh Map उत्तर प्रदेश का नक्शा Map of Uttar Pradesh Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Map of Uttar Pradesh with major roads, railways, rivers, national highways, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Uttar Pradesh Location Map Districts Of Uttar Pradesh Rivers Maps of Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh Road Map Uttar Pradesh Travel Map Uttar Pradesh is India's most populous state with a population 199,581,477 (2011 census). It is divided into 75 districts with Lucknow as its capital. Uttar Pradesh is bounded by Nepal on the North, Himachal Pradesh on the northwest, Madhya Pradesh on the south, Haryana on the west, Rajasthan on the southwest, and bihar on the east. Wheat, rice, sugar cane, apples, mango, pulses, oil seeds and potatoes are the main crops of Uttar Pradesh. The service sector comprises of travel and tourism, hotel industry, real estate, insurance and financial consultancies. Uttar Pradesh attracts a large number of tourists. The famous Taj Mahal of Agra is located in this state. It also hosts the world famous 'Kumbh Mela'. It has many state of the art hotels to cater to the lodging needs of visitors, both national and international. Other important cities in Uttar Pradesh are Allahabad , Varanasi, Ayodhya and Mathura. Uttar Pradesh State Information Capital Lucknow Date of formation 26. Jan. 1950 Governor Shri Ram Naik Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav Tourist attractions Taj Mahal, Sangam, Varanasi Festivals Karva Chauth, Annakoot, Shitala Ashtami, Eid Major dance and music forms Kathak, Lucknow and Benares Gharanas of music Arts and crafts Chikankari or shadow-work embroidery; Baranasi brocades which inclu the zari, amru and abrawan; Sanjhi or the art of cutting paper stencils. Languages Hindi, Urdu Size 240,928 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 199,812,341 Rivers Ganga, Yamuna, Gomti, Ghaghra, Ramganga, Betwa Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Dudhwa NP State animal Swamp Deer State bird Sarus crane State flower Brahm kamal State tree Ashok Major crops Wheat, rice, pulses, Sugar Cane Factoids The ancient Dhamek Stupa marks the spot where Buddha gave his first sermon in Sarnath. Mughal emperor Shah Jahan built the Taj Mahal for his dead wife Mumtaz Mahal; the tomb took 22 years to build No. of District 75 Divisions of Uttar Pradesh Allahabad Division Faizabad Division Mirzapur Division Agra Division Basti Division Kanpur Division Bareilly Division Jhansi Division Saharanpur Division Aligarh Division Devipatan Division Meerut Division Chitrakoot Division Lucknow Division Varanasi Division Azamgarh Division Gorakhpur Division Moradabad Division. Districts of Uttar Pradesh Given below are the names of the 75 districts of the state: Agra Basti Maharajganj Ghaziabad Firozabad Sant Kabir Nagar Jalaun Hapur Mainpuri Siddharthnagar Jhansi Meerut Mathura Banda Lalitpur Mirzapur Aligarh Chitrakoot Auraiya Sant Ravidas Nagar Etah Hamirpur Etawah Sonbhadra Hathras Mahoba Farrukhabad Amroha Kasganj Bahraich Kannauj Bijnor Allahabad Balarampur Kanpur Dehat Moradabad Fatehpur Gonda Kanpur Nagar Rampur Kaushambi Shravasti Hardoi Sambhal Pratapgarh Ambedkar Nagar Lakhimpur Kheri