Halal Shampoo Offered by International Business Promotion Center Korea, Republic of | ID - 1206809 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory International Business Promotion Center Member Since : 2014 | Country : Korea, Republic of Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Business Promotion Services Home » Product » Halal Shampoo Halal Shampoo This is ibpc(international business promotion center). Ibpc is a unit of chungbuk university, and it is npo(non-profit organization) ibpc is located in south korea and have supported to small businesses which sell bright product. "korsoa"is the company which we support now. "korsoa"is began with producting a part of car suppliers and now it products goods for the older. We would like to introduce one of that goods, called the shampoo the shampoo is a shampoo which doesn't need water. And the shampoo is halal certified . It is only constituted natural ingredients, oregano, coamidopropy betaine etc.(100% natural ingredients) so, it can use all people, including baby, pregnant women,etc. And, it is very helpful our hair condition(protect scalp, scalp regeneration, moisture preservation function) it pumps 3~5 times and has a shampoo, and just wipes with a towel. There are two types of this product, one is for older, and the other is for people who have many times in outdoor. If you are in a situation that you have many times in out door, and there's no water(for example, climbing mountain), it is very helpful for you. Form : Bubble Ingredient : Herbal Age Group : All Feature : Nourishing Certificate : HALAL Certificated, ISO 9001, ISO14001 etc. Place of Origin : Republic of Korea SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Mr. Kim Hui Su Mobile Phone : +82-40396846 » More detail Product Range » Halal Certified Eco Friendly Shampoo » Halal Certified Waterless Shampoo » Halal Shampoo » Halal Shampoo » Halal Shampoo » Halal Shampoo » Halal Shampoo » Shampoo » The Shampoo ( Waterless Shampoo) » The Shampoo (halal Shampoo) » Thr Shampoo ( Waterless Shampoo) » Waterless Shampoo Yes No Related Catalogs Insha Exports Pvt Ltd hand dryers, soap dispensers, paper dispensers, automatic doors, automatic barriers, access control system, automatic rolling shutter motors,... Batliboi Impex Ltd. air freight services, sea cargo services, export consultant, import consultant, share broker services Nicon Management Services dies, moulds, jigs, fixtures, turned components, plastic components, rubber products Om Services vastu consultancy, astrology consultant Suggested Companies Sarah Agathe Salomon Wisconsin Power Systems Consultancy Services International Pty L Bhagawan Avinasha Wibbs Jgc Philippines Inc. - Maintenance deelf ltd Related category Match Hair Shampoo Herbal Shampoo Business Promotion Services WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com