Tanzania Spice Market is Expected to Reach US$ 215.2 Million by 2018: Research Report AgricultureInformation.com Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Register Help Remember Me? Home Quick Links My Contacts Lost Password? What's New? Latest Posts Advanced Search Forum GENERAL FORUMS Press Releases Tanzania Spice Market is Expected to Reach US$ 215.2 Million by 2018: Research Report Results 1 to 1 of 1 Thread: Tanzania Spice Market is Expected to Reach US$ 215.2 Million by 2018: Research Report LinkBack LinkBack URL About LinkBacks   Bookmark & Share Digg this Thread! Add Thread to del.icio.us Bookmark in Technorati Tweet this thread Thread Tools Show Printable Version Subscribe to this Thread… March 17th, 2015 #1 rajbksh Join Date Jan 2014 Posts 36 Blog Entries 2 Tanzania Spice Market is Expected to Reach US$ 215.2 Million by 2018: Research Report • Future Growth of this sector is expected to be organic spices and development of mechanized farming systems • The major players in the market such as METL, Export Trading Group and ZSCT are expected to maintain focus on providing modern tools and knowledge to farmers in order to obtain higher yield and a superior quality of spices Ken Research announced its latest publication on “ Tanzania Spice Market Outlook to 2018” which provides a comprehensive analysis of the major spices produced in Tanzania. The report covers various aspects such as market size of Tanzanian spices, segmentation on the basis of revenue, production volume, organized and unorganized sector along with exports and imports. The report is useful for farmers, trading groups, processing companies, machinery manufacturers and new players venturing in the market. The spices in Tanzanian farms have been majorly grown through traditional farming processes that use manual labor. However, due to lack of certification credentials by accredited international or local organizations, the exports of these spices have not showcased their full potential. Being an agrarian economy, Tanzanian government has taken several initiatives to develop their agriculture sector in order to boost their spice production levels. The spice industry in Tanzania has witnessed a consistent and robust growth in recent years on the account of rising demand of spices in local and international market fueled by expansion in spice production. The surge in growth is majorly originated from growth in clove and ginger production in the country. This growth segment has been largely led by domestic and international factors such as rise in prices and high demand. The spice industry in Tanzania is comprised of companies such as Mohammed Enterprise, Export Trading Group and Zanzibar State Trading Corporation which possess a strong portfolio of spice products. The revenues of the Tanzania spice industry have grown at a CAGR of 8.0% from 2008-2013. According to the research report the Tanzania spice market will grow at a considerable CAGR thus exceeding USD 215.2 Million by 2018. This growth will be assisted by the increase in production volumes and exports of certified organic spices. “While rising population, increase in spice consumption and an increase in exports will result in increased spending on spices in Tanzania, volatility in global spice prices and environmental factors are few of the major challenges that will affect the growth of this industry in the future”, according to the Research Associate, Ken Research. Key Topics Covered in the Report: Tanzanian Spices - Market Size by Production, Revenue - Market Segmentation by o Revenue o Production Volume o Organized and Unorganized Market - Trends and Development - SWOT - Export and Import - Competition - Growth Drivers - Future Outlook - Macro Economic Parameters Key Products Mentioned in the Report Cloves Nutmeg, Mace and Cardamoms Pepper Ginger Anise, Badian, Fennel and Corian Companies Covered in the Report Mohammed Enterprise Tanzania Limited Export Trading Group Zanzibar State Trading Corporation Tanzania Zanzibar Organic Producers Related Reports: India Spices Market Outlook to FY'2018 - Spice Mixes and Branded Spices to Augment Industry Revenues India Protected Cultivation Industry Outlook to 2017 - Government Initiatives Paving the Way for Future Growth India Organic Food and Beverages Outlook to 2019 - Growing Potential of Online Retailers to Steer Growth Source: Tanzania Spice Market Attached Thumbnails   Reply With Quote Tags for this Thread tanzania clove industry , tanzania ginger market , tanzania nutmeg market , tanzania pepper market , tanzania spice industry View Tag Cloud Posting Permissions You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts   BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On [VIDEO] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are Off Pingbacks are Off Refbacks are On Forum Rules Contact Us AgricultureInformation.com Archive Top All times are GMT +5.5. The time now is 07:32 PM .