Welcome — Department of Plant and Soil Sciences University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Department of Plant and Soil Sciences Department of Plant and Soil Sciences Search OKSTATE.EDU... Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Division Home Division Home Extension Ag Experiment Station College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Academic Departments Division Administration Programs & Services Ag International Programs Ag Sponsored Programs Ag Communications Services Human Resources Sustainable Ag Research & Education Technical Support Resources Extension Fact Sheets Extension County Office Directory DASNR Web Links Online Directory Media Division News Photo Database SUNUP TV Oklahoma Gardening TV Order DASNR Videos Extension Program Areas 4-H & Youth Development Ag Business Community & Rural Development Crops Family & Consumer Sciences Gardening Livestock Natural Resources, Environment & Ecology Weather Extension Departments 4-H & Youth Development Ag Economics Animal Science Biosystems & Ag Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Family & Consumer Sciences Food & Ag Products Center Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resource Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences Resources Extension Fact Sheets Extension County Office Directory DASNR Web Links Online Directory Careers in Extension Media Division News Photo Database SUNUP TV Oklahoma Gardening TV Order DASNR Videos   Research Field Research Units Field Research & Service Units Controlled Environment Lab Electronics Shop Facilities & Project Management OSU Botanical Garden OSU Research Range Wes Watkins Station Research Centers Biobased Energy Center Food & Ag Products Center Food & Ag Biosecurity Institute Stored Products Center Water Resources Center Wheat Improvement Team Departments Academic Departments Ag Communications Services Environmental Sciences International Programs in Ag College of Human & Environmental Sciences Center for Veterinary Health Sciences Resources OAES Personnel History Related Links Ag Sponsored Programs Employment Opportunities Policies & Procedures Crop Variety Trials Ag Communications Services Teaching Academics Majors Minors Freshman Orientation Advising & Enrollment Pre-Professional Programs Students Prospective Students Graduate Programs Scholarships & Awards Career Services Student Involvement International Travel Alumni Membership OSU Alumni Association Support Our Mission Cowboy Journal Events Ag Alumni Board Refer a Student Resources Contact Us Employer Information Meet the CASNR Family Academic Departments Academic Departments Ag Economics Ag Education, Communications & Leadership Animal Science Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Biosystems & Ag Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resource Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAMS Environmental Sciences Master of International Agriculture Degree Program OSU Home Academics Colleges Catalog Class Schedule Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Admissions Visit Campus Enrollment Registrar Student Disability Services The Honors College Cost of Attendance Student Life Graduate College Residential Life Webmail Login Parking & Transit Campus Safety Health Services Student Affairs Career Services Fraternity & Sorority Affairs Campus Recreation Faculty & Staff Human Resources & Jobs Payroll Services Web for Employees Benefits Information Information Technology Webmail Login Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council About OSU President OSU Newsroom Calendar Athletics Alumni Association OSU Foundation Campus Map Community of Stillwater Apply Now The Plant and Soil Sciences Department at Oklahoma State University is an exciting place to study and work.   Search Advanced Search… Home Overview Prospective Students Youth Activities Student Information Center International Programs People Research and Extension Programs Service Labs Department Information PaSS Forms Disclaimers Contact Us Giving to PaSS PaSS IT Work Order Room Reservation Form Contact Info Department of Plant and Soil Sciences 369 A gricultural Hall Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Phone: (405) 744-6130 FAX: (405) 744-0354 E-mail: tina.r.johnson@okstate.edu Give to PaSS through the OSU Foundation Login Info Welcome Assistant Professor Plant Science Teaching and Extension Assistant Professor Cropping Systems Specialist Position Area Research and Extension Specialist Oklahoma Panhandle Research and Extension Center    2015 Wheat Field Days: 2015 Wheat Field Days Locations Flyer PaSS News Dr. Coon announces new Department Head for Plant and Soil Sciences.   Dr. Jeff Edwards has accepted the position of Department Head for Plant and Soil Sciences. Dr. Edwards will begin serving as the Interim Head on June 1 until his effective appointment date on August 3, 2015. OSU Wheat Specialist Jeff Edwards Finds Rain Boosting Oklahoma Wheat Crop In a Big Way. The Oklahoma wheat crop continues to look better down the home stretch. Earlier this spring it was hard to tell how much the crop was hurt by the drought. Now it’s hard to tell how much the spring rains have helped boost yields in recent weeks. Oklahoma State University Extension Wheat Specialist Dr. Jeff Edwards said he was bearish in estimating the crop at 100 million bushels a few weeks ago. Last week, the Oklah oma Grain and Feed Association annual wheat tour estimated the crop at 108 million bushels. The U.S. Department of Agriculture this week projected the Oklahoma crop at over 118 million bushels. “With the cool temperatures we’ve had, with the moisture we’ve received, I think we can hit that 118 million and come back closer to what we would consider a normal crop in Oklahoma around 120 million bushels,” Edwards said. More: Oklahoma Farm Report, Ron Hays, Director of Farm Programming Radio Oklahoma Network, May 14th, 2015.   Spring Moisture Rejuvenates Oklahoma Canola Crop. Late season rains have been a blessing for the Oklahoma canola crop. Oklahoma State University Canola Specialist Josh Bushong said overall the crop is highly variable, but the farmers that have received good moisture this spring have a good pod set. “For the most part, pod density has been good and we’ve had good seed set within those pods so far,” Bushong said. “Really good pollination this year. Not having those April freezes defiantly was a help, but for the most part we have a decent crop out there.” More:  Oklahoma Farm Report, Ron Hays, Director of Farm Programming Radio Oklahoma Network   Spring Moisture Rejuvenates Oklahoma Canola Crop Recent Ph.D. Graduate receives Outstanding Thesis Award.  Dr. Natasha Macnack, a recent Ph.D. graduate of the department was selected to receive one of the 2014 Dr. Cletis Williams and William E. and Martha Jane Williams Outstanding Thesis Awards from the OSU College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources. Dr. Cletis William established this award program to stimulate excellence in the preparation and writing of theses at the M.S. and Ph.D. levels. The Graduate Coordinators in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources commend Dr. Macnack for her accomplishment. Congratulations Dr. Macnack. PaSS Websites/Social Media Canola (Josh Bushong):  Winter canola has proven to be a great option for crop rotation with winter wheat in the region. By incorporating canola into their crop rotation, many Oklahoma wheat producers have cleaned up their weedy wheat fields, improved wheat quality, increased wheat forage and increased wheat grain yields.  canola.okstate.edu   Cotton (Randy Boman): Major responsibilities of the Cotton Team are to develop and conduct extension and applied research programs to inform Oklahoma producers as to the best management practices for cotton production. cotton.okstate.edu Energy Crops (Gopal Kakani): This program is dedicated to the development of new bioenergy crops and their production systems and train Scientific Crops in Bioenergy Crop Production that will strengthen the efforts at Oklahoma State University where a comprehensive, multi-disciplinary, bioenergy research team has been formed from multiple departments and across colleges. Program also collaborates extensively with researchers in Oklahoma and across the nation, in addition to several industry partners. energycrops.okstate.edu/ Environmental Sciences Undergraduate Program (Brian J. Carter) es.okstate.edu Extension News (Jeff Edwards) extensionnews@okstate.edu Forage and Pasture Management (Alexandre Rocateli will be joining us July 1, 2015)): Due to the differences in soil types, precipitation amounts, and temperature gradients in Oklahoma, many forage species are managed for pasture and hay.  There are approximately 20 different grass and legume species grown that warrant individual attention. forageandpasture.okstate.edu Manure and Animal Waste Management (Hailin Zhang): Animal agriculture is a large segment of the economy in Oklahoma. The huge quantities of manure generated by animal feeding operations (AFO's) can be an economical source of plant nutrients and a valuable soil amendment to Improve Soil Quality and Maintain Soil pH. Thus, manure can be a valuable asset to a livestock production operation if its nutrients and organic matter are recycled through land application properly. animalwaste.okstate.edu/ Nitrogen Use Efficiency (Bill Raun) nue.okstate.edu/ Non-Agricultural Soils (Sergio Abit): Soil is a key foundation and unparalleled recycler and purifier across a catena that includes forest, rangeland, agricultural, urban and suburban and wetland ecosystems. Soil processes in these ecosystems allow the soil to perform functions that may be related to production, ecological regulation, biological habitat and engineering. nonagriculturalsoils.okstate.edu No-Till  (Jason Warren)  No-till in Oklahoma continues to grow in popularity among producers that want to increase soil quality, conserve soil moisture, and decrease fuel and labor costs.No-till is not an answer for everything but should be considered an important part of your cropping system. notill.okstate.edu NPK (Brian Arnall): This site is constructed to contain producer friendly information about nutrient management, fertilizer use, and precision fertilizer application. npk.okstate.edu NPK Blog : http://osunpk.com/ A blog about agricultural nutrient management in the southern great plains.       NSF REU - Interdisciplinary Sustainable Biobased Products and Energy (Dr. Kakani): Learn about the scientific processes and procedures required to conduct bio-products and bio-energy research. Understand the importance of an interdisciplinary environment in developing bio-products and bio-energy production systems. Explore the role of bio-product and bio-energy  research in a global society. Develop professional skills that are necessary for a successful career. Discover graduate studies and careers in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) related disciplines, specifically those related to bio-based products and energy. www.reu.bioenergycenter.okstate.edu Oilseeds (Position Vacant, Cropping Systems Specialist): The purpose of this site is to assist and provide producers in Oklahoma with the latest oilseed crop production practices. Our mission is to improve peanut, soybean, canola, and sunflower yields throughout Oklahoma which will lead to increased profitability of producers in the region. oilseeds.okstate.edu/ Oklahoma Certified Crop Advisors  (Hailin Zhang): The Oklahoma CCA program is a voluntary certification program for individuals who provide advice to growers on crop management and inputs. okcca.okstate.edu/ Oklahoma Panhandle Research & Extension Center (OPREC) (Position Vacant) The Oklahoma Panhandle Research & Extension Center consists of 550 acres of irrigated, limited-irrigated, and dryland research. oprec.okstate.edu/ Soil and Water Conservation/Management (Jason Warren) The Soil and Water Conservation/Management website will provide information on soil processes and characteristics that impact crop productivity, soil quality, soil carbon storage, water availability and water conservation. soilwater.okstate.edu/ Soil Chemistry (Chad Penn): Agro-Environmental Chemistry Research (AECR). This program is centered around the application of chemistry in order to conduct, promote, and disperse research and information to industries and the public that is relevant and beneficial to increasing agricultural production while simultaneously minimizing environmental impact or improving environmental quality. soilchemistry.okstate.edu/ Soil Physics (Tyson Ochsner): Our mission is to help people better understand and appreciate the soil, the soil water balance, and the surface energy balance so that we can more wisely manage and conserve the land and water with which we have been entrusted. Our primary focus is on multi-scale soil moisture monitoring and improved utilization of soil moisture data in agriculture, meteorology, environmental modeling, and drought adaptation. soilphysics.okstate.edu/ Soil, Water and Forage Analytical Laboratory (SWFAL) (Hailin Zhang): The Soil, Water and Forage Analytical Laboratory (SWFAL) was established by the Oklahoma Cooperative Extension Service to provide soil testing, plant, animal waste and water analyses for the State of Oklahoma and anyone who needs agricultural testing services soiltesting.okstate.edu/ Switchgrass (Yanqi Wu): As a native perennial grass, it has long been recognized as an important component of the productive tallgrass prairie plant community that dominated much of the Great Plains over the millennium. Given its history, the potential for it to persist under the sometimes harsh Oklahoma climate is without question. switchgrass.okstate.edu/ Weed Science (Angela Post): The purpose of this site is to provide current information regarding extension and research activities in weed management for all of Oklahoma’s crop production systems, resources for weed identification, and contact information for the weed science personnel at OSU. weedscience.okstate.edu/ Wheat (Jeff Edwards) : This site is designed to serve as a resource for anyone interested in small grains production in the Southern Great Plains. wheat.okstate.edu Blog: www.osuwheat.com All about small grain in the southern great plains.         Wheat Improvement Team (Brett F. Carver): The Wheat Improvement Team is committed to strengthening the Oklahoma wheat industry by enhancing its genetic resources, a mission that could not be accomplished without contributions from other state, federal, and private researchers. wit.okstate.edu           Document Actions Send this Print this News OSU Wheat Specialist Jeff Edwards Finds Rain Boosting Oklahoma Wheat Crop In a Big Way May 19, 2015 More news…