HIV AIDS cases Home » Census » HIV AIDS Cases   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views About India India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels Current Events India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more... Affiliate Sites Map Store Map of Mumbai Map of Hyderabad Map of delhi Map of Bangalore Map of Chennai Focus on Delhi Information Delhi       HIV AIDS cases Map of HIV AIDS cases in India Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Number of HIV Aids Cases in Each States in India Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authencity of the same. What is HIV AIDS? AIDS or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome is an infectious disease cause by the HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus). As the name of the virus suggests, this disease affects the immunity system of human beings. Since, an individual suffering from Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome loses immunity power he or she is more prone to tumors and opportunistic infections. The transmission of HIV happens when the bloodstream or a mucous membrane comes in direct contact with a HIV affected body fluid like blood, vaginal fluid, semen, breast milk and pre-seminal fluid. This sort of virus transmission includes blood transfusion, infected hypodermic needles, oral, vaginal or anal sex, childbirth, breastfeeding, pregnancy or any kind of exposure to the before-mentioned body fluids. HIV AIDS cases in India Amongst 1 billion residents of India, around 2.4 million are presently suffering from Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). As per the Aids Report 2011 published by the United Nations, new HIV infectivity in India has declined at the rate of 50 % during the past 10 years. People suffering from HIV AIDS cases are mostly found in the southern and north-eastern part of India. Details of the mostly affected states are: Tamil Nadu: Tamil Nadu is one of the mostly HIV AIDS affected states in India. Being the 7th populous Indian state, the place has got high rate of HIV incidence. Between the years 1995 to 1997, HIV AIDS among pregnant females tripled to 1.25 %. This led to the setting up of an anti-AIDS society and a safe-sex campaign focusing on prevention of HIV. Details of the different HIV AIDS cases in Tamil Nadu in the year 2007: Women sex workers: 4.68 % Men having sex with other men: 6.6 % Drug users: 16.8 % Antenatal health center attendees: 0.25 % Maharashtra: Maharashtra is said to be the home to HIV affected people in the ratio of one in every five. Sprawling over an area of 3, 00, 000 sq. km., it is the most populous Indian state. In 2007, the different HIV Aid cases prevalent there were: Men having sex with other men: 12 % Women sex workers: 18 % Drug injectors: 24 % People going to antenatal health clinics: 0.5 % Andhra Pradesh: This southeast Indian state, with a population of 76 million, is highly affected by HIV AIDS cases. In 2007, the state had numerous HIV AIDS cases prevalent among different groups like: Antenatal clinics: 1 % STD clinics: 17 % Sex between two men: 17 % Women sex workers: 9.7 % Drug users: 3.7 % Amongst the above mentioned groups, cases of STD clinics and sex prevalent between two men are most. Karnataka: The diverse state of Karnataka, located in southwest India, has got a total population of 53 million. The northern as well as the southern districts of the state are mostly affected by HIV AIDS cases. The northern part is famously known as the "Devadasi Belt" named after the Devadasis. They are the women dedicated to serve God in the historical period. Presently they are involved in sanctioned prostitution. Besides the Devadasis, the other HIV AIDS cases in Karnataka are: Men having sex with other men: 17.6 % Female sex workers: 5 % Attendees of antenatal clinic: 0.5 % Manipur: Manipur, a small state in the northeast of India is amongst the largest illicit opium producers in the world. HIV among injecting drug addicts was reported no sooner than the drug usage became familiar there in the earlier years of 1980s. HIV AIDS cases prevalent among drug users in Manipur rose to 32 % and got spread to even drug non-users. The other HIV AIDS cases in Manipur in 2007, apart from drug users were: HIV AIDS in adults: 1.57 % Antenatal clinics: 0.75 % Last Updated on 20 September 2011 Census Census Maps 1991 HIV Prevalence Rate Map Fertility Rate Map Rural Child Sex Ratio Map HIV AIDS cases               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule