Manipur Home » Manipur   Manipur मणिपुर का नक्शा Manipur Map District of Manipur East Imphal West Imphal Churachandpur Ukhrul Tamenglong              more.. Roads Rivers Tehsils Railways Capital Imphal City Map Bishnupur City Map Location Map Physical Map Forest Map Lat Long Map Agricultural Map Geography Economy Media Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies- Inner Parliamentary Constituencies- Outer Government Education Universities In Manipur History Mineral Map Society and Culture Travel to Manipur Places to visit in Manipur Wildlife Sanctuaries Govindajee Temple War Cemetery Sex Ratio Pincode STD code       Manipur Ukhrul District Fawns at Imphal Zoo Sadu Chiru Waterfall Loktak Lake Church in Ukhrul District Traditional attire of Manipur Manipur Bamboo Dance Old Ema Keithel - The largest women run market New Ema Keithel Market Building Manipur Location map Manipur map Manipur Travel Map Manipur is a state situated in Northeast region of India. Imphal is the capital of Manipur. There are people of various cultures such as Kuki, Naga, Pangal and Mizo, speaking various languages, residing in Manipur. In the northern part of the state, is situated Nagaland and to the southern part is Mizoram. Assam and Burma lie on the western and eastern part of Manipur. The total area covered by Manipur is 22,347 square kilometers. About Manipur Manipur, as one might say without hesitation, is a paradise come true on earth. It literally means "the jeweled land". Manipur is richly endowed with natural beauty and splendour. Home to Sangai, a rare species of deer and Siroy Lily, the only terrestrial lily grown on the hill tops of Siroi hill, St. Clair Grimwood described it as "A pretty place, more beautiful than many show places of the world." Late Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru paid a fitting tribute by describing it as "Jewel of India". Manipur is bounded by Nagaland to its north, Mizoram to its south, Upper Myanmar to its east and Cachar district of Assam to its west. Manipur is comprised of nine districts: Bishnupur, Chandel, Churachandpur, Imphal East, Imphal West, Senapati, Tamenglong, Thoubal and Ukhrul. Facts on Manipur Official Website www.manipur.gov.in Date of Formation Jan 21, 1972 Area 22,327 sq km Density 122/Km2 Population (2011) 2,966,889 Urban Population in % (2011) 32.45% Males Population (2011) 1,491,832 Females Population (2011) 1,475,057 No. of District 9 Capital Imphal Rivers Barak, Imphal and Iril Forests & National Park Keibul Lamjao NP, Shirui NP Languages Manipuri, Meitei Neighbours State Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram State Animal Sangai (Brow-antlered deer) State Bird Nongin State Tree Indian Mahogany State Flower Lilium mackliniae (Lily) Net State Domestic Product (2011) 29,684 Literacy Rate (2011) 75.48% Females per 1000 males 987 Assembly constituency 60 Parliamentary constituency 2 Places of Interest Travel Guide Education Important Places Reach Manipur Imphal Kaina Bishnupur Loktak Lake Moreh Keibul Lamjao National Park Travel Map Geography hotels of sikkim Road Maps Schools Colleges and institutes Universities v Imphal City Bishenpur city Wildlife Sancturies Railways Imphal East RailwaysRailways Senapati Railways Imphal West Railways History The history of Manipur is quite interesting. It was in the year 1891, after the first Anglo-Manipuri war that the state came under British rule. There were many heroes who sacrificed their lives while fighting the war. Yuvraj Tekendrajit and general Thangal were hanged after the British captured Imphal. It was after the independence of India in the year 1947 that a Manipur Constitution Act was established in order to ensure the prevalence of a democratic form of government. It was on 21 January 1972 that Manipur gained full statehood. Throughout the ages Manipur was known as Meiteileipak, Kangleipak and Meitrabak. Apart from these names, there were twenty other names by which the state was known. More Detail... Geography A majority of tourists take interest in visiting the place due to its rich and diverse geography. The entire area covered by the state is 22,327 square kilometers. The state is situated in an oval-shaped valley, encompassing an area of approximately 700 square miles. A range of Blue Mountains surrounds the state and is located at an elevation of 790 meters above sea level. The entire valley slope extends from the northern to the southern area. The northern cold winds are debarred from reaching the valley due to the presence of the mountain ranges. Discussion about the geography of Manipur will be incomplete without mentioning the four major river basins. The four major basins that are situated in the state include Manipur River Basin, Barak River Basin, Yu River Basin and Lanye River Basin. The entire water resources are approximately 1.8487 Mham. There are as many as eight rivers in the Manipur river basin namely Manipur, Iril, Chakpi, Sekmai, Khuga, Thoubal, Nambul and Imphal. More Detail... Tourism of Manipur It is true that the tourism industry in Manipur is on a constant rise. A majority of individuals refer to the state as the 'land of jewels'. The rich culture does not extend in one single direction only; it rather encompasses all aspects such as sculpture, martial arts, theatre and dance. The aspects that appeal to a majority of all tourists are the lush greenery and the moderate climate. Among the rare things you can most likely find in the state include floating islands of Loktak Lake, Shanghai and Shirui Lily at Ukhrul. The fact that Polo originated in Manipur is one of the reasons as to why a majority of tourists are excited to visit the state. A few of the tourist places that fascinate a strong base of tourists include Shree Govindajee Temple, Keibul Lamjao National Park, Lamka, Moreh and Loktak Lake. More Detail... Capital of Manipur Imphal is the capital of Manipur and is recognised as a tourist place in the far Northeast of India. Modern Imphal has gone tremendous change with the rise in tourism industry along with the other industries prevailing in Imphal. The capital was split into East and West Imphal in 1997 and is known as West Imphal and East Imphal. The city is a little town where you can experience another world as it is a slow paced city with beautiful valley and landscape dotting the place. It is considered as one of the most ancient towns in the country. The city is situated at 790 altitudes from the MS level. The climate is salubrious and experiences tropical monsoons every year. More Detail... Government The state government is considered as the supreme governing authority of the Manipur state. The government body comprises legislative branch, governor and a judiciary. The President of India appoints the Governor of Manipur. The appointment process is completed on the advice of the central government. The capital of Manipur, Imphal is entrusted with the responsibility to house the secretariat and Vidhan Sabha. A few of the major state level political parties in Manipur are the Federal Party of Manipur, Naga National Party, Nikhil Manipuri Mahasabha and People's Liberation Army of Manipur. Apart from the aforementioned political parties, you can also find National People's Party (India) and Democratic Revolutionary People's Party. In an effort to ensure that the governance was made in the best possible manner, the aforementioned councils were further subdivided into different wards. More Detail... Society and culture Manipuri society is characterised by its simplicity and egalitarian values. The people are warm and cooperative. Women enjoy high status in the society. Old people are given due respect and reverence. Economic level of the people is more or less uniform. People here love games and sports and have given the world the game of Polo. Even though they are Hindu by religion, the Indian caste system is not the basis of social stratification. Instead, society is divided between the Meiteis, the Bamons (Brahmins of Indian origin), Pangans (Muslims, also of Indian origin) and lois (social outcasts, some of whom are descended from prisoners of war from Burma and India). Manipuris rarely intermarry, and even today, do not marry within the salai, as the original ten clans are known. Society is organised around neighborhoods, called leikais. All activities, from ear-piercing ceremonies, to festivals and cremations center around the leikai. The approval of the leikai is the highest the community-minded Manipuri can seek. More Detail... Economy and infrastructure The economy of Manipur is also on a constant rise. The positive role played by the government has indeed helped in boosting the economy of the state. There are as many as 7700 small-scale industries that are located in the state. A few of the small scale industries that have made a positive influence on the economy of the state include handlooms, village industries, cottage industries and handicrafts. It is no hidden secret that the state government is playing a dominating role in boosting the overall economy of the state and strengthening the financial backbone. There are many small-scale companies manufacturing different items such as plastic, electronic goods and steel that has made a huge impact in strengthening the overall economy of the state. The establishment of a few cement industries have also played a major role in uplifting the economy of the state. In a bid to take the economy of the state to a greater level, the governmental bodies have decided to establish a number of training institutes so as to make the concerned people familiar with the latest technology that can benefit all industries. More Detail... Education The present scenario in Manipur has witnessed a huge improvement. During the previous years, education in the state was primarily restricted among the elite sections of Manipuri society. A few of the possible reasons as to why education in the state took a backseat included communal clashes, economic blockades and a series of ongoing clashes that had a negative impact on the education system in Manipur over the past decade. The adoption of the new education system has indeed brought around a drastic change in the entire scenario of education. There has been a marked increase in the number of persons who are qualified with first division marks. It is hard to deny the positive role of the educational institutions in bringing about a drastic increase in the number of students who are qualified with a higher percentage of the cut off marks. More Detail... Demographics As per the data released by Census 2011, the total population of Manipur is 25, 70,390. The rural population consists of 1,736,236, and the urban population is 8, 34,154. According to Census 2011, population density is approximately 122; thus highlighting a total increase of 19 points as compared to the data released in the year 2001. Imphal West records the highest position and the density is approximately 856 per square kilometer. Thoubal occupies the second position as far as population density is concerned with the value at approximately 708 Sq. Km. Tamenglong records the minimum population and the value ranges within 25 per single sq km and 32 per single sq km during the year 2011. Inhabitants of Manipur can be divided into as many as three ethnic communities namely, Meiteis, individuals inhabiting the valley and major tribes residing in the hills. It is possible to subdivide tribes living in the hills into two further ethno-denominations recognised as Kuki-Chins and Nagas. Language One of the other languages people love to speak in Manipur is Bishnupriya Manipuri. Bishnupriya Manipuris are the one and the only tribe that speaks Bishnupriya Manipuri. One will be amazed to come to terms with the vital piece of information that the language Bishnupriya Manipuri is spoken by as many as 4,50,000 people all over the world. A few of the places where people love to speak the same language are Myanmar, Bangladesh, Meghalaya, Tripura, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. Manipur Media Manipur media is the reflection of the social, economic and political relations of the state. The democratic tool of the media plays an important part in projecting the sentiments of the people and their opinions and views. The tabloid and the electronic media have flourished well. Presently, there are 18 local newspapers and a single Imphal based television media called the ISTV. Televisions and satellite connectivity are available in almost each household. There is a great demand for cable network and the government has done well to distribute the satellite connections. However, the insurgent group, Revolutionary People's Front, has prohibited some of the channels like MTV, FTV and Channel V from being aired in the state. Hindi movies are also prohibited from being aired in the Imphal Valley. More Detail... Manipur Travel Manipur travel throws light on the various places of tourist interest, the indigenous culture and ritualistic traditions of the state. Blessed with natural scenic beauty, it attracts several tourists who are enthralled and enchanted with the captivating sight of the place. A trip to this north eastern state enlightens the visitors with the varied topography and the colourful festivals of the state. The crystal clear water of the enchanting lake of Loktak, the sprawling green fields, picturesque landscape and pleasant weather represent the beautiful state. Endowed with several indigenous tribal groups, it boasts of unique cultural ancestry and traditional heritage which is evident in the various folk dance and music of the state. Travel to the state offers the tourists with a wonderful opportunity to explore the unique cultural traditions and bounty of nature. More Detail... Hotels of Manipur The state has hotels of star and non star category catering to the needs of the tourists visiting Manipur. Besides it has resorts, restaurants and cafes which cater to the needs of all segments of travellers. Transport Facilities A majority of tourists are encouraged to visit Manipur due to the healthy connectivity that necessary forms an integral part of the state. The state of Manipur enjoys a fair connectivity in the form of air, road and railway. As far as the railway connectivity is concerned, NH-39 helps in ensuring safe connectivity to the state, with the railhead that is located at Dimapur in Nagaland. A perfect connection is established between the railhead that is situated in Jiribam and Imphal. As far as the road connectivity is concerned, there are as many as three national highways. The three national highways that are situated in the state of Manipur include NH-150, NH- 53 and NH-39. These three national highways assume true importance in boosting the road connectivity of Manipur. In an effort to improve the road connectivity of the state, the Saurashtra-Silchar Super Highway project has been extended to Moreh. It is a fact that if Moreh to Mae Sot (Thailand) main road gets build then the state of Manipur will gain an appreciation as India's Gateway to Southeast Asia. Last Updated on : December 19, 2014 Travel to Manipur Travel to Imphal Places to visit in Manipur Places to visit in Imphal Famous Personalities of Manipur Okram Ibobi Singh Dingko Singh Mary Kom N. Kunjarani Devi   Places To Visit   Guwahati Zoo Ema Kiethel Market Leimaram waterFall Loktak Lak Manipur Bamboo Dance Ukhrul Town             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule