--:: National Horticulture Board ::-- हिन्दी | English Home About Us Schemes of NHB Online Facilities Contact Us @ NHB Intranet Info Bulletin Statistics Guidelines General Information Minutes of IC/PAC Meeting NHB's Beneficiaries List I am pleased to inform that I have taken over the charge of Managing Director, NHB on regular basis from 09.05.2013. I consider this assignment as one of the most challenging and having huge potential,... India has made a fairly good progress on the Horticulture Map of the world with a total annual production of the Horticulture Crops touchng over 149 Million tonnes. India has been bestowed with wide rangre of climate and physio-geographical conditions and as such is most suitable for growing various kinds of Horticultural crops such as fruits, vegetables, flowers, nuts, spices and plantation crops (coconut, cashewnut and cocoa). With the focussed attention given to horticulture, there has been spectacular change in terms of adoption of new technologies, production and availability of horticulture product. India, today is the second largest producer of the Fruits (45.5 Million tonnes) and vegetables (90.8 Million tonnes) in the world, contributing 10.23% and 14.45% of the total world production of fruits and vegetables respectively. The availability of flowers has increased significantly in all major cities in the country. India has a good opportunity of growing of medicinal and aromatic plants. It is the largest producer, consumer and exporter of spices. It ranks first in the total production of coconut and arecanut and is the largest producer, processor, consumer and exporter of cashewnut in the world. There have been situations of gluts due to high production of several important horticulture crops in the country. Thus, India is at the brick of a Golden Revelution in Horticulture.       Model Project Reports Cost Norms CIH & Growers Association Commodity Bulletin Fruits Vegetables Aroma Plants Flowers Price & Arrival Statistics Area Production Statistics Subsidy claim under Comm. Horticulture Scheme Subsidy claim Guidelines under Cold Storage Technical Standards for Cold Storages/Ripening Chamber /Refer Van Recognition of Horticulture Nurseries OTS Scheme Guidelines Board of Directors of NHB Delegation of Powers to NHB Functionaries Annual Reports of NHB Year-2008-2009 Year-2009-2010 Year-2010-2011 Year-2011-2012 NHB Rules & Regulations Memorandum of Association Minutes of DSC meetings regarding OTS Scheme in NHB IC Meetings PAC Meetings Year-2009-2010 Year-2010-2011 Year-2011-2012 About NHB Organisational Structure Download / View NHB's Complete Scheme Guidelines in English Download / View Vegetable Cultivation Guidelines in English Download / View NHB Complete Scheme Guidelines in Hindi Download / View NHB Complete Scheme Guidelines in Marathi Download / View NHB's Complete Scheme Guidelines in Tamil Download / View NHB's Complete Scheme Guidelines in Telugu Apply for LOI and Track Status Commercial Hort. Scheme Cold Storage Scheme Tech. Dev. Transfer Scheme Daily Price-Arrival Market Bulletin Daily Price-Arrival (All-crop / All Market) Weekly Price and Arrival Report Monthly Price and Arrival Report Monthly Comparison Price and Arrival Report Annual Price and Arrival Report Corporate Headquarter Area Officers Our Network NHB's HQ Officers