Change Text size A    A     A  Home  |  Site Map  |  Circular Search  |  CPENGRAMS  |  Innovative Idea  |  Discussion Forum  |  SANKALP  |  BHAVISHYA Search   Pensioners' Portal About Us Organisation All About Pension Noteworthy Aggrieved ? Circulars/Forms Guidelines Related Resources FAQs Travel/Reservation Citizens Health Services/CGHS State Govt. Pensioners Sixth Central Pay Commission      Pension Calculator Calculate your Pension, Gratuity & DR     Photo Gallery   Contact Us Feedback Terms of Use   Report Broken Links Senior Citizen Corner - Pensioners Portal Senior Citizen Corner Senior Citizens are a treasure to our society. They have worked hard all these years for the development of the nation as well as the community. They possess a vast experience in different walks of life. The youth of today can gain from the experience of the senior citizens in taking the nation to greater heights. At this age of their life, they need to be taken care of and made to feel special. Indian Government provides several benefits through its schemes in various sectors of development. With various tax benefits, travel and health care facilities provisioned for them, Indian Government has created reasons for Senior Citizens to feel happy. This corner on Senior Citizens is aimed at providing details on various aspects concerning them. The links pertaining to the following sections will take you to the webpages/websites outside this website. For any query regarding the links of these websites/contents, please consult the web master of the respective website.   Health Care    Health Ailments and Treatment    Medical Insurance    Central Government Health Scheme    Special Programmes/Concessions    Yoga Directory    Health Guide from Public Health Foundation of India    Drug Search, Health Calculators, Medical Consultation      Compendium of Drug and Medicine Prices    Health Portal (Store, Track & Manage your Health)    Aids & Appliances (General Information about Mobility Aids)   Travel Benefits    By Train    By Air    By Ship    Loan for Financing Trips   Government    Policies/Schemes    Concession / Amenities for Defence Personnel   Financial Assistance/Incentives    Tax Benefits    Financial Planning    Loans    Tax Exemption on Interest   Care for the Elders    Senior Citizen Life Enrichments Services     Recreational/Educational Centers   Old Age Homes    Indian Old Age Homes    List of Old Age Homes in India (Statewise)    Old Age Homes in Delhi-NCR    Old Age Homes in Haryana    Old Age Homes in Kolkata    Old Age Homes in Maharashtra    Old Age Homes in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand   City Helplines    Information related to selected cities in India & abroad     Chandigarh-city-helpline    City Helpline(New Delhi, Kolkata, Bangalore, Chennai, Coimbatore, Goa, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Cochin and Mumbai)   Indian Temples and Pilgrimage Tours    Information about temples (religion-wise) in India    Showcasing Indian temples .    Official website of Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanams offering  e-services    Official website of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board offering online services    Information and services related to Amarnath Yatra    Information about Pilgrimage Tours in India   Pet Care    A Website on "I Love Indian Pets"   Other Resources    Senior Citizens Savings Scheme from RBI    Advice on Do’s and Don’ts for Senior Citizens from Delhi Police    Senior Citizen Cell : Delhi Police    Senior Citizen Institute (Indian Air Force)    e-Post, Speed Post Tracking   FAQs    Medical Policies    Savings Scheme    Defence Personnel    Self-Employment Schemes    General