Nightlife in Amritsar Home »» Amritsar » Nightlife   Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Amritsar Travel Golden Temple Places to Visit in Amritsar Hotels in Amritsar Restaurants in Amritsar Flights to Amritsar Trains to Amritsar Buses from Amritsar Airport Travel Agents Amritsar Education The Institute of Company Secrataries of India Colleges and Institutes Schools Amritsar college of engineering & technology Spring Dale School more... Amritsar Map Delhi to Amritsar Route Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Airport Map Amritsar Localities Chheharta Batala road Rani ka Bagh Anjala Road Hall Bazaar Ajit Nagar Lawrence Road more... Punjab Geography and history Cities in Punjab Ludhiana Amritsar Jalandhar Phagwara Patiala Bhatinda Ferozpur more... Punjab Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Wildlife Map Travel Map       Nightlife in Amritsar Amritsar, the city of the Golden Temple and mute spectator of the tragic saga of the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre is the focal point of tourism in India. The city abounds in cultural extravaganzas, a fact that is evinced by the active social life of its citizens. Devoid o f nightclubs and discotheques, the nightlife in Amritsar is by no means static. Far from a quaint and sleepy city, there are numerous modes of entertainment for the people of Amritsar. The industrious people love to live life to the hilt and drown themselves in food, drink, laughter and enjoyment. Balle Bowl is one such bowling alley in the city that is endowed with four fast food counters namely, Dim Sum, Dominos, Nexus Nizam and a drinks counter where people can drown themselves in juice, cocktails, mocktails and soft as well as hard drinks. The people can also indulge in a round of bowling, pool, snooker or participate in the video games. The people of Amritsar are deeply religious. Thus nearly evening, they visit the revered sanctums of the Golden Temple or the Durgjana Temple before hitting one of the late night food joints. It is an understatement to say that the people of Amritsar like to eat. The gourmets sole purpose in life is enjoy a hearty meal. Most of the restaurants and the fast food counters and ice cream parlors remain open till very late in the night. As soon as dusk sets in, the citizens dress up in their finery and hit the streets. Be it spicy chat stalls or the vendors selling golgappas, the pizza and coffee joints or the ice cream parlors and the tandoori restaurants, they all remain open in Amritsar till well past midnight in the wee hours of the morning and offer a wonderful insight of the nightlife in Amritsar. Amritsar Information People Population Location Restaurant & Bar Shopping Cuisine Living SGPC Transportation Banks Municipal Corporation About Amritsar History Massacre Weather Pin Code STD code Fairs and Festivals Languages Reach Amritsar from Pakistan Religion Music and Literature Industries Tourist Attractions Baba Atal Rai Tower Govind Garh Fort Amritsar Massacre Memorial Durgiana Temple Jallianwala Bagh Akal Takht Golden Temple Harmandir Sahib Ram Bagh Faridkot Fort Ram Tirath Temple Tarn Taran Mata Mandir Temple Bathinda Fort             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule