Education in Goa, Educational Institutions in Goa Home » Maps » Goa » Education in Goa   Education in Goa Universities in Goa Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Engineering Colleges Medical Colleges गोवा का नक्शा About Goa Weather History Culture Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Cities Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Education in Goa If you thought that Goa was only about sand, sea and a spill of tourists, think twice. Goan residents take their education quite seriously. So there are quite a number of excellent educational institutions in Goa which the state can boast of. The Goa University is the premier centre of learning. There are several professional colleges, including engineering, polytechnics and ITIs. Management Studies Management studies, law colleges and a catering institute too form a vital part in the list of educational institutions in Goa. In the modern economic scenario all over the world, Management, as a stream of education and training, has acquired new dimensions. It is an exciting field where you can have an immediate impact on the operations of any business. Management can be called the art of conducting and directing the day-to-day organizational, businesses and other Related activities in the contemporary world. It characterizes the process of leading and directing various organizational activities. Management encompasses five basic functions such as Planning, Organizing, Leading and Coordinating. Management Colleges are also termed as Business schools or B-Schools in the modern conversational language. Given below are the names of some the Management Colleges in Goa along with other informative details: Goa University, Department of Business Administration, Bambolim, PO Taleigao, Plateau, Goa 403203 Goa Course/Degree: MMS Eligibility: Graduation Duration: 2 years Goa Institute of Management (GIM) Ribandar, Panaji, Goa 403001 Course/Degree: Full- time MBA (PGDBM) and executive MBA. Duration: 2 years and 3 years respectively. Status: Autonomous. Seats: 120. Director: Mr. Peter F.X. D'Lima. (For those who wish to do a PhD, is a resource center for programs in Management for Goa University) Department of Management Studies, Goa University Panaji- 403203 Phone no: 0832-230722 Fax: 0832224184 Faculty of Management Studies, Goa University Sub Post Office, Talegoa Plateau, Panaji- 403 203 Phone no and Fax: 0832- 224184 The State also hosts a premier Business school i.e. Goa Institute of Management which is autonomous and was founded in 1993 by Fr. Romuald D'souza. Medical Colleges Goa Medical College is among the oldest in Asia and a highly respected institution. The prestigious National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) is a leader in marine research in India.The discipline of Medicine too doesn't take a back seat, and so there are several medical colleges in Goa and colleges Related to medicine. More details... Engineering Colleges Educational Institutions in Goa that offer courses in marine engineering, fisheries, hotel management and cuisine are also well-known in India. The Central Library in Panaji and the Xavier Centre for Historical Research are treasure chests of knowledge. More details... Schools Goa was under the control of Portuguese for a long period. Still today the state continues to offer Portuguese as a third language in most of its schools. The Goa University also offers Bachelor and Master's degrees in Portuguese language. Most of the schools of Goa are affiliated to the State SSC. However, the schools run by ICSE or CBSE are very popular for their quality education. This section spans through the Public schools, Private schools, Convent, Montessori and Government Schools in Goa. Given below is a list of the names of the schools in Goa along with other informative details: Name: AIM Salcete High School Address: Malbhat Margao-601 Goa Activity: Nursery to 12 th Phone: 0832-2723435 Name: A J D Almeida High School Address: Nr Ponda Bus Stand Ponda-401 Goa Activity: Nursery to 12 th Phone: 0832-2313031 Name: Ameeniya High School Address: Islampur Baina Vasco Goa-403802 Activity: Senior secondary CBSE Phone: 0832-2511660 Name: Bal Bharati Vidya Mandir High School Address: Vasundhara Coly Ribandar-06 Goa Activity: Senior secondary CBSE Phone: 0832-2234019 Name: Carmel Higher Secondory School Address: Nuvem-604 Goa Activity: Nursery to 12th Phone: 0832-2738822 Name: Damodar Higher Secondary School Address: Tansor Comba Margao-601 Goa Activity: Senior secondary CBSE Phone: 0832-2735157 Name: D'costa Maria OnesiaVilla D'costa Address: T B Cunha Road Aquem Margao Goa-403601 Activity: Senior secondary CBSE Phone: 0832-2723053 Name: Don Bosco School Address: Naikwado Calangute-516 Goa Activity: Nursery to 12th Phone: 0832-2276359 Name: Fr Agnelo High Schoolx Address: Fr Agnelo High School203 Pilar Goa-403203 Activity: Senior secondary CBSE Phone: 0832-2218541 Name: Holy Cross High School Address: Siolim-517 Goa Activity: Senior secondary CBSE Phone: 0832-2272244 Goa University The Goa University is the premier centre of learning. There in one major and reputed university in Goa and that is the Goa University. Goa University was established in 1985 incorporating the then existing PG Centre for Instruction and Research of the University of Bombay.The 23 PG Departments and 2 Centres of studies offer academic programmes leading to Masters and Ph.D degrees in various disciplines.The University also offers PG Diploma programmes in selected disciplines. In 2001 the University was accredited with Four Star rating on a 5-point scale by NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council).Its PG departments, over the years have developed excellent facilities for research. More details.. Last Updated on: 8/06/2013 Education in Goa Universities Architecture Colleges Dental Colleges Medical Colleges Engineering Colleges About Goa Weather History Area Pincode STD code Facts Liberation of Goa Languages Culture Dance Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule