KISSAN-Kerala   Sitemap | Contact Us | Feedback         Search | About KISSAN | Kerala @ Glance | What's New | Events | FAQs | The Team | Institutions | Home   DEPARTMENT OF DAIRY DEVELOPMENT Dairy development department is the nodal agency for rural dairy extension, fodder resource development and rural milk marketing. Statutory supervision of dairy cooperatives in the state and the implementation of milk and milk products order under the essential Commodities act are important statutory functions vested with the department.152 dairy extension service units,14 district offices, 5 dairy extension centers,14 quality control units and 2 fodder farms function under this department. Achievements When the Dairy Development Department was formed during 1962, 150 dairy co-operatives were functioning in the state. This has now increased to 3138 as on March 2002. Similarly the annual milk production and per capita daily availability of milk which was 1.85 LMT and 30 gms in 1962 is now 26.01 LMT and 224 GMs The combined work of the department and other agencies in the field has made this achievement possible. The White Revolution (Dhavalaviplavam) implemented by the department during mid seventies has been a landmark of the sector. Under this programme each panchayat was provided the services of 2 matriculates who were trained in artificial insemination under the self-employment scheme. On request, this person designated as Cattle Improvement Assistants performed Artificial Insemination at the doorstep of the farmers. A bull station and semen bank was established by the department at Dhoni in Palghat for providing the input for this programme. This scheme has been instrumental in promoting the crossbred cattle population in Kerala. Similarly, the Milkshed Development Programme implemented by the department during 1999 to 2001 at Oachira and Karunagappally blocks have helped to increase fodder as well as milk production in the area. The services of barefoot workers for the above programmes has been a key factor for the success More