Modern Suspension System Home » Useful Information About Automobile » Modern Suspension System Modern Suspension System Hydraulic Fluids Hydraulic fluids are liquids used as the motive medium in hydraulic machinery and equipment. These fluids are used in a number of machines including automobiles. Car transmissions, power brakes and power steering systems all require hydraulic fluids. Hydraulic fluids are used in a number of vehicles starting from tractors to garbage lifters. There are many fluids used for hydraulic oil like mineral oil, water, synthetic compounds, and water based mixtures, castor oil, ethers, esters, organophosphate ester, mineral oil, and propylene glucol. Suspension System After the engine of a vehicle it is the suspension system that holds prime importance because it is the harbinger of a comfortable ride. The suspension system minimizes the impact of a particular road condition providing a safe drive to the occupants of the vehicle. This might sound pretty simple but when you come to think of it seriously it is not as simple as it might seem to be. When acceleration comes into force and force translates into raw energy this energy travels through the frame of the vehicle .without coils and springs to absorb this the vertical energy would cause the vehicle to jump up off the road reducing tire friction and control which would result in a heavy bounce back downwards by the car with even greater force which could be very dangerous. Coil spring and leaf springs to absorb all forces and to keep the tires firmly planted to the ground so that the tire always remains in contact with the ground The term suspension is given to the springs, shock absorbers and linkages that connect a vehicle to its wheels. The suspension system mainly serves the purpose of providing safety to the car by minimizing jerks and provides comfort to the occupants of the vehicle. Principle of Suspension System To restrict road vibrations from being transmitted to the various components of the vehicle To protect the passengers from road shocks To maintain the stability of the vehicle in pitching and rolling Components of the Suspension System Control Arm: A movable lever that fastens the steering knuckle to the frame of the vehicle. Control Arm Busing: This is a sleeve which allows the control arm to move up and down on the frame. Strut Rod: Prevents the control arm from swinging forward and backwards. Ball Joints: A joint that allows the control arm and steering knuckle to move up and down and sideways as well Shock absorbers or Struts: prevents the suspension from bounce after spring compression and extension Stabilizer Bar: Limits body roll of the vehicle during cornering Spring: Supports the weight of the vehicle Common problems of the suspension system Shocks and Struts: Shocks and Struts are located behind the wheels of a vehicle. Shocks and Struts are subject to wear and tear just like other vehicle parts. The signs of a shock wear out are if the car bounces excessively, leans hard in corners and jerks at brakes then the shocks and struts are definitely calling for a change. Ball joints: The wearing out of ball joints can get dangerous because if they separate they cause you to lose control over the vehicle which could also be a life risk. Preventive Measures The shocks and struts should be check frequently for leakages Ball joints should be checked immediately incase the motion of the car is not right. Make sure to lubricate the ball joints of your car frequently. Last Updated on 1/3/2012 Useful Information about Automobile Automobile Tips Transmission System Motor policy Know Your Car The Electrical System Modern Suspension System Vehicle Maintenance