ï»¿ AED     Gallery Links Site Map FAQ           Home Schemes Central Sector Demonstration of Agricultural Machinery and Implements Training to Farmers on operation and maintenance of Agrl. Machinery State Sector Rain water harvesting and Run off management programme Master plan - Artificial Recharge to Ground Water SWC in Tribal areas under Integrated Tribal Development Programme Pulses Villages in Rain fed Areas - NADP Scheme to Revive Agriculture In Fallow Land - NADP SWC under Hill Area Development Programme Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project Soil Conservations in the Catchment of River Valley Project - NADP SWC under Western Ghats Development Programme Agricultural Mechanization under NADP Training on operation and maintenance of farm machinery Training rural youth on agricultural machinery and implements Diesel Engine Pump set with Rain gun / Portable Sprinkler Irrigation. Solar Powered Pumping system with Micro Irrigation Solar Chilli Drier Onion Storage structures TN IAMWARM Project Centre and State Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Command Area Development and Water Management Programme Services Land Development Minor Irrigation Mandate Downloads RTI Contacts                                 Schemes State Sector   Soil and Water Conservation under Western Ghats Development Programme       Objectives     To ensure eco-restoration, eco-development and eco-protection. To maintain ecological balance by controlling soil erosion To create awareness of the necessity for protecting and developing the eco system among the farmers. Economical upliftment of the local people.     Details of Works     Staggered contour trenching Gabion structure Drainage line treatment works Contour rubble bund Contour / Compartmental bunds Check dam. Village ponds Water harvesting structures Farm ponds Land shaping     Eligibility     All the farmers whose lands are covered in the selected Watersheds in the following districts are eligible for subsidy. Coimbatore, Erode/Tiruppur, Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari District.     Subsidy     The beneficiaries are required to contribute 10% of the cost of works taken up in their patta lands and it is 5% in case of SC/ST beneficiaries. For community works, 5% of the cost of works is collected as beneficiary contribution. The balance expenditure is met by the Government.     Officer to be approached   (From 2013-14 WGDP implemented through TAWDEVA) Assistant Executive Engineer (A.E) in the Selected WGDP Revenue Divisions. Executive Engineer (A.E) in the Selected WGDP Districts. Superintending Engineer (A.E) in the Region. Chief Engineer(AE), Agricultural Engineering Department, 487, Anna Salai, Nandanam, Chennai-600 035. Phone - 24352686, 24352622                      