Forms | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > My Government > Forms Forms Constitution of India Constitution of India (Full Text) Search in Constitution of India Amendments Government Directory Union Government States & UTs Codes Judiciary Indian Parliament President of India Rajya Sabha Lok Sabha Publications Recent Publications Archive Who's Who President Vice-President Prime Minister Council of Ministers Governors Lt. Governors & Administrators Chief Ministers Judges of Supreme Court Chiefs of Armed Forces Members of Parliament MLAs/MLCs Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Annual Report Budget Census Report Citizens Charter E-Books Gazetteer Notification Guidelines Others Plan Document Policy Reports People Speak Forms This section is a centralised resource for important application forms of Central/State/UT Governments which are required to be filled up and submitted for availing different services and applying for obtaining important certificates/licences. You can get Application forms pertaining to commonly required documents such as Ration Card, Driving Licence, Vehicle Registration, Passport, Birth/Death certificate, etc. from here. Downloadable Fillable Data from States Data from States Select State Tamil Nadu Sikkim Rajasthan Search Forms Jurisdiction <Any> Central State State <Any> Andaman and Nicobar Island (UT) Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chandigarh (UT) Chhattisgarh Dadra and Nagar Haveli (UT) Daman and Diu (UT) Delhi (NCT) Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu and Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Lakshadweep (UT) Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Odisha Puducherry (UT) Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Tamil Nadu Telangana Tripura Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhand West Bengal Ministry <Any> Apex Bodies Election Commission of India Ministry National Human Rights Commission NITI Aayog Prime Minister's Office FormType <Any> Downloadable Fillable Keyword All Forms 5959 Form(s) found. Application form for building grants including studio theatres Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Find information about the Scheme of Building Grants including Studio Theatres and the application form for the scheme by Ministry of Culture. Users can download and fill the form according to their requirement. Instructions on how to fill the form are also available. Report crime to Andhra Pradesh Police Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   You can report a crime to the Andhra Pradesh Police Department. Users need to fill up details such as the category, name of district, police station, address and information related to the crime. You can also provide clues to prevent internet based crimes, road accidents, traffic rule violations, etc. Lodge your complaint with National Commission for Women Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Lodge your complaint online with the National Commission for Women. You need to fill up this complaint form with details of complainant or victim such as name, address, contact numbers, date of birth and respondent details etc. You need to write your complaint in the given space to submit it online. Lodge your grievances with Chandigarh Transport Department Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome   Users from Chandigarh can lodge their complaint online to the Transport Department, Chandigarh(UT). One needs to select the Department from the drop down list and provide details such as name, address, contact number and complaint details to submit it online. Ministry of Earth Sciences seminars application form Rate it: Select rating Poor Okay Good Great Awesome  