 Rice Knowledge Management Portal | - Rice,Paddy,Dhan,Chawal,Rice Research Domain, Rice Extension Domain, Rice Farmers Domain ,Rice General Domain, Rice Service Domain,RKMP,Rice in India,Rice Government Schemes, Rice ITKs, Rice FLDs, Rice Package of Practices English हिन्दी ಕನ್ನಡ Marathi Oriya Punjabi தமிழ் తెలుగు Search this site: -Any- About RKMP Announcements Audio_Gallery EIS_States FIS Faqs Forum topic General Domain Gis News Events Instant content Upload Page Poll RIS History of Rice Breeding RIS Research Themes RIS Rice State Wise RIS Rice Vocs RIS Tools and Techniques RSS Feed Video_Gallery Home Research Domain for the rice researchers across the world to access, share, discuss research data, themes, tools & knowledge for better rice science! Data Repository RiceVocs Research Fora (CoPs) Guidelines Rice Research in India AICRIP Intranet Bio-informatics Tool Directory of Rice Researchers Tools & Techniques E-Books/E-Manuals Rice State wise Research Themes India Rice Research Repository (i3R) History of Rice Breeding 48th ARGM Extension Domain for the rice extension professionals to access, share, discuss, update the location specific rice knowledge towards excellence in extension services! Production Know How Irrigated Rice Eco system Seedling of Rice Plant More... Concept Maps Spot Nearest Research/Extension Office/Dealer Weed Management Weed Information System (Wisy) Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK) Package of Practices Government Schemes Diagnostic Tools Frontline demonstrations Farmers Innovation RiceVocs Ă Recap Sheets Digital Photo Library E-Books/E-Manuals Statewise Contingency Plans Expert Answers on Rice (EAR) Extension Methods FAQs Protection Concerns of the Month Ferti-meter Gallery Audio Video RKMP on Youtube Farmers Domain .. a platform for the rice farming community to access, share, discuss, update the location specific rice knowledge in local languages! Production Know How Irrigated Rice Eco system Seedling of Rice Plant More... Gallery Audio Video Package of Practices Government Schemes Farmers Innovation Expert Answers on Rice (EAR) Digital Photo Library Weed Management Service Domain to keep the rice stakeholders informed on trade, weather, prices for better decisions in rice enterprises! Trade KnowHow Weather Information Contingency Plans Mandi (Market) prices Rice Varieties Recommended Spot Nearest Research/Extension Office/Dealer General Domain to know about rich history, culture, facts , recipes, value products, news & events of rice for the house-makers, children, students & the general public! History & Evolution Rice in Human Nutrition Virtual Rice Resources RKMP Container Seeds Availablity Rice in Indian Culture Ă Rice end-products Rikipedia Feed Aggregator Rice Facts News & Events Virtual Tour User Surveys Rice Stats to provide the timely and accurate rice statistics for the rice policymakers! Rice Almanac Statewise Statistics GIS Maps E-Learning a multi-dimensional e-learning platforms for providing online learning opportunities LearnRice-Moodle Courses Available Rice Research in India Hybrid Rice More... LearnRice Courses Available E-Learning in Agriculture Ă Andhra Pradesh Rice Production Technology More... LearnRice-Joomla Courses Available Weed Management in Rice System of Rice Intensification More... About RKMP Description About RKMP Making of RKMP The Begining About CPI RKMP Vision More... DRR Dr. BC Viraktamath - CL & Project Director Dr. Shaik N Meera - CPI & Senior Scientist More... NAIP-ICAR Dr. D. Rama Rao - National Director, NAIP Dr.P.S. Pandey - NC (Component-1), NAIP More... CRRI Dr.Trilochan Mahapatra - Director Dr.G.A.K. Kumar - Co PI & Senior Scientist More... IARI Dr.H.S. Gupta - Director Dr.A.K. Mishra - Co PI More... ICRISAT Dr. William D. Dar - Director General Dr. Dileepkumar Guntuku - Co PI & Principal Scientist More... ICAR NEH Dr.S.V. Ngachan - Director Dr.A.K. Mohanty - Co PI & Senior Scientist More... CDAC Dr. V.Muralidharan - Director Dr.C. Kathiresan - Co PI & Project Manager More... ZARS-M Dr. K. Narayana Gowda - Vice Chancellor Dr.M.P Rajanna Co PI & Senior Breeder More... Consultants - RKMP Dr.E A Siddiq Dr.P N Mathur More... BAU Dr. M. P. Pandey - Vice Chancellor Dr.D.N.Singh Co PI & Senior Rice Breeder More... RARS-K Dr. Kisan E. Lawande - Vice Chancellor Dr.R.L. Kunkerkar - Co PI & Senior Scientist More... IRRI Dr.Noel Magor - Head, Training Center Dr.David Shires - E-learning Consultant More... Project Staff - RKMP Mr.C Vara Prasad - Research Associate Mr.P. Isaac Finny - Research Associate More... Contact Us Best Viewed in Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome Home News & Events More rice from less water Illinois study may improve rice productivity குறுவையில் 3.30 லட்சம் டன் நெல் உற்பத்தி பாதிக்கும் அபாயம்... Goa Govt gears up for kharif crop, more land under SRI       Read more Announcements Gearing up for XII Plan activities 4th International Rice Congress in Bangkok, 27-31 October 2014 Watch RKMP Live Programme broadcasted in Gemini News channel on 25 Aug 2013 - Telugu Listen to Dr. Shaik N. Meera about RKMP (in Telugu) Radio Talk broadcasted on 5 May 2012 on AIR, Hyderabad How to create your own Directory of Rice Researchers Flash Object on Protection Concerns Have a look at RKMP Promo How to upload the content as Registered user? RKMP e-launch User login Username: * Password: * Create new account Request new password Total Number of Pages Total Number of pages of the entire portal(Excluding 20 Platforms)&nbsp&nbsp:&nbsp&nbsp 15109 Visitors Profile Registered Users: 4025 Last Registered User: umesh pratap Your IP: 109.237.122.194 Site Traffic Number of Visitors 885,130 Unique Visitors 94,662 STAY CONNECTED Featured Content Its time for Land Preparation! LAND PREPARATION ·         Land preparation is done by ploughing, harrowing, and levelling the field to make it suitable for crop establishment. ·         Ploughing should be done 3-4 weeks prior to sowing. ·         Plough your field upto 12-15 cms deep and make sure the weeds and the stubbles get incorp... Read more Featured Content NURSERY MANAGEMENT Nursery should be prepared nearer to the mainfield so as to minimize the shock during transplanting. Utmost care should be taken while preparing the nursery as it is the place where rice seedlings grow and establish themselves. Prepare the type of nursery based on your resources such as water, type of soil etc eg : Wet bed method is practiced in areas of water abundance and Dry bed method is practiced in areas of less water... Read more A Handbook on Package of Practices on Rice, published by DRR, Hyderabad   Given the highly diverse and dynamic nature of the rice farming, research activities took explicit account of site-specificity by way of AICRIP System (All India Coordinated Rice Improvement Project). What is practical and profitable for farmers at any given site depends on the unique combination of bio-physical, socioeconomic, organizational and institutional circumstances. As a consequence, it is almost impossible for researchers to develop standard technologies that can be adopted everywhere and thus easily replicated in different contexts.   To address this problem, we have brought out this handbook on Package of Practices (POPs) for rice in the most simple and lucid form. Because the best agricultural practices are localized, it is not easy to present a “cook book” of Package of Practices” for all practical purposes. However, an attempt is made here to enlist the ingredients and cooking methods, to enable extension professionals and farmers to develop their own regional recipes, to suit the specific local conditions. Thisbook could be put in its best use when the ‘packages’ are discussed among fellow extension profess