Srichand Hinduja India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Business Economy »Srichand Hinduja   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Srichand Hinduja Srichand P. Hinduja, born as the eldest among the Hinduja brothers of the Hinduja empire is considered to be the toughest man in business. The President of Europe Hinduja and Hinduja Foundations, he has his business interests in around 50 countries of the world. Shrewd, intelligent and desperate, he is now based in UK, from where he controls the large business empire founded by his father, who has once left Sindh to move to Iran to make a luck in business. Tough and controversial, he is known to be the man whose only attempt remains doubling their financial figure every couple of years. Though all guesses, their wealth is estimated to be around $8 Billion. Srichand Hinduja and his brothers are talked of being not enough educated, as their weakness in reading and writing English becomes evident in their presence. In spite of being a famous business tycoon, his personal life is ill fated as he stills struggles to combat the loss of his son. As he demands, the tragedy has made him inclined to his spiritual revelations through 'Dharma' and that slowly he is moving above the desire of earthly pleasure. NRI Srichand Hinduja moved to London to Develop their father's import and export business, along with his brother Gopichand Hinduja, which his father has started 86 years back. Now they have their money in the field of Global Finance, Tele- Communications, Film Industry and Oil Fields. Very secretive about their business strategies they are considered to be the 13th most richest people in the world. Srichand Hinduja boasts of a huge network of influential friends that includes the Shah Of Iran, George Bush Sr., Tony Blair, former U.S president Bill Clinton and Queen Elizabeth the second. Srichand Hinduja is well known for his support to the conservative and Labour party and his huge donations there. His donations for building Hindu temples and its decorations through out the world are well known. A notorious character, his contribution of 1 million pound for the ill fated Millenium Dome over river Thames, had resulted into the resignation of UK minister Peter Mandelson. More controversially, since the year 1990, Srichand Hinduja along with his brothers, have been defending himself against the biggest ever bribery scam since after independence. He is accused of taking a large amount of money from a Swiss company Bofors, and persuade the then present Indian Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, to buy 400 field guns from that company. In spite of being involved in such big scams, Srichand Hinduja is well known for escaping the issues. However it might be, no one now expects him to see behind the bars. And that's what makes him a charismatic businessman ever.   Related People   Businessmen & Industrialists Cyrus Pallonji Mistry K.P. Singh Aditya Birla Kiran Mazumdar Shaw Srichand Hinduja Kumar Mangalam Birla Ashok Hinduja Lakshmi Mittal Adi Godrej Lalit Suri Amar Bose Mukesh Ambani Arun Sarin Nandan Nilekani Azim Premji Rahul Bajaj B.M. Munjal Ramalinga Raju Bhai Mohan Singh Ratan Tata Dhirubhai Ambani Raunaq Singh Ghanshyam Das Birla Sunil Mittal J.R.D. Tata Swaraj Paul Economists Amartya Sen Jagdish Bhagwati Last Updated on : January 30, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule