Right to Information Last Updated On: 26-03-2015              Skip to main content | | | | Select Theme | | Untitled Document Home About Us RTI Act RTI Quiz Photogallery Circulars Contact Us FAQ Untitled Document Kids Corner Thanks to RTI RTI Video/Audio Publications Study on RTI RTI Fellows' Reports RTI Internship Reports RTI Guides and Handbooks Compendium on Best Practises on RTI (Vol-I) Compilation of OMs & Notifications on RTI Guidelines for suo motu disclosure under RTI Act, 2005 by Central Govt. Guidelines for suo motu disclosure under RTI Act, 2005 by State Govt. Reports on National workshop 2014 Reports on Regional workshop 2014 Online Services Lodge your RTI Request/ Appeal with Central Min./Dept. View status of your RTI application Lodge your RTI Complaint/ Appeal with CIC Online Certificate Course on RTI in Hindi/English/Telugu Filing online RTI Application ? About Right to Information Act 2005 Bringing Information to the Citizens Right to Information Act 2005 mandates timely response to citizen requests for government information. It is an initiative taken by Department of Personnel and Training, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions to provide a– RTI Portal Gateway to the citizens for quick search of information on the details of first Appellate Authorities,PIOs etc. amongst others, besides access to RTI related information / disclosures published on the web by various Public Authorities under the government of India as well as the State Governments Objective of the Right to Information Act : The basic object of the Right to Information Act is to empower the citizens,promote transparency and accountability in the working of the Government,contain corruption, and make our democracy work for the people in real sense.It goes without saying that an informed citizen is better equipped to keep necessary vigil on the instruments of governance and make the government more accountable to the governed.The Act is a big step towards making the citizens informed about the activities of the Government. Whats New Uploading of RTI replies on the respective website of Ministry/Department   Report of Committee to evolve model format for RTI replies Publishing of Compendium on Best Practises on RTI (vol-2) Compendium on Best Practises on RTI Information on CIC CIC Recent Decisions by CIC Causelist of CIC Status of Appeals in CIC Related Articles SIC About SIC ICs of States Appellate Authorities Union Govt Indian Parliament Indian Embassies Public Info Officers Union Govt Indian Parliament Indian Embassies List of CAPIOs RTI Links & Websites Union Govt. (Alphabetical) All Ministries All departments Search (Key word) Union Govt. Query State Govt. Delivery Monitoring Unit RTI in India   Untitled Document ©  2015 All Rights Reserved  •  Website designed and developed by National Informatics Center Website Policy  •  Disclaimer Website Best Viewed in Google Chrome & Mozilla FireFox in 1024 X 768 Screen Resolution