Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway, Map of Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway Home » Roads » Expressway » Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway   Expressway Bengaluru to Chennai Mumbai to Pune Noida to Greater Noida National Expressway 2 Ahmedabad to Vadodara                 more.. Road Maps Traffic Signs and Rules Distance Calculator Driving Directions Map Pocket Maps Shortest Path Finder National Highway Wall Map Golden Quadilateral States Road Network Mumbai Road Map Hyderabad Road Map Delhi Road Map Bengaluru Road Map Pune Road Map Jaipur Road Map Ahmedabad Road Map South India Road Map Kundli Manesar Palwal(KMP)    Expressway Map       Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway Map of Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing the Routes of Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The Jaipur-Kishangarh Expressway became operational in 2005. The expressway is a part of the NH8 and links the town of Kishangarh in Rajasthan with Jaipur, the capital of the state. It is also frequently called the best expressway in the country.GVK Jaipur Expressways (GJEPL) is the concessionaire for maintaining the expressway. The National Highway 8 links Mumbai, the financial capital of the country to Delhi, the national capital. It passes through Jaipur in Rajasthan and also links Gandhinagar in Gujarat and towns such as Surat, Vadodara, Ajmer and Udaipur. It is one of the busiest highways in India. The Jaipur Kishangarh segment was one of the first segments of the NH8 which was upgraded as part of the Golden Quadrilateral National Highway Development Project. The Golden Quadrilateral connects all the four major metropolitan cities- Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai and Chennai - to facilitate smooth connectivity between them. The length of the Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway is 90 kilometers and it has six lanes. Earlier the national highway had only two lanes, which were not enough for the heavy traffic on this route coming from Gujarat and Maharashtra and also from Western MP. Jaipur is one of the top tourist destinations of the country and is a part of the Golden Triangle tourist circuit along with Delhi and Agra. It is also a major industrial hub and the largest exporter of gold, diamond and semi precious stone jewelry. Surat , Vadodara, Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar are all industrial towns . Surat is an important port town. In addition national highway 79 A also connects at Kishangarh from Nasirabad on the route of NH 79. NH 79 connects western MP with Ajmer in Rajasthan. The Jaipur-Kishangarh expressway takes the traffic bound for Delhi from Western MP also. More than 20, 000 vehicles ply on this stretch every day. Last Updated on : 06 April 2013 Expressways in India Ahmedabad Vadodara Allahabad Bypass Expressway Ambala Chandigarh Bangaluru Chennai Belghoria Expressway Chennai Bypass Expressway Delhi Faridabad Skyway Delhi Gurgaon Expressway Eastern Express Highway Elevated Expressway Ganga Expressway Map Hungund Hospet Expressway Jaipur Kishangarh Expressway KMP Expressway Mumbai Nashik Expressway Mumbai Pune Expressway National Expressway 2 Noida Greater Noida Panipat Elevated Expressway Pathankot Ajmer Expressway Upper Ganga Canal Expressway Western Express Highway Yamuna Expressway KMP-KGP Expressways               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule