CASNR Scholarships — College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Search OKSTATE.EDU... Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Academic Depts Ag Economics Ag Education, Communications & Leadership Animal Science Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Entomology & Plant Pathology Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Natural Resources Ecology & Management Plant & Soil Sciences Multidisciplinary Programs Environmental Sciences Master of International Agriculture Program Future Students Student Services Visitors CASNR Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Now Be an OSU Cowboy! Undergraduate Admissions Graduate College College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Navigation Home Academic Departments Future Students Student Services CASNR Scholarships Applications Study Abroad Farm to Fork News Events Alumni Employers Faculty Resources Personnel Request for Information Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Search Advanced Search…   Login You are here: Home / CASNR Scholarships Info College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources CASNR Scholarships The College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources and its academic departments award more than $1.4 million in scholarships to incoming freshmen, transfer students and continuing students enrolled in the college.   To learn more about our scholarships and the application process at OSU and CASNR, please choose the appropriate link below:   Prospective Freshmen or Transfer Students Prospective freshmen and transfer students interested in the majors within the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources are eligible to compete for three levels of scholarships: University-wide scholarships College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources (CASNR) scholarships Departmental scholarships   How to Apply To compete for these scholarships prospective freshmen and transfer students need to complete an Admissions Application .   When should you apply? The priority scholarship deadline for fall entry term is February 1. The priority scholarship deadline for spring entry term is October 15. How will I be notified about an award? Each unit is responsible for contacting students about their scholarship. Usually, most scholarship selections are made by middle to late March of the year a student plans to attend. Most often, students are only contacted if they are awarded a scholarship. Students may use their O-key account to login to their Student Information System (SIS) to view awards.   Tips for assuring your application gets sent to the college and major in which you are interested All students, despite their major interest, who complete the OSU Admission Application will be eligible to compete for University-wide scholarships including tuition wavier scholarships, President's Leadership Council Scholarships and numerous other scholarships.   To ensure a student is considered for scholarships from the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources and it's departments, he or she needs to choose a program of study (major) that is offered through CASNR.   Additional Scholarship Opportunities for Incoming Freshmen McKnight Leader Scholars The McKnight Leaders Scholars program recruits students from rural communities, outside Oklahoma, to attend OSU. The program includes a renewable waiver of out-of-state tuition fees, $10,000 in scholarships over two years, and opportunities to develop leadership skills through exclusive courses and seminars. For additional information about the program, visit osugiving.com/McKnight .   Current/Continuing Students Current/Continuing students enrolled in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources are eligible to compete for three levels of scholarships: University-wide scholarships College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources (CASNR) scholarships Departmental scholarships   How to Apply University-wide scholarships Information regarding university-wide scholarships can be found on the Office of Scholarship and Financial Aid website .   CASNR and Departmental Scholarships College-level and departmental scholarships in CASNR use a common online scholarship application. Please click here to access the CASNR on-line scholarship application. When should you apply? Applications are due by January 15 for the following academic year. Most scholarship selections are made by mid-March.   How will I be notified about an award? Each unit is responsible for contacting students about their awards. Usually, most awards are made by mid to late March of the year a student plans to attend. Most often, students are only contacted if they are awarded a scholarship.   Additional Scholarship Opportunities for Current/Continuing Students Additional scholarship opportunities for current/continuing students are posted on the CASNR Applications page, casnr.okstate.edu/applications . Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Suggestion Box Accessibilty Safety Legal and Trademarks Webmaster © 2015 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved