Digital Green Change Password Sign Out Skip to content Green Digital About Us and our approach Discover great videos Connect with our community Tools to catalyze change Work with us Sign in More about Digital Green Our Partners Our Work Our Board Our Team Events In the News Resources Blog Pico Seekho Donate Contact Us About Us Digital Green is a not-for-profit international development organization that uses an innovative digital platform for community engagement to improve lives of rural communities across South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. We partner with local public, private and civil society organizations to share knowledge on improved agricultural practices, livelihoods, health, and nutrition, using locally produced videos and human mediated dissemination. In a controlled evaluation, the approach was found to be 10 times more cost-effective and uptake of new practices seven times higher compared to traditional extension services. We are currently implementing projects in collaboration with over 20 partner organizations across 9 states in India and parts of Ethiopia, Afghanistan, Ghana, Niger and Tanzania. Since 2008 and as of April 2015, we have reached over 660,646 individuals across 7,645 villages through 3,782 videos, which showcase and demonstrate best practices. These videos were produced by 522 community members trained by us and screened in an interactive format by 6,403 trained community members. As many as 343,609 of the viewers have adopted one or more of the best practices promoted through these videos. You can view the analytics here . Our Vision is a world where all individuals live a life of dignity. Our Mission is to integrate innovative technology with global development efforts to improve human well being. Our Values include Humility, Excellence, Accountability, Empathy and Integrity. Our Approach We engage with and empower rural communities to produce participatory localized videos, leveraging pre-existing group structures to disseminate these videos through human mediation. These videos are of the community, by the community and for the community. The approach includes: (1) a participatory process for video production on improved livelihood practices, (2) a human-mediated learning model for video dissemination and training, (3) a hardware and software technology platform for data management customized to limited or intermittent Internet and electrical grid connectivity, and (4) an iterative model to progressively address the needs and interests of the community with analytical tools. Our data management software called Connect Online | Connect Offline (COCO) and Analytics dashboard suite customized to low resource settings are used to collect and analyze near real-time data on dissemination, adoption, and community interest. Follow Us Facebook 6,366 Likes Twitter 1,800 Followers You Tube 3,948 Videos Linked In 377 Followers Google Plus 112 Followers Blog Press Events Careers Donate Contact Us Site Map Coco (cc) 2013 Digital Green