Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Departments    Academics and Human Resource Development Academics and Human Resource Development Faculties 1. Dr.C.V.Kavitha Abirami - Associate Professor and Head 2. Dr. S.Anandakumar - Assistant Professor 3. Dr.Akash Pare - Assistant Professor 4. Er.C.K.Sunil - Assistant Professor 5. Dr.A.Santhakumaran - Professor 6. Ms.T.S.Geetha Priya - Assistant Professor (c) Food Processing sector in India is poised to take off in a big way. India proposes to increase the world trade of processed foods from 1.5% to 3.0% by 2015. to achieve this growth and to improve upon it in the future, the sector needs technically trained manpower who are leaders and who can compete with big giants in food processing. Considering vital importance, IICPT offers B.Tech., M.Tech. and Ph.D. programs in Food Processing Engineering starting from 2009-10 academic year. The undergraduate course is of four years or eight semesters duration, graduate program two years or four semesters duration and the doctoral program is usually of 3 years duration.Students are admitted based on all India basis competitive exam exclusively conducted by IICPT at many places across the country and student intake is 40 in undergrauate, 10 in graduate and 5 in doctoral programs. We have Intern ational understanding with many institutions in Canada, USA and other countries. we send our undergraduate students for short term exposure or our graduate students for long term research training works. These training and research exposures help to create leaders in food processing who can take Indian food processing sector to greater heights. We strive hard to create globally competitive manpower and we achieve this by the following many special qualities of our academic program: Our curriculum is very well laid out after careful discussions amongst peers at national and international levels. We have a good mix of theoretical and hands-on training in the curriculum. Our laboratory facilities are of international standards. Our professors have wide international exposures and contacts. We send our students to villages to get first hand information on the problems faced by producers and the current status of production, storage, handling and marketing of foods. On the other hand, our students are send to reputed international institutions around he world for exposure visits, short term trainings or research experiences in advanced laboratories. These rural and international exposure help to create globally competitive manpower. No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com