Swadishta Mushrooms - innovative mushroom marketing in Kerala - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Swadishta Mushrooms – innovative mushroom marketing in Kerala Home Swadishta Mushrooms – innovative mushroom marketing in Kerala Innovative mushroom marketing Towards the end of one long hour conversation, Ms. Janaky Sreekumar lights up the fire of entrepreneurship as she made it look very simple to take risks in life and be successful. How to create demand for an unknown product in a rather unresponsive market like Kerala is the art she excels. Simple and very modest, Ms. Janaky started her journey of growing mushroom in one room of her home in the year 2000. Today she is the CEO of Swadishta Mushrooms, pioneers in growing mushroom and crafting unique mushroom dishes. Five star hotels, caterers, shopping malls and other sellers are regular customers of the company. Recently she has developed mushroom and vermicompost producing unit on 3 acres ancestral property at Malayinkil in Trivandrum with an investment of more than Rs. 1 crore. The chat session started with a direct question, “Being a post graduate in English literature why do you grow mushrooms? Wouldn’t it be nice having done something related to your qualification?” She serenely answered, “I was working with a Science & Technology Publishing firm for 7 years but had to quit due to family commitments.” She added, “My husband, Mr. N. Sreekumar, an Agriculture Postgraduate, was then working as Assistant Director with State Department of Agriculture, in Trivandrum. So it was easy for me to take his help in this new venture with respect to technical know-how, mushroom spawn and substrate procurement and many such small yet crucial matters in mushroom business.” She expanded her knowledge base on mushroom through books and training program at the Agricultural College, Vellayani and never missed any seminars or workshops on the subject. Formal training was the stepping stone to gain confidence in mushroom business for Ms. Janaky. “After taking professional training on spawn production and cultivation technology of oyster and milky mushrooms I was sure of growing best-quality mushrooms. I collected spawns (mushroom seeds) from Kerala Agricultural University for my regular farming needs,” she says. Passion helps in producing any commodity in the best possible quality but the bigger challenge is selling. Mushroom sales in Kerala surely could not have taken off amongst the picky Malayalees if Ms. Janaky tried to push the product in the market, and so she created the demand! How? “My first produce of oyster mushroom was distributed amongst friends and family free of cost. Positive response motivated me to next reach institutions, top hotels and restaurants with free samples,” she adds. Everyone accepted the quality of mushroom was excellent, and she started building up the client list. Ms. Janaky didn’t stop here. She made some more efforts to bring mushrooms in the daily menu of Keralites. Cookery classes and one-day events (open for everyone) were conducted across the city to make people first taste the scrumptious mushroom dishes followed by teaching them how to cook the same. Customers and chefs were now sharing their recipes and cooking tips, and the market for mushroom was indeed created. “We participated in most of the exhibitions & fairs with stalls promoting sale of mushroom based snacks and other multi cuisine dishes exclusively along with value added products like pickles etc. Frozen mushroom cutlet is our specialty which we mastered over many years,” says the excited Ms. Janaky. She is also focusing on value addition of mushrooms by starting a take home (parcel service) exclusively for multi-cuisine mushroom dishes and she is equipped with a mobile unit also for the purpose, the first of its kind in the country. Talking about supplying mushrooms to hotels she shares, “We cannot enter hotels without button mushroom. So we get it from Ooty everyday as button mushroom cannot be grown well in Kerala. Approximately 100 kgs is our daily requirement of button mushroom. Rest we supply another 25 kgs and 15 kgs of milky and oyster mushroom respectively every day.” Milky and oyster mushroom are also sold through direct sales and consumed at her own outlet. She is also into producing mushroom spawns since 2002. The Kerala Agricultural University (AICMP Center) has approved her mushroom center for spawn & mushroom production. She has a clientele of over 1000 farmers all over the state and outside (Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu etc) for mother spawn and cultivation spawns. She has set up a high tech spawn production unit with 50% financial assistance (Rs. 1.5 lakhs) from the State Horticultural Mission and is now producing more than 3000 mother / cultivation spawns every month .She intends to upgrade her unit to meet her growing requirements. She gives buy-back guarantee for milky mushrooms but not for oyster as the quality required is usually difficult to attain. She is regularly conducting a half a day training session and sharing her experiences for aspirants every since past seven years. Vermicomposting is another business activity of the company from 2002. She shares, “I could not just throw mushroom substrate in garbage adding to the ever-growing issue of managing waste. So we started effective utilization and conversion of SMS (spent mushroom substrate) into vermicompost using Japanese Technology with Amino & Mega bacterium solution.” Among the various recognition she has received, she cherishes the national award from The Directorate of Mushroom Research, Solan, H.P in 2008 close to her heart. Discussing her future plans she said that her new expansion plan at Malayinkil, Trivandrum, would benefit over 250 farmers and 5000 consumers. It has a capacity to produce 20000 kgs of fresh mushrooms, 5000 spawned mushroom beds and umpteen mushroom based value added products. The vermicompost unit would produce 400 tons vermicompost, 5000 liters vermiwash and market 500 Kgs earthworms. She is now completely focused to make this project a big success! Contact details- Swadhishta Mushrooms K-132, Chithira, Kochar Road, Sasthamangalam, Trivandrum-695010 Ph: 0471-3294171, 3190222, Mob: 9447136382 Email: contact.us@swadishtamushrooms.com Website: www.swadishtamushrooms.com Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Swadishta Mushrooms – innovative mushroom marketing in Kerala Related – articles, consultants, downloads Vikas Mushroom Farm – uses willow trees’ logs to grow exotic mushrooms Welkin Overseas – Mushroom cultivation Lavanya Mushroom Siddhidah Farm Services – bamboo cultivation You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water