JRG Securities - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop JRG Securities Home JRG Securities Agriculture commodity trading firm located in Kochi, Kerala JRG Securities Limited, headquarted in Kochi in Kerala state in the southern part of India was started as a partnership firm called JRG Associates, by Mr. Regi Jacob, Mr. Giby Mathew and Mr. Jiji Antony. It is one of India’s leading financial services providers and was incorporated in 1994. Today, JRG has acquired a name of trust through Equity, Commodity and Currency broking business. Mr. Harish Galipelli who serves as Commodities and Currency Head JRG gives us all the inputs on the company. Over the years, from being primarily a Kerala-centric broking firm, the company has transformed itself by establishing presence in other states in southern India. Today the company has more than 100 branches and over 200 business associates across five states of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra with over 1,00,000 retail clients. This network caters to a large retail customer base in Tier I, II and III cities. The company’s strategy is to expand its branch network to different cities in southern part of India. The company’s comprehensive understanding of the market dynamics gives it a competitive advantage in southern India. [hidepost] In 2007, Baring India Private Equity Fund II Ltd., (BIPEF) a leading private equity firm of international repute acquired a majority stake in the company. With the investment of BIPEF came fresh inflow of talent and a focused team committed to taking this company to greater heights. Since then JRG Securities has undergone several transformations – expanding into new geographies, adopting state-of-the-art technology, strengthening credit and risk management systems, creating new products and strengthening client relationships through service. The company is committed fully compliant with all regulatory compliances with the exchanges, SEBI, IRDA, FMC and Reserve Bank of India. JRG Securities is listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange and has a diverse set of public shareholders. Most of the traders in agriculture commodities are physical traders/stockists/exporters/ importers/processors. They either hedge or take delivery through futures market. Traders who have exposure in particular agriculture commodities in physical markets trade in other related commodities as fundamentals are similar in nature. Agriculture university graduates do trade in agriculture commodities depending on their need, interest and investment appetite towards future market. Many farmers/traders trade with us in agriculture commodities, especially in commodities like pepper, rubber, cardamom, channa and soya bean. Though the company’s dependence on the equity brokerage business has reduced significantly over the last 5 years, it still continues to derive a significant portion of its revenues from the equity brokerage business, which contributed 66.45% and 52.09% of the total consolidated income for the year ended March 31, 2010 and year ended March 31, 2011, respectively. For fiscal year 2011, the consolidated total income was Rs. 7,384.12 lakhs, compared to Rs. 7,157.31 lakhs in Fiscal 2010. The Consolidated Net Profit After tax amounted to Rs. 157.69 lakhs for Fiscal 2011 compared to net profit after tax Rs. 512.59 lakhs in Fiscal 2010. The company organizes seminars specially for agriculture commodity trading to educate customers about advantages of futures market. The company explains them hedging strategies and delivery system. The company targets traders in mandis, processing companies, exporters/importers and stockists. The company’s research department provides reports on agriculture commodities including supply and demand factors and price trend. The company provides continuous service through the company’s research as well as advisory desk. Research desk gives commodity reports on daily basis and also customized report on each commodity, which contains supply and demand factors and price trend. Advisory desk updates about price movement, market news and take care of trading aspects. The company also provides hedging strategies and procurement strategies in physical markets. Research personnel visit branches and conduct seminars on trading in agriculture commodities. The company offers online trading in agriculture commodities at www.inditrade.com. For opening an account one needs to contact company’s nearest branch office. The following documents have to be submitted while opening an account- one passport size photo, cancelled cheque leaf, PAN card zerox copy, address proof, six months bank statement, it is not mandatory when customer’s name is printed on the cheque leaf and Margin (investment) cheque. The account opening charges for online trading is Rs.500. The company says that it has got competitive brokerage charges. JRG Securities head office is located in Kochi, Kerala state. The company has also got branches in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. Since, agriculture commodities are prominently traded in these states, the company’s staff have good knowledge about agriculture commodities trading. The company provides strong research support and gives support to the customers in deliveries. It also gives guidance to agriculture commodity traders about hedging their price risk and deliveries. The company has also got plans to conduct more seminars to educate the customers on benefits of futures trading. The company is spearheaded by Mr. Anand Tandon (Chief Executive Officer), Mr. Tandon became the member of JRG Securities Ltd on 10th November 2010. He is a B.Tech from IIT, Kanpur and a PGDBM from IIM, Ahmedabad and has over 20 years of experience in the capital market. Mr. Tandon’s past profile includes senior leadership role at ASK Raymond James & Associates, Edelweiss Capital and in the Global Analytics Group of Citibank. Mr. Anand Tandon (Chief Executive Officer, JRG): He comments on market and finance sector Mr. Harish Galipelli (Commodities and Currency Head JRG): He comments on Commodities investment and Currency Derivatives. Mr. Chowda Reddy M V (Senior Research Analyst, Agri Commodities) JRG Wealth Management. He is expert to comment on Agriculture Commodities. Mr. Tapan Trivedi (Sr. Research Analyst, JRG Wealth Management Ltd): He is expertise to comments on Metals and Mining Sector. He do research on Indian and international markets by studying the impact of various economic, financial, policy and fundamental factors of supply & demand and preparing Reports thereon. Mr. Binu Joseph (Equity Expert): He comments on Equity Market (Technical). D A Dhananjaya (Head Third Party Products) : He comments on Insurance Sector. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr.Harish Galipelli, Head-Commodity & Currency Derivatives, JRG Securities Limited. Survey No. 115/22/23/25 Ground Floor, West Wing Surana Financial Park, Financial District,  Gachibowli Hyderabad – 500032 A P web : www.inditrade.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > JRG Securities Related – articles, consultants, downloads No related posts. You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water