Travel to Port Blair - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andaman and Nicobar Travel Shopping How to Reach Andaman and Nicobar Hotels Places to Visit in Andaman and Nicobar Long Island Cellular Jail Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park Anthropological Museum Islands Beaches in Andaman & Nicobar Andaman & Nicobar Monuments Museums in Andaman & Nicobar Picnic Sports Wildlife Sanctuaries Adventure Activities Honeymoon Places to See in Nicobar Port Blair Indira Point Car Nicobar Katchal Great Nicobar Island About Andaman Nicobar History Climate Home » Andaman & Nicobar Islands » State Tourism » Travel to Port Blair Travel to Port Blair Port Blair Tourism Port Blair Travel Guide helps explore the capital city of Andaman and Nicobar Islands - Port Blair which is referred to as a tropical paradise. If you leaf through its historical background, you would find that its past is painted with grim and dark stories. In the years gone by it used to serve as a jail to Indian prisoners (primarily freedom fighters) and hence was called the land of black waters or 'Kala Pani'. Port Blair, the capital of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is situated to the southern most part of India. The city lies on the East Coast to the South of India and is also the main gateway to the Islands. Travel to Port Blair highlights the absolute enthralling beauty of the city and what captures the attention of a large number of tourists and have an arresting effect on them. Best Time to Visit Port Blair The best time to travel to Port Blair is from June to September when the weather is pleasant and the tourists can indulge in any kind of activity without bothering about either the scorching heat or the winter chill. Port Blair is land of beautiful beaches and lush green surroundings. The scenic beauty of the place is what invites admiration of large number of visitors across the world. The serene climate adds to the pleasure of a holiday. There are several beautiful places endowed with gifts of nature. Travel to Port Blair to experience this all. Travel Tips to Port Blair Make sure you make booking arrangements for your trip to Port Blair well in advance. The accessibility to the islands is as easy as it is for the rest of the country. Once there, don't head to unknown and deserted places without someone who knows the area better. Rely only on government approved tourist guides. Don't travel in the city at night to avoid any mishap. How to Reach Port Blair Port Blair, the capital city of Andaman is not as easily accessible as other Indian cities and states, the reason being it located at a significant distance from the Indian mainland. The naturally beautiful surroundings of the island attract several visitors to the capital city of Port Blair throughout the year. If you are among the one's planning a trip to the place, look no further as 'How to Reach Port Blair' will guide you in getting to this city. By Air Port Blair being the capital city itself has an international airport. The Veer Savarkar International Airport at Port Blair receives regular flights from the states of Chennai and Kolkata. Indian Airlines and Jet Airways operate regular flights to Port Blair. Cost of a ticket: The ticket to Port Blair may require you to shell out anywhere between 10,000-12000 Indian rupees. Note: Also, certain private jets are allowed to land at the Port Blair Airport. By Ship The only other way to reach the city other than by flight is to take a ship to the port at Port Blair. The ships are available from Chennai, Kolkata and Vishakhapatnam. These ships sail thrice in a month from Kolkata and Chennai and once in a month from Vishakhapatnam. It takes around 3-4 days to reach the city. Cost of a ticket: The travel to the island will can cost you anywhere around 600 to 6000 Indian rupees depending on the class of accommodation. Shopping in Port Blair What is that one thing without which any of your journeys is absolutely incomplete? A visit to important places, excursions and sightseeing might be the things that add to your journey but shopping is something without which you cannot leave the place at all. If you are travelling to Port Blair and need information on the various shopping options at the place, you landed just at the right place. 'Shopping in Port Blair' bring to you all that you can buy along with the best places to buy these items in the city of Port Blair. Places for shopping in Port Blair The popular places for shopping in the city are: Aberdeen Bazaar If you are looking to indulge in some cheap shopping in Port Blair, there is no better place than the Aberdeen Bazaar. The place has several stalls that sell handicrafts, clothes and other goods of daily use at affordable prices. Some of the popular shops in the bazaar are: Queen Sea Shell Craft Gift Centre Craft Emporium Rtana Shell Galary Alagumani Sea Shell Craft Anwar Hussain Shell Craft Sagarika Government Emporium This place is popular for authentic shells jewellery and wood carvings bearing a trace of the culture of the island. The Emporium is located at the MG Road in the city centre. Andaman Handicrafts Emporium As the name suggests, this emporium is known for its unique handicraft products. Such is the credibility of the place that you will not have to regret about spending money on the things you purchased here. Ocean Shell craft, David Enterprises and Rahul Enterprises are some of the other places from where you can add to your list of souvenirs from the city of Port Blair. What to buy from Port Blair Pearl Artifacts Khadi Textiles Sea shells Palm Floor Mats Exquisite wood items Special Canoes particular to the Island of Andaman. Coconut Shells Bamboo and Cane furniture Last Updated on : 18/09/2013 Hotels in Andaman and Nicobar Portblair Hotels Havelock Hotels Travel to Andaman & Nicobar Travel to Port Blair Places to visit in Andaman-nicobar-islands Places to visit in Andaman-nicobar-islands Places to visit in Port Blair About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule