Agriculture Trade Show,International Agricultural Trade Fair,Agriculture Trade Exhibition JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Agriculture Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry AgricultureTrade Shows Date : 08 Mar - 11 Mar 2016 Smagua -  Spain "Smagua" in Spain is very well received by the local water sector and a large number of exhibitors. Venue : Feria de Zaragoza Spain Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Jun - 10 Jun 2017 Elmia Wood- Sweden -  Sweden Elmia Wood is the No1 dynamic forestry fair in the World. Every four years you get updated on the latest innovations from all the major machinery manufacturers, expand and refresh your contact network, get inspired and discover masses of new.... Venue : Elmia exhibition halls Sweden Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Nov - 19 Nov 2015 AgroFood Erbil -  Iraq International Trade Exhibition for Food and Agriculture indsutry. Erbil Agro Food will cover all kinds of Consumer and Industrial Products, Services, Machinery and Technology. Venue : Cairo International Convention and Exhibition Center ,Iraq Iraq Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Jun - 19 Jun 2015 Western Canada Farm Show -  Canada Agricultural Equipment Trade Show specializing in Dryland Agriculture, Livestock Equipment, Agricultural Chemicals, Farmstead Products and Services Venue : Evraz Place Canada Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Oct - 24 Oct 2015 Moldagrotech-Moldova -  Moldova, Republic of Moldagrotech would focus on the huge untapped potential of the Moldova market for agricultural products and technology in the emerging sectors of dairy, poultry, fruits and vegetables, especially in view of the approaching WTO deadlines. Venue : I.E.C. Moldexpo ,Chișinău Moldova, Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Oct - 16 Oct 2015 IFEX : International Flower Expo Tokyo -  Japan IFEX : International Flower Expo Tokyo 2015 is asia's largest and most significant business-generating trade venue in the industry. flower and garden industry professionals such as florists, garden centers, home center buyers, wholesalers,.... Venue : Makuhari Messe Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Mar - 09 Mar 2017 Asia Pacific Sourcing -  Germany Asia-Pacific Sourcing - International Exhibition for Home and Garden Products from far east. The event is a separate platform presenting Asian products from the house, garden and leisure sector. Venue : Exhibition Centre Cologne Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Feb - 29 Feb 2016 9th INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR ON -  India 9th INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR ON   is a mega exhibition exclusively organized for the Woodworking Industry. The main focus area of the event will be technology up-gradation and capacity expansion. Venue : Bangalore International Exhibition Centre India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 30 Jun - 05 Jul 2015 Hampton Court Palace Flower Show -  United Kingdom In 2015 we'll be celebrating the 25th year of the RHS Hampton Court Palace Flower Show. Look out for lots of themed events to mark the anniversary including silver anniversary floristry, historic gardens and scarecrows celebrating the past..... Venue : Hampton Court Palace Surrey United Kingdom Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Dec - 06 Dec 2015 The One of a Kind Show-Chicago -  United States The One of a Kind Show-Chicago show 2015 is an extraordinary holiday shopping show featuring the best in fine art and fine craft which is ideal place to find unique gifts, clothing, jewelry and accessories. Venue : The Merchandise Mart ,IL United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 03 Sep - 06 Sep 2015 ASEAN Farm Show -  Indonesia A GATEWAY TOWARD THE NEW GLOBAL ECONOMIC POWER ASEAN Farm Show brings a wide range of products and equipment for food farming applications from breeding to harvesting. Covering agriculture, horticulture, poultry, livestock, fisheries and.... Venue : Grand City Convex ,Jakarta Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Oct - 16 Oct 2015 International Flower Expo Tokyo -  Japan International Flower Expo Tokyo is an annual flower and garden show, which focuses wholly on the agriculture and forestry industry. The show ranks as the best flower and garden show in entire Asia, and is held concurrently with the International.... Venue : Makuhari Messe - International Convention Center ,chiba Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Feb - 20 Feb 2016 Malaysia International Technology Expo 2016 -  Malaysia Entering its 15th year in 2016, MTE will once again bring recognition to many of the best ideas and inventions in the region at the Invention & Innovation Awards 2016 and the Malaysia International Design Expo & Awards (mIDEAS) 2016 to be held in.... Venue : Putra World Trade Centre (PWTC) ,Kuala Lumpur Malaysia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 May - 16 May 2015 AGRO & POULTRY 2015 -  Tanzania, United Republic of Agro Poultry East Africa is going to organize 3 day event being held from 14th May to the 16th May 2015 at the Diamond Jubilee Hall Exhibition Centre in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The main focusing elements are products and services like.... Venue : Diamond Jubilee Hall ,Dar-es-salaam Tanzania, United Republic of Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 May - 11 May 2015 Guangzhou Int'L Garden Machinery Fair -  China Guangzhou Int'L Garden Machinery Fair 2015 is one of the leading fair which is providing common international business opportunities for the related industries and related professionals and show will there showing quality products. Venue : China Import and Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,Guangdong China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 May - 11 May 2015 The 7th Guangzhou Int'l Garden Machinery Fair (GMF 2015) -  China In GMF 2014, about 100 established companies were gathered to exhibit and showcase their latest products at the show, such as Stihl, Husqvarna AB, Greenman, Bronte, O-JENAS, Global Tools, Jiling Dongyuan Machinery Manufacture Co., Ltd.,.... Venue : China Import & Export Fair Pazhou Complex ,china China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Apr - 01 May 2015 AGRISHOW 2015 -  Brazil Agrishow, is one of the biggest and most complete trade fairs in the world for agricultural technology. Venue : Agrishow ,São Paulo Brazil Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Apr - 25 Apr 2015 ZITF - ZIMBABWE INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR 2015 -  Zimbabwe The Zimbabwe International Trade Fair is the largest intra-regional trade fair South of the Sahara. An annual exhibition which offers exposure to both trade and public visitors, the multi-sectoral, multi-national expo provides the largest, most.... Venue : Zimbabwe International Exhibition Centre (ZIEC) ,Famona Zimbabwe Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Apr - 05 Apr 2015 Garden World Istanbul -  Turkey GARDEN WORLD 2015 - the 10th Istanbul Garden Furniture, Landscaping, Gardening Equipment, Pools and Plants Fair is to be held on 2 - 5 APRIL at Tuyap Fair, Convention and Congress Center in Istanbul, TURKEY. Venue : Tüyap Fair, Convention and Congress Center ,Buyukcekmece Turkey Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Mar - 29 Mar 2015 House And Garden -  Russian Federation The aim of the exhibition is creation of global business and informational space for professionals and amateurs of landscape design. Architects and landscape designers will present interesting projects, establish contacts with suppliers of plants,.... Venue : Crocus Expo International Exhibition Center ,Moscow Russian Federation Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 26 Mar - 28 Mar 2015 MECSPE-Parma 2015 -  Italy MECSPE is the reference fair for the manufacturing industry. The meeting point between production technologies and industrial sectors thanks to the synergy of 9 thematic halls that are held in contemporary and that offer the visitor a complete.... Venue : Fiere di Parma ,PR Italy Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 19 Mar - 22 Mar 2015 For Garden 2015 -  Czech Republic For Garden expo is one of the premier exhibition in Prague and will showcase garden furniture, landscape gardening equipments, garden tools and water features. Venue : PVA EXPO PRAGUE Czech Republic Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Mar - 14 Mar 2015 Aahar International Food Fair -  India Aahar 2015 - 30th AAHAR The largest fair on Food & Hospitality Sector in India. This will cover two separate but concurrent exhibitions. Hospitality India covering Hotel & Restaurant Equipment and Supplies and Food.... Venue : Pragati Maidan, Hall No. 7-12A ,Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 06 Mar - 08 Mar 2015 Buffalo Home & Garden Show -  United States JOHN AND WHITNEY SPINKS of HGTV'S Flipping the Block will be appearing at the 2015 Buffalo Home Show March 7 & 8 at Noon and 4pm. John and Whitney Spinks at the Buffalo Home Show Fans of HGTV’s Flipping the Block rooted for married.... Venue : Buffalo Nigara Convention Center ,NY United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Feb - 08 Mar 2015 Cincinnati Home & Garden Show -  United States It’S Winter, It’S January, There’S Frost On The Course! Head Down To The  Annual Cincinnati Golf Show® Where You’Ll Always Find Unbelievable Deals On Equipment And Clothing, The Best Places To Golf Near And Far,.... Venue : Duke Energy Convention Center ,Ohio United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship