Travel to Ahmedabad - Tourism, Destinations, Hotels, Transport Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Ahmedabad Travel Tourist Map How to Reach Shopping Hotels in Ahmedabad Travel Agents Weekend Trips from Ahmedabad Places to Visit in Ahmedabad Gardens in Ahmedabad Law Garden Bal Vatika Victoria Garden Lakes in Ahmedabad Chandola Lake Kankaria Lake Ahmedabad Wildlife Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary The Kamla Nehru Zoological Garden The Runn of Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary Religious Places in Ahmedabad Bhadrakali Temple Hatheesing Jain Temple Sidi Sayed Jhali Rani Sipri's Mosque Ahmed Shah's Mosque Swaminarayan Temple Akshardham Temple Amusement Parks Ahmedabad Metro Map Route Maps Hyderabad to Ahmedabad Mumbai to Ahmedabad Jaipur to Ahmedabad Goa to Ahmedabad Ahmedabad Map Road Map Railway Map District Map Tehsil Map Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Home » Ahmedabad » Travel to Ahmedabad Travel to Ahmedabad Travel to Ahmedabad Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now * Map showing the major tourist places in Ahmedabad. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Ahmedabad Tourism One can find a happy blend of the glorious past and a vibrant present while traveling in Ahmedabad. Ahmedabad, the former capital of the state of Gujarat is named after a Sultan Ahmed Shah,who founded it in 1411. The city is associated with Mahatma Gandhi, Father of the Nation, whose simple Sabarmati Ashram on the banks of river Sabarmati is now a site of national pilgrimage. Ahmedabad is a great textile and commercial centre and known as the "Manchester of India" Steeped in history Ahmedabad is a city which ahs still been able to maintain its old world charm despite the rampages of modernization. Run into any corner of the city, you would find some or other monument, temple or mosque with a story to tell you. Ahmedabad basks in the memories of Mahatma Gandhi and freedom struggle. Apart from the historic appeal, vibrant festivities, exquisite art and crafts - the city has manifold charms to bowl you over. Travel to Ahmedabad during the time of Navaratra. The pulsating beats of Dandiya would have you swaying in the rhythms. How to Reach Ahmedabad One can reach Ahmedabad, one of the most industrialized cities in Western India, by rail, road or bus. By Air Ahmedabad airport is 10 km north of the city and has both the domestic and international terminal. By Rail Ahmedbad has direct train services to major cities in India. By Road Ahmedabad has good highways connecting it to all major places in Gujarat and other states. Interstate buses of different states of India provide services to and from Ahmedabad. Distance to Ahmedabad From delhi : 915 KM From bangalore : 1495 KM From kolkata : 1924 KM From chennai : 1826 KM Ahmedabad Distance Chart Shopping in Ahmedabad Shopping in Ahmedabad is fun wandering through this city of fabrics and curios with a strong old world charm. Premier shopping areas in Ahmedabad are C.G.Road, Ashram Road, Law Garden, and Relief Road. The Khadi Gram Udyog Emporiums, Hastkala, Kapasi Handicrafts Emporium, Saurashtra Emporium, and Bandhej are some of the places where one can get cotton garments, handicrafts, and curios. Gurjari, the Gujarat State Crafts Emporium, has some of the best products not only from Ahmedabad but also from Gujarat. Teen Darwaja in old city, once a great place for antique, will be a fascinating shopping experience if one has the time and inclination for bargaining. Places to See in Ahmedabad Shanku's Water Park Chandola Lake Kankaria Lake Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary The Kamla Nehru Zoological Garden The Runn Of Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary Ahmed Shah's Mosque Bhadrakali Temple Rani Sipri's Mosque Sidi Sayed Jhali Akshardham Temple Swaminarayan Temple The Hatheesing Jain Temple The Victoria Garden The Law Garden Bal Vatika Last Updated on : May 8, 2015 Travel to Gujarat Travel to Bhavnagar Travel to Bhuj Travel to Dwarka Travel to Gandhi Nagar Travel to Gondal Travel to Surat Travel to Utelia Travel to Vadodara Travel to Zainabad Places to Visit Gujarat Places to visit in Ahmedabad Places to visit in Bhavnagar Places to visit in Bhuj Places to visit in Dwarka, Gujarat Places to visit in Gondal Places to visit in Surat Places to visit in Utelia Places to visit in Vadodra Places to visit in Zainabad About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule