Horticultural Research Station Kodaikanal Horticultural Research Station Kodaikanal Search web About Technologies Developed Crop Improvement Crop Improvement Studies in Progress Genetic Repository Crop Management Crop Protection Research and Projects Teaching and Extension Outstanding Achievements Farm Components Infrastructure Future Strategies Faculty Photo Gallery Contact Address Sitemap Contact Address Dr. J. Rajangam  Associate Professor and Head,  Horticultural Research Station,  Kodaikanal – 624 103  e-Mail:   hrskodai@tnau.ac.in Phone No:  04542 -240931 Fax:  04542-240931 Home   This station was initially started as Apple Research Station in the year 1961 under ICAR for the development of apple varieties in Tamil Nadu. Later, renamed as Horticultural Research Station in the year 1971 after the establishment of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University to conduct research in fruits, vegetables, flowers, medicinal and aromatic crops of temperate region. The Station is situated in 3 Kms from Kodaikanal with Potential hill Eco-System.  Location Eastern parts of Western Ghats, Kodaikanal, Dindigul District  Total Area:  18.36 ha  Cultivable Area:  14.50 ha  Latitude:  10.20N  Longitude:  77.50E  Altitude:  2300m above MSL  Soil:  Peaty and Lateritic  pH:  5.5-6.5  Average Rainfall:  1700mm  Relative Humidity:  40-100%  Maximum Temperature:  -280C Minimum temperature -2.50C Objectives Introduction and evaluation of various temperate crops for their suitability to upper pulney hills. Standardizing technologies and development of strategies on crop improvement, management and crop protection. Disseminating the information on developed techniques to farmers through effective extension systems. Production of quality planting materials of temperate crops. To serve as a centre of learning in sub tropical and temperate crops to Under Graduate and Post Graduate students of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and other Institutions. Mandatory Crops Fruits and Nuts : Apple, Plum, Pear, Peach, Almond, Apricot, Walnut,  Kiwi, Strawberry and Persimmon Vegetables : Potato, Beans, Peas, Carrot, Crucifers and Garlic Flowers : Carnation, Gerbera, Gladiolus, and Eustoma Medicinal Plants : Foxglove,  Centella asiatica , Vasambu, Chitarathai and Isabgol Aromatic Plants : Geranium, Citronella, Lemon grass, Lavender, Thyme, Mint and Rosemary Comments Sign in | Recent Site Activity | Report Abuse | Print Page | Powered By Google Sites