Kerala Physical Map Home » Maps » Kerala » Kerala Physical Map   Kerala Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Districts in Kerala Kerala Road Map Railway Map Rivers in Kerala Tehsils in Kerala Regions in Kerala Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Forests in Kerala केरल का नक्शा Cities in Kerala Kochi Thiruvananthapuram Ernakulam Munnar Thrissur Travel to Kerala Places to visit in Kerala Backwaters Map Beaches in Kerala Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations in Kerala Guruvayur Temple Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary Hill Palace Museum Edakkal Caves Funcity Surya Pilgrimage Destinations Map About Kerala How to Reach Kerala History of Kerala Geography of Kerala Weather in Kerala Economy of Kerala Industries in Kerala Kerala Government Kerala Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Hotels in Kerala Hotels in Kochi Hotels in Kumarakom Hotels in Munnar Hotels in Trivandrum Hotels in Thiruvananthapuram Hotels in Guruvayur Hotels in Thekkady Hotels in Wayanad Kerala Ayurveda Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Utilities Distance Chart Kerala Pin code Kerala STD code Education in Kerala Universities in Kerala Karten von Kerala Ubersichtskarte von Kerala       Kerala Physical Map Physical Map of Kerala Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Physical Map of Kerala showing plateaus, deserts, river basins, lakes and physical altitude scale. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The total area of Kerala accounts for 1.18% of the total landmass of India. The entire area measures up to around 38863sq. km. Fourteen districts make up the state of Kerala. This area includes 9400sq.km of land under forests and 1941sq.kms of wetlands. The cultivated area amounts to 2.292 million hectares (mh). The western coastal belt of Kerala is home to a vast chain of interconnected canals, estuaries, lakes and rivers. This network of interconnected waterways is popularly referred to as the Backwaters of Kerala. Lake Vembanad, Kerala's largest waterbody lies between Alappuzha and Kochi and is more than 200 sq.km in area. All the waterways in Kerala put together add up to 8% of the total number of waterways found in India. (Measurement in terms of length). Kerala is home to forty four rivers and the largest river is the Periyar River which is nearly 244kms long. The total area under forests is 11,125.59sq.kms which includes wildlife sanctuaries. The forest cover is mainly to be found on the Western Ghats, also called the Sahayadri. Bordering Kerala on the eastern side it has now been classified as one of the 25 biodiversity hotspots of the world. Biodiversity areas are those areas that are biologically rich but no longer possess their previous abundance in terms of habitat. They play an important role in conservation and protection of endangered species of plants and animals. Forests cover nearly 28.88% of Kerala's landmass. The forests may be divided into: Tropical Wet Evergreen Forests Tropical Moist Deciduous Forests Mountain Sub Tropical and Plantations. Talliparamba, Mallapuram, Kozhikode, Alappuzha have been classified as Industrial Growth Centers of Kerala. There are many kinds of industries in Kerala, the Tourism Industry being one of the most important. Other industries include seafood and marine products, textiles, and spices. The industrial policy of Kerala is designed to capitalize on the strengths of the state. Kerala is rich in natural resources and filled with the goodness of nature. A variety of wildlife and plants make this area one of the most holistic and beautiful area of the world. The innumerable meandering rivers and lush greenery is ideal for rejuvenating both body and soul. Last Updated on : 23/07/2013 Kerala Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Elevation Map Lat Long Map Regions Map Kozhikode Monorail Map District Map Rail Map Road Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Industry Map Kochi Metro Map Airports in Kerala Travel Map Backwaters Map Beaches Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hill Stations Map Pilgrimage Destinations Map About Kerala History Geography Weather Rivers and Lakes Languages Festivals Onam Culture Art Spices Economy             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule