Official Website:: Indian Veterinary Research Institute A+   |   A   |   A- About IVRI Preface Milestone Mandate Past Directors IVRI Administration Research Milestone Organogram Link & Collaboration Honours & Awards Location Map Contact Directory Research Joint Directorate of Research Preface from Joint Director(Research) Mandate Activities Research Projects Patents Technologies Transfered Technologies for Transfer Contact Details Academic IVRI Deemed University Message from Joint Director(Academic) Deemed University Administration Academic Session Cources Offered MVSc PhD National Diploma Admission Procedure For Sponspred Candidate Fellowship Medals & Awards Facilities Available University News IVRI Alumini Divisions Animal Health Divisions Division of Animal Biotechnology Division of Bacteriology & Mycology Division of Biological Products Division of Epidemiology Immunology Section Division of Medicine Division of Parasitology Division of Pathology Divison of Pharmacology & Toxicology Division of Standardization Division of Surgery Division of Veterinary Public Health Division of Virology Animal Production Divisions Animal Genetics Div. Animal Nutrition Div Animal Reproduction Division Livestock Production & Management Section. Division Physiology & Climatology Divison of Temprate Animal Husbandray Basic & Social Sc. Divisions Biochemistry & Food Sc. Section BEMI Section Extension Education Div Liv. Eco., Statistics & IT Div. Liv. Products & Tech. Div Sections ARIS Cell Bioinformatics Centre Centre Data Cell Communication Centre Engineering Section Farm Section Farm Machinery and Power Workshop Institute Technology Management Unit (I.T.M.U.) Laboratory Animal Resources Feed Technology Unit Germ Plasm Centre Humal Hospital National Library for Vety. Science Wildlife Section Games & Sports Section राजभाषा अनुभाग Extension Joint Directorate (EE) Preface Objectives Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Infrastructure/Facilities Research Projects Scientific Staff Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - Single Delivery Window Kisaan Mela 2011 Training Programmes Contact Details Disease Diagnosis Joint Directorate (CADRAD) Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Scientific Staff Training Programme Contact Details Services Biological Products Diagnostics & Examination Vety. Polyclinic Livestock Products Disease Diagnosis Vermi Biocomposting Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - IVRI Single Window ITMU-Technology Transfer IVRI Publications Campuses Regional Campus Bangaluru Regional Station Kolkata Regional Station Mukteswar Regional Station Palampur Loading » IVRI Deemed University Admission Procedure For Master Programme Admission for MVSc programme will be held on the basis of all India Competitive Examination conducted by the Education Division, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. All the candidates including sponsored (in-service) for seeking admission to MVSc programme must have to appear in the written Examination. For more information related to Competitive Examination, please visit the Education Division, ICAR, New Delhi website.(www.icar.org.in.) All the seats at Masters' level are to be filled on the basis of combined examination for admissions and award of ICAR Junior Research Fellowships conducted by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. On the basis of merit and after counseling, ICAR finalizes the students for Post-Graduate degree programme(MVSc) in this university in 22 various disciplines. For more information on the details of the discipline and eligibility criteria, please visit the Master Programme page. For Doctoral Programme Advertisement inviting applications for admission is published in the first/second week of February/March every year in the newspapers and also in the website of IVRI (http:/ /www.ivri.nic.in) every year around the first/second week of February/March inviting applications for admission. The last date for receipt of applications shall generally be first week of April every year or a date as may be specified from time to time by the University. Doctoral programme is offered in 19 various discipline. For more information on available seats in various discipline and eligibility criteria. Admission in the PhD programme will be held on the basis of an all India Entrance Examination. The written entrance examination for admission to Ph.D. courses is conducted by the University on All India basis at the following IVRI Campuses/Stations: IVRI Campus, Izatnagar, Bareilly (U.P.) IVRI Campus, Hebbal, Bangalore (Karnataka) National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal IVRI Regional Station, Kolkata (West Bengal) IVRI Regional Station, Palampur (Himachal Pradesh) Selection Criteria Written examination The candidates who fulfill the prescribed minimum qualifications are only eligible to appear in the competitive written examination. Submission of application form for admission is not itself a guarantee for appearing in the written examination for admission at this Institute. The minimum qualifying marks in the competitive entrance examination for consideration of admission to PhD programme shall be as under Examination Minimum qualifying marks in Competitive entrance test General candidates OBC candidates SC/ST candidates Subject matter of 200 Marks 50% (100 marks out of 200) 48% (96 marks out of 200) 45% (90 marks out of 200 Note: The minimum qualifying marks for PH candidates will be same as for the category he belongs to i.e. SC, ST, OBC and General. The merit list of the examination will be declared on the basis of marks obtained in the written examination. In case of tie, admission will be given to the candidate on the basis of marks obtained in their MVSc degree and then BVSc degree. In case of tie even in the above, the candidate older in age will be admitted. Subjects for Written Examination The candidates may appear in the written examination in any one of the subject as per Information Bulletin. The subject and its code for entrance examination should be clearly indicated in the application form. The Question paper will contain multiple choice questions. Syllabus, for the examination has been given in the Information Bulletin. The medium of examination will be English only. Venue, date, time and centre of examination The written examination for Ph.D. degree programme shall be held during 3rd week of May & second week of June every year at the above Centres from 11.00 AM to 1.00 PM. In case sufficient number of candidates do not opt for a particular Centre, it will be merged with another Centres. No TA/DA for appearing in the written examination will be paid by the Institute. However, only eligible un-employed Schedule Caste/Scheduled Tribe candidates who appeared in the written examination will be paid traveling allowance limited to Sleeper Class railway fare by the shortest route both ways on production of caste certificate in original issued by the Competent Authority, and evidence of journey performed. Payment of TA will be made through Bank Draft which will be sent by post only. The candidates will have to make their own arrangements for lodging and boarding during the period of stay for entrance examination. Duration and Type of Entrance Examination The entrance examination in the subjects as per given choice will be of 2 hours duration and will contain multiple choice questions. The candidate will be given separate answer sheet to mark one correct answer out of four choice given. The candidate will have to return the Question booklet and Answer Sheet after the end of examination to the Invigilators. Announcement of Result The final selection for admission to PhD degree programme for both fresh and sponsored candidates will be based on merit list prepared separately on the basis of marks obtained in the Entrance Examination and will be displayed in the third week of June, 2015 on the Institute’s Website (www.ivri.nic.in). Reservation Fifteen (15%) percent seats for scheduled caste, 7.5% seats for scheduled tribe, 27% seats for Other Backward category (OBC) and 3% for Physically Challenged (PH) candidate. In case seat under SC/ST category seat is vacant due to non-availability of eligible SC/ST candidate, the seat will be interchangeable in a particular discipline amongst the eligible SC/ST candidates. Even after that if the seat is vacant in SC/ST category, it will not be filled from any other category candidates. In case any OBC reserved seat remains vacant due to non-availability of eligible OBC candidates, the said OBC seats shall be filled up amongst the general category candidates of the same subject/discipline as per merit. 3% (2 seats) will be reserved for physically challenged candidates as per their merit on horizontal basis. The reservation is applicable only in case of candidates admitted under open category and not under sponsored category.