Electronics Trade Show,Electrical Trade Fair,Electronic Goods Trade Events,Exhibition JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Electronics & Electrical Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Electronics & ElectricalTrade Shows Date : 12 Sep - 16 Sep 2016 Electra Mining Africa -  South Africa Electra Mining Africa is a unique concept specifically designed for uniting and reinforcing the ties among equipment producers, traders, service and product suppliers and specifically consumers, the mining and smelting plants of Africa. Venue : Expo Centre Johannesburg ,Johannesburg South Africa Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Sep - 19 Sep 2015 Electric Indonesia Series -  Indonesia Electric Indonesia Series of Power Generation, Electronics and Electrical Equipment Exhibitions. The events is visited by key decision-makers keen to discover the latest in electrical accessories, switchgear, lighting and smart building.... Venue : Jakarta International Expo (JIExpo) ,Jakarta Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 16 Sep - 19 Sep 2015 Electronic Indonesia Series -  Indonesia Electric Indonesia Series of Power Generation, Electronics and Electrical Equipment Exhibitions. The events is visited by key decision-makers keen to discover the latest in electrical accessories, switchgear, lighting and smart building.... Venue : Jakarta International Expo (JIExpo) ,Jakarta Indonesia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Sep - 16 Sep 2016 Elenex Vietnam -  Viet Nam Electric & Power Vietnam, Vietnam’s Leading Power & Energy Solutions Event will return to Saigon Exhibition & Convention Center (SECC) on 14-16 September 2016 in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. Venue : Saigon Exhibition & Convention Center ,Ho chi Minh City Viet Nam Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 Feb - 16 Feb 2016 Ambiente Germany -  Germany Ambiente will be the hub of the consumer goods world. Around 100 different nationalities on both the exhibitor's and visitor's side make visiting Ambiente a journey around the world in just five days. Venue : Exhibition Centre Frankfurt ,Berlin Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 31 May - 02 Jun 2016 LASYS 2016 -  Germany LASYS is the only international trade fair, which focuses clearly on laser material processing. In an unrivalled way it shows the entire user spectrum of lasers, covering a comprehensive range of laser applications across different industries and.... Venue : New Stuttgart Trade Fair Centre ,Stuttgart Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 24 Jun - 27 Jun 2015 Automotive Manufacturing Thailand -  Thailand Automotive Manufacturing-Thailand 2011 will once again be the “event of the industry,” an exclusive congregation of auto part makers from across the region to arm themselves with state-of-the-art technologies and innovations to serve.... Venue : Bangkok International Trade & Exhibition Centre (BITEC) Thailand Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 29 Sep - 02 Oct 2015 Elektrotechniek -  Netherlands Elektrotechniek is from 29 September to 2 October in the Jaarbeurs in Utrecht. The idea behind the exhibition is completely renewed. Of scholarship to event. Electrical engineering has four areas of application. Venue : Jaarbeurs Utrecht ,Utrecht Netherlands Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 29 May - 01 Jun 2015 ELASIA -  India ELASIA is the biggest International Exhibition focused on power, electrical & industrial electronics. It will provide an unparalleled global forum for product information, first hand data and also to create business links. It will bring.... Venue : Bombay Exhibition Centre ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 27 Nov - 29 Nov 2015 Light India International -  India Light India International  is covering a double digit growth in the last three years.Lighting industry is focused for rapid development,with the increased investments in the Infrastructural sectors. The lighting industry in.... Venue : Milan Mela Complex ,Kolkata ,West Bengal India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 11 Jun 2015 Atlantic Design Manufacturing Show -  United States Atlantic Design & Manufacturing continues to be a vital and one of the largest design and manufacturing trade show serving the Northeastern United States. Find the resources you need to increase productivity, improve quality, reduce costs, and.... Venue : Jacob K. Javits Convention Center ,NY United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 11 Nov - 13 Nov 2015 China Electronics Fair- Shanghai -  China China Electronics Fair (CEF) is an authoritative electronics show in China, which is the only one supported fully by China Ministry of Information Industry and Ministry of Commerce. Taking the advantages of the most comprehensive, the largest.... Venue : Shanghai New International Expo Centre Co., Ltd. (SNIEC) ,Shanghai China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 12 Jun 2015 The 14th China International Consumer Goods Fair -  China The 14th China International Consumer Goods Fair (CICGF) is the largest and most professional international consumer goods fair in China, which ranks only second to Canton Fair among all the exhibitions sponsored by Ministry of Commerce. Venue : Ningbo International Conference & Exhibition Center ,Zhejiang China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 14 Oct - 16 Oct 2015 EP Shanghai -  China EP Shanghai 20015 - International Exhibition on Electric Power Equipment & Technology - is the only electric power event. It is the only Power exhibition in China endorsed as an UFI approved event. Venue : Shanghai International Convention Center (SICEC) China Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Jan - 15 Jan 2016 PWB Expo - Printed Wiring Boards Expo -  Japan The latest PCBs and related technologies, enabling greater functionality and higher performance of electronic products, will gather. Must-attend show for all designers/developers involved in the electronics industry. Venue : Tokyo International Exhibition Center (Tokyo Big Sight) ,Tokyo Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Sep - 11 Sep 2015 Electronica and Productronia India -  India Electronica India and productronica India, formerly known as electronicIndia, are the most important events for the electronics industry in India. Electronica India, international exhibition for electronic components, assemblies and materials and.... Venue : Pragati Maidan ,Central Delhi ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Nov - 05 Nov 2015 Design & Manufacturing Midwest -  United States Design & Manufacturing Midwest keep you abreast of the latest advances in your industry but it also presents your best opportunity of the year to explore supplier alliances, technology licensing, partnerships, and joint ventures. Venue : Minneapolis Convention Center ,Minneapolis United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Jun - 11 Jun 2015 For Elektro -  Morocco For Elektro Represents To The Specialists Community Advanced Developments In The Field Of Industrial Electrical Engineering For Design, Assembly And Operation Of Power Supply Networks And Electricity Generating Plants Of Enterprises, Manufacture.... Venue : Russian Federation ,Krasnopresnenskaya nab Morocco Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 15 Sep - 19 Sep 2015 For Therm -  Czech Republic Companies from all over the world will be presenting their latest products and services to visitors, as well as planners, architects and interested users. That makes Czech Republic Refrigeration, Heating, Ventilation & Air Condition the most.... Venue : Prague Exhibition Centre (PVA) ,Letnany Czech Republic Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Aug - 23 Aug 2015 International Industrial Expo & Conferences-Gurgaon -  India International Industrial Expo & Conferences, (IIEC) have been meticulously planned to provide an upbeat, pioneering and value based platform for interaction within professionals, manufacturers/distributors of latest technology under one roof..... Venue : HSIIDC Manesar ,Gurgaon ,Haryana India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 05 Nov - 07 Nov 2015 Philtronics Expo -  Philippines Philtronics Expo helps companies and individuals participating in the global semiconductor industry thrive by cultivating productive relationships with their customers and technology partners. Venue : SMX Convention Center Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Nov - 19 Nov 2015 Energy Harvesting & Storage USA -  United States Energy Harvesting & Storage usa 2015 show is International conference and exhibition for the assessing the applications, technologies and opportunities and this event, focusing on the uses, potential users and market forecasts as well as.... Venue : Santa Clara Convention Center ,Santa Clara United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Oct - 22 Oct 2015 EEBC-Kiev -  Ukraine EEBC-Kiev 2015 is one of the leading Communication and Electronic show which is showing therer products and services, it will providing an ideal place for the related industires and related professionals. Venue : Kiev Expo Plaza Exhibition Center ,Kyiv Ukraine Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 22 Sep - 25 Sep 2015 FEBRAVA 2015 -  Brazil 19th International Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, Ventilation, Heating and Air Treatment Fair.  Febrava-Brazil 2015 will be the largest generator of business and information, the fair will offer tools to expand.... Venue : Imigrantes Convention Center ,SP Brazil Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Jun - 04 Jun 2015 LumiVille : the international outdoor lighting trade-fair -  France The leading trade-show for public and outside lighting in France  To discover the current and future solutions related to clever outside and public lighting, to be aware of the sector’s stakes and tendencies,.... Venue : Eurexpo ,France France