Civil lines Locality Map, Agra home » Agra » Civil lines   Agra Localities Dayal Bagh Delhi Gate Sanjay Place Civil Lines Sikandra Pratap Pura Taj Nagari more... Agra Weather Pin Code STD code   Agra Travel Taj Mahal Travel to Agra Places to Visit in Agra Hotels in Agra Restaurants in Agra Flights to Agra Trains to Agra Buses from Agra Airport Travel Agents Distance Chart   Agra Education Schools Agra Map City Map Tourist Map District Map Road Map River Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Taj Ganj Map Agra Fort Map Uttar Pradesh Geography and History Cities in Uttar Pradesh Noida Lucknow Allahabad Kanpur Agra more.. Uttar Pradesh Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Region Map District Map                    (in Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Thematic Map       Civil lines Map Civil Lines is one of the most popular regions of Agra. The presence of all facilities within the region turned it into a prosperous place. The region encompasses a large area within which lies other regions. Situated 5 km to the north of Agra city, Civil Lines is the commercial hub of Agra. Civil Lines encompasses within it several colonies and localities. Some of these are Ramnagar Colony, Vijayanagar Colony, Karbala, Suryanagar, Lajapat Kunj, Wazirpura and Nehru Nagar. The railway station of Raja Ki Mandi is also located within the region of Civil Lines. It is connected to the center of the city by the National Highway No 2. Mathura Road and Raja Balwant Singh Road also encircles the region and provides easy accessibility to the rest of the city. The Agra Airport is located at a distance of 9 kms from Civil Lines. Other than the markets that are in abundance in this region, the place is also equipped with various hotels, restaurants and movie auditoriums. Civil Lines is also known for the training and professional institutes that lie in the region. The Income Tax Office is situated in this part of Agra. The most important educational institute in this region is the Agra University. The City Civil Court also lies within the region. The various places that tourists may visit while residing in Civil Lines are the St. Peters Church and The Spiritual Museum. Shopping complex found in this region is: Gandhi Ashram Khadi Bhavan Raja-ki-Mandi Agra # 2273281. Various hotels are there in Civil Lines for the tourists to reside. The two renowned places are Ashoka Hotel and the bungalow provided by the State Tourist Development Corporation of Uttar pradesh . The Civil Lines region is commercially one of the most developed centers of Agra city. More Agra Locality Maps Belan Ganj Dayal Bagh Delhi Gate Foundry Nagar Jeoni Mandi Kamala Nagar Kamla Nagar MG Road Nehru Nagar Sanjay Place Shahganj Sikandra Tajganj Civil Lines Khandari Madhu Nagar Sadar Bazar Trans Yamuna Colony Daresi Road Hing Ki Mandi Road Mantola Namner Road Pratap Pura Raja ki Mandi Rakabganj Shahzadi Mandi Fatehabad Road Mahatma Gandhi Road Shaheed Nagar Taj Nagari Taj Road Last Updated on 25/06/2013               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule